 M. JOSEPH, J. The appellant is the second accused in criminal complaint filed by the first respondent (hereinafter referred to as complainant, for short).	Issue
The appellant filed a Petition under Section 482	Issue
The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the Cr.PC, for short), seeking to quash the order passed by the Magistrate summoning the appellant pursuant to the complaint which seeks to invoke Sections 120B, 500 and 501 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as the IPC, for short).	Issue
THE COMPLAINT	None
The complainant is a public limited company engaged in the business of manufacturing and selling asbestos cement sheets with seven manufacturing plants and more than twentyfive marketing offices all over India.	Facts
It is further, inter alia, stated that the product is manufactured in all its plants in an environment friendly manner.	Facts
The first accused is alleged to be the Coordinator of Ban Asbestos India, a group hosted by the appellant.	Facts
Articles are regularly published in the said group.	Facts
On 21.11.2008, an article was published.	Facts
It was captioned Poisoning the system Hindustan Times.	Facts
The complaint targeted renowned politicians of the country who were named and who had nothing to do with the ownership and management of the company.	Facts
Complainant pleads shock on seeing the article dated 31.07.2008 captioned Visaka Asbestos Industries making gains.	Facts
It is stated that asbestos cement sheets have been manufactured for more than 70 years in India.	Facts
First accused singled out the complainant though there are other groups manufacturing asbestos cement products.	Facts
The relevant part, which is pertinent to the appellant is contained in paragraph11 Complainant most humbly and respectfully submits that the Accused No.1s statement in the articles in the above mentioned group hosted by the Accused No.2 is filled with hatred towards Complainant which is defamatory in nature, and which a person of ordinary intelligence in society would believe the said statements.	Facts
Indeed the said statement injured the reputation of Complainant.	Facts
The act of the accused in posting certain defamatory articles in the cyber space, which is visited by innumerable internet surfers which has vide usage all over the world in whos mind the complainant company is being caused with such defamatory false statements.	Facts
The service provider like Accused No.2 has made it easier than ever before to disseminate defamatory statements to the world wide audience without taking any due care and diligence to prevent it.	Facts
The Accused No.2 has abused the services provided by it, because both the articles in the group hosted by it was targeted towards a particular company which is well within the knowledge of the Accused No.2.	Facts
(Emphasis supplied) Cause of action is mentioned at paragraph15 and it reads as follows CAUSE OF ACTION Cause of Action for the complainant arose on 31 st July, 2008, when an article Visaka Asbestos Industries making gains was disseminated by accused no.1 in Ban asbestos India group hosted by accused no.2 and 21 st November 2008 when the second article Poisoning the system Hindustan Times was disseminated by the accused no.1 in Bank Asbestos India group hosted by accused no.2 and on 10.12.2008 when the notice to withdraw such articles was issued by the Complainant and on subsequent dates.	Facts
Jurisdiction is indicated in paragraph16 of the complaint and it read as follows JURISDICTION	Facts
The Corporate Office of the Complainant is situated at Visaka Towers, 18303/69/3, S.P. Road, Secunderabad.	Facts
Since the Corporate Office of the Complainant Company is situated within the limits of P.S. Ramgopalpet, this Honble Court has got jurisdiction to try this complaint.	Facts
Deputy Manager (Legal) of the complainant made his statement.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant came to be summoned.	Facts
The summoning order read as follows SUMMONS TO AN ACCUSED PERSON (Sec.81 Cr.P.C.)	None
1363	None
In the Court of the XI A.C.M. Magistrate at Secunderabad c.c. No. 679/2009 Between M s. Visaka Industries Complainant AND Mr. Gopal Krishna others Accused To, M s. Google India Pvt. Ltd., 3 rd Floor, Prestige Sigma, No.3, Vittal Mallya Road, Bangalore 560001.	None
Whereas your attendance is necessary answer to Charge of U s.500, 501 of I.P.C. r w 34	None
you are hereby directed to appear in person or by pleader before the Honble XI A.C.M.M. Court on the day 09.09.2009 10.30 A.M.	Facts
Dated this day Seal Sd  Magistrate	None
It is the said order which came to be challenged before the High Court.	Facts
By the impugned judgment, the High Court has dismissed the petition.	Facts
FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT Section 79 of The Information Technology Act, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the Act, for short), which appears to have been relied on by the appellant was found to not exempt a network service provider from liability much less criminal liability for the offences under other laws or, more particularly, under the IPC.	Facts
It was further found that the above provision exempted Network Service Provider from liability only on proving that the offence or contravention was committed without its knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or contravention.	Facts
Proof, in that regard, can be let in by leading evidence by the accused.	Facts
This is a question of fact which the High Court may not go into in the petition under Section 482 of the Cr.PC	Facts
The Court later notices the amended Section 79 of the Act which came into being with effect from 27.10.2009.	Facts
It was noted that it is only under the said amendment that a non obstante clause was incorporated keeping the application of other laws outside the purview in a fact situation covered by the said provision.	Facts
Under the amended Section 79, in case the intermediary enters into any conspiracy, the exemption under Section 79 of the Act could not be claimed.	Facts
So also, the intermediary could not claim exemption in case he fails to expeditiously remove or disable access to the objectionable material or unlawful activity, even after receiving actual knowledge thereof.	Facts
The appellant, it was found, did not move its little finger to block the material or to stop dissemination of the unlawful and objectionable material in spite of the complainant issuing notice about the dissemination of defamatory material and unlawful activity on the part of the first accused.	Facts
Therefore, it was found that the appellant could not claim any exemption under Section 79 of the Act, prior to its substitution, or Section 79 of the Act, after its substitution, which took effect from 27.10.2009.	Facts
The complaint was instituted in January, 2009.	Facts
It related to an offence which was being perpetuated from 31.07.2008 onwards, i.e., since long before prior to the amendment of the said provision.	Facts
It was finally found that there was no exemption of any criminal law in respect of a company which is a juristic person and which has no body that can be damned or condemned, in case found guilty.	Facts
Appellant can be awarded with appropriate punishment though not corporal punishment.	Facts
Finding no merit, the petition was dismissed.	Facts
We heard Shri Sajan Poovayya, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, Shri Sridhar Potaraju the learned Counsel for the complainant first respondentM s. Visakha Industries and Ms. Madhavi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the respondents.	None
Shri Sajan Poovayya would contend that services on google groups is not provided by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, the basis of the complainant that appellant is the intermediary, is completely erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
The legal notice sent by the complainant, did not make reference to any specific URL.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expansion of URL is Unique Reference Locator which is the address of the content on web to identify or locate the objectionable post.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the notice was invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant, however, as a gesture, made over the said notice dated 09.12.2008 to its parent entity, i.e., Google Inc. presently Google LLC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is Google LLC which owns the Google Group platforms.	Arguments of Petitioner
Google LLC replied to the legal notice and requested the complainant to provide specific URLs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is without responding to the same that the complaint came to be filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the complaint proceeds on a mistaken premise that the appellant hosts and provides services on Google Groups.	Arguments of Petitioner
A further fallacious basis is that the intermediary and hosting service provider is expected to monitor and precensor publication of content on its platform.	Arguments of Petitioner
Error is alleged to underlie the assumption that hosting of services involves the fact that the intermediary host has knowledge of the content posted on a hosting platform.	Arguments of Petitioner
An independent publication by an author of any content by itself again demonstrates absence of any connivance between the author and the intermediary host.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no case for the complainant that the appellant is the author or publisher of the allegedly defamatory articles.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the complaint itself proceeds on the basis that it is the first accused who is the author of the articles.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant lay store by the parallel civil proceedings between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
Following the legal notice issue to the appellant and to Google LLC on 21.01.2009, a civil suit was instituted against the first accused, Google LLC and the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
The suit filed by the complainant came to be dismissed by judgment dated 17.02.2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
The complainant succeeded in the first appeal and the court decreed the suit on 29.01.2016.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants preferred a second appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appeal came to be allowed by the High Court on 18.01.2016 by which the suit came to be dismissed against the appellant which was the second defendant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that the appellant has filed a review confined in nature against the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
The complainant has also filed a review.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Google LLC is a company incorporated under the laws of United States of America.	Arguments of Petitioner
Google LLC owns and operates the Google Groups Platforms.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant is the subsidiary of the Google LLC Group.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appellant has its own separate legal identity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has ignored that control over the Google Group platform was of Google LLC.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel for the appellant drew our attention to the primary terms upon which service is rendered by Google LLC.	Arguments of Petitioner
An agreement is contemplated between a user and Google LLC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appellant is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act having its office at Bangalore.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appellant is appointed as a non exclusive reseller of Google LLC Ads program in India on a principal to principal basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant is engaged in business development and promotional activity for certain limited products and does not play any role in providing or administering services as regards Google Groups.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that appellant is not an agent of Google LLC and it enjoys autonomy in its functions.	Arguments of Petitioner
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
The terms of service regarding Google Groups clearly indicate that the services are provided by Google LLC and not by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that publicly available documents of an unimpeachable character or any incontrovertible evidence may be considered by the High Court in deciding a matter under Section 482 of the Cr	Arguments of Petitioner
.PC	Arguments of Petitioner
The Google Groups terms of service is pressed as one such document.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed on decisions of this Court including Rajiv Thapar and others v. Madan Lal Kapoor (2013) 3 SCC 330 and HMT Watches Limited v. M.A. Abida and another (2015) 11 SCC 776 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Such judicial notice has been taken in the civil proceedings, it is pointed out.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	Arguments of Petitioner
Next, it contended that the ingredients of the offence of defamation under Section 499 of the IPC have not been made out.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first ingredient being publication of an imputation has not been satisfied qua the appellant but only as against the first accused.	Arguments of Petitioner
An intermediary is neither a publisher of thirdparty content nor does it have knowledge of any content unless it is notified through an order of an appropriate court or a Government agency.	Arguments of Petitioner
No provision of the Act has been invoked.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on Sharat Babu Digumarti v. Government (NCT of Delhi) (2017) 2 SCC 18 and Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (2015) 5 SCC 1 , it is sought to be contended that since no provisions of the Act are invoked, the complaint is vitiated.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is still further contended that there is no complaint against the actual intermediary, viz., Google LLC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further contended that in the context of digital platform, where millions of posts are made, no editorial control of any sort is exercised by an intermediary in the publication of any content on such platforms.	Arguments of Petitioner
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that mere hosting of content would be insufficient to attribute knowledge, and if does not amount to publication of content.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appellant cannot be attributed with actual knowledge to ascribe a mental element.	Arguments of Petitioner
The role is passive.	Arguments of Petitioner
The author originates the material and the author is the originator and not the intermediary.	Arguments of Petitioner
The person who accesses or reads the content again is not an intermediary but the addressee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Unless the content is brought to the actual knowledge of the intermediary, taking down the material, cannot be imposed upon the intermediary.	Arguments of Petitioner
Actual knowledge must be that which is conveyed through a court order or through an appropriate Government agency.	Arguments of Petitioner
The intermediary cannot become a private censor or arbiter of content.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant seeks to emphasise upon the adverse impact it would have on freedom of Online Speech and Expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(A) of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant also makes the point that the mandatory inquiry under Section 202 of the Cr.PC has not been made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant stood arrayed as an accused denoting its office at Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Gurugram whereas the ACJM, whose territorial jurisdiction is limited to Secunderabad, is the court where the complaint was filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 202 of the Cr.PC, has been observed, in its breach by the Magistrate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision in Abhijit Pawar v. Hemant Madhukar Nimbalkar and another (2017) 3 SCC 528 , has been enlisted in support in this regard.	Arguments of Petitioner
21.	Arguments of Petitioner
A subsidiary does not become liable for the acts of its parent company, is another contention.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that a person cannot be compelled to perform an impossible act.	Arguments of Petitioner
CONTENTIONS OF THE COMPLAINANT It is not open to the appellants to have invoked powers under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Arguments of Respondent
The matter involves investigation of allegations relating to facts.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out as to whether the appellant is hosting the google group wherein the first accused has published defamatory articles is a question of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
The question as to whether the appellant is or not an intermediary, is a question of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
As to whether the appellant and Google LLC are managed by different entities or the same entity, is another question of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent would dispute the contention that the documents produced by the appellant are of an unimpeachable character.	Arguments of Respondent
The documents are sought to be relied on without complying with the mandate of Section 65B of The Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this regard Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer and others (2014) 10 SCC 473 .	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the Magistrate has a judicial discretion upon examining the complainant to proceed without recourse to the procedure under Section 202 of Cr.PC.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no pleading of any prejudice by the appellant nor proof adduced about the same.	Arguments of Respondent
Regarding this, reliance is placed on judgment of this Court in Shivjee Singh v. Nagendra Tiwari and others (2010) 7 SCC 578 .	Arguments of Respondent
Google hosts the Google Groups.	Arguments of Respondent
The only question of fact is whether the appellant is in control of the said Group or it is, as claimed, controlled by its Parent Company.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, the issue is limited as to the role of appellant and its participation in the business of providing Google Groups platform and raising revenues for the same through advertisements, etc. apart from marketing it.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant, it is contended, cannot be allowed to disown its role in Google Groups.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant has withheld the actual nature of the activities it is carrying on in India.	Arguments of Respondent
A party must come to court with clean hands.	Arguments of Respondent
The Memorandum of Association itself, prima facie, shows that their main objects include providing internet related projects and or services and applications.	Arguments of Respondent
There is a common economic entity wherein the users are provided digital space purportedly free but are made to part with their personal data as consideration.	Arguments of Respondent
The said data is used for generating advertisement revenues which are targeted as user profile and geographical location.	Arguments of Respondent
The role of appellant is a question of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
Once it is put on notice, Google cannot be heard to say that it is not aware of the content.	Arguments of Respondent
If it chooses to perpetuate the content as publisher of defamatory content, consequences under law must follow.	Arguments of Respondent
Appellant plays a very active role in controlling advertisement.	Arguments of Respondent
Google is an active publisher as it provides various tools to users for enabling them to create content online.	Arguments of Respondent
STAND OF THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA Internet is an important means of expression and communication.	None
Internet offers information on a mindboggling variety of subjects.	Arguments of Respondent
Right to Information is part of Article 19(1)(A) of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
Internet has come to be recognised as a genuinely democratic medium.	Arguments of Respondent
Communication takes place at virtually no cost.	Arguments of Respondent
Internet also is a market place for commodities and services.	Arguments of Respondent
The United Nations Human Rights Council passed a nonbinding Resolution in June, 2016 recognizing internet as a basic Human Right.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that Finland became the first country in 2010 which made broadband a legal right for every citizen.	Arguments of Respondent
There is distinction between publication on the internet and publication in the print media.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made to the judgment of this Court in Shreya Singhal v. Union of India (2015) 5 SCC 1 , which has recognised this distinction.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that there are infinite challenges that internet poses.	Arguments of Respondent
The high speed and the high volumes render precensorship highly difficult.	Arguments of Respondent
There is automatic uploading without any application of mind on the part of the website platform.	Arguments of Respondent
In the year 2015, there were 3.5 billion people in the world who accessed the internet.	Arguments of Respondent
On Facebook, there were three million photographs updated per day.	Arguments of Respondent
In every minute, 510 comments and 293000 statuses are posted.	Arguments of Respondent
In 2013, there were 200 billion tweets on Twitter.	Arguments of Respondent
In the traditional television programmes, films and newspapers, the content is pushed to the viewer or the reader.	Arguments of Respondent
The choice of the reader or the viewer is limited to viewing the content or reading the same.	Arguments of Respondent
Internet, it is pointed out, works on the pull principle where it is the viewer who has complete control and he exercises his choice as to what content he would wish to view or read.	Arguments of Respondent
The internet uses public spectrum and airwaves to transmit signal.	Arguments of Respondent
In Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India and others v. Cricket Association of Bengal and others (1995) 2 SCC 161 , this Court took the view that the right of the listeners and the viewers and not the broadcasters, is paramount.	Arguments of Respondent
Airwaves and frequencies are public property.	Arguments of Respondent
Monopoly by either Government or anyone else would not square with the free speech interest of citizens.	Arguments of Respondent
The distinction between the preamendment and the afteramendment versions of Section 79 of the Act is highlighted.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that the very definition of intermediary would reveal that it is not an editor or a publisher as understood in the context of the print media.	Arguments of Respondent
What flows from the definition points to the role being that of a facilitator or conduit rather than a selector or editor of information.	Arguments of Respondent
Light is sought to be sourced from the views of this Court in the decision in Gambhirsinh R. Dekare v. Falgunbhai Chimabhai Patel and another (2013) 3 SCC 697 Therefore, from the scheme of the Act it is evident that it is the Editor who controls the selection of the matter that is published in a newspaper.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, every copy of the newspaper is required to contain the names of the owner and the Editor and once the name of the Editor is shown, he shall be held responsible in any civil and criminal proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, in view of the interpretation clause, the presumption would be that he was the person who controlled the selection of the matter that was published in the newspaper.	Arguments of Respondent
However, we hasten to add that this presumption under Section 7 of the Act is a rebuttable presumption and it would be deemed a sufficient evidence unless the contrary is proved.	Arguments of Respondent
The view which we have taken finds support from the judgment of this Court in K.M. Mathew v. K.A. Abraham (2002) 6 SCC 670 2002 SCC (Cri) 1480 , in which it has been held as follows (SCC p. 676, para 20)	Arguments of Respondent
The provisions contained in the Act clearly go to show that there could be a presumption against the Editor whose name is printed in the newspaper to the effect that he is the Editor of such publication and that he is responsible for selecting the matter for publication.	Arguments of Respondent
Though, a similar presumption cannot be drawn against the Chief Editor, Resident Editor or Managing Editor, nevertheless, the complainant can still allege and prove that they had knowledge and they were responsible for the publication of the defamatory news item.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the presumption under Section 7 is a rebuttable presumption and the same could be proved otherwise.	Arguments of Respondent
That by itself indicates that somebody other than editor can also be held responsible for selecting the matter for publication in a newspaper.	Arguments of Respondent
The aforesaid discussion was in the context of an editor under the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867.	Arguments of Respondent
Still further, reference is made about the role attributable to the service provider of internet platforms and that of an originator in the judgment of this Court in Sharat Babu Digumarti v. Government N.C.T. of Delhi (2017) 2 SCC 18 in Criminal Appeal No. 1222 of 2016.	Arguments of Respondent
Internet is a free platform.	Arguments of Respondent
This is on account of free open democratic nature of the internet.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that there will be a chilling effect on free speech if one were to allow intermediaries to intervene merely on complaints by individuals about being defamed or being at the receiving end of the unfair reporting.	Arguments of Respondent
If permitted, such intervention would result in privatisation of censorship which would be hazardous for free expression of ideas.	Arguments of Respondent
Regarding the extent of the liability of an intermediary, it is contended that after the amendment in 2008, intermediarys role as a mere facilitator of exchanging information or sales, is recognised.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Government of India, the preamendment situation is exemplified by the subject matter of the decision of the Delhi High Court in Avnish Bajaj v. State (N.C.T. of Delhi) 116 (2005)	Arguments of Respondent
DLT 427 .	None
Anybody aggrieved by the posting of any defamatory matter on the internet can make a takedown reference under Section 79 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 69A of the Act is relied on.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 69A gives power to the Central Government to block access by giving directions to any intermediary on being satisfied of there being need to do so in the interest of sovereignty among other factors.	Arguments of Respondent
The matter is governed under the Information Technology (Procedures and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009.	Arguments of Respondent
As far as the stand of the Union regarding the liability of the subsidiary of a foreign intermediary is concerned, reliance is placed on the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union (ECJ).	Arguments of Respondent
The case of In Google Spain SL, Google Inc. v. Agencia Espanola de Proteccion de Datos (AEPD), Mario Costeja Gonzalez ECLIEUC2014317, Case C131/12, Court of Justice of European Union (ECJ), is important in this regard.	None
In Google Spain, the ECJ recognized an individuals right to be forgotten, enabling a person to obtain removal of search results which violated his her privacy interests.	None
The case has geographical implications first, would such removal of content be restricted to an EUaudience, and two, does the EU court have the authority to direct foreign intermediaries to takedown content.	None
The Court embraced the arguments put forth by Googles opponents That Googles search engine activities are closely related to the activity of selling advertising space, which is precisely what subsidiaries such as Googles establishment in Spain are engaged.	None
As a result, the processing activities related to the search engine service are also being carried out in the context of the activities of Googles Spanish subsidiary.	None
The counsels for the plaintiff, Spain and Austria, likewise emphasised the link between the search engine service and the selling of advertising space from a business model perspective arguing that the activity of Googles establishment in Spain should not be regarded as an ancillary activity, but rather as an integral part of the primary activity (i.e. the selling of advertisement space)(paragraphs 46 to 52).	None
The ECJ therefore considered that the activities of the search engine operator and those of its establishment are inextricably linked, as Googles search engine service is closely related to the activity of selling advertisement space (paragraph 56).	None
Specifically, the Court reasoned that, the activities relating to the advertising space constitute the means of rendering the search engine at issue economically profitable and engine is, at the same time, the means enabling those activities to be performed.	None
(paragraph 56).	None
The Court in paragraphs 53 and 54 noted that, the EUs Data Protection Directive 95/46 sought to prevent individuals from being deprived of the protection guaranteed by the directive and that protection from being circumvented, by prescribing a particularly broad territorial scope.	None
Based on these observations, the ECJ concluded that the processing relating to the search engine service should be viewed as taking place in the context of the activities of an establishment located on EU territory (see paragraphs 53, 54).	None
This case recognizes that the domestic subsidiary responsible for advertising and attracting a user base could be held liable for the acts of the parent.	None
Our attention is also drawn to the decision in Richardson v. Facebook (2015) EWHC 3154 (QB) .	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that however given that the foreign body may not have Indian presence, the corporate veil may be lifted to fix liability on the subsidiary, if it is established that the latter is an alter ego of the foreign company and support is sought to be drawn from the judgments of this Court in New Horizons Limited and another v. Union of India and others (1995) 1 SCC 478 and State of U.P. and others v. Renusagar Power Company and others (1988) 4 SCC 59 CONTOURS OF THE JURISDICTION OF THE HIGH COURT UNDER SECTION 482 OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE, 1973 The contours of the jurisdiction of the High Court under Section 482 is no longer res integra.	Arguments of Respondent
We would think that it is sufficient if we only advert to the judgment of this Court in State of Haryana and others v. Bhajan Lal and others (1992)	None
Supp (1) SCC 335.	None
This Court held as follows In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have extracted and reproduced above, we give the following categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, though it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly defined and sufficiently channelised and inflexible guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised.	None
Where the allegations made in the first information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any offence or make out a case against the accused.	None
Where the allegations in the first information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable offence, justifying an investigation by police officers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an order of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code.	None
Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not disclose the commission of any offence and make out a case against the accused.	None
Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable offence but constitute only a noncognizable offence, no investigation is permitted by a police officer without an order of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code.	None
Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused.	None
Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and or where there is a specific provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing efficacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party.	None
Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.	None
We also give a note of caution to the effect that the power of quashing a criminal proceeding should be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare cases that the court will not be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR or the complaint and that the extraordinary or inherent powers do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the court to act according to its whim or caprice.	None
As to what is the scope of the expression rarest of rare cases indicated in paragraph 103, we may only refer to the judgment of this Court in Jeffrey J. Diermeier and another v. State of West Bengal and another (2010) 6 SCC 243 wherein the law laid down by a Bench of three Judges in Som Mittal v. Govt.	None
of Karnataka (2008) 3 SCC 753 has been referred to The purport of the expression rarest of rare cases, to which reference was made by Shri Venugopal, has been explained recently in Som Mittal (2) v. Govt.	None
of Karnataka (2008)	None
3 SCC 574 (2008) 1 SCC (LS) 910 (2008) 2 SCC (Cri) 1 .	None
Speaking for a Bench of three Judges, the Honble the Chief Justice said (SCC pp.	None
58081, para 9)	None
When the words rarest of rare cases are used after the words sparingly and with circumspection while describing the scope of Section 482, those words merely emphasise and reiterate what is intended to be conveyed by the words sparingly and with circumspection.	None
They mean that the power under Section 482 to quash proceedings should not be used mechanically or routinely, but with care and caution, only when a clear case for quashing is made out and failure to interfere would lead to a miscarriage of justice.	None
The expression rarest of rare cases is not used in the sense in which it is used with reference to punishment for offences under Section 302 IPC, but to emphasise that the power under Section 482 CrPC to quash the FIR or criminal proceedings should be used sparingly and with circumspection.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Applying the principles, the question would be whether the appellant had made out a case for granting relief in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Issue
As far as the offence of defamation is concerned, even though the offence under Section 500 is noncognizable under the First Schedule to the Cr.PC, the matter would not be governed by paragraph 2 of the judgment of this Court in Bhajan Lal (supra) as the it is the case of a complaint and not of a Police Report.	Reasoning
Equally, paragraph 4 of Bhajan Lal (supra) is for the same reason inapplicable.	Reasoning
We do not think that it is a case where we could hold that proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wrecking vengeance on the appellant with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.	Reasoning
Next, we must consider whether there is any express legal bar engrafted in any provisions of the Code or the Act governing the field to the institution and continuance of the proceedings.	Issue
It is here that provisions of Section 79 of Information Technology Act, 2000 would assume significance.	None
Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, as it was enacted originally, read as follows Chapter XII NETWORK SERVICE PROVIDERS NOT TO BE LIABLE IN CERTAIN CASES Network Service Providers not to be liable in certain cases For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that no person providing any service as a network service provider shall be liable under this Act, rule or regulations made thereunder for any third party information or data made available by him if he proves that the offence or contravention was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or contravention.	Facts
Explanation.	None
For the purpose of this Section, (a) network service provider means an intermediary (b) third party information means any information dealt with by a network service provider in his capacity as an intermediary.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The said provision was substituted by the Information Technology (Amendment) Act of 2008.	None
It came into force on 27.10.2009.	None
It reads as follows 79 Exemption from liability of intermediary in certain cases Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force but subject to the provisions of sub sections (2) and (3), an intermediary shall not be liable for any third party information, data, or communication link hosted by him.	None
The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply if (a) the function of the intermediary is limited to providing access to a communication system over which information made available by third parties is transmitted or temporarily stored or (b) the intermediary does not initiate the transmission, select the receiver of the transmission, and select or modify the information contained in the transmission (c) the intermediary observes due diligence while discharging his duties under this Act and also observes such other guidelines as the Central Government may prescribe in this behalf (Inserted Vide ITAA 2008)	None
The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply if (a) the intermediary has conspired or abetted or aided or induced whether by threats or promise or otherwise in the commission of the unlawful act (ITAA 2008) (b) upon receiving actual knowledge, or on being notified by the appropriate Government or its agency that any information, data or communication link residing in or connected to a computer resource controlled by the intermediary is being used to commit the unlawful act, the intermediary fails to expeditiously remove or disable access to that material on that resource without vitiating the evidence in any manner.	None
Explanation For the purpose of this section, the expression third party information means any information dealt with by an intermediary in his capacity as an intermediary.	None
The High Court has contrasted the earlier avtar of Section 79 with the newly inserted provisions and held as follows In the case on hand, in spite of the 1 st respondent issuing notice bringing the petition about dissemination of defamatory material and unlawful activity on the part of A1 through the medium of A2, the petitioner A2 did not move its little finger to block the said material or to stop dissemination of the unlawful and objectionable material.	None
Therefore, the petitioner A2 cannot claim any exemption either under Section 79 of the Act as it stood originally or Section 79 of the Act after the amendment which took effect from 27.10.2009.	Reasoning
the present case in the lower court was instituted in January, 2009 relating to the offences which are being perpetrated from 31.07.2009 onwards, i.e., since long prior to the amendment of the said provision.	None
The discussion of the High Court regarding Section 79 reveals the following findings The earlier version of Section 79 kept at bay the impact of other laws.	None
After the amendment, Section 79 affords exemption from any other law in respect of the thirdparty information subject to subSection (2) of Section 79.	None
Intermediary under the extant provisions of Section 79 cannot seek refuge in Section 79 if it failed to expeditiously remove or disable access to the objectionable material or unlawful activity even after receiving actual knowledge thereof.	None
In the case, it is found that in spite of the first respondent complaint issuing notice about dissemination of defamatory information on the part of A1accused no.1appellant did not move its little finger to block the material or to stop dissemination of unlawful and objectionable material.	Facts
This conduct of the appellant disentitles it from claiming protection either under the provisions of the unamended Section 79 or under Section 79 after substitution.	None
The offence in this case was perpetuated from 31.07.2008 onwards since long prior to the substitution.	None
At this juncture, it is apposite that we took a deeper look at what the Government of India has to say about Section 79.	None
Section 79 is a safe harbour provision.	None
Internet intermediaries give access to host, disseminate and index content, products and services originated by third parties on the internet.	None
There are different kinds of intermediaries.	None
They include Internet Access and Service Provider (ISP).	None
Examples are given in this category of Airtel, Vodafone, BSNL among others ii.	None
Data Processing and Web Hosting Providers.	None
Examples include Godaddy and Bigrock iii.	None
Internet Search Engines and Portals like Google, Yahoo and Binge iv.	None
Email hosts like gmail (Google) and	None
yahoomail	None
Then there are instant messaging platforms such as Whatsapp, Facebook Messenger, Skype, etc. vi.	None
Ecommerce intermediaries where the platforms do not take title to the goods being sold like Amazon India, Flipkart, etc.	None
vii.	None
Internet Payment Systems and Mobile Walleters like Paytm, etc. viii.	None
There are also participative internet platforms.	None
The 2008 amendment introduced Chapter XII to the Information Technology Act.	None
The amendment was in the background of the decision of the Delhi High Court in Avinash Bajaj v. State (NCT of Delhi) 116/2005 DLT 427 .	None
Intermediaries stand on a different footing being only facilitators of exchanges of information or sales.	Reasoning
Prior to the amendment, the exemption provision under Section 79 did not exist and, therefore, an intermediary would have been liable for any thirdparty information or data made available by him as seen in the Bazeed (supra).	Reasoning
After the amendment, intermediary is not liable under any Act if it satisfied certain requirements as detailed in Section 79.	Reasoning
After referring to the decision in Shreya Singhal (supra), the Government of India has understood the position at law to be that Section 79 stands read down to mean that an intermediary would need to takedown information only upon receiving actual knowledge that a court order has been passed to remove or disable certain material and not otherwise.	Arguments of Respondent
The further stand of the Government of India is thus there is a recognition that intermediaries and neutral platforms are only facilitating information.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further pointed out on behalf of the Government of India that the interpretation placed by this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra) was not available to the High Court when it passed the impugned order in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
Shreya Singhal makes it clear that an intermediarys liability will not arise unless it failed to take down material upon there being actual knowledge by court order or government communication.	Arguments of Respondent
This safeguard has been put in place to avoid chilling affect on free speech.	Arguments of Respondent
The intermediaries would, if a contrary view is taken, stand elevated to the status of super censors and denude the internet of it unique feature of a democratic medium for all to publish, access and read any and all kinds of information.	None
Owing to the special unique characteristic of the internet, intermediaries are not in a position to know about a content which is posted on its platforms by itself and, therefore, the strict liability principle cannot be made applicable to internet intermediaries.	Reasoning
It is the specific stand of the Government of India that even preamendment, an intermediary could not know the contents of what is posted on its website and, therefore, be held liable in the absence of a takedown order by a court or Governmental Agency.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government of India, it is also noticed, has perceived a distinction between blocking under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act and takedown under Section 79 of the Information Technology Act.	None
Section 69A reads as follows 69A, Power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any information through any computer resource Where the Central Government or any of its officer specially authorized by it in this behalf is satisfied that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to above, it may subject to the provisions of sub sections (2) for reasons to be recorded in writing, by order direct any agency of the Government or intermediary to block access by the public or cause to be blocked for access by public any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any computer resource.	None
The procedure and safeguards subject to which such blocking for access by the public may be carried out shall be such as may be prescribed.	None
The intermediary who fails to comply with the direction issued under sub section (1) shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and also be liable to fine.	None
It is pointed out that the grounds under which Government issues directions for blocking information are limited and confined to matters relating to national security, public order and the like.	Arguments of Respondent
The power does not expand to blocking any case of defamation, contempt of court, etc.	Arguments of Respondent
A blocking order under Section 69A cannot be passed for criminal defamation as it does not fall under the scope of Section 69A.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, if a party is aggrieved by posting of a defamatory content on website, he must seek recourse to the court process for adjudication.	Arguments of Respondent
The matter can be directed to be removed or access disabled under Section 79(3) of the Information Technology Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Since, the Court process can be long drawn, the aggrieved party may seek an interim order before a competent court.	None
In fact, the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant did not, as such, canvass the matter on the basis of Section 79 before it was substituted.	Reasoning
However, we deem it proper to delineate its scope in view of the fact that if there is an express legal bar to attach criminal liability upon the appellant under the Act, it would become a matter of jurisdiction.	Reasoning
It is also the stand taken by the Government of India that there be no liability on the intermediary under Section 79 of the Act prior to the substitution as we have set out herein before.	None
It must be noted that stand of the appellant primarily has been that the appellant is not the intermediary in this case and the intermediary in this case is Google LLC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The arguments have been otherwise addressed by the appellant on the basis though that even proceeding on the basis that the appellant is treated as an intermediary, the complaint against the appellant, cannot be allowed to proceed.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the question as to whether Section 79, as it stood prior to the substitution, would provide a shield to an intermediary, we would enter the following findings.	Reasoning
In our view, Section 79, before its substitution, exempted the Network Service Provider, which is defined as an intermediary, from liability under the Act, Rules or Regulations made thereunder in regard to any third party information or data made available by him provided the Service Provider Proves that the offence or contravention was committed without his knowledge The Service Provider proves that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissioning of such offences or contraventions.	Reasoning
This provision may be contrasted with the later avtar of Section 79 of the Act consequent upon substitution with effect from 27.10.2009.	Reasoning
SubSection (1) of Section 79, in unambiguous words, declares by way of a nonobstante clause that in spite of anything contained in any law which is in force, though subject to the provisions of subSections (2) and (3), an intermediary would not be liable for any thirdparty information, data or communication link hosted by him.	Reasoning
The conditions are set out in subSection (2).	Reasoning
As we have noticed, the scope of Section 79, before its substitution, was confined to confer immunity from liability in regard to an offence under the Act or the Rules or Regulations qua thirdparty action or data made available.	Reasoning
In this regard, it must be noticed that Chapter XI of the Act deals with the offences.	Reasoning
Sections 65 to 67B deals with various offences under the Act.	Reasoning
This is besides Sections 71, 72A, 73 and 74 of the Act.	Reasoning
Section 79 falls under Chapter XII.	Reasoning
Therefore, the scheme of the Act would also indicate that Section 79, as it was prior to the substitution, was indeed confined to the liability of the Network Service Provider arising out of the provisions of the Act besides, no doubt, Rules and Regulations, and it was not, in short, a bar to the complaint under Section 500 of the IPC being launched or prosecuted.	Reasoning
The complaint relates, in short, to a period, much prior to the substitution of Section 79 of the Act, which ultimately took place only with effect from 27.10.2009.	Reasoning
The court, in Shreya Singhal (supra), was not considering the provisions of Section 79 as it stood before the substitution on 27.10.2009 which is what the High Court has focussed on to find that it was not open to the appellant to seek shelter under Section 79.	Reasoning
No doubt, there are certain observations which have been made by the High Court regarding notice to the petitioner, which we will dwell upon.	Reasoning
We may, in fact, notice another aspect of the matter.	Reasoning
Even, proceeding on the basis that Section 79 should engage us any further, we cannot be oblivious to an integral feature of Section 79 prior to its substitution.	Reasoning
As we have noted, the Law Giver has given protection from liability not unconditionally.	Reasoning
It is for the Service Provider to prove that the offence or contravention was committed without his knowledge.	Reasoning
He is also to prove that he has exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or contravention.	Reasoning
We will, for the purpose of argument, assume that the offence or contravention could relate to even Section 500 of the IPC.	Reasoning
Even then, for the protection given by the provisions, as it stood at the time when the offence alleged against the appellant was allegedly committed by it, to apply, it would become incumbent upon the appellant to prove that the offence or the contravention was committed without its knowledge and that it had taken all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence or contravention.	Reasoning
It may be at once noticed that in reality the scope of Section 79 of the Act, prior to the substitution, was limited to granting exemption to the Network Service Provider from any liability under the Act, Rules or Regulations made thereunder, no doubt, in regard to thirdparty information or data available by him.	Reasoning
The commission of an offence under Section 500 of the IPC, would not be a liability under the Act or a Rules, or Regulations made under the Act.	Reasoning
However, it is undoubtedly true that the scope of the protection afforded to the intermediary stands remarkably expanded with the substituted provisions of Section 79 coming into force, no doubt, subject to the conditions attached thereunder and as explained by this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra).	Reasoning
The Government of India, no doubt, has contended that the High Court did not have the benefit of judgment of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra).	Reasoning
We may notice that what is considered in Shreya Singhal (supra) was Section 79 after substitution.	Reasoning
There was a challenge mounted to the constitutionality of Section This Court held as follows, inter alia One of the petitioners counsel also assailed Section 79(3)(b) to the extent that it makes the intermediary exercise its own judgment upon receiving actual knowledge that any information is being used to commit unlawful acts.	None
Further, the expression unlawful acts also goes way beyond the specified subjects delineated in Article 19(2).	None
It must first be appreciated that Section 79 is an exemption provision.	None
Being an exemption provision, it is closely related to provisions which provide for offences including Section 69 A. We have seen how under Section 69A blocking can take place only by a reasoned order after complying with several procedural safeguards including a hearing to the originator and intermediary.	None
We have also seen how there are only two ways in which a blocking order can be passed one by the Designated Officer after complying with the 2009 Rules and the other by the Designated Officer when he has to follow an order passed by a competent court.	None
The intermediary applying its own mind to whether information should or should not be blocked is noticeably absent in Section 69A read with the 2009 Rules.	None
Section 79(3)(b) has to be read down to mean that the intermediary upon receiving actual knowledge that a court order has been passed asking it to expeditiously remove or disable access to certain material must then fail to expeditiously remove or disable access to that material.	None
This is for the reason that otherwise it would be very difficult for intermediaries like Google, Facebook, etc. to act when millions of requests are made and the intermediary is then to judge as to which of such requests are legitimate and which are not.	None
We have been informed that in other countries worldwide this view has gained acceptance, Argentina being in the forefront.	None
Also, the Court order and or the notification by the appropriate Government or its agency must strictly conform to the subjectmatters laid down in Article 19(2).	None
Unlawful acts beyond what is laid down in Article 19(2) obviously cannot form any part of Section 79.	None
With these two caveats, we refrain from striking down Section 79(3)(b).	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General informed us that it is a common practice worldwide for intermediaries to have user agreements containing what is stated in Rule 3(2).	None
However, Rule 3(4) needs to be read down in the same manner as Section 79(3)(b).	None
The knowledge spoken of in the said subrule must only be through the medium of a court order.	None
Subject to this, the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011 are valid.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx 124.3.	None
Section 79 is valid subject to Section 79(3)(b) being read down to mean that an intermediary upon receiving actual knowledge from a court order or on being notified by the appropriate government or its agency that unlawful acts relatable to Article 19(2) are going to be committed then fails to expeditiously remove or disable access to such material.	None
Similarly, the Information Technology Intermediary Guidelines Rules, 2011 are valid subject to Rule 3 subrule (4) being read down in the same manner as indicated in the judgment.	None
The Court also was considering the challenge to the provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules for short).	None
The Rules were brought into force after 2011.	Reasoning
It was made under Section 87 of the Act.	None
Rule 3 provides for due diligence to be observed by the intermediary.	None
It is obliged to publish the Rules and Regulations and the Privacy Policy and User Agreement.	None
The intermediary is to intimate the user not to use certain matter which include defamatory matter.	None
Rule 3(3) of the Rules provided that the intermediary was not to knowingly host or publish any information, inter alia, contained, as specified in subRule (2).	None
Thus, under the Rules, the intermediary could not knowingly host or publish information which was, inter alia, defamatory.	None
Rule 3(4) of the Rules, read as follows Due diligence to he observed by intermediary	None
The intermediary shall observe following due diligence while discharging his duties, namely xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The intermediary, on whose computer system the information is stored or hosted or published, upon obtaining knowledge by itself or been brought to actual knowledge by an affected person in writing or through email signed with electronic signature about any such information as mentioned in subrule (2) above, shall act within thirty six hours and where applicable, work with user or owner of such information to disable such information that is in contravention of subrule (2).	None
Further the intermediary shall preserve such information and associated records for at least ninety days for investigation purposes, It is clear that the entire discussion came to be made in the context of the challenge to the provisions of Section 79 after substitution.	None
No doubt, there are observations, which have been made, the effect of which we shall deal with to the extent that is relevant to this case.	Reasoning
What is relevant is, for the purpose of deciding this case, we are of the view that this may not be the case where there is an express legal bar in the form of Section 79 of the Act prior to its substitution.	Reasoning
We cannot be unmindful of the fact that we are dealing with a criminal complaint and the question to be considered is whether the offence, as alleged in the complaint, was committed or not.	Reasoning
WHETHER RAJIV THAPAR AND OTHERS V. MADAN LAL KAPOOR WOULD APPLY?	None
The next question, which we must address is, whether the appellant can persuade us to decide the question as to whether the appellant is an intermediary and it is Google LLC which is the intermediary.	Issue
Intermediary has been defined in the Act in Section 2(1)(ua)(w), which reads as follows 2(1)(ua)(w).	None
intermediary, with respect to any particular electronic records, means any person who on behalf of another person receives, stores or transmits that record or provides any service with respect to that record and includes telecom service providers, network service providers, internet service providers, webhosting service providers, search engines, online payment sites, onlineauction sites, onlinemarket places and cyber cafes Section 2(1)(ua)(za) defines the word originator 2(1)(ua)(za)	None
originator means a person who sends, generates, stores or transmits any electronic message or causes any electronic message to be sent, generated, stored or transmitted to any other person but does not include an intermediary Section 2(1)(b) defines the word addressee and it reads as follows (b) addressee means a person who is intended by the originator to receive the electronic record but does not include any intermediary According to the appellant, this is a case where the High Court erred in not considering and answering the question as to whether the appellant is an intermediary or not.	None
It is the case of the appellant that the appellant is only the subsidiary of Google LLC which is its parent company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is his further submission that the High Court ought to have permitted the appellant to draw support from terms of service regarding Google Groups which convincingly establishes that the services were provided by Google LLC and not the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, reliance is placed on judgments of this Court in Rajiv Thapar and others v. Madan Lal Kapoor (2013) 3 SCC 330 and HMT Watches Ltd. v. M.A. Abida and another (2015) 11 SCC 776 .	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that Google Groups terms of service is a document of sterling value being of indisputable character.	Arguments of Petitioner
What is produced before us is last update seen dated 10.12.2010.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the same, there was reference to responsibilities of the originator under the head content your responsibilities.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the originator, not Google, which will be liable for the content that will be uploaded, posted, disseminated, etc., which is collectively said to be posted via the service.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under appropriate conduct, it is stated as follows Appropriate Conduct You agree that you are responsible for your own conduct and communications while using the Service and for any consequences thereof.	None
You agree to use the Service only to send and receive messages and material that are legal, proper and related to the particular Group.	None
By way of example, and not as limitation, you agree that when using the Service, you will not defame, abuse, harass, stalk, threaten or otherwise violate the legal rights (such as rights of privacy and publicity) of others ?	None
post any inappropriate, defamatory, infringing, obscene, or unlawful Content post any Content that infringes any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary right of any party (the Rights), unless you are owner of the Rights or have the permission of the owner to Post such Content post messages that promote pyramid schemes, chain letters or disruptive commercial messages or advertisements, or anything else prohibited by the Group owner download any file Posted by another user of a Group that you know, or reasonably should know, that cannot be legally distributed in such manner ?	None
impersonate another person or entity, or falsify or delete any author attributions, legal or other proper notices or proprietary designations or labels of the origin or source of software or other material contained in a file that is Posted restrict or inhibit any other user from using and enjoying the Service use the Service for any illegal or unauthorised purpose remove any copyright, trademark or other proprietary rights notices contained in or on the Service interfere with or disrupt the Service or servers or networks connected to the Service, or disobey any requirements, procedures, policies or regulations of networks connected to the Service use any robot, spider, site search retrieval application, or other device to retrieve or index any portion of the Service or collect information about users for any unauthorised purpose submit Content that falsely expresses or implies that such Content is sponsored or endorsed by Google create user accounts by automated means or under false or fraudulent pretenses promote or provide instructional information about illegal activities or promote physical harm or injury against any group or individual or transmit any viruses, worms, defects, Trojan horses, or any items of a destructive nature.	None
International users agree to comply with their own local rules regarding online conduct and acceptable content, including laws regulating the export of data to the United States or your country of residence.	None
While Google prohibits such conduct and Content in connection with the Service, you understand and agree that you nonetheless may be exposed to such conduct and or Content and that you use the Service at your own risk.	None
We may also notice, under the head Propriety Rights, Googles Rights, it is mentioned as follows Proprietary Rights Googles Rights Google and its affiliates and licensors own and retain all rights in the Service, which contains proprietary and confidential information that is protected by applicable intellectual property and other laws.	None
Except as expressly authorised by Google, you may not copy, modify, publish, transmit, distribute, perform, display or sell any of Googles proprietary information.	None
GOOGLE GROUPS, are trademarks of Google.	None
We may also notice the following under head Advertisements Advertisements Google Groups is an adsupported service.	None
As such, we display advertisements and promotions on the Service.	None
The manner, mode and extent of advertising by Google on the Service are subject to change.	None
You agree that Google shall not be responsible or liable for any loss or damage of any sort incurred as a result of any such dealings or as the result of the presence of such advertisers on the Service.	None
Also, we noticed the conditions under the heading Disclaimer of Warranties Disclaimer of Warranties Google and its affiliates, licensors, partners, suppliers, consultants and agents ( Google Entities) disclaim any and all responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, completeness, legality, reliability, or operability or availability of information or Content displayed on the Service.	None
The Google Entities disclaim any and all responsibility and liability for your conduct and for the conduct of others using the Service.	None
THE SERVICE, AND ALL CONTENT, INFORMATION (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY INFORMATION OR CONTENT OBTAINED OR ACCESSED THROUGH THE SERVICE), PRODUCTS AND SERVICES INCLUDED THEREIN ARE PROVIDED AS IS, WITH NO WARRANTIES WHATSOEVER.	None
THE GOOGLE ENTITIES EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW AND EXPRESS, IMPLIED AND STATUTORY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE WARRANTIES OF MERHCNTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.	None
Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of implied warranties, so the above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you.	None
YOU AGREE THAT YOUR USE OF THE SERVICES ARE ENTIERLY AT YOUR OWN RISK	None
It is further submitted that the terms of service would constitute the entire agreement between the party and Google.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the Google Groups Content Policy, it was brought to our notice by the learned Counsel for the appellant that Google has a zerotolerance policy towards the content that exploits children.	Arguments of Petitioner
Google retains the power to remove hate speech which is explained as content that promotes hate or violence towards groups based on race, ethnicity, religion, disability, gender, age, veteran status, or sexual orientation gender identity.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is an exhortation against threatening, harassing or bullying other people using Groups.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is again the condition that groups cannot be used to encourage any illegal activities or to promote dangerous and illegal activities.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as decision in Rajiv Thapar(supra), relied upon by appellant, is concerned, it involved the following facts.	None
The appellant therein was married to the deceased.	None
The deceased fell ill and was admitted in the hospital.	None
She was diagnosed with as suffering from malaria.	None
After she was discharged, she again fell ill.	None
The Echocardiography confirmed presence of a large hole in her heart.	None
She succumbed to a massive heart attack.	None
Suspecting poisoning, father of the deceased filed the complaint.	None
The Medical Board found death due to cardiac decompensation.	None
The CFSL Report also indicated no common poison.	None
The Metropolitan Magistrate, who was approached by the father of the deceased, committed the case to the Sessions Court who discharged the appellantaccused.	None
The High Court, however, set aside the order.	None
It was in these circumstances, this Court took the following view in regard to the manner in which the matter must be approached when a party approaches High Court under Section 482 of the Cr.PC	None
The High Court, in exercise of its jurisdiction under Section 482 CrPC, must make a just and rightful choice.	None
This is not a stage of evaluating the truthfulness or otherwise of the allegations levelled by the prosecution complainant against the accused.	None
Likewise, it is not a stage for determining how weighty the defences raised on behalf of the accused are.	None
Even if the accused is successful in showing some suspicion or doubt, in the allegations levelled by the prosecution complainant, it would be impermissible to discharge the accused before trial.	None
This is so because it would result in giving finality to the accusations levelled by the prosecution complainant, without allowing the prosecution or the complainant to adduce evidence to substantiate the same.	None
The converse is, however, not true, because even if trial is proceeded with, the accused is not subjected to any irreparable consequences.	None
The accused would still be in a position to succeed by establishing his defences by producing evidence in accordance with law.	None
There is an endless list of judgments rendered by this Court declaring the legal position that in a case where the prosecution complainant has levelled allegations bringing out all ingredients of the charge(s) levelled, and have placed material before the Court, prima facie evidencing the truthfulness of the allegations levelled, trial must be held.	None
Based on the factors canvassed in the foregoing paragraphs, we would delineate the following steps to determine the veracity of a prayer for quashment raised by an accused by invoking the power vested in the High Court under Section 482 CrPC 30.1.Step one whether the material relied upon by the accused is sound, reasonable, and indubitable i.e. the material is of sterling and impeccable quality?	None
30.2.Step two whether the material relied upon by the accused would rule out the assertions contained in the charges levelled against the accused i.e. the material is sufficient to reject and overrule the factual assertions contained in the complaint i.e. the material is such as would persuade a reasonable person to dismiss and condemn the factual basis of the accusations as false?	None
30.3.Step three whether the material relied upon by the accused has not been refuted by the prosecution complainant and or the material is such that it cannot be justifiably refuted by the prosecution complainant?	None
30.4.Step four whether proceeding with the trial would result in an abuse of process of the court, and would not serve the ends of justice?	None
30.5.	None
If the answer to all the steps is in the affirmative, the judicial conscience of the High Court should persuade it to quash such criminal proceedings in exercise of power vested in it under Section 482 CrPC.	None
Such exercise of power, besides doing justice to the accused, would save precious court time, which would otherwise be wasted in holding such a trial (as well as proceedings arising therefrom) specially when it is clear that the same would not conclude in the conviction of the accused.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The court also declared that the High Court must be fully satisfied about the material and that material produced by the accused must be such that the defence is based on sound, reasonable and indisputable facts.	None
In HMT Watches (supra), the complaint was one under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.	None
In the said case, this Court faulted the High Court in having expressed its view on disputed questions of fact in a petition under Section 482 to conclude that an offence was not made out.	None
Factual matters which were not admitted between the parties could not form the basis for the High Court to interfere.	None
In regard to the attempt, on the part of the appellant, to persuade us to follow the judgment of this Court in Rajiv Thapar (supra), we felt dissuaded from undertaking the said course on the following reasoning.	Reasoning
It is true that a perusal of the petition before the High Court reveals that appellant has purported to take up the contention that the website is the service offered by the Google Inc, the parent company of the appellant and that the services are provided by the parent company directly to the users.	Reasoning
It is also the case of the appellant that service provided on the website is free and the end user can post a blog without making any payment.	Reasoning
The terms of service and content policy on the website is also seen produced.	Reasoning
Impugned order of the High Court, however, reveals that the court understood the arguments apparently of the appellant as follows It is contended by the senior counsel appearing for the petitioner A2 that actions of intermediaries such as Google Inc., which is a service provider providing platform for end users to upload content, does not amount to publication in law and consequently the question of holding such intermediaries liable for defamation does not arise.	None
Senior counsel appearing for the petitioner placed reliance on Section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (in short, the Act) in support of this contention.	None
The defence raised by the appellant, which, according to him, consisted of documents in the form of the conditions stipulated by the parent company in its conditions, are disputed.	Reasoning
To expatiate, according to the respondent, the said contention is factual.	None
There is a case also that they are produced without complying with the mandate of Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, reliance is placed on Anvar P.V. v. P.K. Basheer and others (2014) 10 SCC 473 .	Arguments of Respondent
There is also definite case for the respondent that appellant cannot be allowed to disown its role in the Google Groups being part of the common economic entity.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended by the complainant that the appellant did not clarify by way of answer to the query by the court as to what activities they indulge in India.	Arguments of Respondent
The Memorandum of Association is referred to contend that the main objects include providing network related products or services and applications.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the case of the complainant further that in fact the entire operations of Google Economic Entity, the users are provided digital space purportedly free but are made to part with their personal data as consideration.	Arguments of Respondent
The said data is used for generating advertisement revenues.	Arguments of Respondent
The onus would be on the appellant if it seeks to dispel this fact to lead evidence to show that the appellant does not have any role to plea in the activities of Google.	Arguments of Respondent
As to whether, it is Google INC, which is responsible for the Google Groups and the appellant is not, it is contended by the complainant, is a matter for evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
It cannot be determined on the basis of photocopies of documents filed with the paper books before this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have noticed that the appellant appears to have produced the Google Groups conditions even before the High Court.	Reasoning
It is also appeared to have taken the contention that it is Google Groups which is an intermediary.	Reasoning
In this connection, it is our view that this is not a case where the High Court could be invited particularly in the light of the stand of the complainant, as noticed, to decide in favour of the appellant by holding that it is the parent company which is the actual intermediary and not appellant.	Reasoning
We are not inclined in this regard to borrow any findings from the Civil Court in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
We must remind ourselves also that the proceedings are at the stage where the High Court appear to have entered a finding in favour of the appellant in the Second Appeal filed under Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as the CPC, for short).	Reasoning
However, it is common case that both parties have filed Review Petitions.	Reasoning
In other words, the matter has not yet attained finality.	None
In this regard, the question, however, arises whether the complainant accepts this version of the appellant or disputes it.	None
We would think that the complainant does not accepts the actual role of the appellant.	None
The nature of operations of the appellant, according to the appellant, is not clear.	Reasoning
What is the actual relationship between the Parent Company and appellant, is, according to the complainant, a matter for decision on evidence being taken.	Reasoning
In other words, the contention of the appellant that appellant is not an intermediary and, hence, cannot be fastened, at any rate, with criminal liability, is subject matter of dispute.	Reasoning
WHETHER SHARAT BABU DIGUMARTI V. GOVERNMENT (NCT OF DELHI) COMES TO THE RESCUE OF THE APPELLANT?	None
There is need to also address an argument based on the decision of this Court in Sharat Babu Digumarti v. Government (NCT of Delhi) (2017) 2 SCC 18 .	None
Section 81 of the Act reads as follows Act to have overriding effect.	None
The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.	None
This Court, in Sharat Babu (supra), was dealing with a complaint under Sections 292 and 294 of the IPC and Section 67 of the Act.	None
The central issue which arose for consideration was, whether the appellant therein, who stood discharged under Section 67 of the Act, could be proceeded under Section 292 of the IPC.	None
Section 292 of the Code makes it an offence to sell, hire, distribute, etc., any obscene object, whatsoever.	None
Other offences relating to dealing in obscene objects, also form the subject matter of the Section.	None
The court referred to the definition of electronic record under Section 2(1)(t) of the Act and found it was a question relating to electronic record.	None
Thereafter, the court referred to Section 67 of the Act which penalises publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form.	None
Section 67B punishes and penalises publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form.	None
The argument of the appellant, thus, is seen noted as hereunder We have referred to the aforesaid aspect as it has been argued by Dr Singhvi that the appellant is protected under the said provision, even if the entire allegations are accepted.	None
According to him, once the factum of electronic record is admitted, Section 79 of the IT Act must apply ipso facto and ipso jure.	None
The learned Senior Counsel has urged Section 79, as the language would suggest and keeping in view the paradigm of internet world where service providers of platforms do not control and indeed cannot control the acts omissions of primary, secondary and tertiary users of such internet platforms, protects the intermediary till he has the actual knowledge.	None
He would contend that the Act has created a separate and distinct category called originator in terms of Section 2(1)(z)(a) under the IT Act to which the protection under Section 79 of the IT Act has been consciously not extended.	None
Relying on the decision in Shreya Singhal Shreya Singhal v. Union of India, (2015) 5 SCC 1 (2015) 2 SCC (Cri) 449 , he has urged that the horizon has been expanded and the effect of Section 79 of the IT Act provides protection to the individual since the provision has been read down emphasising on the conception of actual knowledge.	None
Relying on the said provision, it is further canvassed by him that Section 79 of the IT Act gets automatically attracted to electronic forms of publication and transmission by intermediaries, since it explicitly uses the non obstante clauses and has an overriding effect on any other law in force.	None
Thus, the emphasis is on the three provisions, namely, Sections 67, 79 and 81, and the three provisions, according to Dr Singhvi, constitute a holistic trinity.	None
Thereafter, the court referred to Section 81 which we have extracted, and finally, the court held as follows Section 81 of the IT Act also specifically provides that the provisions of the Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force.	None
All provisions will have their play and significance, if the alleged offence pertains to offence of electronic record.	None
It has to be borne in mind that IT Act is a special enactment.	None
It has special provisions.	None
Section 292 IPC makes offence sale of obscene books, etc.	None
but once the offence has a nexus or connection with the electronic record the protection and effect of Section 79 cannot be ignored and negated.	None
We are inclined to think so as it is a special provision for a specific purpose and the Act has to be given effect to so as to make the protection effective and true to the legislative intent.	None
This is the mandate behind Section 81 of the IT Act.	None
The additional protection granted by the IT Act would apply.	None
We are not inclined to accept this argument based on the dicta laid down in Sharat Babu (supra).	Reasoning
It is true that the offences were alleged to have been committed at a time when Section 79 had not been substituted, as we notice that cognizance was taken on 14.02.2006.	Reasoning
We may notice the reasoning in paragraph 37, which reads as follows The aforesaid passage clearly shows that if legislative intendment is discernible that a latter enactment shall prevail, the same is to be interpreted in accord with the said intention.	None
We have already referred to the scheme of the IT Act and how obscenity pertaining to electronic record falls under the scheme of the Act.	None
We have also referred to Sections 79 and 81 of the IT Act.	None
Once the special provisions having the overriding effect do cover a criminal act and the offender, he gets out of the net of IPC and in this case, Section 292.	None
It is apt to note here that electronic forms of transmission are covered by the IT Act, which is a special law.	None
It is settled position in law that a special law shall prevail over the general and prior laws.	None
When the Act in various provisions deals with obscenity in electronic form, it covers the offence under Section 292 IPC.	None
We, in fact, notice that this Court was persuaded to place reliance on Section 79 of the Act which was inserted as a result of the substitution with effect from 27.10.2009.	Reasoning
The provisions of Section 79 are not seen expressly extracted or referred to by the court.	Reasoning
Section 79, even prior to its substitution, did protect the intermediary from liability for offences under the Act.	None
This was a case where the appellant was sought to be prosecuted under Section 292 of the IPC even though he had been discharged under Section 67 of the Act.	None
The offence was one which properly fell within the scope of Section 67 in so far as the offending matter, was contained in an electronic record, as defined.	None
Therefore, it could be reasoned that it having been found, he had not committed the offence under Section 67 of the Act, having regard to Section 81, the prosecution under Section 292 of the IPC, may not stand since special provisions have overriding effect.	None
That explains the statement of the law contained in paragraph 37 of the judgment, viz., when the Act in various provisions deals in obscenity in other forms, it covers the offence under Section 292 of the IPC.	None
The premise of the judgment of this Court in Sharat Babu (supra) was that what was involved was an electronic record within the meaning of the Act.	None
The appellant in the said case stood discharged under Section 67 of the Act.	None
The reasoning, which has been upheld by the Court, was that the special provisions contained in the Act would override and cover a criminal act and he would get out of the net of the IPC which in the said case was Section 292.	None
To repeat, the appellant stood discharged under Section 67 of the Act, and therefore, could not be prosecuted under Section 292 of the IPC.	None
In this context, we must examine whether there is any provision in the Act which deals with the offence of defamation committed in the electronic form.	Issue
In fact, in this regard, it is relevant to notice the judgment of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra).	None
Incidentally, the learned Senior Counsel who appeared for the appellant also appeared in the said case for some of the parties and in the summary of arguments raised by him wherein, inter alia, he contended that the existing provisions of the IPC and of the Act, i.e., Section 67, 66B, 66C, 66D, 66E and 66F adequately covers various offences.	None
In regard to sending defamatory messages by email, the provision under the Act was shown as Section 66A and it was contended that the provision in the IPC corresponding to Section 66A was Section 500 of the IPC.	None
This Court dealt with the matter and held, inter alia, as follows Defamation is defined in Section 499 of the Penal Code as follows Defamation.	None
Whoever, by words either spoken or intended to be read, or by signs or by visible representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, the reputation of such person, is said, except in the cases hereinafter excepted, to defame that person.	None
Explanation 1.It may amount to defamation to impute anything to a deceased person, if the imputation would harm the reputation of that person if living, and is intended to be hurtful to the feelings of his family or other near relatives.	None
Explanation 2.It may amount to defamation to make an imputation concerning a company or an association or collection of persons as such.	None
Explanation 3.An imputation in the form of an alternative or expressed ironically, may amount to defamation.	None
Explanation 4.No imputation is said to harm a persons reputation, unless that imputation directly or indirectly, in the estimation of others, lowers the moral or intellectual character of that person, or lowers the character of that person in respect of his caste or of his calling, or lowers the credit of that person, or causes it to be believed that the body of that person is in a loathsome state, or in a state generally considered as disgraceful.46.	None
It will be noticed that for something to be defamatory, injury to reputation is a basic ingredient.	None
Section 66A does not concern itself with injury to reputation.	None
Something may be grossly offensive and may annoy or be inconvenient to somebody without at all affecting his reputation.	None
It is clear, therefore, that the section is not aimed at defamatory statements at all.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
At any rate, Section 66A has been declared unconstitutional by this Court.	Reasoning
Apart from Section 66A, there is obviously no other provision in the Act which deals with defamation in the electronic form.	Reasoning
In that way, the subject of defamation would be governed by Section 500 of the IPC.	Reasoning
Therefore, the reliance placed on Shreya Singhal (supra) is without any basis.	None
ASSUMING APPELLANT IS AN INTERMEDIARY A BRIEF OVERVIEW OF THE LAW OF DEFAMATION	None
The next question is proceeding on the basis that it is the appellant which is the intermediary within the meaning of the Act whether the appellant could be foisted with liability in a case where appellant is being proceeded against in a criminal case for having committed the offence under Section 500 read with Section 120B of the IPC.	Issue
In this regard, let us consider the contentions of the complainant.	Arguments of Respondent
It is first contended that the appellants role in the control of Google Groups as publisher is a question of fact.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that Google has control on the content being uploaded by the authors.	Arguments of Respondent
It has full freedom to remove any content without reference to anyone much less court orders.	Arguments of Respondent
Google itself recognizes that defamation is not an accepted conduct and takes an undertaking from its users.	Arguments of Respondent
Google cannot claim to be mere passive technology service provider which is promoting free speech.	Arguments of Respondent
It provides various tools to create edit modify the content apart from uploading the content.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that for the purpose of defamation, Google may have some defence till such time till they are not aware of the defamatory content.	Arguments of Respondent
However, once they are made aware of the defamatory content, then, by allowing the same to continue, refusing to exercise control as platform provider, it becomes fully liable for the consequences of publishing defamatory material.	Arguments of Respondent
Being a technology giant, is not a license to break laws.	Arguments of Respondent
It does not provide immunity from the liability under the IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
There is an attempt by the appellant before us to contend that even taking the averments in the posts which have been uploaded by the first accused, it would not amount to defamation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The essence of the offence of defamation, as defined in Section 499, would consist of words either spoken or intended to be read or by signs or by visible representations making or publishing any imputation concerning any person with the intention to harm or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm the reputation of that person subject to the Exceptions and Explanations which follow the main provision.	None
Explanation II declares that it may amount to defamation to make an imputation concerning a company or an association or collection of persons as such.	None
Explanation IV reads as follows Explanation 4.No imputation is said to harm a persons reputation, unless that imputation directly or indirectly, in the estimation of others, lowers the moral or intellectual character of that person, or lowers the character of that person in respect of his caste or of his calling, or lowers the credit of that person, or causes it to be believed that the body of that person is in a loathsome state, or in a state generally considered as disgrace ful.	None
It is undoubtedly true that the first Exception exempts from criminal liability, statements which are true and which are required for public good.	None
It reads as follows First Exception.	None
Imputation of truth which public good requires to be made or published.	None
It is not defamation to impute anything which is true concerning any person, if it be for the public good that the imputation should be made or published.	None
Whether or not it is for the public good is a question of fact.	None
The 9 th Exception may be relevant.	None
It reads as follows Ninth Exception.	None
Imputation made in good faith by person for protection of his or others interests.	None
It is not defamation to make an imputation on the character of another provided that the imputation be made in good faith for the protection of the interests of the person making it, or of any other person, or for the public good.	None
Illustrations A, a shopkeeper, says to B, who manages his business Sell nothing to Z unless he pays you ready money, for I have no opinion of his honesty .	None
A is within the exception, if he has made this imputation on Z in good faith for the protection of his own interests.	None
A, a Magistrate, in making a report of his own superior officer, casts an imputation on the character of Z. Here, if the imputation is made in good faith, and for the public good, A is within the exception.	None
Tenth Exception.	None
Caution intended for good of person to whom conveyed or for public good.	None
It is not defamation to convey a caution, in good faith, to one person against another, provided that such caution be intended for the good of the person to whom it is conveyed, or of some person in whom that person is interested, or for the public good.	None
COMMENTS Imputation without publication In section 499 the words makes or publishes any imputation should be interpreted as words supplementing to each other.	None
A maker of imputation without publication is not liable to be punished under that section Bilal Ahmed Kaloo v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1997) 7 Supreme Today 127.	None
We would not think that it would be appropriate, proper or legal for the court to accept the submission of the appellant that the post in question do not constitute defamation.	Reasoning
This is for the reason that such an exercise would be out of bounds in the facts of this case, in particular, in a petition filed under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
As to whether it constitute defamation and as to whether it falls in any of the Explanations Exceptions, would be all matters to be decided by the court.	Reasoning
The question which remains is everything being assumed in favour of the complainant, viz., that the first accused has posted defamatory material by uploading it on the platform and the appellant is an intermediary providing the said platform, the argument of the appellant is that even then, the appellant is not liable.	Reasoning
We have noticed the stand of the Government of India also.	Reasoning
An intermediary provides a platform.	Reasoning
Millions of posts are uploaded every day.	Reasoning
We have noticed the definition of words originator and addressee.	Reasoning
The case of the appellant is that the originator in this case, the first accused, is the author of the alleged defamatory material.	Reasoning
Unlike an article which is written by person A and which is got published in a newspaper or publication which is brought out by a person B, the case of the appellant is that the first accused is both the originator, and therefore, the author and he is also the publisher.	Reasoning
Assuming everything against the appellant as aforesaid, the offence if at all has been committed, may have been committed by the first accused.	Reasoning
The appellant seeks to wash its hands off the contents of the article as also the publication.	Reasoning
The responsibility for authoring the material and publishing(uploading) lies at the doorstep of the fist accused.	Reasoning
The appellant has no role at all in this matter.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, it is the case of the appellant that having regard to the role played by the appellant, again assuming that it is the intermediary, involved in this case, it cannot be made liable.	Reasoning
It is the further case of the appellant that at the most, liability may arise, if a party aggrieved by material, which can be understood as electronic record under the Act, approaches the appellant armed with a court order or an authority directing it to remove the offending posts.	Reasoning
Till then, the appellant is not liable, in law, to take steps against the material.	Reasoning
This is apart from pointing out that it is incumbent upon the complaining party to assist the intermediary by providing it with the URL so that the matter could be located and action taken.	Reasoning
In fact, in this case, it is pointed out that the appellant, as a good gesture, upon receipt of complaint, written to parent company, which, in fact, is the intermediary and the parent company wrote back seeking URL.	Reasoning
The actions of the appellant have been bonafide.	Reasoning
It has no role to play in the commission of the alleged offence.	Reasoning
It is in this context that appellant would contend that in law an intermediary cannot and should not be designated as the Competent Authority to decide upon the question as to whether any material falls foul of the law of defamation leading to the unilateral interference with the free exchange of ideas though the internet.	Reasoning
Internet, it is pointed out, is universal, and in the words of the Government of India, which supports the appellant in this Court, a democratic medium for the free exchange of ideas.	Reasoning
Any conferment of unilateral power upon the intermediary would introduce what is called the chilling effect.	Reasoning
SECTION 499 OF THE IPC MAKES OR PUBLISHES DISTINCTION	None
It is important that we notice the indispensable ingredients of the offence under Section 499 of the IPC.	None
Section 499 reads as follows Defamation.	None
Whoever, by words either spoken or intended to be read, or by signs or by visible representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, the reputation of such person, is said, except in the cases hereinafter expected, to defame that person.	None
Under the said provision, the Law Giver has made the making or publishing of any imputation with a requisite intention or knowledge or reason to believe, as provided therein, that the imputation will harm the reputation of any person, the essential ingredients of the offence of defamation.	None
What is the meaning to be attached to the words making of an imputation and publishing of an imputation?	None
This question has been set out with clarity in a recent judgment which is reported in Mohd.	None
Abdulla Khan v. Prakash K. (2018) 1 SCC 615 .	None
It was held as follows An analysis of the above reveals that to constitute an offence of defamation it requires a person to make some imputation concerning any other person Such imputation must be made either With intention, or Knowledge, or Having a reason to believe that such an imputation will harm the reputation of the person against whom the imputation is made.	None
Imputation could be, by Words, either spoken or written, or By making signs, or Visible representations Imputation could be either made or published.	None
The difference between making of an imputation and publishing the same is If X tells Y that Y is a criminal X makes an imputation.	None
If X tells Z that Y is a criminal X publishes the imputation.	None
The essence of publication in the context of Section 499 is the communication of defamatory imputation to persons other than the persons against whom the imputation is made.	None
Khima Nand v. Emperor, 1936 SCC OnLine All 307 1937 Cri LJ 806 Amar Singh v. K.S. Badalia, 1964 SCC OnLine Pat 186 (1965) 2	None
Cri LJ 693 WHETHER SECTION 499 OF THE IPC EXHAUSTIVE OF CRIMINAL LIBEL?	None
We may incidentally also notice an earlier judgment of this Court in this context reported in M.C. Verghese v. T.J. Poonan and another (1969) 1 SCC 37 .	None
The daughter of the appellant therein, who was married to the respondent (T.J. Poonan), received certain letters from her husband which the appellantfatherinlaw complained as containing defamatory statements against him.	None
The Magistrate took the view that being a communication between husband and wife, it did not amount to defamation as there was no publication since in the eye of law, as the husband and wife are one.	None
He also took the view that the communication between the spouses was privileged under Section 122 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	None
This Court reversed the view taken by the High Court which had upheld the view of the Magistrate though in the interregnum the Magistrates view did not find favour with the learned Sessions Judge.	None
This Court took the view that the principle, the husband and wife are one in the eye of law, has not been adopted in its full force under our system and certainly not in our criminal jurisprudence (see paragraph 7).	None
It is, thereafter, that the Court made following observations It must be remembered that the Penal Code, 1860 exhaustively codifies the law relating to offences with which it deals and the rules of the common law cannot be resorted to for inventing exemptions which are not expressly enacted.	None
In Tiruvengadda Mudali v. Tripurasundari Ammal ILR 49 Mad 728 a Full Bench of the Madras High Court observed that the exceptions to Section 499 IPC, must be regarded as exhaustive as to the cases which they purport to cover and recourse can be had to the English common law to add new grounds of exception to those contained in the statute.	None
A person making libellous statements in his complaint filed in Court is not absolutely protected in a criminal proceeding for defamation, for under the Eighth Exception and the illustration to Section 499 the statements are privileged only when they are made in good faith.	None
There is therefore authority for the proposition that in determining the criminality of an act under the Penal Code, 1860 the Courts will not extend the scope of special exceptions by resorting to the rule peculiar to English common law that the husband and wife are regarded as one.	None
No doubt, the Court did not express a final opinion.	None
In the light of this discussion, we may only reiterate that the criminal offence of defamation under Section 499 of the IPC is committed when a person makes a defamatory imputation which, as explained in Mohd.	None
Abdulla Khan (supra), would consist of the imputation being conveyed to the person about whom the imputation is made.	None
A publication, on the other hand, is made when the imputation is communicated to persons other than the persons about whom the defamatory imputation is conveyed.	None
A person, who makes the defamatory imputation, could also publish the imputation and thus could be the maker and the publisher of a defamatory imputation.	None
On the other hand, a person may be liable though he may not have made the statement but he publishes it.	None
In this case, the case of the appellant appears to be that it is indisputable that it is the first defendant who has not only authored the statements containing imputations which are allegedly defamatory but it is he who has also published it.	Reasoning
In this regard, the parties before us have drawn our attention to case law emanating from courts other than in India.	Reasoning
THE DEFAMATION ACTS IN ENGLAND	None
A LOOK AT SOME DECISIONS UNDER THE SAME Before we proceed to consider the case law, a birds overview of the law of defamation, as contained in United Kingdom, may be appreciated.	None
The Defamation Act of 1952, as contained in Sections 4,7,8,9(2) and 9(3) and Sections 16(2) and 16(3) came to be repealed by the Defamation Act of 1996.	None
The Defamation Act of 2013 further amended the law by declaring that a statement is not defamatory unless its publication has caused or is likely to cause serious harm to the reputation of the claimant which, in the case of body that trades for profit, it was made clear that the serious harm would not arise unless there is caused serious financial loss or likelihood of such loss.	None
Truth was declared as a defence.	None
Certain defences were introduced.	None
Considerations of public interest was introduced in regard to operators of website.	None
Section 5 was enacted, which reads as follows Operators of websites This section applies where an action for defamation is brought against the operator of a website in respect of a statement posted on the website.	None
It is a defence for the operator to show that it was not the operator who posted the statement on the website.	None
The defence is defeated if the claimant shows that (a) it was not possible for the claimant to identify the person who posted the statement, (b) the claimant gave the operator a notice of complaint in relation to the statement, and (c) the operator failed to respond to the notice of complaint in accordance with any provision contained in regulations.	None
For the purposes of subsection (3) (a), it is possible for a claimant to identify a person only if the claimant has sufficient information to bring proceedings against the person.	None
Regulations may (a) make provision as to the action required to be taken by an operator of a website in response to a notice of complaint (which may in particular include action relating to the identity or contact details of the person who posted the statement and action relating to its removal) (b) make provision specifying a time limit for the taking of any such action (c) make provision conferring on the court a discretion to treat action taken after the expiry of a time limit as having been taken before the expiry (d) make any other provision for the purposes of this section.	None
Subject to any provision made by virtue of subsection (7), a notice of complaint is a notice which (a) specifies the complainants name, (b) sets out the statement concerned and explains why it is defamatory of the complainant, (c) specifies where on the website the statement was posted, and (d) contains such other information as may be specified in regulations.	None
Regulations may make provision about the circumstances in which a notice which is not a notice of complaint is to be treated as a notice of complaint for the purposes of this section or any provision made under it.	None
Regulations under this section (a) may make different provision for different circumstances (b) are to be made by statutory instrument.	None
A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.	None
In this section regulations means regulations made by the Secretary of State.	None
The defence under this section is defeated if the claimant shows that the operator of the website has acted with malice in relation to the posting of the statement concerned.	None
The defence under this section is not defeated by reason only of the fact that the operator of the website moderates the statements posted on it by others.	None
There are other provisions which need not detain us.	None
We may, no doubt, also notice the meaning of the word publish, inter alia, as contained in Section 15 of the Defamation Act, 2013 15. publish and publication, in relation to a statement, have the meaning they have for the purposes of the law of defamation generally The Act was to apply only to England and Wales.	None
Certain provisions were to apply to Scotland also.	None
It may be noticed, however, that the Defamation Act, 1996, as indeed the Defamation Act, 1952, provided as follows In Section 20(2) of the Defamation Act, 1996, it is stated that nothing in the said Act affected the law relating to criminal libel.	None
There is a similar provision in the Defamation Act, 1952.	None
Section 17(2) of the Defamation Act, 1952 also declared that nothing in the Act affected the law relating to criminal libel.	None
Criminal libel, however, came to be repealed by the Coroners and Justice Act, 2009.	None
The complainant would refer to judgment in Byrne v. Deane (1937) 1 KB 818 as also Payam Tamiz v. Google Inc. (2013) EWCA CB 68 .	None
The appellant, on the other hand, relied upon the judgment of the Queens Bench in Bunt v. Tilley (2006) EWHC 407 .	None
There is also reference by the respondent to the judgment in Godfrey v. Demon Internet Limited (2001) QB 201 .	None
Let us now take these cases in the chronological order and the context in which the matter arose and was decided.	None
In Byrne (supra), the facts may be noticed.	None
The complainant was a member of a Golf Club.	None
The defendants were the proprietors and the female defendant was also the Secretary.	None
The rules of the Club, inter alia, prohibited posting of any notice or placard in the Club premises without the consent of the Secretary.	None
There were certain automatic gambling machines kept by the defendants for the use of the members of the Club.	None
On a complaint, the machines were removed from the Club premises.	None
Alleging that a defamatory verse was put up on the wall of the Club, the plaintiff brought an action in libel alleging publication by the defendants of matter defamatory to him.	None
In short, it was his case that the words were meant to convey that it was the plaintiff who reported the matter to the Police which undermined his loyalty to the members of the Club.	None
The learned Judge, who heard the civil action for damages, gave judgement to the plaintiff.	None
He came to the conclusion that the matter complained of was defamatory.	None
He further found that since the defendants allowed the notice to remain on the walls of the Club, over which the defendants have complete control, the publication of it was made with their approval and they had, therefore, published that libel.	None
As regards the question whether there was publication by the defendants, the Court, by a majority, took the view that there was publication.	None
Greer L.J. held as follows It was a proprietary club.	None
The difference between a proprietary club and an ordinary club is that in a proprietary club the proprietor or proprietors remain in possession of the club.	None
The two defendants are the lessees of the club and they are the occupiers of the club premises, and the walls are their walls, and in my judgment they allowed a defamatory statement to be put up on their walls and to remain on their walls in a position in which it could be read by anybody who came into the club.	None
Undoubtedly it must have been so read not only by people who were members of the club but by people who were not members of the club, and who only came in possibly for a drink with a member or to play a game of some sort or another.	None
Quite a number of illustrations have been put forward as illustrations which give rise to similar questions to the question that arises in this case.	None
In my judgment the nearest case put forward is this assume that a defamatory poster was hung upon the garden rail of Mr. Smiths house which adjoins the street so that the defamatory statement can be read by every one who passes the house.	None
Could it not be said that by allowing that poster to remain hanging upon the garden rail of his house the occupier of the house was taking part in the publication of that poster to people passing his house, when the simplest operation in the world, namely, cutting the rope by which the poster was hung upon the rail and taking the poster away, would have made the poster from that time innocuous?	None
In my judgment the two proprietors of this establishment by allowing the defamatory statement, if it be defamatory, to rest upon their wall and not to remove it, with the knowledge that they must have had that by not removing it it would be read by people to whom it would convey such meaning as it had, were taking part in the publication of it.	None
Slesser L.J. wrote a separate opinion wherein he took the view that complainant had failed to show publication against the male defendant.	None
With regard to the female defendant, it was held as follows With regard to the female defendant I think it may be said although it is perhaps extending the evidence of publication rather further than has ever been done in the past in any case which I have been able to discover that there was some evidence of publication on the part of the female defendant.	None
Greer L.J., further held as follows No notice or placard, written or printed, shall be posted in the club premises without the consent of the secretary, and her evidence is to this effect, that she knew that this alleged libel had been placed on the wall of the club.	None
Her view was that she could see no harm in it.	None
She said I read it.	None
It seemed to me somebody was rather annoyed with somebody.	None
I think having read it, and having dominion over the walls of the club as far as the posting of notices was concerned, it could properly be said that there was some evidence that she did promote and associate herself with the continuance of the publication in the circumstances after the date when she knew that the publication had been made.	None
Greene L.J., took the view that there was evidence of publication by both the defendants.	None
It was held as follows Now, on the substantial question of publication, publication, of course, is a question of fact, and it must depend on the circumstances in each case whether or not publication has taken place.	None
It is said that as a general proposition where the act of the person alleged to have published a libel has not been any positive act, but has merely been the refraining from doing some act, he cannot be guilty of publication.	None
I am quite unable to accept any such general proposition.	None
It may very well be that in some circumstances a person, by refraining from removing or obliterating the defamatory matter, is not committing any publication at all.	None
In other circumstances he may be doing so.	Reasoning
The test it appears to me is this having regard to all the facts of the case is the proper inference that by not removing the defamatory matter the defendant really made himself responsible for its continued presence in the place where it had been put?	Reasoning
I may give as an example of a case which would fall on one side of the line suppose somebody with a mallet and a chisel carved on the stonework of somebodys house something defamatory, and carved it very deeply so that the removal of it could only be effected by taking down the stonework and replacing it with new stonework.	None
In a case of that kind it appears to me that it would be very difficult, if not indeed impossible, to draw the inference that the volition of the owner of the house had anything to do with the continued presence of that inscription on his stonework.	None
The circumstance that to remove it would require very great trouble and expense would be sufficient to answer any such aspersion.	None
On the other hand you have a case such as the present where the removal of this particular notice was a perfectly simple and easy thing to do involving no trouble whatsoever.	None
The defendants, having the power of removing it and the right to remove it, and being able to do it without any difficulty at all, and knowing that members of the club when they came into the room would see it, I think must be taken to have elected deliberately to leave it there.	None
The proper inference, therefore, in those circumstances it seems to me is that they were consenting parties to its continued presence on the spot where it had been put up.	None
That being so it seems to me that they must be taken to have consented to its publication to each member who saw it.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Godfrey (supra), the case was a civil action.	None
The complainant was a Lecturer in Physics, Mathematics and Computer Science resident in England.	None
The defendant was an internet service provider.	None
On the 13 th of January, 1997, some unknown person made a post in the U.S.A. in news group soc.culture.thai and stores which was carried on by the defendant.	None
For about a fortnight, the posting was available to be read by its customers.	None
According to the complainant, it was defamatory, inter alia, to him.	None
It purported to emanate from the complainant though his name was misspelt.	None
Complainant claimed it to be a forgery.	None
He sent a letter to the Managing Director of the defendantcompany about the posting being a forgery and disowning responsibility of the same, he requested removal of the same from the server.	None
It was not disputed by the defendant that it could have obliterated the post after receiving the request.	None
The court examined the matter thereafter, on the basis of the governing law, viz., Defamation Act, 1996.	None
The following discussion is relevant The law	None
The governing statute is the Defamation Act 1996.	None
Section 1, which is headed Responsibility for publication, provides In defamation proceedings a person has a defence if he shows that (a) he was not the author, editor or publisher of the statement complained of, (b) he took reasonable care in relation to its publication, and (c) he did not know, and had no reason to believe, that what he did caused or contributed to the publication of a defamatory statement.	None
It should be noted that for the defence to succeed (a) and (b) and (c) have to be established by the defendant.	None
Section 1 continues For this purpose publisher has the following meanings, which are further explained in subsection (3) publisher means a commercial publisher, that is, a person whose business is issuing material to the public, or a section of the public, who issues material containing the statement in the course of that business.	None
A person shall not be considered the author, editor or publisher of a statement if he is only involved(a) in printing, producing, distributing or selling printed material containing the statement (c) in processing, making copies of, distributing or selling any electronic medium in or on which the statement is recorded, or in operating or providing any equipment, system or service by means of which the statement is retrieved, copied, distributed or made available in electronic form (e) as the operator of or provider of access to a communications system by means of which the statement is transmitted, or made available, by a person over whom he has no effective control.	None
In a case not within paragraphs (a) to (e) the court may have regard to those provisions by way of analogy in deciding whether a person is to be considered the author, editor or publisher of a statement In determining for the purposes of this section whether a person took reasonable care, or had reason to believe that what he did caused or contributed to the publication of a defamatory statement, regard shall be had to(a) the extent of his responsibility for the content of the statement or the decision to publish it, (b) the nature or circumstances of the publication, and (c) the previous conduct or character of the author, editor or publisher.	None
In my judgment the defendants were clearly not the publisher of the posting defamatory of the plaintiff within the meaning of section 1(2) and (3) and incontrovertibly can avail themselves of section 1(1)(a).	None
However the difficulty facing the defendants is section 1(1)(b) and (c).	None
After 17 January 1997, after receipt of the plaintiffs fax, the defendants knew of the defamatory posting but chose not to remove it from their Usenet news servers.	None
In my judgment this places the defendants in an insuperable difficulty so that they cannot avail themselves of the defence provided by section 1.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The court purported to follow the judgment in Byrne (supra) and held as follows The defendants chose to store soc.culture.thai postings within their computers.	None
Such postings could be accessed on that newsgroup.	None
The defendants could obliterate and indeed did so about a fortnight after receipt.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The court finally concluded that the plaintiffs summons to strike out parts of the defence as disclosing no sustainable defence which was to the effect that in common law, they were not publishers of the internet posting.	None
The plaintiffs summons was allowed to strike out the defence.	None
Now, we may turn to Bunt (supra) decided on 10.03.2006 by the Queens Bench Division of the High Court.	None
Defendants 4 to 6 in the civil proceeding were internet service providers.	None
The service providers applied under Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) 3.4(2) and (CPR) 24 for an order to the High Court.	None
The claim of the plaintiff was based on the allegation that the individual defendants published the offending words through the services provided by the internet service providers.	None
In paragraph 7, the Court considered it necessary to consider the defence relied upon by the parties which, in fact, was admissible for the purpose of CPR Part 24.	None
The court referred to the decision in Godfrey (supra).	None
The court also held, inter alia, as follows Publication is a question of fact, and it must depend on the circumstances of each case whether or not publication has taken place see e g Byrne v Deane 1937 1 KB 818, 837838, per Greene LJ.	None
The analogies that were held to be inappropriate in Godfrey v Demon Internet Ltd might yet be upheld where the facts do not disclose onward transmission with knowledge of the defamatory content.	None
As Dr Collins observes in The Law of Defamation and the Internet, para 15.43 Mere conduit intermediaries who carry particular Internet communications from one computer to another are analogous to postal services and telephone carriers in the sense that they facilitate communications, without playing any part in the creation or preparation of their content, and almost always without actual knowledge of the content.	None
Such an approach would tend to suggest that at common law such intermediaries should not be regarded as responsible for publication.	None
Indeed, that is consistent with the approach in Lunney where the New York Court of Appeals drew an analogy between an ISP and a telephone company which one neither wants nor expects to superintend the content of his subscribers conversations.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
I have little doubt, however, that to impose legal responsibility upon anyone under the common law for the publication of words it is essential to demonstrate a degree of awareness or at least an assumption of general responsibility, such as has long been recognised in the context of editorial responsibility.	None
As Lord Morris commented in McLeod v St Aubyn 1899 AC 549, 562 A printer and publisher intends to publish, and so intending cannot plead as a justification that he did not know the contents.	None
The appellant in this case never intended to publish.	None
In that case the relevant publication consisted in handing over an unread copy of a newspaper for return the following day.	None
It was held that there was no sufficient degree of awareness or intention to impose legal responsibility for that publication.	None
Of course, to be liable for a defamatory publication it is not always necessary to be aware of the defamatory content, still less of its legal significance.	None
Editors and publishers are often fixed with responsibility notwithstanding such lack of knowledge.	None
On the other hand, for a person to be held responsible there must be knowing involvement in the process of publication of the relevant words .	None
It is not enough that a person merely plays a passive instrumental role in the process.	None
(See also in this context Emmens v Pottle (1885) 16 QBD 354, 357, per Lord Esher MR.)	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
In so far as the claimant seeks support in Godfrey Demon Internet Ltd 2001 QB 201, there are plainly significant distinctions.	None
Morland J deprived the ISP in that case from protection under section 1 of the 1996 Act because it had continued publication of the same defamatory statements after Mr Godfreys letter had been received, asking for them to be removed from the Usenet news server.	None
Here, by contrast, the claimant is relying upon separate postings.	None
In these there is no reference to batteries, but rather to suggestions of fraud and kiddie porn.	None
There are no pleaded facts to suggest any knowing participation by AOL in the publication of these words.	None
Ms Phillips accordingly submits that an ISP should not become liable as a publisher (especially for postings on a site which it does not host) simply because it has been previously told of wholly unrelated allegedly defamatory statements, not necessarily even by the same author.	None
That is a powerful argument which is relevant, as I have said, both to the fundamental issue of publication at common law and to statutory defences which I shall have to consider later.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
In all the circumstances I am quite prepared to hold that there is no realistic prospect of the claimant being able to establish that any of the corporate defendants, in any meaningful sense, knowingly participated in the relevant publications.	None
His own pleaded case is defective in this respect in any event.	None
More generally, I am also prepared to hold as a matter of law that an ISP which performs no more than a passive role in facilitating postings on the Internet cannot be deemed to be a publisher at common law.	None
I would not accept the claimants proposition that this issue can only be settled by a trial, since it is a question of law which can be determined without resolving contested issues of fact.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thereafter, the Court also referred to the Electronic Commerce Directive (Regulations), 2002.	None
Still further, the Court referred in detail to the witness statement of the Director (Technical and Operations) in AOL There is no expert challenge to that evidence, and I have no reason to doubt that it represents the true position.	None
How then does the claimant propose to overcome the protection claimed by the fourth and fifth defendants under these Regulations?	None
As I have said, he relies on simple logic.	None
He does not rely on any expert report.	None
I turn therefore to his case as clarified in the light of the order of Gray J.	None
It is necessary to consider para 19 of the amended particulars of claim which advances a proposition to the effect that there is an obligation to gatekeep its conduit.	None
The nub of this submission appears to be contained in subparas (i) and (j) An ISP providing a leased line connection to a customer has an extremely good argument under both the Defamation Act 1996 and also the Electronic Commerce Directive 2002 that it is no more than a conduit, that it has no knowledge or control over what passes through that conduit, and that the entire responsibility for what does pass through that conduit rests with the customer who has purchased it, as it is the customer and not the ISP who acts as a gatekeeper for that conduit.	None
An ISP providing a standard domestic consumer or SOHO Internet access package to a customer has no possible hope of successfully arguing that it is a mere conduit and therefore immune from that law, as all content originates from within their own network, instead of merely passing through it in Via fashion from one network to another.	None
In these circumstances not only is the ISP most definitely acting as sole gatekeeper between the source of the defamatory material and the Internet, they also provide a bundle of other services each of which clearly falls foul of the other provisions of the Electronic Commerce Directive 2002 which, for example, only allows the minimum level of cacheing technically necessary for the underlying technology of message transmission to function.	None
The notion of a gatekeeper appears to derive from the claimant himself it is nowhere to be found in the regulations.	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
In conclusion, I am quite satisfied that the claims against these applicants should be struck out in accordance with CPR Pt 3, and indeed that there would be no realistic prospect of success on any of the causes of action.	None
Thus the criteria under CPR	None
Pt 24 would also be fulfilled.	None
At this juncture, it is necessary also to refer to CPR 3.4(2) Power to strike out a statement of case 3.4.(2)	None
The court may strike out(GL) a statement of case if it appears to the court (a) that the statement of case discloses no reasonable grounds for bringing or defending the claim (b) that the statement of case is an abuse of the courts process or is otherwise likely to obstruct the just disposal of the proceedings or (c) that there has been a failure to comply with a rule, practice direction or court order.	None
In Richardson (supra), decided on 02.11.2015, the claimant sought damages in respect of publication on a Facebook profile and a blog post on the Google blogger service.	None
The profile and the blog post were purportedly created by that claimant but the claimant complained that they were fake being created by an imposter.	None
She claimed that both were defamatory and violated her right to respect for her private life under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.	None
Proceedings were commenced against Facebook U.K. in respect of the profile they described as the Facebook action and against Google U.K. Limited in respect of the blog post, shown as the Google action.	None
The action came to be dismissed.	None
The principle ground was that the suit was against the company which was not responsible for the publication which meant that she had prosecuted the case against the wrong defendant.	None
In appeal, she cited certain issues to be referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union.	None
The Court referred to Bunt (supra), Godfrey (supra) and Byrne (supra).	None
The Court held as follows The underlying rationale of the decision in Byrne v Deane, that the defendants were responsible for publication, was that they were in control of the notice board and had the power to act so as to remove a posting by a third party which was unauthorised and wrongful by failing to exercise that power in the knowledge of the posting they became liable for its continued publication.	None
This rationale is plainly capable of applying to some of those involved in the provision of internet services and social media platforms.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thereafter, the Court went on to notice that the Defamation Act, 1996, mitigated the rigor of the common law principles by providing a defence for those who by application of those principles were publishers of common law.	None
Court further went on to hold that internet service providers and others are not responsible for publication according to the common law principles discussed, that is to say, who were not publishers at common law, had no need to take resort under the Defamation Act.	None
The court went on to refer to Defamation Act, 2013 which came into force on 01.01.2014.	None
Further, the court held as follows The pleading acknowledges on its face that Facebook Inc owns the Facebook Service and the associated website.	None
It appears to adopt the statement in the terms of service that Facebook Ireland Ltd is, according to the terms of service, responsible for processing data outside the US and Canada.	None
So far as FBUK is concerned, there is an allegation that it was notified of the offending postings.	None
However, the pleading wholly fails to advance against FBUK any clear or coherent case that it has or had any form of control over any aspect of the content of the Facebook Service, let alone the Profile.	None
The allegation that FBUK was notified of the claimants complaint goes beyond what is alleged earlier in the pleading, where notification is said to have been given to the Facebook Service and Facebook.	None
It also appears to be factually untenable.	None
But even if it were true it could not, in the absence of an allegation that FBUK had the power or ability to control content, form a proper basis for the attribution of responsibility for publication on the basis of Byrne v Deane principles.	None
The court further observed that on the evidence, the claimant had known Byrne (supra) without any prospect of success.	None
In this regard, the court relied on the evidence led which was to the effect that the claim was fundamentally defective because Facebook U.K. Limited had no involvement or responsibility for the Facebook service.	None
The material further was to the effect that the Facebook service was operated by Facebook Inc., a corporation existing under the laws of the United States.	None
Facebook Ireland Limited, a company organized and existing under the laws of the Republic of Ireland has explained in its terms of service that users outside of the United States of America and Canada contracted with the Facebook Ireland Limited .	None
The material was to the effect that Facebook U.K. Limited was a separate and distinct entity.	None
Facebook U.K. Limiteds sole corporate purpose is public relation, consultancy, and communications in the United Kingdom.	None
There was also reference to decisions of English Courts previously finding that Facebook U.K. Limited do not control or operate the Facebook services.	None
The court took the view that Facebook U.K. Limited persuaded it that if there were a trial, it would inevitably demonstrate that it was not responsible.	None
An attempt was made by the claimant to draw support from Google Spain SL (supra) decision.	None
The argument appears to have been that on the basis of the said decision, Facebook Inc. and its subsidiaries were to be treated as a single economic unit and Facebook U.K. Limited should also be responsible for the publication of the profile.	None
The court rejected the contention.	None
One of the reasons given was that Google Spain SL (supra) was a decision which was based on the scope and application of the data protection directions.	None
The court took the view that the decision in Google Spain SL (supra) had nothing to say about the domestic law of responsibility of publication in defamation.	None
It was a matter to be determined by the common law and the Defamation Acts.	None
It was further found that claimant had misunderstood the relevant aspect of the Google Spain SL (supra) decision.	None
It was found that the Court of Justice of European Union (CJEU) did not hold that parent and subsidiary companies are to be treated as a single unit.	None
Google Spain SL (supra) revolved around the interpretation and application of Article 4(1) of the Directive.	None
The court went on to hold that the controller within the meaning of the directives was Google Inc In Google Spain SL (supra), court held that Google Spain was not a data controller.	None
On the one hand, the appellant sought to draw support from Richardson (supra) whereas, on the other hand, the complainant laid store by Google Spain SL (supra).	None
We have noticed the context in which the questions arose.	None
As far as English decision is concerned, it was a civil action.	Reasoning
The material before the learned Judge who allowed the application by Facebook U.K. Limited and Google U.K. was apparently in terms of the procedural laws, perhaps akin to Order VII Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.	Reasoning
More importantly, there was material before the court even in dismissing the claims on the application of the defendants.	Reasoning
We are, in this case, concerned with the ambit of jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
We also notice that the decision rendered in Google Spain SL (supra) appears to have turned on the scope of the directive as noticed in Richardson (supra).	Reasoning
EFFECT OF SUBSTITUTION OF SECTION 79 OF THE ACT Section 79 of the Act came to be substituted with effect from 27.10.2009.	None
In fact, the effect of substitution of a provision has been dealt with by this Court in the decision in State of Rajasthan v. Mangilal Pindwal (1996)5 SCC 60 AIR 1996 SC 2181 Similarly in Crawfords Interpretation of Laws it has been said Effect of Repeal, Generally.	None
In the first place, an outright repeal will destroy the effectiveness of the repealed act in futuro and operate to destroy inchoate rights dependent on it, as a general rule.	None
In many cases, however, where statutes are repealed, they continue to be the law of the period during which they were in force with reference to numerous matters.	None
(pp. 640641)11.	None
The observations of Lord Tenterden and Tindal, C.J. referred in the abovementioned passages in Craies on Statute Law also indicate that the principle that on repeal a statute is obliterated is subject to the exception that it exists in respect of transactions past and closed.	None
To the same effect is the law laid down by this Court.	None
(See Qudrat Ullah v. Municipal Board (1974) 1 SCC 202 (1974) 2	None
SCR 530 , SCR at p. 539)	None
This means that as a result of repeal of a statute the statute as repealed ceases to exist with effect from the date of such repeal but the repeal does not affect the previous operation of the law which has been repealed during the period it was operative prior to the date of such repeal.	None
In this case, the complaint itself is dated 21.01.2009.	Reasoning
The sworn statement of Deputy Manager (Legal) of the complainant is recorded on 27.02.2009.	None
The sworn statement reads as follows I am the complainant herein.	None
I am working a1s Deputy Managerlegal in the complainant company.	None
Complainant company manufactures Asbestos Cement sheets and it is having various manufacture units throw out India.	Facts
Accused No.1 is a coordinator of Ban Asbestos India a Group hosted by Accused No.2 and publishes articles in the group regarding various issues on 21 st November, 2008 an article was published in A2 group as Poisoning the system Hindustan times.	None
Complainant was surprised to note that article is aimed at complainant company and also against renowned politicians of the country i.e. Mr. G. Venkat Swamy and Smt.	None
Sonia Gandhi where as these people have nothing to do with the complainant company and again on 31 st July, 2008 an article was captioned A2 Group as Visaka Asbestos Industries making gains both articles contains defamatory statements against the complainant which is available in the cyber space in the form of an article for world wide audience.	None
The complainant submits acts and deeds of the accused not only harm the complainant company but also integrity of the working people.	None
Complainant humbly submits that there are other groups like Everest Group, Ramco Group and Birla Group which are also engaged in the same group.	None
But the accused No.1 unnecessarily dragged the complainant and the politicians of the country with malicious intention.	None
The complainant further submits that A1 trying to bring down the complainant image by running hate campaign against the complainant through the above said articles.	None
After seeing this article the complainant has sent notice dated 10.12.2008 through Registered Post which A1 returned unserved and the Fax was received by both the accused.	None
The above article caused damage to the reputation of the complainant.	None
A1 with malafide intention to cause damage to the reputation to complainant has published such articles.	None
I further submit that the acts and deeds of the accused being committed in violation of the fundamental rights and the action on the part of the accused in making such defamatory statements are premeditated and intended to lower the image cause defamation in the eyes of public knowing fully well that the statements made there in are false and the complainant company and others are being targeted by the accused with an hidden agenda.	None
It is therefore pay the Honble Court to punish the accused according to law.	None
It is seen that the Magistrate has issued summons to the appellant vide Annexure P5 calling upon him to appear before the Court on 09.09.2009.	Reasoning
If that be so, not only was the complaint filed at the time when Section 79, in its erstwhile avtar, was in force before the present provision was enforced, cognizance thereunder was also taken.	Reasoning
If that be so, the question of exemption from liability may fall to be decided under Section 79 of the Act as it stood and not under the substituted provision.	Reasoning
WHETHER APPELLANT NOT LIABLE AS IT IS ONLY A SUBSIDIARY As far as the question whether being a subsidiary of Google LLC, the appellant is an independent body which is not to be mulcted with liability, we would think it is not a matter to be gone into in Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
We have noticed the stand of the Government of India also as also of the complainant.	Reasoning
FINDINGS OF HIGH COURT REGARDING COMPLAINANTS NOTICE AND CONDUCT OF THE APPELLANT In the impugned judgment, the learned Judge has proceeded to refer to the notices, which was, according to the complaint, issued, calling upon the appellant to remove the objectionable post.	Reasoning
It is found that the appellant did not move its little finger to stop dissemination of the unlawful and objectionable material.	Reasoning
Therefore, the appellant cannot claim exemption under either Section 79 of the Act, as it stood originally, or Section 79 of the Act, after the amendment which took effect from 27.10.2009.	Reasoning
It was further found that as per Section 79(3), as amended, the exemption cannot be applied by any court and claimed by an intermediary in case an intermediary entered into any conspiracy in respect thereof.	Reasoning
It is in this regard that we may notice that there is a definite case for the complainant that there was a conspiracy between the appellant and the first accused as it is alleged in the complaint that the accused, in connivance with each other, have disseminated the information with malafide intention.	Reasoning
There is also reference to Section 120B of the IPC besides Sections 500, 501 read with Section 34 of the IPC.	Reasoning
As far as the view expressed in the impugned order that the appellant cannot claim any exemption under Section 79 of the Act after the amendment, is concerned, we are of the view that it appears to be in the teeth of the pronouncement of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra).	Reasoning
Section 79, as substituted, came to be read down to mean that it is not sufficient if a notice is given to delete a post to the intermediary.	Reasoning
The applicant, who seeks a removal, must be armed with a court order.	Reasoning
In this case, there is no case for the complainant that when the removal was sought of the objectionable post, there was any decision of any competent court or that there was any directive of a competent authority to remove the post.	Reasoning
Therefore, in the light of Shreya Singhal (supra), the finding, clearly of the High Court, in this regard, appears to be unsustainable and we hold so.	Reasoning
The finding by the High Court that in the case on hand, in spite of the complainant issuing notice, bringing it to the notice of the appellant about the dissemination of defamatory matter on the part of the first accused through the medium of appellant, appellant did not move its little finger to block the said material to stop dissemination and, therefore, cannot claim exemption under Section 79 of the Act, as it originally stood, is afflicted with two flaws.	Reasoning
In the first place, the High Court itself has found that Section 79, as it originally was enacted, had nothing to do with offences with laws other than the Act.	Reasoning
We have also found that Section 79, as originally enacted, did not deal with the effect of other laws.	Reasoning
In short, since defamation is an offence under Section 499 of the IPC, Section 79, as it stood before substitution, had nothing to do with freeing of the appellant from liability under the said provision.	Reasoning
Secondly, there is a case for the appellant that on receipt of notice, the appellant, as a gesture, forwarded its complaint to its Parent Company Google LLC which called for the details by its letter dated 06.01.2009.	Reasoning
The complaint came to be filed on 21.01.2009.	Reasoning
We do not think that the High Court was justified, therefore, in entering findings in the manner it was done.	Reasoning
Further, the High Court has not taken into consideration the distinction between blocking and a takedown.	Reasoning
Even Section 79, as substituted with effect from 27.10.2009, denies the benefit of the exemption in a case where there is a conspiracy between the intermediary or abetting or aiding or inducing or otherwise in the commission of the unlawful act.	Reasoning
Again, we notice that the case in the complaint is that there was connivance between the accused.	Reasoning
This is not a matter which we feel could be considered to be proceeded under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	None
We may also notice that in the Civil Suit also, the complainant maintains that the appellant is the service provider and it has abused the services provided by it (see paragraph 11 of the plaint).	None
Appellant is, undoubtedly, the second defendant whereas Google Inc. has also been made a party as third defendant.	None
We say this as appellant has a case that in the Civil Suit, the complainant has set up a case that it is Google LLC which was the actual service provider.	None
PUBLICATION	None
If defamatory matter is published as to who published it, is a question of fact.	None
As already noted, publication involves bringing defamatory matter to the knowledge of a person or persons other than the one who is defamed.	Reasoning
We would approve of the principles laid down by Greene L.J. in Byrne (supra) that in some circumstances, a person by refraining from removing or obliterating the defamatory matter, is not committing any publication at all.	Reasoning
In other circumstances, he may be doing so.	Reasoning
The test, it appears to me is this having regard to all the facts of the case, is the proper inference that by not removing the defamatory matter, the defendant really made himself responsible for its continued presence in the place where it has been put?	Reasoning
Whether there is publication, indeed involves asking the question also as noted by the learned Judge, as to whether there was power and the right to remove any such matter.	Reasoning
If despite such power, and also, ability to remove the matter, if the person does not respond, it would amount to publication.	Reasoning
The said principle, in our view, would hold good even to determine whether there is publication under Section 499 of the IPC.	Reasoning
The further requirement, no doubt, is indispensable, i.e., it must contain imputations with the intention to harm or with knowledge or having reasons to believe that it will harm the reputation of the person concerned.	None
In this case, the substantial complaint of the complainant appears to be based on the refusal by the appellant to remove the matter after being notified.	None
Publication would be the result even in the context of a medium like the internet by the intermediary if it defies a court order and refuses to takedown the matter.	Reasoning
This, undoubtedly, is the position even under the decision in Shreya Singhal (supra) which has read down Section 79(3)(b) and the Intermediary Rules already noted.	None
In this regard, we may notice the following statement in the complaint  Complainant most humbly and respectfully submits that a notice to withdraw such articles was issued by the Complainant through it counsel on 09/12/2008, requesting Accused No. 1 2 to withdraw the above said articles and to render unconditional apology and to pay a compensation of Rs.20.00 Cr.	None
(Rupees Twenty Crores only) jointly and severally for the damage cause to Complainants reputation, within 15 days from the date of the receipt of the notice.	None
In the said notice the Complainant also invited Accused No. 1 to visit the plants of the Complainant and requested to observe the way in which the products are manufactured and then come to a conclusion based on facts and science, office copy of the notice is filed herewith for kind perusal of this Honble Court.	None
The Notice was sent under Registered Post with Acknowledgment Due (R.P.A.) on 10/12/2008, the receipt of R.P.A.D. is filed herewith for kind perusal of this Honble Court.	None
Complainant most humbly and respectfully submits that through the said notice, the accused were reminded that their acts tantamount to the offence punishable under Section 1208, 500 501 of Indian Penal Code.	None
The R.P.A.D. Notice sent to Accused No. 1 returned unserved as the Accused managed to return the same as left without address and the same is filed herewith for the kind perusal of this Honble Court.	None
As a precaution, the complainant on 29.12.2008 faxed the said notice to the accused No. 1s Office at Delhi, receipt of Fax is filed herewith for kind perusal of this Honble Court and complainant on 17.12.2008 faxed the said notice to the accused No	None
. 2s Office at Bangalore, receipt of the fax is filed herewith for kind perusal of this Honble Court.	None
Notice sent to the Bangalore Office of the Accused No. 2 was duly served and the acknowledgment card is filed herewith as a proof of the same for the kind perusal of this Honble Court.	None
We have also noticed that in the statement given by the Officer of the complaint before the Magistrate, there is reference to the dispatch of the notice.	None
As noted by us, in answering the question whether there has been publication for the purpose of criminal libel also on the basis that despite the defamatory matter being notified, it is not removed, the analogy of the wall of a club or notice board of a club may not be as such available when it comes to medium like the internet.	Reasoning
We have noticed that in Byrne (supra), the test would also be whether the party having the power to remove the allegedly defamatory matter and also the right to remove it and being able to do it without any difficulty defies and rejects the request.	Reasoning
The example of the notice board or a wall of a club, as was the case in Byrne (supra), is not strictly available when we are asked to apply it as such in the case of medium like internet.	Reasoning
As was noted in Bunt (supra), in Godfrey (supra), the receipt of the letter requesting for obliterating the post was not in dispute and more importantly that it could have obliterated the post, was again not in controversy.	Reasoning
For deciding whether there is publication, we see merit in the exposition of law made by the English Courts as aforesaid.	Reasoning
We have noticed that what is declared a crime in Section 499 of the IPC is the making or publishing of matter which defames, as described in the Section.	Reasoning
The making or publication must be also accompanied with the intention or knowledge requisite as mentioned in the Section to constitute that act a crime.	Reasoning
There was a notice, admittedly received from the complainant by the appellant, dated 09.12.2008, calling upon the appellant to, inter alia, remove the controversial post (See paragraph 9 of the Petition under Section 482 of the Cr.PC).	Reasoning
It is the appellants case that since it did not control the services and as the notice did not concern its activities, the appellant forwarded the legal notice to its Parent Company for its response.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appellant further contended before the High Court that the Parent Company, in turn, responded to the complainant on 06.01.2009.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since, the notice issued by the complainant did not denote the space and services which allegedly host the defamatory articles, the complainant was asked to provide the exact details.	Arguments of Petitioner
148.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is again the appellants case that the complainant, however, proceeded to file the complaint on 21.01.2009.	None
We will take the appellants case as it is projected.	Reasoning
Thereafter, we will test it with reference to the jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Cr.PC as to whether this is a matter which can be gone into under Section 482.	Reasoning
To elaborate, we hold As noticed by us, it can be safely concluded that the argument of the appellant appears to be acting on the basis of the notice sent by the complainant to the appellant, appellant did not proceed to remove the objectionable material from the internet.	Reasoning
The reason for doing this is that according to the appellant, appellant is not the intermediary and the intermediary is the Parent Company and, accordingly, it forwarded the complaint of the complainant in the notice dated 09.12.2008 to its Parent Company.	Reasoning
It may not be possible for this Court to find that the High Court was wrong in not proceeding on the basis that the appellant is not the intermediary.	Reasoning
The defence set up by the appellant in this case, is not a matter which can be gone into in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
As things stand, in other words, consequent upon the notice sent to the appellant by the complainant on 09.12.2008, the appellant had refused to or has not complied with the request on the part of the complainant.	Reasoning
As to whether the appellant was justified in not complying with the request, involves answering the question as to whether the appellant was the intermediary, which again, in turn, as we have already held, may not be permissible in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
Therefore, this is not an aspect which can form the basis for the court interfering in Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
As to whether there is justification for the Parent Company in requiring the complainant to provide the URL so that the offending post could be identified and dealt with and dehors it whether it could remove the post, is again a matter, which in our view, it may not be possible for the appellant to persuade us to hold, could be gone into the proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
This also is on the basis that the Parent Company is the intermediary.	Reasoning
To make matters even more clear, even proceeding on the basis that the first accused is the originator, as defined in the Act, of the allegedly defamatory matter, and the first accused is not only the author but is also the publisher of allegedly defamatory matter, and again proceeding on the basis that it is the appellant, who is the intermediary and not its Parent Company, the refusal on the part of the appellant to remove the post, may amount to publication on the basis of the principle enunciated in Bryne (supra) and as applied to medium of internet in Godfrey (supra), as later explained, however, in Bunt (supra).	Reasoning
In other words, there may be publication within the meaning of Section 499 of the IPC even in the case of an internet operator, if having the power and the right and the ability to remove a matter, upon being called upon to do so, there is a refusal to do so.	Reasoning
This is, no doubt, subject to Shreya Singhal (supra)where it applies.	Reasoning
It is also clear that to constitute the offence under Section 500 of the IPC, mere publication would not suffice.	Reasoning
As we have noted, we cannot go into that aspect on the basis of the notice sent on 09.12.2008 by the complainant on account of the obstacles which we have pointed out earlier.	Reasoning
In other words, the disowning of the liability to remove the post is inextricably intertwined with the appellants denial of it being the intermediary.	Reasoning
Also, the question as to whether the demand for the URL and justification for not removing, based on the same being questions essentially relating to the facts, cannot be gone into in Section 482 proceedings.	Reasoning
The only aspect, which really remains, is the aspect that even accepting that the appellant is an intermediary and it had the power otherwise to accede to the request of the appellant to remove the offending material, the socalled right or power of the appellant is really not a power and the right, but is nothing but a mere illusion as assuming such powers or exercising such a right would involve conferring of unilateral and impermissible adjudicatory power, contrary to the regime of fundamental right of free expression so indispensable to the continued efficacy of the internet as an open democratic medium.	Reasoning
In other words, proceeding on the basis of the assumption that the appellant is the intermediary and that it stood alerted by the complainant by letter dated 09.12.2008, the appellant has not removed the offensive posts though it could technically remove it, therefore, it amounted to publication and this publication attracts Section 499 of the IPC.	Reasoning
The argument, however, is even in Section 482 of the Cr.PC, the court must qualify the right and the power of the appellant even assuming to be the intermediary to act freely as it would opposed to the principles which have been evolved in regard to the internet service provider that it is not open to it to unilaterally decide as to what matter should be removed and it can act so as to remove on the basis of the request only if there is a court order.	Reasoning
Any other view would make it a despot strangling the free flow of ideas which is what the internet is all about.	Reasoning
The problem arises in this way however.	None
It is while considering a challenge to Section 79 of the Act, after it was substituted with effect from 27.10.2009 and considering the Rules made in the year 2011 also, and a challenge to the same also, that in Shreya Singhal (supra), the provisions were read down to mean that Section 79(3)(b) of the Act and Rule 3(4) of the Rules, would require an internet service operator to takedown thirdparty information not on mere knowledge of objection to its continuance but after there has been an impartial adjudication as it were by a court.	Reasoning
To focus more on the problem, it must be pointed out that in the facts of this case, the acts constituting the alleged offence under Section 499 of the IPC, were done not when Section 79, after its substitution, was in place.	Reasoning
The Rules were enacted in the year 2011.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, what we are asked to do is to import in the principles into the factual matrix when Section 79 was differently worded and in proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	Reasoning
It is, undoubtedly, true that Article 19(1)(a) and Article 19(2) of the Constitution of India were very much available in 2008 and 2009 though Section 79 was in its erstwhile avtar.	Reasoning
In other words, will it not be open to the appellant, assuming it to be the intermediary, to contend that it cannot be called upon to remove, defamatory matter comprised in any thirdparty information without there being a court order?	None
It is here that we would remind ourselves that we are called upon in this case to decide the correctness and legality of the order of the High Court passed in the proceedings under Section 482 of the Cr.PC.	None
This contention, as such, has not been raised.	Reasoning
We notice, in fact, that in the very first ground, however, before the High Court, it is contended that the appellant has no role.	Reasoning
It has no control over the services provided on the website.	Reasoning
Thereafter, it is contended that even the employees of the Parent Company do not have the ability to remove the content posted on the blog without an order from a court of competent jurisdiction.	Reasoning
It is the further case before the High Court that under the law of United States of America which governed the functioning of the Parent Company, it is not obliged or required to remove any allegedly defamatory content without the court order.	Reasoning
There was no contention taken that on the basis that even if appellant is assumed to be the intermediary, the continuance of the articles after a request by the complainant to remove it, would not constitute publication at the hands of the appellant for the reason that it will not constitute publication as there is no court order in India.	Reasoning
It was also, no doubt, true that the decision of this Court in Shreya Singhal (supra) was rendered nearly five years after the impugned judgment of the High Court.	Reasoning
As already noticed, what was laid down in Shreya Singhal (supra) was premised upon the challenge to Section 79(3)(b) which replaced the erstwhile avtar of Section 79 and also a challenge to the Intermediary Rules of 2011, both of which provisions came to be read down by the court.	None
What appellant is asking this Court to do is to decide the point which is not even raised as such before the High Court.	None
Having noticed the exact ground taken before the High Court, it relates to the inability of the Parent Company to remove the post without the court order.	Reasoning
However, we feel that this is a question which can be, independent of the non availability of the protection under Section 79 of the Act in its erstwhile avtar, pursued by the appellant.	Reasoning
This is a matter which we leave it open to the appellant to urge before the Court.	None
There is a complaint by the appellant that the Magistrate did not have territorial jurisdiction over the appellant and the procedure under Section 203 of the Cr.PC should have been followed.	Reasoning
We noticed that this contention was not raised before the High Court.	Reasoning
We further noticed that on this ground alone, in the facts of this case, after nearly a decade of the matter pending in this Court, it would be unjust to remand the matter back to the Magistrate, which we must indeed note, was one of the submissions of the appellant.	Reasoning
The upshot of the above discussion is as follows We reject the contention of the appellant that the High Court should have acted on the Google LLC conditions and found that the appellant is not the intermediary.	Decision
We hold that this is a matter for trial.	None
We hold that Section 79 of the Act, prior to its substitution, did not protect an intermediary in regard to the offence under Section 499/500 of the IPC.	None
We set aside the findings by the High Court regarding the alleged refusal of the appellant to respond to the notice to remove.	None
We make it clear, however, that it is for the Court to decide the matter on the basis of the materials placed before it, and taking into consideration, the observations contained in this judgment.	Decision
We leave open the contentions of the parties except those which we have finally pronounced upon.	None
Subject to the above, the Magistrate shall proceed with the complaint.	Decision
The appeal stands disposed of as aforesaid.	Decision
