 Vaidialingam, J. 1.	None
In this appeal, on certificate, the appellant challenges the order, dated February 17, 1969 of the Patna High Court dismissing summarily C.W.J.C.	Issue
No. 153 of 1969 filed under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Issue
2.	None
The appellant was appointed by the order, dated March 21, 1968, by the State of Bihar temporarily to act as Director of public instruction, On the date of the said appointment the appellant was the Director of State Institute of Science.	Facts
In the endorsement in this order, it was stated that the appellants appointment as Director of Public Instruction has been made by promotion on a temporary basis for a period not exceeding six months in anticipation of the concurrence of the Public Service Commission.	Facts
By order, dated November 18, 1968, the State Government passed an order posting the appellant as Director of State Institute of Education.	Facts
It is stated in the said order that the appellant had been officiating in the post of Director of Public Instruction by virtue of the order, dated March 21, 1968.	Facts
3.	None
The appellant filed C.W.J.C.	Facts
No. 153 of 1969 before the High Court challenging this order of November 18, 1968 on various grounds.	Facts
He had also alleged mala fides in the passing of the said order.	Facts
In the view that we take that the order of the High Court granting the certificate has to be remitted for fresh consideration, we do not propose to refer to the various grounds of attack made by the appellant in his writ petition before the High Court.	Facts
The High Court by its order, dated February 17, 1969 has taken the view that as the appellants appointment as Director of Public instruction was on a temporary basis for a period not exceeding six months in anticipation of the concurrence of the Public Service Commission, the Public Service Commission, which was subsequently consulted did not give its concurrence to he appointment of the appellant as Director of Public Instruction and therefore, the Government passed the impugned order, dated November 18, 1968, posting the appellant as Director, State institute of Education.	Facts
As the appellant was appointed purely on a temporary basis, he has no right to claim the post.	Facts
The High Court has further expressed the view that it is not satisfied prima facie that there was any mala fides on the part of the Government in not appointing the appellant as Director of public Instruction.	Facts
A further contention taken on behalf of the appellant that the impugned order was not in conformity with the decision of the Council of Ministers, was rejected by the High Court, on this reasoning the High Court held as no prima facie case has been made out for interference with the order of the Government, as contained in Annexure 1, this application is summarily rejected.	Facts
Annexure 1, in the above quotation was the impugned order, dated November 18, 1968.	Facts
It may be noted that the writ petition was dismissed without issuing notice to the State and other respondents therein.	Facts
4.	None
On behalf of the appellant, Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel attempted to argue on merits by urging that the High Court, in view of the allegations made by the appellant in the writ petition, was not justified in rejecting the petition summarily.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel also attempted to argue that even on the basis of he materials placed before the Court, the order is unsustainable.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the first respondent, State of Bihar, C.M. P. No. 4498 of 1969 has been filed for revoking the certificate granted by the High Court under Article 133(1)(b) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. L. M. Singhvi, learned counsel for the state, therefore, raised a preliminary objection that the certificate granted by the High Court is not valid and as such it should be revoked.	Arguments of Respondent
If the certificate is revoked, as prayed for by the State the counsel urged, then there will be no need to go into the merits of the appeal, sought to be canvassed by Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel for the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
As the preliminary objection has to be first dealt with, it is now necessary to refer to the order of the High Court granting the certificate.	None
After dismissal of the writ petition by the High Court, the appellant filed an application (Supreme Court Appeal No. 42 of 1969) for grant of certificate of fitness of appeal to this Court.	None
That application, no doubt, was opposed by the present respondents.	None
The High Court by its order, dated March 13, 1969, granted the certificate to the effect that the requirement of valuation to enable the petitioner to get a certificate is fulfilled under Article 133(1) of the Constitution.	None
7.	None
From the order of the High Court it is seen that the application for the grant of certificate was made under articles 132 (1) and 133(1) of the Constitution.	None
So far as Article 133(1) was concerned, the request for certificate was made under clauses (a) and (c) and not under clause (b).	None
But, however, during the course of arguments, the appellants counsel relied on clause (b) of Article 133(1) and that was permitted by the High Court.	None
Therefore, ultimately the certificate was prayed for under Article 132(1) and Article 133(1) clauses (a) to (c).	None
After discussing the case of the appellant, the High Court held that in a case of this nature the salary or allowances attached to the office of the appellant cannot be considered to be the subjectmatter of dispute within the meaning of clause (a) of Article 133 (1) of the Constitution.	None
According to the High Court, the subjectmatter of the dispute is the right to continue in office and not the right to get the salary if he is allowed to continue in office.	None
In this view the High Court held that the appellant cannot be granted a certificate under clause (a) of Article 133(1).	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
The High Court then considered the question of granting a certificate under clause (b) of Article 133(1) of the Constitution.	None
The High Court was of the view that it is perhaps possible to hold that the emoluments attached to the office can be taken into consideration for the purpose of valuation under clause (b).	None
The High Court has expressed the view that the future emoluments which an incumbent of an office will be getting, if he succeeds in getting the office, will be the property respecting which some claim or question will be directly involved in the judgment sought to be appealed against provided it is a property.	None
But, however, the High Court entertained a doubt whether the emoluments which became payable to an incumbent of the office in future, if an incumbent does not lose of office, due to any other reason, other than the subjectmatter of the dispute in the case, can be said to be property within the meaning of clause (b).	None
But inspite of all these doubts the High Court held that certificates have been granted by the High Court of Patna in several cases and then finally concluded but for the purpose of determination of the question of valuation it is legitimate to assume in his favour that he claims a right to the office of the Director of Public Instruction which could have brought him the emoluments for a period of 3 years and 3 months, if he succeeds.	None
Ultimately the High Court certified that the requirements of valuation to enable the appellant to get a certificate is fulfilled under Article 133(1) of the Constitution.	None
9.	None
Dr. L. M. Singhvis contention is that the certificate granted by the High Court is not valid.	Arguments of Respondent
His argument ran as follows The High Court has not granted the certificate under Article 133(1)(c)	Arguments of Respondent
the High Court has categorically held that the appellant cannot be granted a certificate under Article 133(1)(a).	Arguments of Respondent
Though the concluding part of the order granting the certificate states that it has been granted under Article 133(1), in the circumstances mentioned above, it is clear that the certificate has been granted only under article 133(1)(b).	Reasoning
This is on the ground that the appellant claimed his right to the office of the Director, public Instruction, which would have brought him the emoluments referred to by him for a period of 3 years and three months, if the impugned order had not been passed.	Reasoning
This method of valuation for the purpose of clause (b) is not correct.	Reasoning
10.	None
We are to state that the appellant had claimed that on the date of the impugned notification, he was getting a monthly salary of Rs. 1, 950/.	None
The post of Director of Public Instruction was in the scale of Rs. 1, 8501002, 250.	None
He was entitled to get an annual increment of Rs. 100/.	None
But of the impugned order, the appellant claimed that he would have continued in service for a period of 3 years and 3 months before attaining the age of superannuation, and as such during this period he would have earned a salary of Rs. 83, 000/. 11.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel for the appellant urged that the grant of a certificate under clause (b) of Article 133 (1) is correct.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative he contended that as the claim made by the appellant for grant of a certificate under Article 132(1) and under Article 133(1)(c) has not been at all discussed or decided by the High Court and if it is held that the certificate as now granted is not valid, the High Court may be required to consider the grant of a certificate under Articles 132(1) and 133(1)(c).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Desai also urged that as very serious allegations of mala fides in the passing of the impugned order have been made by the appellant, the High Court was not justified in rejecting the writ petition summarily without issuing notice to the respondents.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that all the material records bearing on the matters arising for consideration are available in this Court and in view of this circumstances, he requested that the hearing of the appeal may be proceeded with by this Court.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not inclined to agree with Mr. Desai that if the certificate granted by the High Court is not valid, in this Court can proceed to hear the appeal on merits.	Reasoning
Mr. Desai relied on the decision of this Court reported in Century Spinning and manufacturing Company Ltd., and Another v. Ulhasnagar Municipal Council and Another (1970 (1) SCC 582.)	Reasoning
in support of his contention that the High Court was not justified in dismissing the writ petition summarily.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that in the above decision it has been held that though the High Court has a discretion to decline to exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226, nevertheless, the discretion is to be judicially exercised and if the petitioner makes a claim which is frivolous, vexatious or prima facie unjust, the High Court may decline to entertain the petition.	Reasoning
But if a party claims to be aggrieved by the unlawful, arbitrary or unjust order of a public body or authority, he is entitled to a hearing of his petition on merits and the High Court will not be justified in dismissing such a petition on limine.	Reasoning
Following the above decision in M s. Exen Industries v. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports and Others, (C.A.No. 971 of 1967, decided on January 22, 1971.)	None
Mitter, J., speaking for the Court set aside the order of the High Court dismissing the writ petition in limine with the following observations	None
However the High Court though competent to decline to exercise its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution when if finds that the petition is frivolous or without substance should not throw it out in limine if a prima facie case for investigation is made out.	Reasoning
The High Court can reject a petition in limine if it takes the view that the authorities whose acts were called in question had not acted improperly or if it felt that the petition raised complicated questions of fact for determination which could not be properly adjudicated upon in a proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
Similarly in Gyan Chand and Others v. State of Haryana and Others (1970(3) SCC 270, C.A. No. 64 of 1970, decided on August 21, 1970.) where allegations of mala fides have been made and a writ petition was dismissed in limine by the High Court, this Court set aside the order and remanded the matter for a fresh consideration after calling upon the authorities concerned to file a return.	None
13.	None
The above decisions are of no assistance to the appellant as the orders of remand were passed in those appeals which came to this Court either on a proper certificate issued by the High Court or on special leave granted by this Court.	None
In all those cases there was a proper appeal pending before this court in which merits of the points raised for decision in the appeal were gone into and suitable directions were given therein.	None
14.	None
If the certificate granted by the High Court, as contended by Dr. Singhvi, is invalid, then the appeal before us is an incompetent appeal and no direction on merits can be given by this Court on such an incompetent appeal.	Reasoning
There can be no controversy that if the certificate is not valid, the only course open to this Court will be to dismiss the appeal.	Reasoning
Dr. Singhvi urged that the grant of certificate under Article 133(1)(b) in this case is not justified because the method of valuation adopted by the High Court is not correct.	Reasoning
In this context Dr. Singhvi relied on the decisions of this Court in Chhitarmal v. M s. Shah Pannalal Chandulal ((1965) 2	None
SCR 751.) and Satyanarain Prasad v. State of Bihar ((1970) 2 SCC 275.) regarding the test to be applied for the purpose of granting a certificate under clause (a) or (b) of Article 133(1).	None
Dr. Singhvi also relied on the first of the above references in support of his contention that in the absence of a valid certificate, the appeal is incompetent and it has to be dismissed.	None
15.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel for the appellant, urged that the High Court has not properly considered the claim made by the appellant for a certificate under Article 132(1) and 133(1)(b) and (c).	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 132(1) has not been considered at all nor has the High Court considered clause (c) of Article 133(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
Even with regard to clause (b), the High Court has given a very halting finding.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the counsel urged that the High Court maybe required to consider the application for grant of a certificate afresh.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	None
It is not necessary at this stage to consider whether correct principles have been applied by the High Court in granting the certificate under Article 133(1)(b).	Reasoning
As we have pointed out earlier, it has expressed doubts here and there and it has granted the certificate under that clause on the ground that the Patna High Court has granted certificate under similar circumstances.	Reasoning
As the High Court is being required to consider this matter afresh, we do not him it necessary to express any opinion on this aspect.	Reasoning
Admittedly the High Court has not considered the question whether the appellant will be entitled to a certificate under Article 132(1) or Article 133(1)(c).	Reasoning
It was pointed out to us on behalf of the respondents that the High Court did not consider the grant of a certificate under clause (c) of Article 133(1) as no argument was advanced by the appellant that the case involves a substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution.	Reasoning
No doubt there is such a passing remark in the order of the High Court but as the matter has to be reconsidered by the High Court, it is desirable that the claim of the appellant under this clause is also considered by the High Court.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the fact that even clause (b) has been considered only in a very halting manner by the High Court.	Reasoning
Therefore, the position is that the certificate as granted by the High Court is not a valid certificate and as such the appeal must be held to be incompetent.	Reasoning
But the matter does not rest there.	Reasoning
In cases where the claim for certificate made on other clauses or under other Articles have not been considered at all, this court has directed the High Court to consider the question whether a case has been made out for issue of a certificate under such other provisions.	Reasoning
Vide Satyanarain Prasad v. State of Bihar (supra) and M s. Shree Krishna Gyanodaya Sugar Ltd., v. The State of Bihar and Others (AIR 1970 SC 2041 ).	None
17.	None
As the High Court has not properly considered the application filed by the appellant, that is Supreme Court Appeal No. 42 of 1969, before the High Court for grant of the certificate, the application will be taken up by the High Court afresh.	Reasoning
The High Court will consider whether the appellant is able to satisfy the Court that he is eligible to get a certificate under Article 132(1) or under Article 133(1)(b) or (c) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is not granted under clause (a) of Article 133(1) as that question is already concluded against the appellant in its order, dated March 13, 1969.	Reasoning
The High Court in the fresh order to be passed must clearly indicate under what particular Article or clauses of the Article, the certificate is granted.	Reasoning
We are constrained to make this remark because in the present order the High Court has merely stated that the certificate is used under Article 133(1).	Reasoning
18.	None
As already a long time has elapsed, the High Court is required to dispose of the said application as expeditiously as possible within a period not exceeding two months from the date of receipt of this order by the High Court.	Decision
Subject to the observations contained above, the appeal is dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in this appeal.	Decision
