 SARKARIA, J.1.	None
Controversy in these appeals by special leave relates to the interpretation and clarification of the judgment and decree of this Court in the case reported as Abdul Kayum v. Mulla Alibhai, (1963) 3	Facts
SCR 623 (AIR 1963 SC 309 ).	Issue
The appeals arise in these circumstances 2.	Facts
In the year 1902, certain members of Daudi Bohra Community of Burhanpur started a School, named Madrasai Faize Hakimia.	Facts
Its primary object was to impart religious and secular education to boys of the Daudi Bohra Community.	Facts
Funds were collected for the purpose of the school from the members of the community.	Facts
The school prospered, and in the year 1911, it was raised to the status of High School under the name, Madrasai Hakimia and Coronation High School.	Facts
Earlier on May 24, 1909, one Daudi Bohra of Surat, named Abdul Hussain Abdullali Faizullabhai Muchhala, made a waqf of certain properties in Bombay for the benefit and advantage of this school.	Facts
For the management of the Trust, he appointed 12 persons who were already functioning as trustees of the school.	Facts
A few months later another trust came into existence for the benefit of the same School under a deed of Waqf and Trust (Ex. P3) executed by six persons of Daudi Bohra Community of Burhanpur.	Facts
eighteen persons including the executants of the trustdeed were named as trustees.	Facts
It is stated in this deed that all movable and immovable properties connected with the School shall vest in these trustees who will also be entitled to govern, manage and administer the affairs of the School and shall have the power to frame rules and regulations from time to time for the benefit and efficient running of the School, and also have the power to appoint new trustees from time to time in accordance with such rules and regulations.	Facts
These trustees managed the School and its properties including the properties of which Waqf was made in its favour under the Trust Deed of September 15, 1909.3.	Facts
On or about the 19th March 1917, 4 out of the 18 who were appointed under the Trust Deed, dated September 15, 1909, along with 3 other members of the Bohra Community of Burhanpur, formed themselves into a Society named Madrasai Hakimia and Coronation High School Society and got it registered, under Act XXI of 1860.	Facts
The Society assumed the administration and management of the School and of all the properties movable (properties) and immovable endowed and dedicated for the purpose of the education in the said School.	Facts
One group of nonbelievers of the Bohra Community refused to acknowledge Mullaji Taher Saifuddin Saheb, as Dail Mutalaq.	Facts
This led to litigation which went upto the Privy Council.4.	Facts
In 1936, certain members of Daudi Bohra Community of Burhanpur filed a suit for a declaration that certain properties were the subjectmatter of a public Trust for the education of the students of Daudi Bohra Community of the School.	Facts
The trial Court dismissed the suit.	Facts
But on appeal, the Nagpur High Court passed a decree declaring that the properties described in List X annexed to the decree were the subjectmatter of the public trust of a religious and charitable nature for the benefit of Daudi Bohras irrespective of their persuasion.5.	Facts
On January 13, 1947, 4 members of the Daudi Bohra community residing at Burhanpur, instituted, with the consent of the AdvocateGeneral, a suit under Sec.	Facts
92 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Facts
It was alleged that the defendants were not validly appointed trustees and had wrongfully assumed administration of the Trust and its properties.	Facts
It was further alleged that defendants had committed various breaches of the trust.	Facts
On these premises, the plaintiffs prayed (a) That it may be declared that the defendants are not validly appointed trustees of the trust properties mentioned in Exh.	Facts
DList X hereof.(b) That the defendants may be removed from the managmenent of the said properties mentioned in Ex.	None
D List X hereof.(c) That the defendants may be ordered to render on account of their administration of the said trust properties.(d) That for the aforesaid purposes all necessary directions may be given, order passed and enquiries made.(e) That some proper and fit persons should be appointed trustees of the said trust properties in accordance with the provisions of the Trustdeed of 15th September 1909.(f)	Facts
That in so far as it is necessary a scheme may be framed by this Honourable Court for the administration of the said trust.(g) that pending the hearing and the final disposal of this suit some fit and proper person may be appointed Receiver of the said institutions in accordance with the provisions of the said trustdeed, dated 15th September 1909 and objects mentioned in the said trustdeed, dated 24th May 1909.6.	Facts
The suit was dismissed by the trial Court against defendants 2 to 11 on the condition that they would deposit Rs. 15596/5/8 P. which they were found to have misapplied out of the trust fund.	None
A decree was passed for the removal of defendants 2 to 17 from the trusteeship of Muchhalla trust property.	Facts
These defendants were ordered to deposit in court the amount collected by them from the trust property and were forbidden to recover any income from the property after the date of the decree.7.	Facts
The plaintiffs went in appeal to the High Court who dismissed the same.	Facts
Another appeal was preferred by defendants 2 to 17 against the trial Courts judgment.8.	Facts
The High Court dismissed both the appeals as also the crossobjections filed by defendants 1, 2, 4, 5, 9 and 10 and completely affirmed the decision of the trial Court.	Facts
Against the High Courts decision two appeals were filed in this Court, one by the plaintiffs and another by defendants 2 to 12, 14, 17 by special leave granted by this Court.9.	Facts
This Court allowed the appeals and held that defendants 1 to 11 were not validly appointed trustees in respect of the trust properties mentioned in List M annexed to the plaint and directed that the defendants be removed from the management of these properties and be further ordered to render account of the administration of the said properties.10.	None
Pursuant to the decree of this Court, the decreeholders took out execution for rendition of accounts against the judgmentdebtors.	None
They claimed rendition of accounts for the period 19171962, of the management and administration of the School.	None
The contention of the decreeholders was that the description of properties of Hakimia School building in List M would include income and expenditure relating to the management and running of the School and also of the furniture, laboratory and other material kept in the building for running the School.	None
The judgmentdebtors however objected that they were not liable to render any account of the School administration and that the trust properties described as Hakima School Building in list M means only the account of the structure of the building.	None
The District Judge dismissed the objection of the nonapplicants and held Property M does not include only the building or plots and fields but it includes the accounts of properties covered in list M in their running condition.11.	None
Thus the construction put by the District Judge on this Courts decree was, that the judgmentdebtors were required to render accounts not only of plots, buildings specified in the List but also of the institution and business concern located thereon.12.	None
The judgmentdebtors carried appeals to the High Court against the orders of the District Judge.	None
The appeals were heard by a learned single Judge (Raina J.) who did not agree with the construction put by the District Judge on this Courts decree.	None
It was observed There is a clear distinction between the school and its building.	None
A school building is a building in which the school is located.	None
A person in charge of the building may have nothing to do with the school and viceversa.	None
The administration of the Hakimia school building does not, therefore include the administration of the school itself It may be that the school and its building may be in charge and management of the same person or the body of persons, but the plaintiff cannot be permitted to enlarge the scope of their claim at this stage which must be confined to what was claimed in the plaint and was decreed The decree of the Supreme Court calls upon the appellants to render accounts of their administration of the trust properties specified in the list M and the list must be construed in its ordinary grammatical sense.13.	None
In this connection it was further pointed out that in F. A. 36 of 1939 arising out of Civil Suit 5A of 1936, the properties belonging to the School were expressly excluded from the declaration of the trust and it was for this reason, the plaintiff confined their claim to the properties specified in List M.	None
The learned Judge conceded that the judgmentdebtors while functioning as trustees of the properties belonging to the School had hand in the management of the School but felt that at this stage, it would not be permissible to travel beyond the decree.	None
On these premises, it was concluded that there is no. justification for the view that the judgmentdebtors are liable under the decree to render accounts of the School as an institution.	None
In the result he allowed the appeals and set aside the order of the lower court requiring the judgmentdebtors to render accounts of the School as a running institution.14.	None
Mr. Nariman for the appellants contends that the decree of this Court when construed in the light of the pleadings and the judgment of this Court leaves no. doubt that the defendantrespondents were required to render accounts not only of the School building consisting of brick and mortar, but also of the administration of the School as an institution located therein.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. B. Sen, submit that the movable properties of the School including books, furniture, stationery etc. were not included in the trust properties (mentioned in List M) which were the subjectmatter of the dispute.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his contention that these moveable properties were not trust properties.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel has referred to Exhibit D List X annexed to the decree dated October 10, 1942 of the High Court in Appeal No. 36 of 1939.	Arguments of Respondent
Stress has also been placed on the fact that in the decreesheet as originally drawn up by the office of this Court, it was directed that the defendants shall render accounts not only of the administration of trust properties mentioned in List M but also of all the moveable and immoveable properties of the School but on the application of the defendants the decree was amended by this Court and the reference in the decree to properties of the School was deleted.	Arguments of Respondent
Against this background, it is maintained, the interpretation put by the High Court on this Courts decree, is correct.16.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the contentions canvassed, it is necessary to have a short and swift look at the material terms of the trustdeed, the pleadings, the issues and the judgment, dated August 17, 1962, of this Court.	None
Clause (5) of the trustdeed, dated September 15, 1919, says inter alia that all the properties movable and immovable connected with the School shall vest in the trustees.17.	None
In Para.	None
15 of the plaint, there is a reference to the suit No. 5A which was instituted in 1936 for a declaration that the properties mentioned therein were the subjectmatter of public trust of a charitable or religious nature for the education of the students of the Daudi Bohra Community in the Madrasai Hakimia and Coronation High School and for other reliefs.	None
There is a further reference to the decree passed by the High Court in Second Appeal (Appeal No. 36 of 1939) on October 10, 1942.	None
This decree is based on an award, dated July 20, 1942, declaring that the properties mentioned in Ex.	None
D List X annexed thereto, were the subjectmatter of the public trust and vested in it for the benefit of the Daudi Bohras irrespective of their persuasion.	None
The aforesaid award first mentions the questions referred to arbitration and then against these questions, the findings of the arbitration 18.	None
Question No. (1) was to the effect Are the properties referred to in paragraph 3 of the plaint and Schedule A annexed thereto in Civil Suit 5A of 1936 the subjectmatter of public trust of religious or charitable nature for the benefit of Daudi Bohras only?In regard to this.	None
The arbitrator found 1 (a) No. award is made in respect of the following items of the properties referred to in Para.	None
3 of the plaint and Sch.	None
A annexed thereto as the plaintiff does not now want any declaration with respect to them (vide his compromise petition dated 2071942) as these properties are not, according to him, in possession of the defendant being either sold or dismantled or not given possession of by the donor Item IV as shown in Schedule A attached to the plaint.	None
This item reads All movable properties consisting of school and Boarding house furniture, book, science apparatus, stationery articles and all sorts of goods chattles, vessels and sundry goods belong to MadrasaiHakimia and Coronation High School (valued at Rs. 25, 000/).Para 1 (b) of the award says all the other properties referred to in paragraph 3 of the plaint and Schedule A annexed thereto in Civil Suit No. 5A of 1936 which are mentioned in the accompanying Schedule K are the subjectmatter of the public trust of religious or charitable nature for the benefit of education of the Daudi Bohras, irrespective of their persuasion.19.	None
In Schedule X Hakimia School building is mentioned as item 5 the boardinghouse is mentioned as item 6 Hakimia Dining Hall and Hakimia Laboratory are also mentioned as items 7 and 8.20.	None
Allegations of mismanagement, waste, misapplication of funds in the administration of the trust and the School are made in para 17 of the plaint.21.	None
In para 19 of the plaint, it is further alleged that the defendants had wrongfully assumed administration of the trust and as such were trustees de son tort that they have committed breaches of trust by the misapplication of the trustfunds as detailed in para 17 of the plaint.22.	None
It is thus clear that there were definite allegation in the plaint that the defendants had misapplied the funds and committed various breaches of the trust.	None
In that context, a specific prayer was made for rendition of accounts.23.	None
The findings recorded by this Court in its judgment, run as under We find it established therefore that defendants 1 to 11 were not validly appointed trustees in respect of the trust properties mentioned in the plaint.	None
Their possession and management of these properties must therefore be held to be only in the character of trustee de son tort.	None
They are liable therefore to account for their entire period of managementThe learned SolicitorGeneral challenged the correctness of the findings of the courts below that these defendants (defendants 1 to 11) did not by their misapplication of trust funds to the extent of Rs. 15, 596/5/8 and Rs. 900/ commit misappropriation and also that the admission of students who did not belong to the Daudi Bohra Community was not inconsistent with the object of the trust.	None
We think it unnecessary however to consider these matters inasmuch as even if these findings of the courts below are correct the plaintiffs are entitled to the reliefs they have asked for in this suit.	None
Besides the amount of Rs. 15000/ and odd has been already paid by defendants 2 to 11 under the decree of the trial Court.	None
It is necessary to mention the fact that an assurance was given to by the learned SolicitorGeneral that in any case the interest of the nonBohra students will be safeguarded in this SchoolAccordingly we allow the appeal and order that it be declared that the defendants 1 to 11 are not validly appointed trustees in respect of the trust properties mentioned in the List M annexed to the plaint that the defendants be removed from the management of these properties and they be ordered to render an account of their administration of these properties.	None
Necessary directions for the rendering of accounts will be made by the trial Court and in doing so, credit will be given to defendants 2 to 11 of Rs. 15, 000/ and odd already paid by them.	None
The plaintiffsappellants admit that it is not necessary to frame any scheme for the administration of the trust and we agree that this is not necessary  at least for the present.	None
It is necessary however that new trustees be appointed for the administration of the trust.24.	None
The decree which was originally drawn up on the basis of the judgment of this Court ran as under That defendants 1 to 11 are not validly appointed trustees in respect of the trust properties mentioned in the list M annexed to the plaint (and all the movable and immovable properties of the said school) and that the said Defendants be removed from the management of the said properties and the said Defendants be and are hereby directed to render an account of their administration of the said properties.25.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsequently, at the instance of the defendants, the words within brackets were deleted from the decree pursuant to an order of this Court, on the application of the judgmentdebtors.26.	None
It is common ground that Hakimia School Building is mentioned in the List trust properties under Item III as subitem (ii) in the Schedule annexed to the plaint.27.	None
After a careful scrutiny of the pleadings and the judgment of this Court (the material parts of which have been extracted above)	Reasoning
we are of opinion that the direction in this Court decree requiring the defendants to render accounts of the administration of the trust properties mentioned in List M, includes a direction to render an account of the income and expenditure relating to the management and running of the Madrasai Hakimia and Coronation High School located in the Hakimia School Building.	Reasoning
Incidentally, it may be noticed that in an appeal directed against an order, dated April 10, 1963, passed by the Additional District Judge, which was heard by another learned Judge (Bhargava J.), it was contended that the appointment of receivers for the management of the trust properties till the rendition of accounts by the defendants, was not necessary and the order in that respect should be set aside.	Reasoning
In the alternative, it was contended that since the words and all the moveable and immovable properties of the said School were deleted from the decree by this Court, there was no. justification for the appointment of receivers of those properties.	Reasoning
The learned Judge rejected these contentions and observed It is possible to say that the deletion may have been made to omit these properties from the operation of the decree or the deletion may have been because what was already said by the Supreme Court in its judgment to was sufficient to include these properties and it was not necessary to repeat the direction again in the operation part of the decree.	Reasoning
It is a question which would be required to be finally decided in view of the final account whether these words could only mean the brick and mortar building which is standing on the site or the words would also cover the running institution which is housed in the building.	Reasoning
On the whole I am prime facie inclined to accept these submissions made by Mr. Joshi (Counsel for the decreeholder).	None
I do not think that the direction included in the operative part of the Supreme Court decree can be used for the purpose of nullifving what was said in the prior portion of the same judgment.	None
However, I expressly refrain from.	Reasoning
pronouncing finally on this question at this stage.28.	None
In our opinion, the learned Judge was right in expressing that the direction in the decree in regard to the rendition of the accounts of the trust property viz.	Reasoning
, Hakimia School building would cover the administration of the School housed therein.	Reasoning
If the trust property Hakimia School Building as mentioned at item 5 in the List M were to be construed as only the brick and mortar building, it would rob the direction as to rendition of accounts of its content.29.	Reasoning
There is no. indication in the order of this Court as to why the words and all movable and immovable properties of the said School were deleted from the decree.	Reasoning
The only objection taken to the insertion of these words, in the application of the defendants was that in regard to these words, the decree had not been drafted in accordance with the judgment.	Reasoning
In our opinion the deletion of these words does not imply that the defendants were exempted from liability to account in respect of the administration of this School, altogether.	Reasoning
The effect of this deletion, however, had to be assessed with reference to the award, dated July 20, 1942, and the decree dated 10101942 of the High Court passed in the appeal arising out of earlier Suit, 5A of 1936.	None
As extracted above, the movable properties of the School including furniture, books, stationery etc. as they existed on the date of the High Courts decree i. e. October 10, 1942 were not held to be trust properties.	None
The direction as to rendition of accounts contained in the decree will therefore not cover these movable properties as they existed on October 10, 1942.30.	Reasoning
We would therefore allow these appeals, set aside the judgment of the High Court and affirm the construction placed by the District Judge on the decree of this Court.	Decision
For the sake of clarification we would further direct that for the words the said defendants are be and hereby directed to render an account of their administration of the said properties occurring in the decree, the words the said defendants be and hereby directed to render an account of the administration of the administration of the trust in relation to the trust properties mentioned in List M including the administration of the School located in the property mentioned at Item 5 in List M annexed to the plaint be substituted.	Decision
It will be further added in the decree that while enforcing this direction of the Court with regard to rendition of accounts, the executing court shall exclude all movable properties consisting of school and Boarding house furniture, books, science apparatus, stationery articles and all sorts of goods chattels, vessels and sundry goods belonging to MadrasaiHakimia and Coronation High Schoolas existing on October 10, 1942, from the trust properties in respect of which, the defendants are liable to account.	Decision
Of course, this shall not absolve them from accounting for any subsequent expenditure incurred in respect of such movable properties while administering the school, after October 10, 1942.31.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
