 HEMANT GUPTA, J. The present appeals are directed against the judgment and order passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay (Nagpur Bench) on 5 th May, 2016 whereby the appeals filed by the appellants Rajesh Daware ( for short, A1) and Arvind Singh (for short, A2) against their conviction for offences punishable under Section 364A read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short, IPC) and Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC was dismissed by confirming the death sentence imposed upon them by the learned Sessions Judge, Nagpur vide its order dated 4 th February, 2016.	Issue
The prosecution process was set in motion on the basis of an oral statement made by Dr. Mukesh Ramanlal Chandak (PW1) to the Police SubInspector, Police Station Lakadganj, Nagpur City on 1 st September, 2014 about his son Yug, aged 8 years being missing.	Facts
Dr. Chandak stated that, on 1st September, 2014, when he was present with his wife at the hospital, she told him that their driver Raju T ote had informed her on the phone that their son went along with somebody.	Facts
Dr. Chandak (PW1) came home and inquired from Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31), the watchman of their housing society, Guru Vandana Apartment (for short, Apartment), who informed him that at about 345 pm, when he was sitting near the gate of the Apartment, an unknown, fair complexioned boy, aged about 2025 years, wearing a red half sleeves Tshirt, full white pants with a white handkerchief wrapped around his face, came to him, riding a black scooty.	Facts
This boy parked his vehicle near the footpath in front of the gate and asked Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) whether Yug has come home.	Facts
Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) replied in the negative and asked him to go inside and find out for himself but the boy remained at the gate itself.	Facts
He had worn the clothes (uniform) like that of the clothes of the employees of Dr. Chandaks clinic.	Facts
After about 15 minutes, Yug, came in his school dress.	Facts
He kept his school bag on chair meant for him and told Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) to leave the school bag at his Apartment, who told him that he will require half an hour to do the same.	Facts
Thereafter, he saw Yug going towards Chhapru Nagar Chowk along with the boy on his scooty.	Facts
Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) was under the impression that the said boy might be an employee of Dr. Chandaks clinic because his clothes were like the uniform that his employees wear.	Facts
On the basis of such statement received in the Police Station at 1710 hours, FIR No. 287 of 2014 was registered for an offence under Section 363 IPC but after the information of kidnapping and death was received, offences under Section 364A and Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC were added.	Facts
The initial investigation was taken over by N.T. Gosawi (PW25) and later taken over by S.K. Jaiswal (PW50).	Facts
On completion of the investigation, including the recovery of dead body, the prosecution presented a charge sheet for the trial of the accused.	Facts
The prosecution examined 50 witnesses in support of the charges levelled against A1 and A2.	Facts
The learned trial court in its judgment dated 30 th January, 2016 examined the prosecution evidence under the following heads Ocular evidence of prosecution witnesses relating to kidnapping abduction of victimYug by the accused, The theory of doctrine of last seen together of victim Yug in the company of accused, The evidence of T.I. parade, The evidence of CCTV footage, The evidence of demand of ransom from the accused, The evidence of recovery of dead body as well as incriminating articles etc.	Facts
u s. 27 of the Evidence Act, The circumstances of motive, preparation and previous conduct of the accused u s. 8 of the Evidence Act, The evidence of criminal conspiracy, The evidence of CDR SDR of the relevant telephonic conversation, Presumption of factum of murder of victimYug on the part of accused, The C.A. report DNA report inculpatory in nature.	None
The learned trial court convicted A1 and A2 for the offences punishable under Sections 120B, 364A, 302, 201 read with Section 34 IPC.	Facts
By a subsequent order, A1 and A2 were sentenced to death for the offences punishable under Section 364A read with Section 34 IPC and Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC on both offences.	Facts
The learned trial court also convicted A1 and A2 for offences punishable under Section 120B of IPC, to suffer imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs.10,000/ and for an offence punishable under Section 201 read with Section 34 IPC, A1 and A2 were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 7 years and to pay fine of Rs.5,000/.	Facts
It is the said order of the learned Sessions Judge which was affirmed by the High Court.	Facts
The prosecution had led evidence of the boy, Yug, last seen in the company of the accused from 1615 hrs.	None
approximately to 1730 hrs.	None
approximately on 1 st September 2014.	Reasoning
The post mortem was conducted on 3 rd September 2014 between 12.00 hrs.	None
to 1345 hrs.	Reasoning
by a team of three Doctors.	None
Dr. Avinash Waghmode (PW27) had been examined to prove the postmortem report (Ex.103).	None
The cause of death was found to be smothering and the time since death was 36 to 48 hours.	None
There were as many as 26 injuries found on the dead body which included Injury Nos. 22 to 26 as post mortem injuries.	None
Dr. Avinash Waghmode (PW27) deposed that Injury Nos. 1 21 and 26 may have been perimortem injuries i.e. the injuries were caused during the activation and working of vital functions.	None
With this background, the evidence of the prosecution is examined in the present appeals in the following manner The evidence of last seen Discovery of incriminating facts Demand of Ransom Motive and Conspiracy Corroborative Evidence The undisputed location of different places which are referred to by the witnesses is broadly Guru Vandana Apartment (place of kidnapping) leading to Outer Ring Road on the inter section of Kalmana Market then to Vinoba Bhave Nagar then to Koradi Saoner Chindwara Road leading to Loankhairi, Loankhairi Nullah Patansawangi Village and then to Itangoti Village leading to a lake and a pump house.	None
The Lakadganj Police Station is close to the Itawari Railway Station on a road from the Itabutti Chowk on the outer ring road.	None
The evidence of last seen The kidnapping of the boy Yug from the Apartment.	None
The prosecution, as stated earlier, examined Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31), the watchman of the Apartment, who deposed that Dr. Chandak and his family of four were residents on the 2 nd floor of the said Apartment.	None
He stated that Dr. Chandak and his wife are dentists and have their own clinic in Nagpur city.	None
The employees of Dr. Chandak used to wear red Tshirts as part of the uniform of the clinic.	None
Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) deposed that he was aware of such uniform as Dr. Chandaks employees used to visit his residence frequently.	None
He stated that he was on duty on 1 st September, 2014 and at about 1600 hrs.	None
on that day, a boy, aged approximately 2122 years came on a purple scooty, wearing a red Tshirt with a scarf wrapped on his face.	None
This person removed his scarf, showing his face and inquired from him as to whether Yug had returned home.	None
Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) told him to visit Dr. Chandaks house and verify the same, however, he did not go upstairs and remained standing on the footpath, where he had parked his vehicle.	None
After sometime, Yug returned from school, wearing his skyblue Tshirt and blue shorts which was his school uniform.	None
The boy standing on the footpath gave out a call to him.	None
Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) deposed that there was some conversation between the two.	None
Thereafter, Yug came back to Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31), kept his school bag on his chair and told him to leave the same at his Apartment.	None
Yug also told him that he was going to his fathers clinic.	None
Yug then sat on the boys purple scooty and the two drove away.	None
At about 1615 hrs., Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) went to Dr. Chandaks Apartment to leave Yugs school bag when a maidservant in the Apartment inquired about Yugs whereabouts.	None
He informed her that Yug had gone to his fathers clinic.	None
After sometime, Dr. Chandaks driver came to the building and inquired about Yug as well.	None
Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) told him that Yug had gone to his fathers clinic with one of its employees.	None
Dr. Chandak was thereafter contacted and he returned from his clinic.	None
Mrs. Chandak also rushed to the Apartment.	None
Later, the Police arrived at about 1800 hrs. and started inquiry.	None
Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) received notice regarding the conduct of T est Identification Parade (for short, TIP) in the Central Jail premises for 25 th September, 2014.	None
He identified the boy standing at Sl.	None
No. 4 as the same youngster who came to the Apartment on a purple scooty and took away Yug, in the TIP so conducted.	None
This boy disclosed his name as Arvind Singh (A2) to the Officer who was present there.	None
In crossexamination, Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) deposed that Dr. Chandak returned from his clinic on the day of incident at about 1645 hrs.	None
He denied that he was tutored to give evidence in the case.	None
He also denied that the Officer present in the room at the TIP disclosed to him that A2 was the same person in this crime who was identified.	None
He further denied having seen the photographs of A1 and A2 in the Newspaper as well as that Dr. Chandak showed him the photographs prior to TIP conducted.	None
Rajan Tiwari (PW2) is a shopkeeper who has a firewood shop in front of the Apartment.	None
He deposed that at about 1600 hrs.	None
on 1 st September, 2014, he was sitting in front of his shop and saw two unknown boys coming from the side of Chhapru Nagar on a purple scooty.	None
They stopped in front of his shop.	None
The boy driving the scooty alighted in front of his shop and the boy who was the pillion rider started proceeding further with the vehicle.	None
The boy who alighted in front of his shop used abusive language and told the pillion rider to go straight by riding on the wrong side of the road.	None
The rider did the same and went towards the side of the Apartment.	None
Rajan Tiwari (PW2) deposed that there is a showroom of Mahindra Vehicles adjoining his shop and whilst he was having tea at a stall near such Showroom, he saw that the earlier boy riding the scooty, wearing a red Tshirt, had returned and brought a boy, aged about 8 years with him.	None
This minor boy was wearing a sky blue colour school uniform.	None
The boy who was standing in front of his shop went running towards the scooty and sat on the seat behind the minor boy.	None
The boy who sat as pillion rider on the scooty was wearing an almond coloured shirt.	None
Rajan Tiwari (PW2) deposed that he can identify both the boys on the scooty.	None
Thereafter, when he was called for the TIP at Central Jail, Nagpur on 30 th October, 2014, in the presence of the Magistrate, he identified both A1 and A2 therein.	None
In the crossexamination, Rajan Tiwari (PW2) deposed that on the day of incident, both A1 and A2 covered their face with scarfs.	None
He also denied knowledge of news published in the daily Newspaper.	None
Biharilal Sadhuram Chhabariya (PW17) is another witness of the kidnapping of the boy from the Apartment.	None
He deposed that he has a grocery shop in Maskasath Square, Nagpur and is also a resident of the Apartment.	None
On the day of incident, he came back home to the Apartment for lunch on his Scooter at 1600 hrs.	None
He deposed that he saw a boy stationed behind a car owned by him, in front of the building of the Apartment.	None
He had suspicion that this boy, wearing red Tshirt and sitting on a purple scooty, would cause mischief to his vehicle.	None
Biharilal Sadhuram Chhabariya (PW17) deposed that the boy took out a white handkerchief and tied it on his face.	None
After 1015 minutes, when Biharilal Sadhuram Chhabariya (PW17) came back down, after having lunch, the boy and his vehicle were not present.	None
It is at about 1715 hrs., he received a telephone call from his wife that Dr. Chandaks son was kidnapped by a person wearing a red Tshirt and riding a purple scooty.	None
Biharilal Sadhuram Chhabariya (PW17) rushed home at around 1730 hrs.	None
and at about 1900 hrs., Dr. Chandak met him in the campus of the building.	None
Biharilal Sadhuram Chhabariya (PW17) informed Dr. Chandak that he had seen a boy of the mentioned description standing by the road outside the Apartment.	None
Biharilal Sadhuram Chhabariya (PW17) was called for TIP on 25 th September, 2014 in Central Jail, Nagpur.	None
He identified the boy standing at Sl.	None
No. 4 as A2.	None
In crossexamination, he deposed that on the day of incident, he returned home at around 15451600 hrs.	None
and went back to his shop again after lunch at about 1615 hrs.	None
on his Scooter.	None
He denied that he had not seen the boy wearing a handkerchief on his face.	None
From the evidence of Arun Parmanand Meshram (PW31) and Biharilal Sadhuram Chhabariya (PW17), identity of A2 is established whereas Rajan Tiwari (PW2) has identified both A1 and A2.	None
It is on the basis of this evidence, the prosecution established the identity of the accused at the time of the kidnapping of the boy, Yug.	None
The evidence of A2 visiting the house of A1.	None
The prosecution has further led evidence that A2 went to the house of A1.	None
Rupali (PW23), the neighbour of A1, appeared as a witness to identify both accused.	None
She deposed that she is a resident of the Pandurang Nagar area and is acquainted with A1 being her neighbour.	None
Smt.	None
Bhumeshwari is the mother of A1 and Ankush his younger brother.	None
Ankush was also apprehended in the crime but was dealt with by the Juvenile Justice Board being a Juvenile.	None
Rupali (PW23) deposed that at about 1630 hrs.	None
on 1 st September, 2014, she was washing clothes in the courtyard of her house.	None
A1, accompanied by a friend, arrived on his scooty.	None
There was a minor boy, aged about 56 years, sitting on the scooty between them.	None
A1 gave dash to the wooden entrance gate of the boundary wall of his house.	None
Rupali (PW23) told A1 that if he drives the vehicle in such manner, it would hurt the boy sitting in between them.	None
However, she deposed that she had not seen the clothes of the boy sitting on the scooty due to plants and trees of the courtyard shrouding the same.	None
When she asked about the minor boy, A1 informed her that he is the younger brother of his friend.	None
A1 parked his scooty in the courtyard.	None
Thereafter, A1 took his motorbike and trio went away.	None
Rupali (PW23) identified A2 as the person who was with A1 on that day.	None
She also deposed that at about 1930 hrs., A1s father took her cellphone No. 8408025528 for his use as there was no balance in his own cellphone.	None
In the crossexamination by A2, she deposed that she had delivered a child on 7 th October, 2014 and was in the hospital even on 1 st September, 2014 for a related ailment.	None
Thereafter she was resting, but later got up to wash her clothes.	None
She denied that there was any dispute between her and the family of the accused on account of boundary wall.	None
Thus, the next link of the prosecution evidence is that both the accused were seen together on a scooty with the kidnapped boy and that the three went away on a Hero Motor bike.	None
The evidence of taking fuel for the Motorcycle by A1 and A2 with the kidnapped boy at petrol station The next link of prosecution evidence is of the accused being in the company of Yug at Sunder Auto Center, Bhokara, on Koradi Road.	None
The prosecution examined Hitesh Tulsiram Rathod (PW30), Shrikant Walmik Sharma (PW35), Pratik Rathi (PW48), Ajay Aba Salunke (PW38), Chitra Sanjay Kamat (PW47) and Madhuri Permanand Dhawalkar (PW34) in respect of the CCTV camera footage of Sunder Auto Centre, Bhokara, Nagpur.	None
Ms. Madhuri Permanand Dhawalkar (PW34) is the witness who had filled petrol in the motorcycle of A1 and A2.	None
She deposed that on 1 st September, 2014 at about 1600 hrs.  	None
1630 hrs.	None
, she saw that two boys came to the petrol pump to take petrol for their Hero Honda bike.	None
A minor boy was seen sitting in between both the riders.	None
She deposed that the boy who was driving the bike wore an almond shirt and that the pillion rider was wearing a red one.	None
The minor boy sitting in between them wore a sky blue colour Tshirt.	None
The boy who was driving the bike paid the money for fuel and thereafter they went away.	None
She deposed that both A1 and A2 present are the same motorbike riders who arrived at petrol pump on 1 st September, 2014 to take fuel for their Hero Honda bike.	None
She also deposed that she can identify the minor boy sitting in between them, if shown to her.	None
She identified Yug from the photograph (Ex.26).	None
Ms. Madhuri Permanand Dhawalkar (PW34) further stated that there were eight CCTV Cameras installed at the premises of the petrol pump.	None
Such CCTV footage was taken by the Police on 4 th September, 2014.	None
The Police had shown her the recording of CCTV No. 3 of the petrol pump through which she identified A1 and A2.	None
In the crossexamination by A1, she volunteered that the cameras were kept on for 24 hours and the services of the petrol pump were also rendered round the clock, 24x7.	None
In cross examination by A2, she deposed that after seeing the CCTV footage, it is difficult for her to draw an inference as to whether the minor boy was sleeping in between both the riders, or whether he was dead, or whether he was in a withered condition at the relevant time.	None
The CCTV footages were played in this court during the course of hearing as well.	None
It shows that the boy is sitting in between the two riders on the motor bike, but he is inert as one of the riders was always supporting the child.	None
There are other witnesses who have deposed regarding the recovery of CCTV footage, and the fact that it was not tampered with.	None
Hitesh T ulsiram Rathod (PW30) is an employee of Kores India Ltd. who installed the CCTV camera at the petrol pump.	None
Shrikant Walmik Sharma (PW35) is the Manager of the petrol pump who deposed regarding the seizure of the CCTV footage by the Police.	None
Pratik Ram Rathi (PW48) is a panch witness of such seizure of the CCTV footage whereas Chitra Sanjay Kamat (PW47), an Assistant Director, Govt.	None
Forensic Laboratory and Ajay Aba Salunke (PW38) are the witnesses of the Chemical Analysers Report (Ex.160) dated 21 st November, 2014.	None
The evidence of last seen near Itangoti lake.	None
From the petrol pump, A1 and A2 moved to Itangoti Lake.	None
Divya Chandel (PW9), a student of Adarsh Vidyalaya of Village Patansaongi deposed that her friend T anushri Keche was residing in the neighbourhood of her house.	None
The timing of her school was 12 noon to 1715 hrs.	None
The school was at a distance of 56 km from her house and she and her friend used to attend the school on bicycle.	None
They left school at about 1715 hrs.	None
on their bicycle for returning home.	None
In doing so, they saw a motorbike parked on the road nearby the Pump House of Itangoti Lake.	None
Divya Chandel (PW9) deposed that the motorbike was in a stationary condition and three persons were sitting on it.	None
She further deposed that the motorbike riders started the vehicle after seeing her and her friend and proceeded ahead towards them.	None
The boy who was driving the bike wore an almond colour shirt and the pillion rider wore a red one.	None
The boy in between both riders appeared to be in a sleeping condition.	None
The motorbike riders proceeded towards the Patansaongi area.	None
She deposed that all these events occurred at about 1730 hrs.	None
On 25th September, 2014, she was called for the TIP .	None
She identified A1 and A2 as the persons who were the motorbike riders and Yug from the photograph produced by the Police.	None
In crossexamination by A1, she deposed the road on which the motorbike riders were passing on the day of the incident leading from Dhapewada to Patansaongi village.	None
In cross examination by A2, she deposed that she had seen the motorbike riders from a distance of 15 feet approximately.	None
She deposed that initially she had not seen the back side of the motorbike riders, but had seen the same thereafter.	None
Namdeo Dhawale (PW11) is a resident of the Village Itangoti.	None
He deposed that on 1 st September, 2014 at about dusk, he was returning home whilst herding his goats, and saw a motorbike coming from the opposite side of the road, with two persons and a minor boy riding upon it.	None
The motorbike riders were about 2022 years old whereas the minor boy sitting in between them was aged about 810 years.	None
Namdeo Dhawale (PW11) deposed that the minor boy was in sleeping condition as his head was tilted on the shoulder.	None
He attempted to proceed towards the motorbike riders but on seeing him, the riders took a U turn and went back.	None
It is after 23 days, that the Police arrived in his village.	None
The Police had shown the photograph of the boy and Namdeo Dhawale (PW11) then disclosed all the facts to the Police.	None
In crossexamination by A2, he deposed that there was no scarf tied on the face of motorbike riders.	None
The statement of this witness is relevant only for the purpose of corroborating the statement of Divya Chandel (PW9) that he had seen two persons on a motorcycle with a minor boy.	None
Near patansaongi lake	None
The last witness who had seen A1 and A2 with the kidnapped boy is Shriram Shankarrao Khadatkar (PW10).	None
He deposed that he has agricultural land, within the vicinity of T andulwani village.	None
On 1 st September, 2014, he came to work on his field at about 1100 1130 hrs.	None
on the motorbike of his son.	None
He remained in the field up till 1715 hrs.	None
to 1730 hrs.	Reasoning
and thereafter waited at the road for the motorbike his son to go back home.	None
Whilst doing so, he saw a black motorbike coming from Patansaongi village upon which two boys aged about 2022 years were sitting along with a young boy between them.	None
Shriram Shankarrao Khadatkar (PW10) deposed that the motorbike riders went ahead up to 100150 ft.	None
on the road, and then stopped their vehicle after crossing the bridge.	None
The boy who was driving the motorbike stepped down from the vehicle.	None
The pillion rider caughthold of the boy sitting in between them.	None
They both parked the vehicle and the driver lifted the boy on his shoulder, proceeding towards the culvert.	None
In the meantime, Pw 10s son arrived on his motorbike and he went away towards his village.	None
He deposed that he was called for the TIP on 25 th September, 2014 and identified both A1 and A2 as the persons who were on the motorbike.	None
He identified the clothes (Arts.	None
No. 1, 2 and 19) which were on the person of A1 and A2 and the minor boy.	None
He further deposed that Ex.26 is the photograph of the same boy who was on motorbike by A1 and A2 on the day of incident.	None
Discovery of incriminating facts Recovery of Dead Body As per the prosecution, A1 was arrested around 1430 hrs.	None
whereas A2 was arrested around 1630 hrs.	None
on 2 nd September, 2014.	Reasoning
Mahesh Chandulal Fulwani (PW28) is the witness of disclosure statement (Ex.106) of A1 along with Girish Malpani.	None
Mahesh Chandulal Fulwani (PW28) deposed that while passing from Lakadganj Police Station, he saw a crowd there which included some of his friends and, therefore, he stopped.	None
The Police called him into the Police Station where the IO sought his consent to be a Panch.	None
The Police personnel brough a person in the chamber of IO who disclosed his name as A1 as well as his age and address.	None
Mahesh Chandulal Fulwani (PW28) identified A1 as the person who was brought in the chamber of the IO.	None
He deposed that he along with Girish Malpani A1, the IO and other police personnel boarded a police vehicle.	None
At that time, Dr. Chandak followed them in his car separately.	None
The police vehicle proceeded as per the directions of A1 whereas the car of Dr. Chandak was following their car.	None
A1 led them up to vicinity of Patansaongi village and thereafter towards village Babulkheda after which he asked them to stop the vehicle near bridge.	None
A1 started proceeding towards other end of the bridge on the road and pointed out a pathway for going beneath the bridge.	None
A1 went down under the bridge, towards the Rivulet and the rest followed him.	None
Mahesh Chandulal Fulwani (PW28) deposed that there were about seven to eight compartments of 30 feet length and 6 feet width to allow water in the Rivulet to pass through but there was no water in it.	None
A1 pointed out a place in the first channel of the Rivulet where the dead body of a young boy was found covered with leaves and sand particles.	None
There was also a boulder stone covering the face of the victim.	None
Mahesh Chandulal Fulwani (PW28) further deposed that the police personnel called an ambulance and a photographer and also removed the leaves and other obstructions from the dead body.	None
Thereafter, Dr. Chandak who was standing on the road near the bridge was called to come down and he identified the dead body as that of his son, Yug.	None
The panchnama of the spot commenced at 2115 hrs.	None
and lasted up to 2345 hrs.	None
The recovery of dead body is deposed by Dr. Chandak (PW1) as well as Shirish Sharadchandra Varhadpande (PW18), the photographer.	None
On the basis of the disclosure statement of A1, the dead body was recovered, concealed under the bridge in the first channel of the Rivulet.	None
The recovery of other incriminating facts The prosecution also examined Ajay Shankarrao Samarth (PW21) who is panch witness of the recovery of clothes at the instance of A1.	None
A1 had disclosed that he had concealed the clothes in his house.	None
Ajay Shankarrao Samarth (PW21) deposed that A1s mother was also present when A1 entered the house along with the panch and the police.	None
A1 produced an ATM Card, handkerchief, shirt, pant which were wrapped and kept in a box.	None
A 1 pointed out two vehicles which were parked in front of his house, in the courtyard  A black Honda motorbike and a purple scooty.	None
The footrest of the motorbike was smeared with sand particles which were removed and seized in a plastic bag.	None
Both the vehicles were taken in possession.	None
Sunil Kothari (PW26) is a Panch witness of the disclosure statement of A2.	None
A2 had disclosed that the blue Tshirt of the deceased was taken from his person and thrown it in the Rivulet located within the vicinity of the Village Lonkhairi.	None
A2 showed his readiness to point out such place.	None
One Arun is another Panch witness of A2s disclosure statement.	None
A2 led the Panches and the Police to the spot mentioned, where he had thrown the clothes and pointed out such place.	None
The IO called the sweepers for proceeding towards the spot and instructed them to search for the clothes.	None
After searching for about 45 to 60 minutes, a sweeper fished out a blue colour Tshirt from the the Rivulet.	None
A2 stated that it was the same Tshirt of the deceased which was thrown by him in the Rivulet.	None
Harsh Prakashchand Firodiya (PW29) is a witness of disclosure statement of A2 made on 9 th September, 2014 at about 1900 hrs.	None
(Ex.111).	None
The same was made in the presence of another Panch witness as well, one Sunil Ajitmal Kothari.	None
Harsh Prakashchand Firodiya (PW29) deposed that A2 took the Police and the Panches to his house, at some distance from Jaripatka Police Station.	None
A2s father was present outside, when A2 entered his house.	None
In his room, A2 removed a bag from an almirah within which there was a Maroon school bag, a red Tshirt, black jeans, a cream shirt, and a white knotted handkerchief.	None
After opening the knot of such handkerchief, A2 produced an ear ring kept therein, which was disclosed to be that of the deceased.	None
The accused also took out a pair of sandals as well as the bicycle kept in the adjoining room used by him in the commission of the crime.	None
All these articles were taken in possession vide recovery memo (Ex.111/A).	None
Further, Dr. Chandak (PW1) has identified the ear ring produced to be that of his son.	None
The prosecution also examined Pravin Chudamanji Ganuwala (PW20) who was a witness of the identification of the red Tshirt being one supplied to the staff of Dr. Chandak (PW1) at his clinic.	None
Prashant Pandhari Motghare (PW43) is a witness of another disclosure statement (Ex.192) suffered by A2 on 11 th September, 2014 at about 1430 hrs.	None
He marked the place where the murder of the deceased was committed by throttling and smothering.	None
Demand of Ransom Manoj Thakkar (PW4) is the panch witness in whose presence the personal search of both the accused was conducted.	None
From A1, the police recovered a black, Max Mobile Company cell phone and two SIM cards.	None
From the personal search of A2, a blacksilver Samsung cell phone and two SIM cards were taken into possession.	None
Dr. Chandak (PW1) deposed that he received a call at 2017 hrs.	None
on his cell phone from the landline No. 3220601 on 1 st September, 2014.	None
The caller disclosed his name as Mohsin Khan and asked Dr. Chandak (PW1) to bring him Rs.10 crores as Yug, PW1s son, was in his custody.	None
Thereafter at about 2040 hrs.	None
on the same day, he received another call on his cell phone from the phone No. 8380927706.	None
The caller disclosed that he should bring Rs.5 crores on the following day at about 1500 hrs.	None
in Mumbai.	None
Dr. Chandak (PW1) tried to ask him about the place in Mumbai but the caller disconnected the phone.	None
The prosecution produced a copy of the customer application form of landline No.3220601 as Exs.179 and 179/1 whereas the Call Detail Record ( for short, CDR) of landline No. 3220601 has been produced on record as Ex.178/1.	None
There was a call to PW1s cell phone at 201728 hours.	None
It has come on record that such number was that of a Public Call Office (PCO).	None
However, it is not available on record as to who is the owner of the PCO was as well as who had seen the person making the call.	None
The customer application form of phone No. 8380927706 is produced on record as Exs.215/1 and 215/2 whereas the CDR is Ex.214/1.	None
There was a call at 203803 hrs.	None
of 31 seconds to Dr. Chandak (PW1).	None
Mohandas Mitharam Balani (PW16) is the person who owns the PCO from where the second call was made.	None
He deposed that there was a coin box telephone installed on the counter of his shop and that at around 2030 hrs.	None
on 1 st September, 2014, a boy came to his shop on a bicycle, wanting to make a call from it.	None
Mohandas Mitharam Balani (PW16) saw that the boy was talking on the phone from his coin box said, Paanch Karod Leke Ana (Bring Five Crore Rupees).	None
He also deposed that before he could pay more attention, the boy left the shop and went away on his bicycle.	None
Mohandas Mitharam Balani (PW16) thereafter received information about the conduct of a TIP on 30 th October, 2014 at the Central Jail.	None
He identified the person making the call from the persons present therein.	None
Such person disclosed his name as Arvind Singh to the Magistrate.	None
Vikas Mali (PW41) is the witness who produced the CDR of the cellphone of Dr. Chandak (PW1) vide Ex.187/2.	None
He had also prepared the certificate under Section 65(B) of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, Evidence Act) which was produced vide Ex.187/3.	None
Dattaram Shantaram Angre (PW46) produced the CDR of Phone No. 8380927706, from which the second ransom call was made.	None
The same is Ex.218/1 whereas the certificate issued under Section 65(B) of the Evidence Act is Ex.218/4 and the customer application forms are Exs.218/2 and 218/3.	None
The CDR of cellphone No. 7745855431 of Smt.	None
Bhumeshwari Daware, A1s mother, is Ex.219	None
and Ex 219/1 whereas the certificate issued under Section 65(B) of the Evidence Act is Ex.219/4 and the customer application forms are Exs.219/2 and 219/3.	None
Motive and Conspiracy Motive and conspiracy are quite interlinked in the present appeals and are, therefore, taken up for consideration together.	None
Firstly, the motive herein is the grievance of A1 against Dr. Chandak (PW1).	None
The daughter of Naresh Machale (PW6) was a patient of Dr. Chandak (PW1).	None
Naresh Machale (PW6) deposed that on 4 th August, 2014, Dr. Chandak (PW1) told him to pay of sum of Rs. 500/ towards the treatment of his daughter but the person at reception charged him Rs.	None
600/.	None
The person who charged Rs. 600/ was identified by him as A1.	None
On his second visit, Dr. Chandak (PW1) told Naresh Machale (PW6) to deposit Rs. 1500/ towards the treatment of his daughter but A1 who was at the reception again, asked him to deposit Rs. 1600/.	None
Later, Naresh Machale (PW6) informed Dr. Chandak (PW1) about the extra charges and Dr. Chandak (PW1) told him to visit his clinic for the verification of the same.	None
Dr. Chandak (PW1) deposed that he confronted A1 as to why he had charged extra sums from Naresh Machale (PW6), but A1 did not accept his fault and claimed innocence.	None
He told him that he will confront him with Naresh Machale (PW6) on the following day but when Naresh Machale (PW6) came to the clinic, A1 was not on duty.	None
Thereafter, A1 stopped attending PW1s clinic altogether and left his employment without giving any information to him.	None
The excess amount being charged from Naresh Machale (PW6) has been corroborated by Sonam Meshram (PW19), A1s friend.	None
She deposed that A1 disclosed to her that he was charging Rs. 100/ to Rs. 200/ more from Dr. Chandaks patients.	None
She further deposed that A1 told her that Dr. Chandak was paying him a meagre salary of Rs. 3000/ whilst taking lot of work.	None
Sonam Meshram (PW19) also deposed that A1 abused Dr. Chandak and said that he would teach him a lesson.	None
It appears that A1 had an ambition to be rich at the earliest.	None
Such intention is proved by the prosecution examining Sandeep Katre (PW8), another friend of A1s.	None
Sandeep Katre (PW8) deposed that A1 was always in a hurry to become an affluent person.	None
He stated that on the day of Raksha Bandhan in 2014, A1 came to his house with A2.	None
A1 inquired from him as to when and in what manner his employer carries the cash from the office.	None
Sandeep Katre (PW8) shared with him the relevant time during which his employer carries the bag of cash.	None
A1 thereafter told Sandeep Katre (PW8) that whenever his employer starts proceeding with cash out of the office, he should inform him on cellphone so that he would be able to intercept PW8s employer and loot the cash from him.	None
A1 stated that such cash would be distributed among all of them.	None
On 14 th August, 2014, Sandeep Katre (PW8) received a phone call from A1 as to whether his employer would carry cash from his office.	None
He told A1 that there was less cash and, therefore, not to come on that day.	None
On 16th August, 2014, he again received call from A1 who informed him that his friend A2, and two others came with full preparation and awaited his phone call, but he did not give him any response.	None
A1 repeatedly tried to contact Sandeep Katre (PW8) on his mobile phone inquiring about his employer.	None
Again, on the following day, A1 informed him that he would come with full preparation and was waiting for his call.	None
Sandeep Katre (PW8) deposed that he again did not give them any information.	None
A1 called Sandeep Katre (PW8) to meet him at Pili River area and upon reaching there he found that A1, A2 and two others, who were friends of A1 were all present.	None
A1 disclosed to him that he was intending to kidnap a boy for ransom whose father was an affluent person.	None
He also stated that he would get a huge amount after such kidnapping, but would disclose the name of the boy to be kidnapped later on.	None
A1 further told him that the kidnapped boy would be kept at his house under the surveillance of his younger brother Ankush.	None
Sandeep Katre (PW8) deposed that he along with A1s other two friends opposed A1 for wanting to commit such illegality, but A1 went away on his bike.	None
On 30 th August, 2014, A1 called him on his cellphone No. 9595517745 and told him that he was intending to complete the task of kidnapping on the following day.	None
Again, on 1 st September, 2014 at about 1530 hrs.	None
to 1545 hrs., A1 contacted him from his cellphone and told him that he wanted to kidnap a young boy.	None
Sandeep Katre (PW8) told him that he does not want to get involved in such type of illegal activities.	None
However, on the following day, Sandeep Katre (PW8) came to know that Dr. Chandaks son was kidnapped.	None
He contacted Dr. Chandak and informed him that such act of kidnapping might have been committed by his employee i.e. A1.	None
The police called Sandeep Katre (PW8) on 4 th September, 2014 and the Magistrate recorded his statement under Section 164 Cr.	None
P.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sonam Meshram (PW19), as mentioned earlier, who had deposed that A1 used to charge excess amounts from Dr. Chandaks patients had also deposed that A1 proposed to her for marriage.	None
However, she asked him how he would bear the expenditure of Rs.2 lakhs to be incurred for her course, when he had previously disclosed to her that he left Dr. Chandaks employment as he was supposedly paying him a meagre salary.	None
A1 told her that she should not worry about the money as he would be earning huge amounts after completing a job.	None
A1 then told her that he was planning to abduct the son of a rich person.	None
Sonam Meshram (PW19) further deposed that on 1 st September, 2014, she made call to A1 from the cellphone of her room partner, but A1 did not respond.	None
At about 1130 hrs.	None
, when she contacted A1 again, he told her that he was busy in work.	None
All these calls find mention in CDR of A1.	None
The record shows that calls were exchanged between Sonam Meshram (PW19) and A1 through the mobile of her friend and room partner at 073155 hrs.	None
084556 hrs., 084651 hrs., 113646 hrs., 113834 hrs.	None
and 114220 hrs.	None
All these calls show tower location as that in Vinoba Bhave Nagar.	None
There is also a call from A1 to A2 at 161254 hrs.	None
and the location of the tower is Guru Darshan Complex Chhapru Nagar, Lakadganj Nagpur.	None
There are calls between A1 and Ankush (A3), the juvenile brother of A1, at 161744 hrs.,165608 hrs.	None
and 173653 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
as well.	None
Nilesh Gosavi (PW25) who was posted at Lakadganj Police Station as PSO had made a call to A1 at 175049 hrs., when the tower location on record is at Patansaongi T al Saoner.	None
Thereafter, Satyanarayan Jaiswal (PW50), the Investigating Officer (IO) had called A1 at 183359 hrs., when the tower location is at Vinoba Bhave Nagar i.e. the area of A1s house.	None
The IO made a second call to A1 at 184652 hrs.	None
when the tower location was near the Itwari Railway Station i.e. on way to Police Station.	None
There was also a call from the mobile number of Rupali (PW23) to A1 at 185024 hrs.	None
A1 had made a call to another mobile no. 7745855431 at 190053 hrs.	None
Further, there is another call by A1 to N.T. Gosawi (PW25) at 194906 hrs.	None
These calls are from the Lakadganj area as per location tower.	None
Dharmendra Yadav (PW24) an employee of Dr. Chandak, deposed that he had received a call from A2.	None
He was acquainted with A1 as he was also working in the clinic.	Reasoning
He deposed that A1 used to chat with him about big things.	None
Therefore, he believed that he was a person of great influence.	None
He sought his help for admission in college.	None
A1 asked him to meet him in the college and bring Rs.5,000/ with him.	None
A1 introduced A2 to him as well, who had taken his mobile number at that time.	None
There were three calls exchanged between A2 and Dharmendra Yadav (PW24) from 192815 hrs.	Reasoning
to 193250 hrs. of duration of 80 seconds, 31 seconds and 20 seconds when the mobile of A2 was covered by tower location in Vinoba Bhave Nagar.	None
From the call details of A2, it transpires that A2 was in Vinoba Bhave Nagar from 184145 hrs.	None
till 193341 hrs.	Reasoning
During this period, A2 made a call to Pankaj Khurpade (PW15) at 193341 hrs.	None
Pankaj Khurpade (PW15) further deposed that A2 sought Dr. Chandaks number.	None
The last call at 205535 hrs. had been made by A2 to A3 when tower location was Zingabai T akali Koradi Road, Nagpur, i.e. the road from Vinobha Bhave Nagar to Patansaongi Lake.	None
Corroborative Evidence The prosecution also examined Chitra Kamat (PW47) who was an Assistant Director in the Government Forensic Laboratory, Kalina, Mumbai.	None
Chitra Kamat (PW47) received two parcels, one containing hard disks and CDs and another containing four sealed envelopes.	None
In one of the envelopes there were photographs of a vehicle whereas in the other three, there were photographs of a person for analysis.	None
She assigned all the articles to Ajay Salunke (PW38) for analysis in the forensic laboratory.	None
Ajay Salunke (PW38) prepared a report on 22 nd November, 2014.	None
He deposed that the CD had six videos files and such video files were continuous and not edited at any point of time.	None
He matched the photographs on the CD with the photographs referred to by the Police.	None
He prepared a report Exh.160.	None
As per the report, the person in the videos resembles the photographs (Ex. 2, 3, 4 and 5) i.e. the photographs of motor cycle, the two accused A1, A2 and the deceased victim.	None
The CDRs of A1 (Ex.176/1) corroborate the six phone calls exchanged between A1 and Sonam Meshram (PW19) on 1 st September, 2014 from 073155 hrs.	None
till 114220 hrs., as deposed by Sonam Meshram (PW19).	None
Such call details further corroborate that Pankaj Khurpade (PW15), an employee at Dr. Chandaks clinic had received a phone call from A1 on his mobile wherein, A1 inquired about Dr. Chandak and his wife.	None
Such call was made soon before the kidnapping at 152059 hrs.	None
and stands corroborated by the statement of Dharmendra Yadav (PW24).	None
Dharmendra Yadav (PW24) had deposed that he had received a call from A1 to find out as to whether Dr. Chandak and his wife are in the clinic.	None
Such CDRs also corroborate the statement of Sandeep Katre (PW8), when he deposed that he received a phone call from A1 on 1 st September, 2014 at about 1530 hrs.	None
to 1545 hrs.	Reasoning
informing him that he wanted to kidnap a boy.	None
The CDR shows that such call was exchanged between A1 and Sandeep Katre (PW8) at 154431 hrs.	None
The CDRs also corroborate the call made by N.T. Gosawi (PW25) and the IO to A1.	None
On the other hand, the CDRs of A2 (Ex.150/1) corroborate the calls exchanged between A2 and Dharmendra Yadav (PW24) on 1 st September, 2014 from 1928 hrs.	None
till 1932 hrs.	Reasoning
to inquire about Dr. Chandaks contact details, as also the call made by A2 to Pankaj Khurpade (PW15), who had given the mobile number of Dr. Chandak to A2.	None
The CDRs also corroborate the call A2 had made to Dr. Chandak at 193917 hrs.	None
presumably to verify the number given by Pankaj Khurpade (PW15).	None
It is thereafter the ransom call was made at 205318 hrs.	None
and received by Dr. Chandak.	None
Mohandas Mitharam Balani (PW16) has also corroborated such call from his PCO.	None
Thus, the oral testimonies of the prosecution witnesses stand corroborated by the CDRs of both the accused.	None
Submissions on behalf of A1 41.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before this Court, Mr. Yug Chaudhary, learned counsel for A1 vehemently argued that both the Courts have overlooked material evidence that A1 was in Police custody from 1850 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
on 1 st September, 2014, though his formal arrest was reflected in the records on 2 nd September, 2014 at 1710 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The disclosure statement was, thus, a direct result of his illegal custody and was actuated by undue influence and coercion.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also argued that since A1 was in custody of the Police, a fact admitted by the IO, A1 could not have played any role in the ransom call made on 1 st September, 2014 at 2038 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance herein was placed upon Abdul Subhan Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Emperor AIR 1940 All.	Arguments of Petitioner
46.	Arguments of Petitioner
42.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the prosecution had not led any evidence to suggest that the deceased died before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
i.e. the period during which the deceased can be said to be in custody of the accused as A1 had received a call from N.T. Gosawi (PW25) at 1750 hrs., when he was in the area of Patansaongi lake which is about 26 kms and 33 minutes away from his house.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since he was at his house by 1833 hrs., he must have left the area of Patansaongi lake latest by 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
No question has been put to A1 in the statement under Section 313 Cr.	Arguments of Petitioner
P .C.	Arguments of Petitioner
that the deceased died before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that A1 can be held guilty of an offence under Section 302	Arguments of Petitioner
IPC only if death is proved to have been caused before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
i.e. before he left the Patansaongi lake.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed upon Hate Singh Bhagat Singh v. State of Madhya Bharat AIR 1953 SC 468 and Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra (1984) 4 SCC 116 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, a recent judgment of this Court reported as Reena Hazarika v. State of Assam (2019) 13 SCC 289 was also referred to, to contend that the statement of an accused under Section 313 Cr.	Arguments of Petitioner
P .C. is required to be considered.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nonconsideration therein would vitiate conviction.	Arguments of Petitioner
43.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the deceased was sedated at the time of the act of his smothering, a fact made out from the CCTV footage played in the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the 13 abrasions on the face and neck of the deceased shows that he resisted smothering and, therefore, could not have been killed prior to 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since there is a possibility that the deceased died after 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
i.e. after the accused has surrendered, conviction for an offence under Section 302 IPC could not be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further argued that the ransom call was made after the arrest of A1, therefore, the conviction of A1 for an offence under Section 364A IPC was not sustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
44.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for A1 also argued that A1 surrendered in the Lakadganj Police Station at 1850 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such surrender terminated any conspiracy as he had withdrawn from it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The subsequent conduct of a ransom call by his coconspirator would not bind A1, especially in view of him being in custody when the ransom call was made at 2017 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
and 2038 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance herein was placed upon a judgment of this Court reported as State v. Nalini Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1999) 5 SCC 253 .	None
It was also argued that Madhuri Dhawalkar (PW34) or Shriram Khadatkar (PW10) had not noticed any injury on the person of the boy.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no evidence of any blood or saliva on the clothes of A1 when the child was sitting in between two accused or when A1 had carried the child on his shoulders, as deposed by Shriram Khadatkar (PW10).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, thus, argued that if the victim had these injuries, the blood or saliva was bound to be on A1s clothes.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this light, such injuries were possibly caused after 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
when A1 had left his coconspirator from the Patansaongi lake.	Arguments of Petitioner
45.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further argued that A1 may have had the intention to kidnap for ransom, but since the ransom call was made after the conspiracy terminated and there was no evidence of threat to cause death in the event of the ransom not being paid, an offence under Section 363 IPC alone can be made out.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also argued that when A2 had allegedly made ransom call, such call necessarily meant that the victim was alive, as human conduct in terms of Section 114 of the Evidence Act defies the logic of making a ransom call when a victim has already been killed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, A 1 could not have participated in the killing of the deceased in view of the fact that he was in Police custody from 1850 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also pointed out that since there was no repeat call of ransom, it only showed that the victim was killed after the ransom call was made at 2038 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the intention of the accused under Section 34 IPC must continue to exist till the completion of the crime of the offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance herein was placed upon Jai Bhagwan Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Haryana (1999) 3 SCC 102 and Suresh Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of U.P .	Arguments of Petitioner
(2001) 3 SCC 673 .	Arguments of Petitioner
46.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it was submitted that the argument that the victim died before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
is an argument raised in appeal before this Court for the first time and, therefore, the prosecution cannot be permitted to change the manner of commission of crime.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed upon Karanpura Development Co. Ltd. v. Raja Kamakshya Narain Singh, etc. AIR 1956 SC 446 and Sri Venkataramana Devaru	Arguments of Petitioner
Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Mysore Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
AIR 1958 SC 255 .	Arguments of Petitioner
47. Learned Counsel for A1 also disputed the recovery of the dead body pursuant to the disclosure statement suffered by A1.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that in such disclosure statement, no fact has been disclosed about the manner of causing death.	Arguments of Petitioner
The disclosure statement has to be recorded in the exact words used by the accused as held by this Court in State of Karnataka v. David Rozario Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2002) 7 SCC 728	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that since the manner of killing is not mentioned in the disclosure statement, A1 cannot be held guilty of causing death.	Arguments of Petitioner
48.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, it was argued that the recovery of the dead body will only lead to an inference that the accused had knowledge of the spot of concealment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that as per the statement of S.K. Jaiswal (PW50), the IO, A1 confessed to crime on interrogation but it has not been explained that how and why the disclosure statement came to be recorded almost 24 hours after his surrender.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for A1 also doubted the recovery of clothes and the handkerchief from the house of A1 on 8 th September, 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such handkerchief had two blood stains, one of the deceased and the other of an unknown male.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was a blood stain on the jeans as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
The blood stain on the jeans and unknown blood stain on the handkerchief matched.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, A1 could not be held guilty of taking life of the deceased in the absence of blood stain of the victim on his clothes.	Arguments of Petitioner
Submissions on behalf of A2 49.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for A2 argued that there was no motive attributed to A2 as the prosecution relied upon circumstantial evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no evidence of A2 conspiring with A1 or that he had any idea about the real motive of A1 of taking vengeance from Dr. Chandak (PW1), the complainant.	Arguments of Petitioner
A1 first planned to execute the kidnapping with the help of Sandeep Katre (PW8).	Arguments of Petitioner
This was discussed at the time when both A1 and Sandeep Katre (PW8) were conspiring to loot the employer of Sandeep Katre (PW8).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also argued that Rupali (PW23) had identified A2 in the witness box for the first time as no TIP was conducted to identify the A2 by her.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it was submitted that Rupali (PW23) admitted that she had delivered a child by caesarean surgery on 7 th October, 2014 and was advised bed rest on 1 st September, 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is highly improbable that during the advance stage of her pregnancy, she was able to wash clothes and see both the accused along with a minor child.	Arguments of Petitioner
50.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for A2 further argued that there was no TIP conducted to identify the accused by Namdeo Dhawale (PW11).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was obvious that the said witness had seen the motorbike of the accused in a running condition when he was managing his herd of goats.	Arguments of Petitioner
The testimony of Divya Chandel (PW9) was also criticized for the reason that she saw the motorbike from a distance of 15 feet as it would take only 23 seconds for the motorbike to pass through, therefore, it was highly improbable that she was able to see the faces of the motorbike riders.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also argued that the dead body was recovered at the instance of A1.	Arguments of Petitioner
A2 remained near the bridge and did not take any part in the commission of the crime of murder of the minor child and, therefore, in all probabilities, the crime has been committed by A1 between 1730 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
to 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
to wreak vengeance upon the complainant.	Arguments of Petitioner
51.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also argued that veracity of demand of ransom by A2 was doubtful.	Arguments of Petitioner
The FIR was lodged at 1710 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
but the IO did not make any arrangement for the recording of the ransom call.	Arguments of Petitioner
The IO did not take the voice sample of the accused for identification by Dr. Chandak (PW1).	Arguments of Petitioner
A2 was said to be identified by Mohandas Mitharam Balani (PW16) on 30 th October, 2014 after much delay.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the statement of Mohandas Mitharam Balani (PW16) was also doubted, that he had heard A2 raising a demand of ransom as a PCO would have some kind of privacy mechanism between the caller and the owner.	Arguments of Petitioner
52.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further argued that the disclosure statement in respect of articles said to be concealed in house of A2 did not stand proved as his house was locked after 3 rd September, 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
Haribhau Dahake (DW1), the landlord of the said house deposed that the family of A2 had left the house on 3 rd September, 2014 and did not return whereas the father of A2 came to pay rent in October, 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also argued that an offence under Section 364A IPC is not made out against A2 as the ransom call did not include a threat to life, which is a necessary ingredient of an offence under Section 364A IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
53.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from disputing the findings recorded by both the courts, it was argued that the sentence of death imposed upon the accused was not justified as the accused were young, students of undergraduate classes, had jobs to sustain them and had no criminal antecedents.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was not a rarest of the rare case, warranting death sentence.	Arguments of Petitioner
In respect of A1, it was additionally argued that A1 immediately surrendered at the first available opportunity and he did not even delay or tried to abscond.	Arguments of Petitioner
He fully cooperated with the investigation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He confessed to the IO which shows remorse.	Arguments of Petitioner
Findings Whether A1 was arrested on 1 st September 2014	Issue
We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length and find no reason to take a different view than what has been taken by the trial court and the High Court in the matter of conviction.	Reasoning
The entire sheet anchor of the argument of learned counsel for A1 is that A1 was in Police custody from 1850 hrs.	Reasoning
on 1 st September, 2014 and such aspect has not been considered either by the trial court or by the High Court.	Reasoning
In the written notes of the arguments submitted by A1 before the trial court, nothing has been raised regarding A1 being in custody from 1850 hrs.	Reasoning
on 1 st September, 2014.	Reasoning
Such an argument was not raised for good reasons, which are delineated hereinafter.	None
Manoj Thakkar (PW4) is the witness of seizure of mobile phones and sim cards of A1 and A2.	None
A1 was arrested at 1430 hrs.	None
whereas A2 was arrested at 1630 hrs.	None
on 2 nd September, 2014 as per column 8 of the arrest memo.	None
17.10 hrs.	None
is the time, when the accused were in the Police Station Lakadganj.	None
As per statement of Manoj Thakkar (PW4), he was called upon to become panch witness when he was returning from Wardhman Nagar to his residence at Qweta Colony in Nagpur.	None
Manoj Thakkar (PW4) deposed that the Police took personal search of the accused in his presence and recovered the mobile phones.	None
However, no cross examination has been conducted that the personal search was done at any point earlier than the arrest.	None
Still further, A1 had made a call to N.T. Gosawi (PW25) at 194906 hrs.	None
An accused in custody will not be permitted to make a call to a Police official.	None
It corroborates the stand of the prosecution that A1 was arrested on 2 nd September, 2014.	None
Still further, the IO had admitted in the crossexamination that he called A1 in the Police Station on 1 st September, 2014 for investigation.	None
He denied that A1 was in police custody.	None
He deposed that A1 visited police station on the day after he had called A1 on his cell phone.	None
A1 was called for inquiry as he was one of the former employees of the clinic of Dr. Chandak.	None
A witness is required to be crossexamined in a criminal trial to test his veracity to discover who he is and what his position in life is or to shake his credit, by injuring his character, although the answer to such questions may directly or indirectly incriminate him or may directly or indirectly expose him to a penalty or forfeiture (Section 146 of the Evidence Act).	Reasoning
A witness is required to be cross examined to bring forth inconsistencies, discrepancies and to prove the untruthfulness of the witness.	None
A1 set up a case of his arrest on 1 st September, 2014 from 1850 hrs., therefore, it was required for him to crossexamine the truthfulness of the prosecution witnesses with regard to that particular aspect.	Reasoning
The argument that the accused was shown to be arrested around 1900 hrs. is an incorrect reading of the arrest form (Ex.17).	Reasoning
In Col. 8, it has been specifically mentioned that the accused was taken into custody on 2 nd September, 2014 at 1430 hrs.	Reasoning
at Wanjri Layout, Police Station, Kalamna.	Reasoning
The time i.e. 1710 hrs. mentioned in Col. 2, appears to be when A1 was brought to the Police Station, Lakadganj.	Reasoning
As per the IO, A1 was called for interrogation as the suspicion was on an employee of Dr. Chandak since the kidnapper was wearing red colour Tshirt which was given by Dr. Chandak to his employees.	Reasoning
A 1 travelled from the stage of suspect to an accused only on 2 nd September, 2014.	Reasoning
Since, no crossexamination was conducted on any of the prosecution witnesses about the place and manner of the arrest, such an argument that the accused was arrested on 1 st September, 2014 at 1850 hrs.	Reasoning
is not tenable.	None
The House of Lords in a judgment reported as Browne v. Dunn (1894)	None
VI The Reports 67 (HL) considered the principles of appreciation of evidence.	None
Lord Chancellor Herschell, held that it is absolutely essential to the proper conduct of a cause, where it is intended to suggest that a witness if not speaking the truth on a particular point, to direct his attention to the fact by some questions put in crossexamination showing that imputation is intended to be made, and not to take his evidence and pass it by as a matter altogether unchallenged.	None
It was held as under Now, my Lords, I cannot help saying that it seems to me to be absolutely essential to the proper conduct of a cause, where it is intended to suggest that a witness is not speaking the truth on a particular point, to direct his attention to the fact by some questions put in cross examination showing that that imputation is intended to be made, and not to take his evidence and pass it by as a matter altogether unchallenged, and then, when it is impossible for him to explain, as perhaps he might have been able to do if such questions had been put to him, the circumstances which it is suggested indicate that the story he tells ought not to be believed, to argue that he is a witness unworthy of credit.	None
My Lords, I have always understood that if you intend to impeach a witness you are bound, whilst he is in the box, to give him an opportunity of making any explanation which is open to him and, as it seems to me, that is not only a rule of professional practice in the conduct of a case, but is essential to fair play and fair dealing with witnesses.	None
Sometimes reflections have been made upon excessive crossexamination of witnesses, and it has bene complained of as undue but it seems to me that a crossexamination of a witness which errs in the direction of excess may be far more fair to him than to leave him without crossexamination, and afterwards to suggest that he is not a witness of truth, I mean upon a point on which it is not otherwise perfectly clear that he has had full notice beforehand that there is an intention to impeach the credibility of the story which he is telling.	None
Lord Halsbury, in a separate but concurring opinion, held as under My Lords, with regard to the manner in which the evidence was given in this case, I cannot too heartily express my concurrence with the Lord Chancellor as to the mode in which a trial should be conducted.	None
T o	None
my mind nothing would be more absolutely unjust than not to crossexamine witnesses upon evidence which they have given, so as to give them notice, and to give them an opportunity of explanation, and an opportunity very often to defend their own character, and, not having given them such an opportunity, to ask the jury afterwards to disbelieve what they have said, although not one question has been directed either to their credit or to the accuracy of the facts they have deposed to.	None
This Court in a judgment reported as State of U.P .	None
v. Nahar Singh (1998) 3 SCC 561 , quoted from Browne to hold that in the absence of cross examination on the explanation of delay, the evidence of PW1 remained unchallenged and ought to have been believed by the High Court.	None
Section 146 of the Evidence Act confers a valuable right of crossexamining the witness tendered in evidence by the opposite party.	None
This Court held as under  It may be noted here that that part of the statement of PW 1 was not crossexamined by the accused.	None
In the absence of crossexamination on the explanation of delay, the evidence of PW 1 remained unchallenged and ought to have been believed by the High Court.	None
Section 138 of the Evidence Act confers a valuable right of crossexamining the witness tendered in evidence by the opposite party.	None
The scope of that provision is enlarged by Section 146 of the Evidence Act by allowing a witness to be questioned (1) to test his veracity, (2) to discover who he is and what is his position in life, or (3) to shake his credit by injuring his character, although the answer to such questions might tend directly or indirectly to incriminate him or might expose or tend directly or indirectly to expose him to a penalty or forfeiture.	None
This Court in a judgment reported as Muddasani Venkata Narsaiah (Dead) through LRs.	None
v. Muddasani Sarojana (2016) 12 SCC 288 laid down that the party is obliged to put his case in crossexamination of witnesses of opposite party.	None
The rule of putting ones version in crossexamination is one of essential justice and not merely technical one.	None
It was held as under Moreover, there was no effective cross examination made on the plaintiffs witnesses with respect to factum of execution of sale deed, PW 1 and PW 2 have not been crossexamined as to factum of execution of sale deed.	None
The crossexamination is a matter of substance not of procedure one is required to put ones own version in crossexamination of opponent.	None
The effect of noncrossexamination is that the statement of witness has not been disputed.	None
The effect of not crossexamining the witnesses has been considered by this Court in Bhoju Mandal v. Debnath Bhagat Bhoju Mandal v. Debnath Bhagat, AIR 1963 SC 1906 .	None
This Court repelled a submission on the ground that the same was not put either to the witnesses or suggested before the courts below.	None
Party is required to put his version to the witness.	None
If no such questions are put the Court would presume that the witness account has been accepted as held in Chuni Lal Dwarka Nath v.	None
Hartford Fire Insurance Co. Ltd.	None
Chuni Lal Dwarka Nath v. Hartford Fire Insurance Co. Ltd., 1957 SCC OnLine PH 177 AIR 1958 PH 440 In Maroti Bansi T eli v. Radhabai Maroti Bansi T eli v. Radhabai, 1943 SCC OnLine MP 128 AIR 1945	None
Nag 60 , it has been laid down that the matters sworn to by one party in the pleadings not challenged either in pleadings or crossexamination by other party must be accepted as fully established.	None
The High Court of Calcutta in A.E.G. Carapiet v. A.Y .	None
Derderian A.E.G. Carapiet v. A.Y .	None
Derderian, 1960 SCC OnLine Cal 44 AIR 1961 Cal 359 has laid down that the party is obliged to put his case in crossexamination of witnesses of opposite party.	None
The rule of putting ones version in cross examination is one of essential justice and not merely technical one.	None
A Division Bench of the Nagpur High Court in Kuwarlal Amritlal v. Rekhlal Koduram Kuwarlal Amritlal v. Rekhlal Koduram, 1949 SCC OnLine MP 35 AIR 1950 Nag 83 has laid down that when attestation is not specifically challenged and witness is not cross examined regarding details of attestation, it is sufficient for him to say that the document was attested.	None
If the other side wants to challenge that statement, it is their duty, quite apart from raising it in the pleadings, to crossexamine the witness along those lines.	None
A Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Karnidan Sarda v. Sailaja Kanta Mitra Karnidan Sarda v. Sailaja Kanta Mitra, 1940 SCC OnLine Pat 288 AIR 1940 Pat 683 has laid down that it cannot be too strongly emphasised that the system of administration of justice allows of crossexamination of opposite partys witnesses for the purpose of testing their evidence, and it must be assumed that when the witnesses were not tested in that way, their evidence is to be ordinarily accepted.	None
In the aforesaid circumstances, the High Court has gravely erred in law in reversing the findings of the first appellate court as to the factum of execution of the sale deed in favour of the plaintiff.	None
The rule of evidence is common both to the civil and the criminal trials.	None
Though, in a criminal trial, this court in K.M. Nanavati v. State of Maharashtra AIR 1962 SC 605 , held that there is a presumption of innocence in favour of the accused as a general rule, and it is the duty of the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused to put it in other words, the accused is presumed to be innocent until his guilt is established by the prosecution.	None
This Court held as follows 18 In India, as it is in England, there is a presumption of innocence in favour of the accused as a general rule, and it is the duty of the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused to put it in other words, the accused is presumed to be innocent until his guilt is established by the prosecution.	None
But when an accused relies upon the general exceptions in the Indian Penal Code or on any special exception or proviso contained in any other part of the Penal Code, or in any law defining an offence, Section 105 of the Evidence Act raises a presumption against the accused and also throws a burden on him to rebut the said presumption.	None
Under that Section the Court shall presume the absence of circumstances bringing the case within any of the exceptions, that is, the court shall regard the non existence of such circumstances as proved till they are disproved In Dahyabhai Chhaganbhai Thakkar v. State of Gujarat AIR 1964 SC 1563 , this court while examining an argument of the accused that he was medically insane person, it was held that it is a fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that an accused is presumed to be innocent and, therefore, the fact that the accused was incapable of knowing the nature of his act, the burden of proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within the exception under Section 105 of Evidence Act lies on the accused.	None
It was held as under It is a fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that an accused is presumed to be innocent and, therefore, the burden lies on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.	None
The prosecution, therefore, in a case of homicide shall prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused caused death with the requisite intention described in Section 299 of the Indian Penal Code.	None
This general burden never shifts and it always rests on the prosecution.	None
But, as Section 84 of the Indian Penal Code provides that nothing is an offence if the accused at the time of doing that act, by reason of unsoundness of mind was incapable of knowing the nature of his act or what he was doing was either wrong or contrary to law.	None
This being an exception, under Section 105 of the Evidence Act the burden of proving the existence of circumstances bringing the case within the said exception lies on the accused .	None
Thus, the prosecution is required to bring home the guilt beyond reasonable doubt.	Reasoning
It is open to an accused to raise such reasonable doubt by crossexamination of the prosecution witnesses to discredit such witness in respect of truthfulness and veracity.	Reasoning
However, where the statement of prosecution witnesses cannot be doubted on the basis of the touchstone of truthfulness, contradictions and inconsistencies, and the accused wants to assert any particular fact which cannot be made out from the prosecution evidence, it is incumbent upon the accused to cross examine the relevant witnesses to that extent.	Reasoning
The witness, in order to impeach the truthfulness of his statement, must be cross examined to seek any explanation in respect of a version, which accused wants to rely upon rather to raise an argument at the trial or appellate stage to infer a fact when the opportunity given was not availed of as part of fair play while appreciating the statement of the witnesses.	Reasoning
Thus, we hold that a party intending to bring evidence to impeach or contradict the testimony of a witness must give an opportunity to explain or answer when the witness is in the witness box.	Reasoning
The testimony of the prosecution witnesses does not lead to any inference that A1 was in Police custody from 1850 hrs.	Reasoning
He was only called for an inquiry for the reason that the employees engaged by Dr. Chandak used to wear a red colour Tshirt in his clinic and as the information at that stage was that one of the accused was wearing a red colour Tshirt, A1 was called for information.	Reasoning
His presence in the Police Station on 1 st September, 2014 was only as a suspect.	Reasoning
He became an accused only when he was arrested on 2 nd September, 2014 at 1430 hrs.	Reasoning
Mr. Chaudhary also pointed out that the CDR of A1 (Ex.176/1) shows that his mobile phone was always in the range of Police Station Lakadganj from 1850 hrs.	Reasoning
The best witness to seek information of his arrest was the IO.	Reasoning
He denied the arrest on 1 st September, 2014.	Reasoning
The other witness who could be cross examined was Manoj Thakkar (PW4).	Reasoning
But he was not cross examined in this respect.	Reasoning
At this stage, it is not open to this Court to infer any such fact, in the absence of any evidence to the contrary on record.	Reasoning
He had access to his mobile all through before his arrest on 2 nd September, 2014.	Reasoning
An accused will not be provided access to mobile phone when in custody.	Reasoning
He has called N.T. Gosawi (PW25) at 194906 hrs.	Reasoning
on 1 st September, 2014.	Reasoning
In fact, the statement of DW1, the mother of the A1, contradicts the entire argument of A1 voluntary going to police station on 1 st September, 2014.	Reasoning
She deposed that 45 policemen had taken A1 from her house as per the information of Ankush, the juvenile.	Reasoning
Thus, the accused has not been able to create doubt in respect of his arrest on 2 nd September 2014.	Reasoning
Pankaj Khurpade (PW15) deposed that he was employed as an attendant in the clinic of Dr. Chandak.	None
He is acquainted with other staff members of the clinic including Dharmendra Yadav and A1.	None
He deposed that at 1930 hrs.	None
, he received a phone call from A2.	None
The caller disclosed his name as Arvind, friend of A1.	None
He wanted cell number of Dr. Chandak.	None
He gave the cell number of Dr. Chandak to him.	None
Such statement is corroborated by CDRs of A2.	None
Mr. Chaudhary admitted the presence of A1 with the kidnapped boy from 1600 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
till 1730 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
or so, a finding which has been recorded by the trial court as well as by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such finding is, in fact, unassailable at the instance of A1 as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is that the prosecution had failed to prove that A1 was responsible for causing death of the boy.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was near Patansaongi lake, when he received a call from N.T. Gosawi (PW25) at 175049 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was to his house in Vinoba Bhave Nagar at 183146 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
and in the Police Station at 1850 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, he must have left the area of Patansaongi any time before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, to prove the charge of culpable homicide amounting to murder against the accused, the prosecution must prove that the victim died before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that in the absence of evidence of causing death by accused, and in the absence of call of ransom before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
, he can at best be convicted for an offence under Section 363 IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
For an offence under Section 364A IPC, according to Mr. Chaudhary, the prosecution is required to prove demand of ransom, and threat to cause death in case of nonpayment of ransom.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the ransom call is said to have been made by A2 at 2038 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
when A1 was in the Police Station, therefore, the prosecution has failed to prove that such ransom call is attributed to A1 and that there was a threat to take life of the victim.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not find any merit in the said argument as well.	Reasoning
There is overwhelming evidence of A1 having motive to cause damage to Dr. Chandak on account of payment of less salary, more work and scolding on account of overcharging customers.	Reasoning
Such motive gets further strengthened by the desire in A1 to get rich even by robbing employer of Sandeep Katre (PW8), when he planned looting of cash.	Reasoning
Such evidence is corroborated by Sonam Meshram (PW19), the friend of A1.	Reasoning
The desire to get rich by whatever means was a driving force with A1 to kidnap a young child of 8 years, who was a school going innocent child, who happened to be a son of welltodo dentist couple.	Reasoning
Initially, A1 conspired with Sandeep Katre (PW8) but on his developing coldfeet, he associated A2 in his nefarious design to make money by the abduction of a young child.	Reasoning
The conduct of A1 in seeking assistance of Sandeep Katre (PW8) and the calls exchanged between Sonam Meshram (PW19) and A1 shows the desperation of A1 to kidnap for ransom.	Reasoning
The intention to kidnap was only with a motive of becoming rich by obtaining a ransom.	Reasoning
T o achieve that motive, A1 had associated A2, a fact deposed by Sandeep Katre (PW8) and Sonam Meshram (PW19).	Reasoning
A1 and A2 were together at different stages of the commission of the crime from almost 1600 hrs.	Reasoning
till almost 1800 hrs., and later till 183359 hrs., when both of them were at the house of A1 in Vinoba Bhave Nagar.	Reasoning
Such facts have come on evidence from the testimony of Arun Meshram (PW31) Rajan Tiwari (PW2) Rupali (PW23)the neighbour of A1 Ms. Madhuri Permanand Dhawalkar (PW34)the dispenser at the petrol pump Divya Chandel (PW9) Shriram Shankarrao Khadatkar (PW10) and Namdeo Dhawale (PW11) and the call details of both the accused.	Reasoning
It has also come on record that A1 and Sonam Meshram (PW19) had earlier visited the area in question while on the way to visit the temple of Lord Ganesha.	Reasoning
Thus A1 was familiar with the area, therefore, he found it appropriate to achieve his nefarious design at that place.	Reasoning
The argument of Mr. Chaudhary is that the prosecution has not proved the time of death i.e. before 1800 hrs.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the prosecution is able to the prove the death before 1800 hrs., only then, A1 can be said to be guilty of an offence under Section 302 IPC, otherwise, the accused cannot be held guilty of a culpable homicide amounting to murder.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the CDR, A1 was in the area of Patansaongi Lake from 173653 hrs.	Reasoning
to 175049 hrs.	Reasoning
in Vinoba Bhave Nagar, i.e. from 183146 hrs.	Reasoning
to 183359 hrs.	Reasoning
whereas, A2 was in Vinoba Bhave Nagar area from 184145 hrs.	Reasoning
till 193917 hrs.	Reasoning
A2 had called Ankush  the juvenile at 205535 hrs.	Reasoning
, when he was on T akali Koradi Road i.e. the road between Patansaongi and Vinoba Bhave Nagar.	Reasoning
The calls between A1, A2 and Dharmendra Yadav (PW24) were exchanged between 192815 hrs.	Reasoning
to 193250 hrs.	Reasoning
Dharmendra Yadav (PW24) was also in employment in the clinic of Dr. Chandak.	Reasoning
He was acquainted with A1 as he was also working in that clinic.	Reasoning
He deposed that at about 1900 hrs., A2 called him and inquired about A1.	Reasoning
He also demanded the cellphone number of Dr. Chandak disclosing his name as Arvind, friend of A1.	Reasoning
He had not given him the cellphone number of Dr. Chandak as it was not available with him.	Reasoning
After sometime, the phone was disconnected and within 510 minutes, he received another call from A2 who sought the cellphone number of Pankaj Khurpade (PW15).	Reasoning
He had given cellphone number of Pankaj Khurpade (PW15) to him.	Reasoning
The judgment in Abdul Subhan is not applicable to the facts of the present case for the reason that A1 was not proved to be arrested on 1 st September, 2014.	Reasoning
In the reported judgment, the person who was said to have arrested the accused prior to the actual date of arrest, was examined before the High Court.	Reasoning
It was on the basis of the additional evidence recorded, the High Court observed that the statement made by Punwan, accused, in his confession to the effect that he was apprehended on 1 st March, 1938 is very probably true.	Reasoning
The IO in his statement before the High Court could not convince the Court that he had not arrested Punnu, accused, till 6 th March, 1938.	Reasoning
But the facts in the present appeals does not lead to any inference of the arrest of A1 on 1 st September, 2014.	Reasoning
ii)	None
Whether Common intention was terminated before the demand of ransom and death of victim The argument that the conspiracy terminated the moment, A1 surrendered in the Lakadganj Police Station at 1850 hrs.	None
on 1 st September, 2014, is again not tenable.	Reasoning
In Nalinis case itself, it has been held as under It is not necessary that all the conspirators should participate from the inception to the end of the conspiracy some may join the conspiracy after the time when such intention was first entertained by any one of them and some others may quit from the conspiracy.	None
All of them cannot but be treated as conspirators.	None
Where in pursuance of the agreement the conspirators commit offences individually or adopt illegal means to do a legal act which has a nexus to the object of conspiracy, all of them will be liable for such offences even if some of them have not actively participated in the commission of those offences.	None
The said judgment was quoted with approval in Central Bureau of Investigation Anr.	Reasoning
v. Mohd.	Reasoning
Parvez Abdul Kayuum Ors.	Reasoning
(2019) 12 SCC 1 .	Reasoning
Thus, it is not necessary that A1 should participate till the end of conspiracy as some may quit from the conspiracy but all of them would be treated as conspirators.	Reasoning
The common intention requires a prearranged plan and prior concert.	Reasoning
Thus, there must be prior meeting of minds.	Reasoning
The common intention must exist prior to the commission of the act in a point of time.	Reasoning
A1 is the driving force behind the conspiracy to kidnap for ransom.	Reasoning
Merely because A1 was physically separated from coconspirator either before or after the death of the victim will not absolve him of offence under Section 302 IPC or Section 364A as both A1 and A2 were acting in tandem with each other.	Reasoning
It is so evident that A1 received a phone call from A2 when he was in Police Station at 190417 hrs.	Reasoning
when Dr. Chandak was also present in Police Station.	Reasoning
Though, the ransom call was made by A2 but in view of Section 34 IPC, the consequence of such ransom call will be equally borne by A1 also, as the planning of kidnapping for the purpose of ransom was that of A1.	Reasoning
It is the A1 who had the motive to harm Dr. Chandak and also to be rich at the earliest.	Reasoning
We do not find any merit in the argument that to make out an offence under Section 302 IPC against A1, the prosecution must prove the factum of death of the victim prior to 1800 hrs.	Reasoning
The medical evidence corroborates the time of death i.e. from 12 noon to midnight.	Reasoning
The opinion of the expert can only suggest the time range, and not the precise time of death.	Reasoning
The fact is that victim is proved to be in custody of A1 and A2 till 1800 hrs.	Reasoning
or so and, thus, in terms of provisions of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, it is for the accused to explain what happened to the victim before he was done to death.	Reasoning
Since the victim was in custody of A1 and A2 and there is no evidence of any intervening factor to doubt that there could be a possibility of third person, it is for them to discharge the burden of such fact which is within their knowledge.	Reasoning
This Court in Jai Bhagwan relied upon by the appellant, held that to apply Section 34 IPC apart from the fact that there should be two or more accused, two factors must be established (i) common intention and (ii) participation of the accused in the commission of an offence.	None
If a common intention is proved but no overt act is at tributed to the individual accused, Section 34 IPC will be attracted as it essentially involves vicarious liability but if participation of the accused in the crime is proved and a common intention is absent, Section 34 IPC cannot be invoked.	None
In every case, it is not possible to have direct evidence of a common intention.	None
It has to be in ferred from the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
In Suresh, this Court held that the concept of presence of the coaccused at the scene is not a necessary requirement to attract Section 34 IPC.	None
The one line in the para can be read in isolation to argue that phys ical presence of an accused is necessary.	None
In fact, this Court held as under Participation in the crime in furtherance of the common intention cannot conceive of some independent criminal act by all accused persons, besides the ultimate criminal act because for that individual act law takes care of making such accused responsible under the other provisions of the Code.	None
The word act used in Section 34 denotes a series of acts as a single act.	None
What is required under law is that the accused persons sharing the common intention must be physically present at the scene of occurrence and be shown not to have dissuaded themselves from the intended criminal act for which they shared the common intention.	None
Culpability under Section 34 cannot be excluded by mere distance from the scene of occurrence.	None
The presumption of constructive intention, however, has to be arrived at only when the court can, with judicial servitude, hold that the accused must have preconceived the result that ensued in furtherance of the common intention.	None
A Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Satrughan Patar v. Emperor AIR 1919 Pat 111 20 Cri LJ 289 held that it is only when a court with some certainty holds that a particular accused must have preconceived or premeditated the result which ensued or acted in concert with others in order to bring about that result, that Section 34 may be applied.	None
(Emphasis Supplied)	None
In the present appeals, the facts speak volumes about the common intention shared by both the appellants.	Reasoning
Both the accused planned the kidnapping and executed it together.	Reasoning
A1 called Dharmendra Yadav (PW24), even before the victim could be kidnapped to make sure that the parents of the child were not at home.	Reasoning
A2 is the one who picked up the child from the gate of the Apartment building.	Reasoning
They were together till at least 1833 hrs.	Reasoning
whereas the tower loca tion of the mobile of A2 was Vinoba Bhave Nagar till 19.39 hrs., which is the area of the House of A1.	Reasoning
The conspiracy never came to an end when A2 called Dr. Chandak (PW1) demanding ransom, which was the reason of kidnapping the boy.	Reasoning
Thus, the facts prove that both the accused had a common intention to kidnap the child.	Reasoning
iii) Applicability of Section 106 of the Evidence Act The most important aspect in the present appeals is presumption under Section 106 of the Evidence Act.	Reasoning
This Court has examined the scope of Section 106 of the Evidence Act in Shambu Nath Mehra v. State of Ajmer AIR 1956 SC 404 , State of W.B. v. Mir Mohammad Omar Ors.	None
(2000) 8 SCC 382 , Sucha Singh v. State of Punjab (2001) 4 SCC 375 , Rajender v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2019) 10 SCC 623 .	None
In Shambu Nath Mehra, this court held that Section 106 must be considered in a commonsense way and the balance of convenience and the disproportion of the labour that would be involved in finding out and proving certain facts balanced against the triviality of the issue at stake and the ease with which the accused could prove them, are all matters that must be taken into consideration.	None
The section cannot be used to undermine the wellestablished rule of law that, save in a very exceptional class of case, the burden is on the prosecution and never shifts.	None
This Court held as under This lays down the general rule that in a criminal case the burden of proof is on the prosecution and Section 106 is certainly not intended to relieve it of that duty.	None
On the contrary, it is designed to meet certain exceptional cases in which it would be impossible, or at any rate disproportionately difficult, for the prosecution to establish facts which are especially within the knowledge of the accused and which he could prove without difficulty or inconvenience.	None
The word especially stresses that.	None
It means facts that are pre eminently or exceptionally within his knowledge.	None
If the section were to be interpreted otherwise, it would lead to the very startling conclusion that in a murder case the burden lies on the accused to prove that he did not commit the murder because who could know better than he whether he did or did not.	None
It is evident that that cannot be the intention and the Privy Council has twice refused to construe this section, as reproduced in certain other Acts outside India, to mean that the burden lies on an accused person to show that he did not commit the crime for which he is tried.	None
These cases are Attygalle v. Emperor AIR 1936 PC 169 and Seneviratne v. R. (1936) 3 All ER 36, 49 The Mir Mohammad Omar case was a case of abduction.	None
This Court after finding that the accused have abducted the deceased, held as under The abductors have not given any explanation as to what happened to Mahesh after he was abducted by them.	None
But the learned Sessions Judge after referring to the law on circumstantial evidence concluded thus On a careful analysis and appreciation of the evidence I think that there is a missing link in the chain of events after the deceased was last seen together with the accused persons and the discovery of the dead body of the deceased at Islamia Hospital.	None
Therefore, the conclusion seems irresistible that the prosecution has failed to establish the charge of murder against the accused persons beyond any reasonable doubt.	None
The pristine rule that the burden of proof is on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused should not be taken as a fossilised doctrine as though it admits no process of intelligent reasoning.	None
The doctrine of presumption is not alien to the above rule, nor would it impair the temper of the rule.	None
On the other hand, if the traditional rule relating to burden of proof of the prosecution is allowed to be wrapped in pedantic coverage, the offenders in serious offences would be the major beneficiaries and the society would be the casualty.	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
Presumption of fact is an inference as to the existence of one fact from the existence of some other facts, unless the truth of such inference is disproved.	None
Presumption of fact is a rule in law of evidence that a fact otherwise doubtful may be inferred from certain other proved facts.	None
When inferring the existence of a fact from other set of proved facts, the court exercises a process of reasoning and reaches a logical conclusion as the most probable position.	None
The above principle has gained legislative recognition in India when Section 114 is incorporated in the Evidence Act.	None
It empowers the court to presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened.	None
In that process the court shall have regard to the common course of natural events, human conduct etc. in relation to the facts of the case.	None
When it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that Mahesh was abducted by the accused and they took him out of that area, the accused alone knew what happened to him until he was with them.	None
If he was found murdered within a short time after the abduction the permitted reasoning process would enable the Court to draw the presumption that the accused have murdered him.	None
Such inference can be disrupted if the accused would tell the Court what else happened to Mahesh at least until he was in their custody.	None
This Court in Sucha Singh held as under We pointed out that Section 106 of the Evidence Act is not intended to relieve the prosecution of its burden to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, but the section would apply to cases where the prosecution has succeeded in proving facts for which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding the existence of certain other facts, unless the accused by virtue of special knowledge regarding such facts failed to offer any explanation which might drive the court to draw a different inference.	None
This Court in Rajender was examining the applicability of Section 106 of the Evidence Act when the place of the murder of the de ceased was a secluded area.	None
The deceased was last been seen with the accused.	None
The explanation in her statement under Section 313 Cr.P .C. was that she parted company with the deceased, when the deceased got down from her car at the InterState Bus T ermi nus (ISBT).	None
This explanation has been disbelieved by the trial court and the High Court.	None
This Court held that the timegap between the last seen and the time of the death of the deceased is so small so as to make it impossible for the deceased to come in the contact of any other person.	None
It was held as under 12.2.4.	None
Having observed so, it is crucial to note that the reasonableness of the explanation offered by the accused as to how and when he she parted company with the deceased has a bearing on the effect of the last seen in a case.	None
Section 106 of the Evidence Act, 1872 provides that the burden of proof for any fact that is especially within the knowledge of a person lies upon such person.	None
Thus, if a person is last seen with the deceased, he must offer an explanation as to how and when he parted company with the deceased.	None
In other words, he must furnish an explanation that appears to the court to be probable and satisfactory, and if he fails to offer such an explanation on the basis of facts within his special knowledge, the burden cast upon him under Section 106 is not discharged.	None
Particularly in cases resting on circumstantial evidence, if the accused fails to offer a reasonable explanation in discharge of the burden placed on him, such failure by itself can provide an additional link in the chain of circumstances proved against him.	None
This, however, does not mean that Section 106 shifts the burden of proof of a criminal trial on the accused.	None
Such burden always rests on the prosecution.	None
Section 106 only lays down the rule that when the accused does not throw any light upon facts which are specially within his her knowledge and which cannot support any theory or hypothesis compatible with his innocence, the court can consider his failure to adduce an explanation as an additional link which completes the chain of incriminating circumstances.	None
The Judgments referred to by Mr. Chaudhary, Sawal Das v. State of Bihar (1974) 4 SCC 193 , Reena Hazarika and Gargi v. State of Haryana (2019) 9 SCC 738 , were to argue that the last seen evidence will not absolve the prosecution from the duty of discharging its general or primary burden of proving the prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only when the prosecution has led evidence which, if believed, will sustain a conviction, or which makes out a prima facie case, that the question arises of consideration of facts of which the burden of proof may lie upon the accused.	None
However, the principles laid down in the aforesaid judgment are not applicable to the facts of the present case, when the prosecution has proved the act of kidnapping and the last seen evidence soon before the approximate time of death of victim.	Reasoning
Therefore, the prosecution has discharged the onus of proof beyond reasonable doubt.	Reasoning
It was then for the accused to rebut the presumption of any other intervening fact before the death of the victim.	Reasoning
In fact, none of the prosecution witnesses have been cross examined on that possibility at all.	Reasoning
iv) Changing version of the prosecution case The Judgments of this court reported as Karanpura Development Co. Ltd. and Sri Venkataramana Devaru have been relied upon to argue that an argument of fact cannot be raised for the first time before this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reliance on such judgments is not tenable.	None
In both the Judgments, no fact sought to be raised in appeal before this court, was pleaded in civil proceedings.	Reasoning
The reference to such judgments is inappropriate.	Reasoning
In the present appeals, the arguments raised by the prosecution are on the basis of evidence led and available on record.	None
Recovery of dead body at the instance of A1 cannot be believed The dead body was recovered on the basis of disclosure statement of A1.	Reasoning
The body was lying concealed under a bridge constructed over a Rivulet.	Reasoning
The body could not be visible to any person passing through that road.	Reasoning
The photograph (Ex. Art./6) produced by the prosecution shows that the compartment under the bridge was more than 6 feet of diameter in which, one person could stand erect.	Reasoning
Since the body was recovered from a concealed area covered by leaves and sand, it is the A1 alone who could point out the concealment of dead body.	Reasoning
It is wholly immaterial whether the death was caused before 1800 hrs.	Reasoning
or afterwards as both the accused were seen with the victim together and the victim was in an inert condition.	Reasoning
The injuries and the placement of the boulder stone on the face of the victim was to hide the identity of the victim.	Reasoning
As per Dr. Avinash Waghmode (PW27), the injuries were perimortem i.e. when the vitals of the victim were functioning.	Reasoning
That part of the statement corroborates the oral evidence led by the prosecution about the inert condition of the victim and the fact that he was carried on the shoulder by A 1 as deposed by Shriram Shankarrao Khadatkar (PW10) near Patansaongi Lake.	Reasoning
It is matter of conjectures that such injuries could be caused by one person or two persons as the injuries could be caused even without any resistance by the victim in view of his inert condition.	Reasoning
In fact, the statement of Dr. Avinash Waghmode (PW27) is to the effect that the injuries caused to the victim occurred when the vitals were functioning, but the victim may not be in position to resist the physical assault on him.	Reasoning
The argument that the disclosure statement was not recorded in the exact language of the accused since the manner of killing is not recorded in such disclosure statement, is immaterial.	Reasoning
In terms of Section 27 of the Evidence Act, the discovery of facts alone is admissible evidence when the accused is in police custody.	Reasoning
The manner of killing is inculpatory and, therefore, not admissible in evidence.	Reasoning
In such a case, the mere fact that the disclosure statement does not record the manner of killing of the victim is wholly inconsequential.	Reasoning
Thus, we do not find any merit in the argument raised by the learned counsel for A1.	Reasoning
The reliance of Mr. Chaudhary on the Judgment of this court in Bakhshish Singh v. State of Punjab (1971) 3 SCC 182 is clearly erroneous.	Reasoning
In the said case, the recovery of dead body was not believed as it was found to be possible for the accused to know the place where dead body was thrown in the river as broken teeth and parts of human body was lying near the place of recovery.	Reasoning
In the present case, the dead body was lying in a concealed place and that there was no possible explanation on behalf of the accused as to how the body came to be concealed at that particular place, when the prosecution evidence proves that the accused were near the place of recovery of dead body almost at the probable time of death.	Reasoning
vi)	None
The effect of putting of incriminating evidence to the accused under Section 313 of the Code.	Issue
In Reena Hazarika, a two Judge Bench has taken a view that the Court is duty bound to consider defense taken by the accused under Section 313 of the Code.	None
Factually, in this case, A1 and A2 have not taken any defense except the statement that they have been implicated falsely.	None
A1 has been put as many as 848 questions whereas A2 has been put as many as 754 questions but the accused have not taken any other stand except of denial of material facts.	Reasoning
In fact, A1 admitted to Question No. 54 that all the staff of Dr. Chandaks clinic were called in to the police station.	Reasoning
Dr. Chandak received calls of ransom when he was in the police station.	Reasoning
Therefore, the said judgment is of no help to the accused.	Reasoning
An accused, as mentioned earlier, is required to crossexamine the prosecution witnesses to give him an opportunity to make any explanation which is open to him.	Reasoning
It is a rule of professional practice in the conduct of a case.	Reasoning
However, in the absence of any crossexamination of the prosecution witnesses, an argument cannot be built, in the absence of any evidence to that effect.	Reasoning
The judgments in Hate Singh Bhagat Singh and Sharad Birdhichand Sarda are not applicable to the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
Therein, it has been laid down that in a prosecution based upon a circumstantial evidence, the prosecution is required to rule out all other probabilities except that the offence was committed by the accused and no one else.	Reasoning
In the present case, there is overwhelming evidence that shows the victim to be in company of the accused at five different places from 1600 hrs.	Reasoning
to 1730 hrs 18.00 hrs.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the burden shifts to the accused to explain the circumstances which occurred thereafter till the time of the recovery of dead body.	Reasoning
There is no evidence to create a doubt on the prosecution version that somebody else had access to the victim before he died.	Reasoning
The fact that the child was carried on shoulder by A1 shows that the child was not in a position to move and was done to death in that condition which is corroborated by medical evidence of injuries being perimortem.	Reasoning
Arguments on behalf of A2 Learned counsel for A2 argued that A1 had planned to commit a crime in terms of looting PW8s employer for money, but at the last minute, A2 was joined in the kidnapping of the victim and he had no idea about the real motive of A1 of seeking vengeance from the complainant and his family.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, such an argument is wholly untenable as he is the one who picked up the child from the gate of the Apartment where the family of the child used to stay and had been seen by a number of persons up to 1730 hrs.	None
It is thereafter that a ransom call is proved to have been made by A 2 on the basis of statement of Mohandas Mitharam Balani (PW16) from whose PCO, A2 made the call.	Reasoning
He was an active participant in the orchestration of the crime with A1.	Reasoning
Still further, the blue T shirt worn by the victim was recovered on the basis of disclosure statement of A2.	Reasoning
Such disclosure statement corroborates that it is he who had taken off the shirt and thrown it in a rivulet nullah which was at a distance of 5 kms.	Reasoning
from the place of occurrence.	None
An argument was raised that the child was kidnapped for ransom but there was no intention to take life of the child, therefore, an offence under Section 364A is not made out.	Arguments of Petitioner
T o appreciate the arguments, Section 364A of the IPC is reproduced as under 364A. Kidnapping for ransom, etc.Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person, or by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt, or causes hurt or death to such person in order to compel the Government or any foreign State or international inter governmental organisation or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom, shall be punishable with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Section 364A IPC has three ingredients relevant to the present appeals, one, the fact of kidnapping or abduction, second, threatening to cause death or hurt, and last, the conduct giving rise to reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt.	None
The kidnapping of an 8yearold child was unequivocally for ransom.	None
The kidnapping of a victim of such a tender age for ransom has inherent threat to cause death as that alone will force the relatives of such victim to pay ransom.	None
Since the act of kidnapping of a child for ransom has inherent threat to cause death, therefore, the accused have been rightly been convicted for an offence under Section 364A read with Section 34 IPC.	None
The threat will remain a mere threat, if the victim returns unhurt.	None
In the present case, the victim has been done to death.	None
The threat had become a reality.	None
There is no reason to take different view that the view taken by learned Sessions Judge as well by the High Court.	None
Sentence We have heard learned counsel for the parties on the question of sentence.	None
Mr. Chaudhary argued that this Court has imposed a higher standard of proof for the purposes of a death sentence over and above beyond reasonable doubt necessary for criminal conviction similar to residual doubt.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to a judgment of this court in Ashok Debbarma v. State of Tripura (2014) 4 SCC 747 wherein it was held as under In our criminal justice system, for recording guilt of the accused, it is not necessary that the prosecution should prove the case with absolute or mathematical certainty, but only beyond reasonable doubt.	None
Criminal courts, while examining whether any doubt is beyond reasonable doubt, may carry in their mind, some residual doubt, even though the courts are convinced of the accused persons guilt beyond reasonable doubt.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court following the principle of residual doubt in a judgment reported as Ravishankar v. State of Madhya Pradesh (2019) 9 SCC 689 , held that another nascent evolution in the theory of death sentencing can be distilled.	Reasoning
This Court has increasingly become cognizant of residual doubt in many recent cases which effectively create a higher standard of proof over and above the beyond reasonable doubt standard used at the stage of conviction, as a safeguard against routine capital sentencing, keeping in mind the irre versibility of death.	Reasoning
Mr. Rohatgi, learned Senior Counsel representing the State submit ted that apart from aggravating circumstances considered by the learned Sessions Judge and the High Court, there is an additional fact brought on record of this appeal by an affidavit of Senior Police Inspector, Police Station Lakadganj, Nagpur City that the A1 is in fact an accused in FIR No. 3 of 2015 for the offences under Sections 457, 380, 109, 120B and 34 of IPC.	Arguments of Respondent
A supplementary charge sheet has been filed against A1 on 30 th July, 2019.	Arguments of Respondent
The allegations are that two accused who committed house burglary were to gether with A1 in the cell of Police Station Sadar Nagpur.	Arguments of Respondent
It is A1 who gave a tip to the other accused that there remains huge cash in the Dental Clinic of the PW1.	Arguments of Respondent
The accused, after they were released on bail, breached into the clinic of PW1.	Arguments of Respondent
Stolen goods such as cash, mobiles, camera and an ipad were recovered from the other accused.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it was argued that the accused has not left his activities even after the present case.	None
We do not wish to take into consideration the subsequent charge sheet filed against A1 to avoid any prejudice in a trial which may proceed on the basis of charge sheet already filed against accused.	Reasoning
We find that the accused have taken the life of a young school going boy of only 8 years of age to become rich by ransom and to take vengeance against Dr. Chandak.	None
The argument is that since the accused are young, aged about 19 years, and have no criminal antecedents, the sentence of death imposed upon them is not warranted.	None
It is argued that A1 surrendered at the first available opportunity and he was fully cooperative with the investigation, therefore, there are the mitigating circumstances to absolve them from noose.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not find any merit in the argument that being young or having no criminal antecedents are mitigating circumstances.	None
What is required to be examined is whether there is a possibility of rehabilitation and whether it is the rarest of the rare case where the collective conscience of the community is so shocked that it will expect the holders of judicial power to inflict death penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty.	Reasoning
The manner of commission of murder when committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical, revolting or dastardly manner are aggravating factors.	Reasoning
The circumstances which are required to be taken into consideration are by now well settled.	Reasoning
We would not like to repeat such circumstances again.	Reasoning
This court in Machhi Singh Ors. v. State of Punjab (1983) 3 SCC 470 held that as part of the rarest of rare test, the court should address itself as to whether there is something uncommon about the crime which renders sentence of imprisonment for life inadequate and calls for a death sentence the circumstances are such that there is no alternative but to impose death sentence even after according maximum weightage to the mitigating circumstances which speak in favour of the offender.	Reasoning
Further, this Court ruled that (SCC p. 489, para 38)	Reasoning
The extreme penalty of death need not be inflicted except in gravest cases of extreme culpability.	None
Before opting for the death penalty the circumstances of the offender also require to be taken into consideration along with the circumstances of the crime.	None
Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an exception.	None
In other words death sentence must be imposed only when life imprisonment appears to be an altogether inadequate punishment having regard to the relevant circumstances of the crime, and provided, and only provided, the option to impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be conscientiously exercised having regard to the nature and circumstances of the crime and all the relevant circumstances.	Reasoning
A balance sheet of aggravating and mitigating circumstances has to be drawn up and in doing so the mitigating circumstances have to be accorded full weightage and a just balance has to be struck between the aggravating and the mitigating circumstances before the option is exercised.	None
Later this Court in Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka (2008) 13 SCC 767 , held that in, the interest of justice, the court could commute the death sentence imposed on the convict and substitute it with life imprisonment with a direction that the convict would not be released from prison for the rest of his life.	Reasoning
This view stands approved by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Union of India v. V. Sriharan Ors.	Reasoning
(2016) 7 SCC 1 holding that the power to impose a modified punishment providing for any specific term of incarceration or till the end of the convicts life as an alternate to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Court and the Supreme Court and not by any other inferior court.	Reasoning
This Court held as under We, therefore, reiterate that the power derived from the Penal Code for any modified punishment within the punishment provided for in the Penal Code for such specified offences can only be exercised by the High Court and in the event of further appeal only by the Supreme Court and not by any other court in this country.	Reasoning
T o put it differently, the power to impose a modified punishment providing for any specific term of incarceration or till the end of the convicts life as an alternate to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Court and the Supreme Court and not by any other inferior court.	Reasoning
Viewed in that respect, we state that the ratio laid down in Swamy Shraddananda (2) Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka, (2008) 13 SCC 767 (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 113 that a special category of sentence instead of death for a term exceeding 14 years and put that category beyond application of remission is well founded and we answer the said question in the affirmative.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, not in agreement with the opinion expressed by this Court in Sangeet v. State of Haryana Sangeet v. State of Haryana, (2013) 2 SCC 452 (2013) 2 SCC (Cri) 611 that the deprival of remission power of the appropriate Government by awarding sentences of 20 or 25 years or without any remission as not permissible is not in consonance with the law and we specifically overrule the same.	Reasoning
The motive of the accused to take life was to become rich by not doing hard work but by demanding ransom after kidnapping a young, innocent boy of 8 years.	Reasoning
Thus, having considered all the circumstances and facts on record, we are of the considered view that the present case falls short of the rarest of rare cases where a death sentence alone deserves to be awarded to the appellants.	Decision
It appears to us in light of all cumulative circumstances that the cause of justice will be effectively served by invoking the concept of special sentencing as evolved by this Court in the cases of Swamy Shraddananda and Sriharan.	Decision
Thus, the present appeals succeed in part.	Decision
The Judgment and Order passed by the learned Trial Court and confirmed by the High Court convicting the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 302 and 364A read with Section 34 IPC is hereby confirmed.	Decision
However, the death sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court, confirmed by the High Court, is converted into the life imprisonment.	Decision
It is further observed and directed that the life means till the end of the life with the further observation and direction that there shall not be any remission till the accused completes 25 years of imprisonment.	Decision
The appeals stand dismissed except modification in respect of sentence.	Decision
