 Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J. The present appeal arises from a judgment of a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court dated 7 May 2018 setting aside the judgment of a learned Single Judge in a Letters Patent Appeal.	Issue
LPA No. 86/2018	Issue
The Division Bench accepted the deemed confirmation of the services of the first respondent who was a probationer in the school of the appellants.	Issue
Allowing the appeal filed by the first respondent, the Division Bench held that under Rule 105(1) read with the first proviso of the Delhi School Education Rules 1973, 2 the maximum period of probation permissible is two years.	Issue
The High Court held that there is a deemed confirmation of the services of a probationer who is continued in service beyond the maximum period of probation, even without the issuance of an order of confirmation by the appointing authority.	Issue
Aggrieved, the appellant school and the Andhra Education Society 3 are in appeal before this Court.	Issue
The appellant is a Delhi administration aided school and a linguistic minority institution.	Facts
Pursuant to an advertisement for the filling of various posts in the appellant school, the first respondent was appointed on probation to the post of PGT (English General) on 18 June 2008 for a duration of one year.	Facts
The period of probation was extended belatedly on 11 February, 2010 for another year on the ground that the services of the first respondent were unsatisfactory.	Reasoning
On 30 November 2011, the period of probation was extended by another year.	Facts
On 22 May 2013, the Managing Committee of the society which conducts the school discharged the first respondent from service with effect from 30 June 2013.	Facts
The first respondent filed an appeal 4 before the Delhi School Tribunal 5 challenging her discharge with a prayer for reinstatement with consequential benefits and back wages.	Facts
By its order dated 23 July 2015, the Tribunal allowed the appeal and set aside the order of discharge with a direction to the appellants to reinstate the first respondent with consequential benefits.	Facts
Assailing the order of the Tribunal, the appellants filed a Writ Petition WP (C) No. 10310/2015 before the Delhi High Court.	Facts
The learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court allowed the petition and held that no maximum period of probation was spelt out in the letter of appointment or the 1973 Rules.	Facts
Any confirmation of service is subject to the work and conduct of the probationer being satisfactory.	Facts
Hence, the continuation of the services of the first respondent beyond the period of probation was held not to result in a deemed confirmation of service without the issuance of an order of confirmation by the appointing authority.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court allowed the Letters Patent Appeal filed by the first respondent and restored the order of the Tribunal.	Facts
The High Court took the view that Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules fixes a maximum probationary period of two years and the continuation of service beyond the maximum period would amount to a deemed confirmation of service by implication, even without the issuance of an order of confirmation and The appointment letter dated 18 June 2008 stipulated a probation period of one year.	Facts
The conduct of the management in allowing the first respondent to continue in service for nearly five years evidenced the satisfactory conduct of the first respondent, and resulted in a deemed confirmation of service.	None
Relying on the judgment of a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Punjab v Dharam Singh AIR 1968 SC 1210 (Dharam Singh), the High Court held thus We are, therefore, of the view that where the letter of appointment, read in conjunction with the above Rules, fixes a maximum period of two years of probation and where the appellant was permitted to continue in the same post, beyond the maximum period, the same would amount to a deemed confirmation by implication, without the requirement of an express order of confirmation on behalf of the Society The High Court concluded that the case of the first respondent fell in the second category of cases enumerated by a three judge Bench of this Court in High Court of MP v Satya Narayan Jhavar (2001) 7 SCC 161 (Satya Narayan Jhavar), to which we shall advert in the course of the judgment.	Facts
Assailing the judgment of the High Court, Mr Yashobant Das, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants urged that Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules does not envisage a deemed confirmation of the services of a probationer.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subrule (2) of Rule 105 provides that if the services of the probationer are satisfactory, a confirmation will be issued upon the expiry of the period of probation or the extended period of probation (ii) Rule 105(1) does not stipulate a maximum period of probation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The continuation of the services of the first respondent on probation without an order of confirmation implies an extended period of probation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Rule 105(1), the termination of service without notice during the period of probation is legally permissible (iii) The proviso to Rule 105(1) merely exempts a minority institution from seeking the prior approval of the Director for extending the period of probation by another year.	Arguments of Petitioner
This cannot be read as limiting the permissible extension of the probationary period to only one year over and above the mandatory period of probation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Any extension of the period of probation beyond the mandatory year of probation shall require the prior approval of the Director and (iv) The High Court failed to consider a binding precedent of a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Dy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Director of Education v Veena Sharma (2010) 175 DLT 311 (DB) holding that there is no fixed period of probation under Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules and that no question of a deemed confirmation of service arises.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr D Rama Krishna, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the first respondent urged, in support of the impugned judgment of the High Court, that The proviso to Rule 105, in so far as a minority institution is concerned, stipulates that the approval of the Director shall not be required where the probation period has been extended by another year.	Arguments of Respondent
Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules fixes a maximum probationary period of two years and the continuation of service beyond the maximum period would amount to a deemed confirmation of service by implication There is no requirement for the issuance of an order of confirmation under Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
There is a deemed confirmation of the services of a probationer upon the expiry of the maximum prescribed period for probation.	Arguments of Respondent
The absence of a stipulation requiring an order of confirmation in the Rules as well as the appointment letter leads to the inevitable conclusion that there was a deemed confirmation of service when the first respondent was continued in service beyond two years, even without an order of confirmation.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed in this regard on the judgment of this Court in Dharam Singh and The appointment letter of the first respondent dated 18 June 2008 stipulated a probationary period of one year.	None
There was neither a stipulation for the extension in the probationary period nor a requirement of the issuance of an order of confirmation.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival submissions now fall for our consideration.	None
At the outset, it must be noted that Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules as submitted before this Court and the High Court by the contesting parties reads thus Probation (1) Every employee shall, on initial appointment, be on probation for a period of one year which may be extended by the appointing authority with the prior approval of the Director and the services of an employee may be terminated without notice during the period of probation if the work and conduct of the employee, during the said period, is not, in the opinion of the appointing authority, satisfactory Provided that the provisions of this subrule relating to the prior approval of the Director in regard to the extension of the period of probation by another year shall not apply in the case of an employee of a minority school If the work and conduct of an employee during the period of probation is found to be satisfactory, he shall be on the expiry of the period of probation or the extended period of probation, as the case may be confirmed with effect from the date of expiry of the said period.	None
It is on the basis of the above provision that the High Court, in the impugned judgment and in judgments prior to the present case, has concluded that there is a limitation on the extension of the probationary period stipulated in Rule 105(1) of the 1973 Rules.	Reasoning
On the record before this Court, the words by another year appear only in the first proviso to Rule 105 and not in the principal provision.	Reasoning
The High Court, in the present case and in cases prior to the present one, has failed to note the amending history of Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules and has proceeded to analyse an incorrect provision of law.	Decision
It is pertinent here to advert to the legislative and drafting history of the provision.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 28 of the Delhi School Education Act 1973, the Administrator, with the previous approval of the Central Government, enacted the 1973 Rules.	None
The 1973 Rules were published in the Delhi Gazette on 31 December 1973 on which date, they also came into force.	None
Rule 105, as originally enacted, read thus Probation (1) Every employee shall, on initial appointment, be on probation for a period of one year which may be extended by the appointing authority by another year and the services of an employee may be terminated without notice during the period of probation if the work, and conduct of the employee, during the said period, is not, in the opinion of the appointing authority, satisfactory Provided that no termination from the service of an employee on probation shall be made by a school, other than a minority school, except with the previous approval of the Director.	None
If the work and conduct of an employee during the period of probation is found to be satisfactory, he shall be on the expiry of the period of probation or the extended period of probation as the case may be, confirmed with effect from the date of expiry of the said period.	None
Nothing in this rule shall apply to an employee who has been appointed to fill a temporary vacancy or any vacancy for a limited period.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules, as originally enacted, stipulated that an employee shall be appointed on initial probation for a period of one year which may be extended by the appointing authority by another year.	None
No separate provision was stipulated for minority institutions.	None
Two amendments were subsequently incorporated to the 1973 Rules.	None
On 30 January 1985, the Delhi School Education (Amendment) Rules 1984 were notified.	None
12	None
By this amendment, Rule 110 of the 1973 Rules was substituted.	None
On 23 February 1990, the Delhi School Education (Amendment) Rules 1990 13 were notified.	None
14 Clause 24 of the Amendment Rules 1990 amended Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules.	None
Clause 24 Reads thus 24.	None
amendment of rule 105.	None
In rule 105 of the principal rules, (a) in subrule (1), after the words another year, the words with the prior approval of the Director shall be inserted (b) for the proviso to subrule (1), the following proviso shall be substituted, namely Provided that the provisions of this subrule relating to the approval of the Director in regard to the extension of the period of probation by another year, shall not apply in the case of an employee of a minority school Provided further that no termination from the service of an employee on probation shall be made by a school, other than a minority school, except with the previous approval of the Director.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
By virtue of the Amendment Rules 1990	None
The words with the prior approval of the Director were inserted after the words by another year in the principal part of Rule 105.	None
The prior approval of the Director was made mandatory where the period of probation is extended by another year and The first proviso granted an exemption to the appointing authority of minority institutions from seeking the prior approval of the Director for extending the period of probation by another year.	None
The amending history of the 1973 Rules shows that the words by another year appearing in the principal part of Rule 105 has not been omitted.	None
The High Court has, in the present case and prior cases failed to take note of the correct provision as amended from time to time.	None
Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules, as on date, reads thus Probation (1) Every employee shall, on initial appointment, be on probation for a period of one year which may be extended by the appointing authority by another year with the prior approval of the Director and the services of an employee may be terminated without notice during the period of probation if the work and conduct of the employee, during the said period, is not, in the opinion of the appointing authority, satisfactory Provided that the provisions of this subrule relating to the prior approval of the Director in regard to the extension of the period of probation by another year shall not apply in the case of an employee of a minority school If the work and conduct of an employee during the period of probation is found to be satisfactory, he shall be on the expiry of the period of probation or the extended period of probation, as the case may be confirmed with effect from the date of expiry of the said period.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
It is on the basis of the above provision that we proceed to the task of interpretation relevant to the present dispute.	None
It is appropriate to note the view of a three judge Bench of this Court in Satya Narayan Jhavar.	None
Surveying the precedent, the Court held thus The question of deemed confirmation in service jurisprudence, which is dependent upon the language of the relevant service rules, has been the subjectmatter of consideration before this Court, times without number in various decisions and there are three lines of cases on this point.	None
One line of cases is where in the service rules or in the letter of appointment a period of probation is specified and power to extend the same is also conferred upon the authority without prescribing any maximum period of probation and if the officer is continued beyond the prescribed or extended period, he cannot be deemed to be confirmed.	None
In such cases there is no bar against termination at any point of time after expiry of the period of probation.	None
The other line of cases is that where while there is a provision in the rules for initial probation and extension thereof, a maximum period for such extension is also provided beyond which it is not permissible to extend probation.	None
The inference in such cases is that the officer concerned is deemed to have been confirmed upon expiry of the maximum period of probation in case before its expiry the order of termination has not been passed.	None
The last line of cases is where, though under the rules maximum period of probation is prescribed, but the same requires a specific act on the part of the employer by issuing an order of confirmation and of passing a test for the purposes of confirmation.	None
In such cases, even if the maximum period of probation has expired and neither any order of confirmation has been passed nor has the person concerned passed the requisite test, he cannot be deemed to have been confirmed merely because the said period has expired.	None
The High Court was of the view that the case of the first respondent fell in the second category of cases enumerated in Satya Narayan Jhavar, while the appellant contended that the case of the first respondent falls within the first category of cases.	Reasoning
The points of law that arise for determination in the present appeal are (i) whether the words by another year appearing in the principal part of Rule 105(1) and in the first proviso to Rule 105 (1) limit the total duration of permissible probation to two years and (ii) whether the 1973 Rules require the issuance of an order of confirmation for a probationer to be confirmed in service.	Issue
The appointment letter of the first respondent dated 18 June 2008, in so far as it is relevant, reads thus ANDHRA EDUCATION SOCIETY Smt.	None
Durgabai Deshmukh Memorial Senior Secondary School 1, Deen Dayal Upadhaya Marg, New Delhi 110002 D. No. 2127081 Ref.	None
No. AESSSS/200809/DR/112 Date 18 th June, 2008 MEMORANDUM With reference to her interview held on Dt. 24.5.2008 for the post of P.G.T. English (General) in the Andhra Education Society Smt.	None
Durgabai Deshmukh Memorial Senior Secondary School, 1, D.D.U. Marg, New Delhi110002, Smt.	None
J.A.J. Vasu Sena is hereby informed that the she has been selected for the post of P.G.T. English under the following terms and conditions 1.	None
She will be on probation for a period of one year from the date of joining.	None
During the period of probation her services are liable for termination with one months notice on either side.	None
4. 5. 6.	None
If the offer of appointment is acceptable she must report to duty on 1 st July 2008.	None
8. 9. Rule 105(1) of the 1973 Rules mandates that every employee shall be appointed on probation for a period of one year.	None
The appointing authority may extend the period of probation by another year with the prior approval of the Director.	Reasoning
Rule 105(1) also stipulates that if the work and conduct of the probationer during the probationary period is found unsatisfactory, the appointing authority may, without notice, discharge the probationer from service.	None
The first proviso to Rule 105(1) stipulates that where the appointing authority of a minority institution extends the probationary period by another year, the prior approval of the Director shall not be required.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court is required to construe whether the words by another year appearing in Rule 105(1) and the first proviso of Rule 105 imply one additional year, or one year at a time without any limit.	None
According to the Cambridge English Dictionary, the word another means one more person or thing or an extra amount.	None
Websters Dictionary defines the word another as an additional one of the same kind one more.	None
(Websters Third New International Dictionary (1976), p. 89)	None
According to Collins Dictionary of the English Language, the word another implies one more.	None
(Collins Dictionary of the English Language (1983), p. 58)	None
Similarly, according to Lexico Dictionary, the word another is used to refer to an additional person or thing of the same type as one already mentioned or known about one more.(Lexico	None
Dictionary Online (Oxford University Press).	None
The consistent meaning imparted to the word another is a single addition or one more.	None
The ordinary and literal construction of the words another read with the words for a period of one year in Rule 105(1) implies that the appointing authority may extend the period of probation by one additional year.	None
The contention that the words by another year imply that the appointing authority can extend the period of probation by one year at a time without any limit cannot be accepted as this would amount to rewriting the provision by substituting the words by another year with the words by one year at a time, which is impermissible in law.	Reasoning
Further, had the delegate of the legislature intended that there is no limit on the permissible probationary period, the words by another year would have been omitted.	Reasoning
The words of a statute should be understood in the sense in which they best harmonise with the subject of the enactment and the object which the legislature has in view.	None
(State of UP v C Tobit 1958 SCR 1275 Santasingh v State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 190 Mukesh Tripathi v Senior Divisional Manager (2004) 8 SCC 387.	None
This principle should be a useful guide in interpreting the provisions of delegated legislation in this case, namely Rule 105.	None
The purpose of probation is to enable an assessment to be made of the performance of an employee.	None
It serves as an opportunity for probationers to establish by the dint of their work which is rendered during the period of probation, that they are suitable for being retained in service.	None
On the part of the employer, probation enables the appointing authority to determine the suitability of the probationer for retention in service.	None
The limit placed on the permissible extension of the probationary period draws a balance between the opportunity that must be afforded to a probationer to modify and improve the quality of service and a mandate that the appointing authority of an educational institute hires qualified teachers.	None
To impart a meaning to the words by another year that the appointing authority may extend the probationary period one year at a time without a limit will allow an appointing authority to extend the probationary period, with the prior approval of the Director, of a probationer ad nauseum.	Reasoning
This would allow an appointing authority to convert a period of probation, which serves the limited and time bound purpose of ascertaining suitability, into a temporary appointment and defeat the purpose of probationary service in educational institutions.	None
Though the legislature or the delegated authority is empowered in a given case to stipulate that there is no bar on the period of probation, the interpretation that we have adopted is supported by the words of Rule 105(1) and the ordinary meaning imparted to the word another.	None
The plain reading of the words by another year implies that the appointing authority of an institution may extend the period of probation by one additional year over and above the mandatory year of probation with the prior approval of the Director.	Reasoning
Rule 105(1) of the 1973 Rules therefore stipulates a limitation on the total probationary period to two years.	Reasoning
The first proviso stipulates that the prior approval of the Director shall not be required in the case of a minority institution.	Reasoning
The principle which we have adopted accords with a consistent line of precedent of this Court.	Reasoning
It is a settled position of law that where the words of a statute are clear and unambiguous, they must be interpreted in their ordinary grammatical sense, unless the interpretation leads to an absurd result.	Reasoning
It is only where the language of a statute, in its ordinary meaning and grammatical construction, leads to a manifest contradiction, or to some inconvenience or absurdity, hardship or injustice, that a construction may be put upon it which modifies the meaning of the words.	Reasoning
Justice G P Singh, in his seminal book Principles of Statutory Interpretation (Justice G P Singh, Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 14th Ed., at p. 91), states thus The words of a statute are first understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense and phrases and sentences are construed according to their grammatical meaning, unless that leads to some absurdity or unless there is something in the context, or in the object of the statute to suggest the contrary.	None
Craies in his Treatise on Statute Law, (Craies on Statute Law, 7th Ed., at p. 64) states thus The cardinal rule for the construction of Acts of Parliament is that they should be construed according to the intention expressed in the Acts themselves.	None
If the words of the statute are themselves precise and unambiguous, then no more can be necessary than to expound those words in their ordinary and natural sense.	None
The words themselves alone do in such a case best declare the intention of the lawgiver.	None
In Maharashtra State Financial Corporation v Jaycee Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd (1991) 2 SCC 637 , the appellant sought to proceed against the sureties upon the failure of the respondent to repay a loan.	None
Section 31(1) of the State Financial Corporations Act 1951 stipulated that a suit may be instituted before the District Judge within whose jurisdiction the concern carries on business.	None
Section 32(11) stipulated that the functions of a District Judge under the said section shall be exercisable, in a Presidency town, where there is a city civil court having jurisdiction, by a judge of that court and in the absence of such court, by the High Court.	None
The appellant contended that the words having jurisdiction read with the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Bombay City Civil Court as contained in Section 3 of the Bombay City Civil Court Act 1948 required that where the liability sought to be enforced was above INR 50,000 the petition by the appellant was maintainable in the High Court alone.	None
Accepting this contention, a three judge Bench of this Court held thus In our opinion, the extent of the liability stated in the application as contemplated by subsection (2) of Section 31 of the Act would represent the value of the claim of the Corporation and if such value is up to Rs 50,000 the application would lie in the city civil court and if it is more than that amount it would lie in the High Court.	None
This interpretation would give meaning and relevance to the words having jurisdiction used in subsection (11) of Section 32.	None
A different interpretation would render superfluous or otiose not only the words having jurisdiction but also the words and in the absence of such court, by the High Court.	None
It is a settled rule of interpretation of statutes that if the language and words used are plain and 21 (1991) 2 SCC 637 unambiguous, full effect must be given to them as they stand and in the garb of finding out the intention of the legislature no words should be added thereto or substracted therefrom.	None
Likewise, it is again a settled rule of interpretation that statutory provisions should be construed in a manner which subserves the purpose of the enactment and does not defeat it and that no part thereof is rendered surplus or otiose.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In State of HP v Pawan Kumar, (2005) 4 SCC 550 it was contended that the safeguards provided in Section 50 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985 regarding search of any person would also apply to any bag, briefcase or any such article or container, which is being carried by him.	None
The word person was not defined in the Act.	None
A three judge Bench of this Court, having regard to the scheme of the Act and the context in which the word person has been used, rejected the contention and held thus One of the basic principles of interpretation of statutes is to construe them according to plain, literal and grammatical meaning of the words.	None
If that is contrary to, or inconsistent with, any express intention or declared purpose of the statute, or if it would involve any absurdity, repugnancy or inconsistency, the grammatical sense must then be modified, extended or abridged, so far as to avoid such an inconvenience, but no further.	None
The onus of showing that the words do not mean what they say lies heavily on the party who alleges it.	None
He must advance something which clearly shows that the grammatical construction would be repugnant to the intention of the Act or lead to some manifest absurdity The above principles have been consistently followed by this Court including in the decisions in State of Rajasthan v Babu Ram (2007) 6 SCC 55 and Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v Dilip Kumar and Company.	None
(2018) 9 SCC 1. 29.	None
The appellant contended that the words by another year in the first proviso to Rule 105(1) cannot be read as limiting the total period of probation to two years.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention urged by the appellants cannot be accepted.	None
The words by another year appearing in the principal part of Rule 105(1) must be given their plain and literal meaning to imply one additional year.	Reasoning
The appointing authority of an institution may extend the period of probation by one additional year over and above the initial period of one year.	Reasoning
This equally applies to minority institutions.	Reasoning
The first proviso stipulates that the provisions of the subrule relating to the prior approval of the Director in respect of an extension of the probationary period by another year by a minority institution shall not apply.	Reasoning
The proviso merely carves out an exception from the principal provision to the effect that in the case of a minority institution, the approval of the Director for the extension of probation period by an additional year shall not be required.	Reasoning
30.	None
Keeping in view the special status conferred on minority institutions, the first proviso to Rule 105(1) grants an exemption to the appointing authority from seeking the prior approval of the Director to extend the period of probation by an additional year over and above the mandatory period of probation.	None
This grants the final say in determining the first extension of the probationary period by another year to the appointing authority itself.	None
The interpretation that we have adopted of the words by another year in the principal provision of Rule 105(1) equally applies to the words by another year in the first proviso to Rule 105(1).	Reasoning
To accept the position that no limit is placed on the extension of the probationary period in the proviso would allow the proviso to be read as a separate provision and impart a meaning to the words by another year that is not in accordance with its plain grammatical meaning.	None
31.	None
It is a settled position of law that the objective of a proviso is to carve out from the main section a class or category to which the main section does not apply.	Reasoning
A proviso must prima facie be read and considered in relation to the principal matter to which it is a proviso.	Reasoning
It is not a separate or independent enactment.	Reasoning
In Tahsildar Singh v The State Of Uttar Pradesh, 1959 Supp (2) SCR 875 a six judge Bench of this Court was required to interpret the proviso to Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973.	None
Section 162(1) provided that where the statement of a person to a police officer during investigation is taken in writing, the person shall not be required to sign the document nor shall the writing be used as evidence.	None
The proviso empowered the court, in its discretion and on the request of the accused, to refer to the written statement and direct that the accused be furnished with a copy.	None
The proviso provided that the statement may be used to contradict the witness in the manner provided by Section 145 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	None
The Court rejected the argument that the proviso could be read isolated from the principal provision to confer a right of crossexamination other than by way of contradiction and allow through a back door, the inference of oral statements made by the witness to the officer that were not reduced in writing.	None
Construing the proviso in light of the bar on the evidentiary value of statements recorded in writing in the principal provision, the Court laid down the principle on interpreting a proviso in the following terms This leads us to the main question in the case i.e. the interpretation of Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
The cardinal rule of construction of the provisions of a section with a proviso is succinctly stated in Maxwells Interpretation of Statutes, 10th Edn., at p. 162	None
thus The proper course is to apply the broad general rule of construction, which is that a section or enactment must be construed as a whole, each portion throwing light if need be on the rest.	None
The true principle undoubtedly is, that the sound interpretation and meaning of the statute, on a view of the enacting clause, saving clause, and proviso, taken and construed together is to prevail.	None
Unless the words are clear, the court should not so construe the proviso as to attribute an intention to the legislature to give with one hand and take away with another.	None
To put it in other words, a sincere attempt should be made to reconcile the enacting clause and the proviso and to avoid repugnancy between the two.	None
(Emphasis Supplied) Similarly, in CIT v IndoMercantile Bank Ltd., 1959 SCR Supp (2) 256 a three judge Bench of this Court, interpreting the meaning of the proviso to Section 24 of the Indian Income Tax Act 1922 held thus The territory of a proviso therefore is to carve out an exception to the main enactment and exclude something which otherwise would have been within the section.	None
It has to operate in the same field and if the language of the main enactment is clear it cannot be used for the purpose of interpreting the main enactment or to exclude by implication what the enactment clearly says unless the words of the proviso are such that that is its necessary effect.	None
In Dwarka Prasad v Dwarka Das Saraf, 1976 SCR (1) 277 a four Judge Bench of this Court, interpreting the scope and extent of the word accommodation in a proviso added by an amending act to the UP (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act 1947 held thus if, on a fair construction, the principal provision is clear, a proviso cannot expand or limit itIt is a settled rule of construction that a proviso must prima facie be read and considered in relation to the principal matter to which it is a proviso.	None
It is not a separate or independent enactmentA proviso ordinarily is but a proviso, although the golden rule is to read the whole section, inclusive of the proviso, in such manner that they mutually throw light on each other and result in a harmonious construction.	None
The above principles have been consistently followed by subsequent benches of this Court in S Sundaram Pillai v VR Pattabiraman, (1985) 1 SCC 591 JK Industries Ltd. v Chief Inspector of Factories and Boilers, (1996) 6 SCC 665 and Holani Auto Links (P) Ltd. v State of MP.	None
(2008) 13 SCC 185. 33.	None
In the view that we have taken, the words by another year in Rule 105(1) of the 1973 Rules restrict the maximum permissible period of probation to two years.	Reasoning
This equally applies to minority institutions covered by the first proviso to Rule 105.	Reasoning
The proviso merely exempts the appointing authority of minority institutions from seeking the prior approval of the Director where an extension of the probationary period is effected within the maximum permissible extension of two years.	Reasoning
Though the High Court concluded that the maximum permissible period of probation under Rule 105(1) is two years, it proceeded to record its finding upon an incorrect provision of law.	Reasoning
For the reasons that we have recorded above, the total period of probation under Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules cannot extend beyond two years.	Reasoning
34.	None
The High Court concluded that Rule 105 fixes a maximum probationary period of two years and that consequently, the continuation of the services of the probationer beyond the period of probation would amount to a deemed confirmation of service even without an order of confirmation.	Facts
Consequently, the case of the first respondent was according to the High Court within the second category of cases enumerated in Satya Narayan Jhavar.	None
This Court in Satya Narayan Jhavar enumerated three lines of cases.	None
The third stipulates those cases where the rules prescribe a maximum period of probation but also require a specific act on the part of the employer of issuing an order of confirmation for the purposes of confirmation.	None
In such cases, there is no deemed confirmation of the services of a probationer on their continuation in service beyond the maximum period of probation.	None
35.	None
Admittedly, the appointment letter does not stipulate that the first respondent shall be confirmed upon the expiry of the probationary period.	Reasoning
Rule 105(2) stipulates that an order of confirmation may be issued if the work and conduct of an employee during the period of probation is found to be satisfactory.	None
Rule 105(2) lays down a condition precedent to the issuance of an order of confirmation.	Reasoning
It is only if the appointing authority is satisfied with the performance of the probationer that an order of confirmation may be issued.	Reasoning
Rule 105(2) contains an explicit stipulation requiring the issuance of an order of confirmation by the appointing authority upon its assessment that the performance of the probationer has been satisfactory.	None
The mere continuation of the services of a probationer beyond the period of probation does not lead to a deemed confirmation in service.	Decision
It is only upon the issuance of an order of confirmation by the appointing authority that probationer is granted substantive appointment in the post. 36.	Reasoning
In GS Ramaswamy v Inspector General of Police (1964) 6	None
SCR 279 , a Constitution Bench of this Court considered the promotions of SubInspectors of Police under Rule 486 of the Hyderabad District Police Manual which stipulated that all officers who are promoted will be on probation for a period of two years and that they may be reverted during the aforesaid period if their work and conduct is not found satisfactory.	None
Noting that the Rule stipulated that promoted officers will be confirmed at the end of their probationary period if they have given satisfaction, this Court held thus 8 Therefore even though a probationer may have continued to act in the post to which he is appointed on probation for more than the initial period of probation, he cannot become a permanent servant merely because of efflux of time, unless the Rules of service which govern him specifically lay down that the probationer will be automatically confirmed after the initial period of probation is overIt is true that the words used in the sentence set out above are not that promoted officers will be eligible or qualified for promotion at the end of their probationary period which are the words to be often found in the Rules in such cases even so, though this part of Rule 486 says that promoted officers will be confirmed at the end of their probationary period, it is qualified by the words if they have given satisfaction.	None
Clearly therefore the Rule does not contemplate automatic confirmation after the probationary period of two years, for a promoted officer can only be confirmed under this Rule if he has given satisfaction.	None
This condition of giving satisfaction must be fulfilled before a promoted officer can be confirmed under this Rule and this condition obviously means that the authority competent to confirm him must pass an order to the effect that the probationary officer has given satisfaction and is therefore confirmed.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Kedar Nath Bahl v State of Punjab (1974) 3 SCC 21 , the appellant was appointed to a post in the Punjab Provincial Service Class I.	None
The appointment letter stipulated that the period of probation shall be six months.	None
The appellant continued on probation beyond the stipulated period of six months and was eventually reverted back to his previous post.	None
He instituted proceedings challenging his order of reversion.	None
The appellant contended that upon the expiry of the period of probation, he was deemed to be confirmed in service.	None
Rejecting this contention, a three judge Bench of this Court held thus The law on the point is now well settled.	None
Where a person is appointed as a probationer in any post and a period of probation is specified, it does not follow that at the end of the said specified period of probation he obtains confirmation automatically even if no order is passed in that behalf.	None
Unless the terms of appointment clearly indicate that confirmation would automatically follow at the end of the specified period, or there is a specific service rule to that effect, the expiration of the probationary period does not necessarily lead to confirmation.	None
At the end of the period of probation an order confirming the officer is required to be passed and if no such order is passed and he is not reverted to his substantive post, the result merely is that he continues in his post as a probationerThe terms of appointment do not show that the appellant would be automatically confirmed on the expiry of the first six months of probation nor is any rule brought to our notice which has the effect of confirming him in the post after six months of probation.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This view is also affirmed by the judgments of this Court in Municipal Corporation, Raipur v Ashok Kumar Misra (1991) 3 SCC 325 , Jai Kishan v Commissioner of Police 1995 Supp (3) SCC 364, State of Punjab v Baldev Singh Khosla (1996) 9 SCC 190 and Chief GM, State Bank of India v Bijoy Kumar Mishra (1997) 7 SCC 550.	None
37.	None
Recently, in Head Master, Lawrence School, Lovedale v Jayanthi Raghu (2012) 4 SCC 793 , a two judge Bench of this Court held that even where the relevant rule prescribes a maximum period of probation, the use of the words if confirmed denote a condition precedent and that there is no deemed confirmation of service unless a specific order of confirmation is issued.	None
The Court held thus Had the rulemaking authority intended that there would be automatic confirmation, Rule 4.9 would have been couched in a different language.	None
That being not so, the wider interpretation cannot be placed on the Rule to infer that the probationer gets the status of a deemed confirmed employee after expiry of three years of probationary period as that would defeat the basic purpose and intent of the Rule which clearly postulates if confirmed.	None
A confirmation, as is demonstrable from the language employed in the Rule, does not occur with efflux of time.	None
As it is hedged by a condition, an affirmative or positive act is the requisite by the employer.	None
In our considered opinion, an order of confirmation is required to be passed.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
It emerges from the consistent line of precedent of this Court that where the relevant rule or the appointment letter stipulates a condition precedent to the confirmation of service, there is no deemed confirmation of service merely because the services of a probationer are continued beyond the period of probation.	Reasoning
It is only upon the issuance of an order of confirmation that the probationer is granted substantive appointment in that post.	Reasoning
Rule 105(2) stipulates the satisfaction of the appointing authority as a condition precedent to the issuance of an order of confirmation.	Reasoning
The argument advanced by the learned counsel for the first respondent that there is a deemed confirmation upon the continuation of service beyond the expiry of the period of probation is negatived by the express language of Rule 105(2).	Reasoning
In this view, the continuation of services beyond the period of probation will not entitle the probationer to a deemed confirmation of service.	Reasoning
The High Court has erred in holding that there is a deemed confirmation where the services of a probationer are continued beyond the expiry of the probationary period.	Reasoning
39.	None
It was briefly urged by Mr Yashobant Das, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants that the Division Bench of the High Court failed to follow a judgment of a coordinate Bench of the High Court in Veena Sharma.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, a termination order was issued to an Upper Division Clerk during the period of her probation.	None
Contending that her termination was not in accordance with the letter of appointment and that her services were deemed to be confirmed, the case of the employee reached the High Court.	None
The appointment letter expressly stated that a letter of confirmation shall be issued upon the expiry of the probationary period.	None
Justice Dipak Misra (as he then was) rejected the contention that Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules stipulated a deemed confirmation of service on the grounds that there is no fixed period of probation and that the work and conduct of the employee must be proved to be satisfactory.	None
40.	None
In the present case, the Division Bench of the High Court adverted to the decision in Veena Sharma and distinguished it on the ground that the appointment letter stipulated the requirement of an express letter of confirmation.	Reasoning
Further, the argument urged on behalf of the appellant cannot be accepted as the facts of that case are distinguishable for the principal reason that no interpretation of the exemption stipulated for minority institutions in the proviso was involved.	Reasoning
41.	None
The High Court relied on the Constitution Bench judgment of this Court in Dharam Singh to hold that upon the expiry of the probationary period, the first respondent is deemed to be confirmed in service.	None
In Dharam Singh this Court interpreted Rule 6 of the Punjab Educational Service (Provincialised Cadre) Class III Rules, 1961.	None
The Rules stipulated that the period of probation shall be one year and the total period of probation shall not exceed three years.	None
The Court granted relief to the claimants as their services were continued beyond three years and the relevant rules and the appointment letter did not stipulate the issuance of any order of confirmation.	None
The Court held thus Immediately upon completion of the extended period of probation on October 1, 1960, the appointing authority could dispense with the services of the respondents if their work or conduct during the period of probation was in the opinion of the authority unsatisfactory.	None
Instead of dispensing with their services on completion of the extended period of probation, the authority continued them in their posts until sometime in 1963, and allowed them to draw annual increments of salary including the increment which fell due on October 1, 1962.	None
The rules did not require them to pass any test or to fulfil any other condition before confirmation.	None
There was no compelling reason for dispensing with their services and re employing them as temporary employees on October 1, 1960, and the High Court rightly refused to draw the inference that they were so discharged from services and reemployed.	None
In these circumstances, the High Court rightly held that the respondents must be deemed to have been confirmed in their posts.	None
Though the appointing authority did not pass formal orders of confirmation in writing, it should be presumed to have passed orders of confirmation by so allowing them to continue in their posts after October 1, 1960.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In Dharam Singh, the Constitution Bench held that the continuation of the services of a probationer beyond the maximum period of probation would amount to a deemed confirmation of service only in the absence of a stipulation in the relevant rule requiring the probationer to pass a test or fulfill any other condition.	Issue
In the present case, Rule 105(2) stipulates the satisfaction of the appointing authority as a condition precedent to the issuance of an order of confirmation.	Reasoning
The High Court has thus failed to notice the distinguishing features which emerge from the judgment of this Court in Dharam Singh.	None
42.	None
In the view that we have taken, the High Court has erred in concluding that the case of the first respondent falls within the second category of cases enumerated in Satya Narayan Jhavar.	Reasoning
Rule 105(2) stipulates the satisfaction of the appointing authority as a condition precedent to the issuance of an order of confirmation.	Reasoning
Admittedly, no order of confirmation was issued by the appointing authority.	Reasoning
The case of the first respondent falls squarely within the third category of cases enumerated in Satya Narayan Jhavar wherein though the rules prescribe a maximum period of probation and the probationer is continued beyond the expiry of the probationary period, the substantive appointment of the probationer is subject to a specific act on the part of the appointing authority of issuing an order of confirmation.	Reasoning
In the absence of an order of confirmation, the first respondent did not acquire the status of a confirmed employee.	Reasoning
43.	None
In the present case, the first respondent served as a probationer for nearly five years.	Reasoning
Rule 105(1) permits the appointing authority to extend the period of probation with the prior permission of the Director.	None
The proviso stipulates that no prior approval of the Director is required for the extension of the probationary period by the appointing authority of a minority institution.	Reasoning
The amending history of the provision shows that prior to the amendment in 1990, no prior approval of the Director was required.	None
By virtue of the Amending Rules 1990 the prior approval of the Director was made mandatory, save and except for extensions in the case of minority institutions, for the grant of any extension in the probationary period.	None
The absolute discretion vested with the appointing authority of an institution was made subject to the prior approval of the Director.	None
44.	None
The power vested in the Director serves as a check on the absolute discretion of the appointing authority to extend the probationary period.	None
The power vested in the Director, however, to approve a request of the appointing authority is not unbridled.	None
Rule 105(1) stipulates that the services of a probationer may be terminated without notice during the period of probation where the services of the probationer are not in the opinion of the appointing authority, satisfactory.	None
Rule 105(2) stipulates that an order of confirmation may be issued if, in the opinion of the appointing authority, the performance of the probationer is satisfactory.	None
The discretion of the Director must be exercised objectively on the basis of the material produced by the appointing authority bearing on the performance of a probationer.	None
45.	None
The prior approval of the Director, save and except for minority institutions, is mandatory and must be complied with as a condition precedent for the valid exercise of the power to extend the period of probation.	None
The Director is required to assess the determination of the appointment authority and based on that assessment, to decide whether to approve an extension of the probationary period.	None
The provision which mandates that the prior approval of the Director shall be sought before extending the period of probation ensures that the appointing authority may not extend the probationary period without legitimate reason.	None
The extension of the probationary period by the appointing authority, save and except for minority institutions, without the prior approval of the Director is impermissible in law.	None
46.	None
Rule 105(1) of the 1973 Rules, by stipulating a maximum permissible period of probation of two years, draws a balance between the interests of the appointing authority in extending the period of probation to ensure the quality of education and the interests of probationers in their services not being extended on probation ad nauseum.	Decision
The continuation of the services of a probationer beyond the period permissible under the 1973 Rules defeats the salutary purpose underlying the limit stipulated on the period of extension that may be effected in the probationary period.	Reasoning
Upon the expiry of the period of probation, the appointing authority is required by law to either confirm the services of the probationer or terminate their services.	Reasoning
The continuation of the services of a probationer by the appointing authority under Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules beyond the maximum permissible period of probation, constitutes a violation of law.	Reasoning
Though as we have held, there is no provision for deemed confirmation, the conduct of the management may result in other consequences, including a decision in regard to whether the recognition of a school which consistently violates the law should be withdrawn.	Reasoning
47.	None
In the present case, the appointment letter of the first respondent dated 18 June 2008 clearly stipulated that the period of probation shall be one year from the date of joining.	Reasoning
Rule 105 provides for the extension of the probationary period by another year.	Reasoning
The first respondent joined service on probation for a period of one year on 1 July 2008.	Reasoning
The period of probation was to come to an end on 1 July 2009, which could be extended by one year under Rule 105.	Reasoning
The period of probation was extended belatedly on 11 February, 2010 for another year on the ground that the services of the first respondent were unsatisfactory.	Reasoning
On 30 November, 2011, the period of probation was extended by another year.	Reasoning
On 22 May, 2013, the Managing Committee of the Education society discharged the first respondent from service with effect from 30 June 2013.	Reasoning
48.	None
The first respondent was continued as a probationer for nearly five years in contravention of Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules as well as the appointment letter dated 18 June 2008.	Reasoning
There was no order of confirmation.	Reasoning
Though the first respondent cannot claim a deemed confirmation of service without the issuance of an order of confirmation, the power of this Court to do complete justice under Article 142 of the Constitution must be invoked in an appropriate manner.	Reasoning
While there can be no deemed confirmation in the favour of the first respondent, the relief can be suitably moulded by an award of exgratia compensation.	Reasoning
A teacher who has spent five valuable years of her life and may now be overaged to get suitable employment elsewhere must not be left in the lurch.	Reasoning
A management which has defied the law must be put to terms, which we propose to do under Article 142.	Reasoning
49.	None
We hold and declare that The words by another year in Rule 105(1) of the 1973 Rules stipulate that the maximum period of probation permissible is two years.	Decision
The limit equally applies to minority institutions covered by the first proviso to Rule 105 and Rule 105(2) stipulates a condition precedent to the issuance of an order of confirmation.	Decision
The continuation of the services of a probationer beyond the period of probation does not amount to a deemed confirmation of service.	Decision
It is only upon the issuance of an order of confirmation by the appointing authority that a probationer is confirmed in service.	Reasoning
We direct, in the exercise of the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution, that the appellants shall pay over to the first respondent a sum of INR 5,00,000 within a period of four weeks from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order, failing which the amount shall carry an interest of 9 per annum till the date of realisation.	Decision
51.	None
We affirm the view of the Delhi High Court to the extent that the maximum permissible period of probation under Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules is two years, although for the reasons that we have indicated above.	Decision
The High Court, in the present case and in prior cases, has failed to take note of the amending history of Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules and has relied on an incorrect provision of law.	Decision
We clarify that previous litigation under Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules which has attained finality shall not be reopened.	Decision
The judgment of the Delhi High Court, in so far as it confirmed the services of the first respondent is set aside.	Decision
The appeal is partly allowed in the above terms.	Decision
52.	None
We direct the Registry to forward a copy of this judgment to the Chief Librarian, Supreme Court of India, the Registrar General, Delhi High Court and the Department of Education, National Capital Territory of Delhi for recording the correct provisions of Rule 105 of the 1973 Rules in their records.	Decision
53.	None
There shall be no order as to costs.	None
54.	None
Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of.	Decision
