 Hegde, J. (with him Wanchoo CJ.	None
G.K. Mitter J.1.	None
The principal question canvassed in this group of appeals by special leave is whether S. 11 (4) (a) of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act 1947, to be referred to as the Act hereinafter, is ultra vires Article 14 of the Constitution and consequently the notices impugned in the writ petitions from which these appeals arise are liable to be struck down and the respondents restrained from levying salestax on the appellants for the period May 1, 1952 to October 31, 1955.2.	Issue
The appellants are a private limited company carrying on business inter alia as dealers in iron and steel materials in Vidharba region of the Maharashtra State.	Facts
In that region they have more than one place of business.	Facts
They registered themselves as dealers under S. 8A of the Act and obtained a certificate of registration on August 17, 1947.	Facts
Their assessment year as shown in their registration certificate is from November 1 to October 31.	Facts
They were required to submit quarterly returns of their turnovers.	Facts
They did so till April 31, 1952	Facts
Thereafter no returns were submitted.	Facts
On September 13, 1955, the Assistant Commissioner of Salestax, the assessing authority at that time, issued a notice calling upon the appellants to show cause why action should not be taken against them under Ss. 10 (3) and 11 (4) (a), on account of their failure to furnish the return for the period 111953 to 311253.	Facts
Similar notices were issued to them on October 27, 1955 for the period 1154 to 311254 and on July 7, 1956 for the period 111955 to 311255.	Facts
It appears that the appellants repeatedly took time for submitting their explanation.	Facts
The first respondent to whom the appellants case stood transferred issued in 1958 fresh notices to the appellants similar to those issued in 1955.	Facts
At that stage the appellants object ed to the validity of those notices both orally as well as in writing on the ground that their assessment year was not the calendar year as mentioned in those notices but the year ending October 31.	Facts
Evidently in view of that objection, the first respondent issued another set of notices on July 8, 1959.	Facts
The appellants contended that those notices were barred by time.	Facts
Thereafter the appellants challenged the validity of the notices issued in 1959 in the petitions under Art.	Facts
226 from which these appeals arise.3.	Facts
In these appeals the questions arising for decision are whether S. 11 (4) (a) or 11A (3) or any parts thereof contravene the guarantee of equal protection of the laws or equality before the law or whether those provisions are based on a valid classification which is reasonable in view of the object with which they were enacted.	None
Mr H. R. Gokhale, learned counsel for the appellant, urged that both these provisions deal with the same class of persons having common characteristics and properties and hence there is no just basis for the classification made.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the classification complained of has brought about a discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further he asserted that the Act had conferred arbitrary power on the assessing authority to pick and choose from the persons belonging to the same class to be dealt with either under S. 11 (4) (a) or under 11A (1).	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that as a case coming under S. 11 (4) (a) also falls under S. 11A, as the law now stands, the persons proceeded against under S. 11A (1) will have the benefit of the period of 1imitation prescribed therein while the said benefit is not available for those proceeded under S. 11 (4) (a).4.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel for the revenue, Ss. 11 (4) (a) and 11A deal with different classes of persons the classification made under those provisions is a reasonable classification having nexus with the object sought to be achieved.5.	None
Before adverting to the points at issue it would be convenient to set out the circumstances under which S. 11A (3) which is said to have brought about the discrimination complained of came to be enacted.	None
The Act is in force ever since 1947.	None
Section 11A as it originally stood was inserted into the Act in 1953.	None
In.	None
Bisesar House v. State of Bombay, 60 Bom LR 1395 (AIR 1959 Bom 130 FB) the question arose whether a notice under S. 11 (2) initiates a fresh proceeding and if that is so, whether the limitation prescribed under S. 11A (1) is attracted to that proceeding.	None
A Full Bench of the Bombay High Court speaking through Chagla, C. J. held that a notice under S. 11 (2) initiates a fresh proceedings and to such a proceeding the limitation prescribed in S. 11A is attracted.	None
From the ratio of that decision it followed that the limitation prescribed under S. 11A also governed proceeding under S. 11 (4) (a).	None
Evidently to get over the effect of that decision, the Bombay legislature enacted the Bombay Sales Tax Laws (Validating Provisions and Amendment) Act 1959 (No. 22 of 1959) which came into force on April 18, 1959.	None
Section 6 of that Act inserted the new subsection (3) into S. 11A and the reason for that amendment as stated in the statement of objects and reasons, is as follows In its judgment the Bombay High Court has held that the period of limitation laid down in S. 11 A of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, for reassessment of the turnover which has escaped assessment applies to original assessment also.	None
It has been found that the said limitation applies to suo motu revisions also.	None
The said decision affects the original assessments and suo motu revisions, which have been made after the expiry of the period of limitation laid down for the reassessment of turnover escaping assessment under the different sales tax laws in force in this State.	None
It has, therefore, become necessary to establish the validity of all such assessments and to provide that the period of limitation prescribed for reassessment of escaped turnovers does not apply to original assessments and suo motu revisions.	None
In Ghanshyam Das v. Regional Asst.	None
Commr. of Sales Tax, Nagpur, (1964) 4	None
SCR 436 (AIR 1964 SC 766 did not agree with that decision so far as the scope of S. 11 (2) is concerned.	None
Therein it was held that a notice under 11 (2) does not initiate a fresh proceeding and to that proceeding the limitation prescribed in S. 11A does not apply.	None
Though in view of that decision, S. 11A (3) became superfluous in respect of a proceeding in which a notice under S. 11 (2) is given, it undoubtedly changed the law in respect of proceedings under S. 11 (4) (a).6.	None
Before we proceed to consider the aforementioned complaint of discrimination it is necessary to have a survey of the re1evant provisions of the Act.	None
Dealer is defined in S. 2 (c) as meaning a person who whether as principal or agent carries on in the State the business of selling or supplying goods whether for commission, remuneration or otherwise and includes a firm, a partnership a Hindu undivided family or a State government or any of their departments and includes also a society.	None
club or association selling or supplying goods to its members.	None
A registered dealer is defined in S. 2 (f) as meaning a dealer registered under the Act.	None
Section 2 (i) defines turnover as meaning the aggregate of the amounts of sale prices and parts of sale prices received or receivable by a dealer in respect of the sale or supply of goods or in respect of the sale or supply of goods in the carrying out of any contract, effected or made during the prescribed period and the expression taxable turnover means that part of a dealers turnover during such period which remains after deducting therefrom his turnover during that period in respect of the sale of goods declared tax free under S. 6.	None
The definition of the terms year as provided in S. 2 (1) to the extent necessary for our present purpose reads.year means the 12 months ending on 31st day of March, or if the accounts of the assessee are made up to any other day in respect of a year ending on any date other than the 31st day of March, then at the option of the assessee the year ending on the day to which his accounts have been so made up Section 8 says (1) No dealer shall, while being liable to pay tax under this Act, carry on business as a dealer unless he has been registered as such and possesses a registration certificateSection 8A provides for voluntary registration of a dealer.	None
Subs.	None
(3) thereof provides that every dealer who has been registered upon an application made under this section so long as his registration remains in force be liable to pay tax under this Act.	None
Sub s. (4) of that section stipulates that the registration of a dealer upon an application made under that section shall be in force for a period not less than three complete years and shall remain in force thereafter unless cancelled under the provisions of the Act.	None
Section 10 provides for returns by dealers.	None
It reads (1) Every such dealer as may be required so to do by the Commissioner by notice served in the prescribed manner and every registered dealer shall furnish such returns by such dates and to such authority as may be prescribed.	None
Subs.	None
(2) of that section is not necessary for our present purpose.	None
Subs.	None
(3) of that section reads (3) If a dealer fails to comply with the requirements of a notice issued in subsection (1) or a registered dealer fails to furnish his return for any period within the prescribed time to the prescribed authority without any sufficient cause, the Commissioner may, after giving such dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, direct him to pay, by way of penalty, a sum not exceeding onefourth of the amount of the tax which may be assessed on him under S. 11.Sections 11 and 11A are important for our present purpose.	None
They deal with assessment and assessment on turnovers escaping assessment.	None
They to the extent necessary for our present purpose read 11.	None
(1) If the Commissioner is satisfied that the returns furnished by a dealer in respect of any period are correct and complete, he shall assess the dealer on them.(2) If the Commissioner is not so satisfied he shall serve the dealer with a notice appointing a place and day and directing him(i) to appear in person or by an agent entitled to appear in accordance with the provisions of section 11B,(ii) to produce evidence or have it produced in support of the returns or(iii) to produce or cause to be produced any accounts, registers, cash memoranda or other documents as may be considered necessary by the Commissioner for the purpose(3)After hearing the dealer or his agent and examining the evidence produced in compliance with the requirements of Cl.	None
(ii) or Clause (iii) of subsection (2) and such further evidence as the Commissioner may require the Commissioner shall assess him to tax(4) If a registered dealer (a) does not furnish, returns ill respect of any period by the prescribed date, or (b) having furnished such returns fails to comply with any of the terms of a notice issued under subsec.	None
(2) or (c) has not regularly employed any, method of accounting or if the method employed is such that, in the opinion of, the Commissioner, assessment cannot properly he made on the basis thereof, the Commissioner shall in the prescribed manner assess the dealer to the best of his judgment Provided that he shall not so assess him in respect of the default specified in Clause (a) unless the dealer has been first given, a reasonable opportunity of beings heard.	None
Subsections (5) and (6) are not necessary for our present purpose.	None
Section, 11A provides(I)	None
If in consequence of any information which has come into his possession, the Commissioner is satisfied that any turnover of a dealer during any period has been underassessed or has escaped assessment or assessed at a lower rate or any deduction has been wrongly made therefrom, the Commissioner may, at any time within three calendar years from the expiry of such period, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after making such inquiry as he considers necessary proceed in such manner as may be prescribed to reassess or assess, as the case may be the tax payable on any such turnover, and the Commissioner may direct that the dealer shall pay, by way of penalty in addition to the amount of tax so assessed, a sum not exceeding that amount.(2)	None
The assessment or reassessment made under subsection (1) shall be at the rate at which it would have been made, had there been no underassessment or escapement.(3) (a) Nothing in subsections (1) and (2) (i) shall apply to any proceeding (including any notice issued) under Section 11 or 22A or 22B, and (ii) notwithstanding any Judgment, decree or order of a Court to Tribunal, shall be deemed ever to have been applicable for such proceeding or notice.(b)	None
The validity of any such proceeding or notice shall not be called in question merely on the ground that such proceeding or notice was inconsistent with the provisions.	None
of subsections (1) and (2).7.	None
Rule 19 of the rules framed under the Act provides that every registered dealer, should furnish to the appropriate sales tax officer his quarterly return in the prescribed form, within the one calendar month From the expiry of the quarter to which the return relates, Each of such returns submitted Should be accompanied by a treasury challan in the form prescribed in proof of the fact that he had paid the tax payable on the basis of his return.	None
The only other rule relevant for our present purpose is Rule 32 in part VII of the Rules, which deals with assessment of tax and or penalty.	None
That rule provides that where a registered dealer has rendered himself to a best judgment assessment as well as penalty by reason of his default in furnishing the prescribed return or returns in respect of any period by the prescribed date, the assessing authority shall serve on him a notice in form 12 specifying the default escapement or concealment as the case may be and calling upon him to show cause by such date ordinarily not less than 30 days, from the date of issue of the notice, as may be fixed in that behalf, why he should not be assessed or reassessed to tax., or a penalty should not be imposed upon him and directing him to produce on the saiddate his books of account and other documents which the assessing authority may require or which he may wish to produce in support of his objection.	None
That rule further provides that no such notice shall be necessary where the dealer, having appeared before the assessing authority, waives such notice.8.	None
Now we may turn to the questions formulated for decision.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier, the main contention advanced on behalf of the appellants is that subsec.	Reasoning
(3) of Section 11A has brought about a discrimination between those dealers proceeded against under 11 (4) (a) and those dealt with under Section 11A	Reasoning
The contention advanced on behalf of the appellants is that the turnover of a registered dealer who has failed to submit his return and also to deposit the tax due from him has escaped assessment the case of such a dealer comes both within Section 11 (4) (a) as well as Section 11A, therefore, he can be dealt with under either of those two provisions.	Reasoning
Whereas S 11A prescribes a period of limitation for a proceeding under that provision in view of subsection (3) of Section 11A a proceeding under Section 11 (4) (a) can be initiated at any time under those circumstances it is open to the authorities to proceed against some of the same class of dealers under Section 11 (4) (a) and others under S. 11A.	Reasoning
It was said on their behalf that it is well settled that in its application to legal proceedings Article 14 assures to every one the same rules of evidence and modes of procedure.	Reasoning
in other words.	Reasoning
the same rule must exist for all in similar circumstances On the other hand it was urged on behalf of the revenue that Section 11 (4) (a) deals only with registered dealers who have certain advantages under the Act, whereas section 11 A deals with dealers who do not come either under Section 11 (4) or S. 11 (5), and therefore the classification of dealers made under the various provisions is based on real and substantial distinction bearing a just and reasonable relation to the object sought to he attained.9.	Reasoning
We have now to see whether the dealers who come within the mischief of Section 11 (4) (a) can also be dealt with under Section 11A	None
Before a person can be dealt with under Section 1IA.	Issue
it must be shown that in consequence of any information which has come into his possession, the Commissioner is satisfied that any turnover of that dealer during any period has been underassessed or has escaped assessment or assessed at a lower rate or any deduction has been wrong made therefrom Quite plainly the expression dealer in Section 11(A)	None
(1) includes both registered and unregistered dealers In this case we are concerned with the escapement of assessment.	None
Therefore the first question that arises for decision is whether it can be said that the appellants turnovers for the period 1552 to 301055 had escaped assessment.	None
There is no dispute that those turnovers had not been assessed.	None
From the fact that those turnovers had not been assessed, can it be said that they had escaped assessment?	None
In Maharaj Kumar Kamal Singh v. Commr. of Income Tax, Bihar (1959) Supp (I) SCR 10 (AIR 1959 SC 257 this Court laid down that the expression has escaped assessment in Section 34 (1) (b) of the Indian Income Tax Act. 1922 is applicable not only where the income has not assessed owing to inadvertence or oversight or owing to the fact that no return has been submitted but also where a return has been submitted but the income tax Officer erroneously tailed to tax a part of assessable income.	None
In Commr of Income Tax, Bombay City v M s. Narsee Nagsee and Co., Bombay.	None
(1960) 5	None
SCR 988 (AIR 1960 SC 1232 interpreting the words profits escaping assessment in Section 14 of the Business Profits Tax Act 1947 this Court held that those words apply equally to cases where a notice was received by the assessee but resulted in no assessment, underassessment or excessive relief and to cases where due to any reason no notice was issued to the assessee and there was no assessment of his income.	None
Kapur J. speaking for the majority of Judges in that case, observed (at p 993 of.	None
the report (SCR (at p 123 of AIR)) that it is well settled that an in.	None
come escapes assessment when the process of assessment has not been initiated as also in a case where it has resulted in no assessment after the completion of the process of assessment.	None
The true scope of the expression escaped assessment in Section 11A came up for consideration before this Court in (1964) 4	None
SCR 436 (AIR 1964 SC 766 )	None
This is what Subba Rao, J. (as he then was who delivered the judgment of the majority of the Judges, observed in that regard In Commr. of Income Tax, Bombay v. Pirojbai N. Contractor, (1937) 5 1TR 388 (AIR 1937	None
Bom 214 ) the words escaped assessment in the Indian Incometax Act were defined.	None
It was held therein that the said words were wide enough to include cases where no notice under Section 22 (2) of the Incometax Act had been issued to the assessee and therefore his income had not been assessed at all under Section 23 thereof.	None
The said view has been assumed to be correct by this Court in 1959 Supp (1) SCR 10 (AIR 1959 SC 257 ) and Kameshwar Singh v. State of Bihar, (1960)	None
1 SCR 332 (AIR .1959 SC 1303) and extended to cover a case where the first assessment was made in due course but a part of the income escaped therefrom.	None
This Court in (1960) 3 SCR 988 (AIR 1960 SC 1232 ), construing the provisions of Section 14 of the Business Profits Tax Act 1947, reviewed the law on the subject and came to the following conclusion All these cases show that the words escaping assessment apply equally to cases where a notice was received by the assessee but resulted in no assessment at all and to cases where due to any reason no notice was issued to the assessee, and, therefore, there was no assessment of his income.	None
It is true that the said decisions were given with reference to either Section 34 (1) of the Income Tax Act or Section 14 of the Business Profit Tax Act, but so far as the present enquiry is concerned the said sections are in part materia with Section 11A of the Act.	None
In construing the meaning of the expression escaped assessment in Section 11A of the Act there is no reason why the said expression should bear a more limited meaning than what it bears under the said two Acts.	Reasoning
All the three Acts are taxing statutes and the three relevant sections therein are intended to gather the revenue which has improperly escaped.	Reasoning
A division Bench of the Madras High Court in the State of Madras v. Balu Chettiar, (1956) 7 STC 519 (AIR 1957 Mad 681 ) following the decisions of a Full Bench of that Court, held that where an assessee did not file at any time a return of his turnover for a year and, therefore, there was no assessment made,.	Reasoning
the turn over escaped assessment.	Reasoning
It was observed therein Whether it was a case of omission or of deliberate concealment on the part of the assessee, he did not submit any return.	None
It was his default that led to the escape of the turnover for 195152 from assessment to the tax lawfully due.	None
It was the whole of the turnover for that year that escaped assessment.	None
It is not necessary to multiply citations.	None
We, therefore, hold that the expression escaped assessment in Section 11A of the Act includes that of a turnover which has not been assessed at all, because for one reason or other no assessment proceedings were initiated and therefore no assessment was made in respect thereof.	None
In one of the appeals dealt with in that judgment, i. e., C. A. No. 102 of l961, this Court had to consider whether a case under Section 11 (4) (a) also comes under	None
S. 11A.	None
The Court answered that question in the affirmative.10.As seen earlier it was the duty of the appellants not only to submit their quarterly returns but send along with those returns the treasury challans in proof of the payment of the tax admittedly due from them.	None
As they have failed to do so within the prescribed period, it follows that the turnovers in question had escaped assessment.11.	None
This takes us to the next question whether in the instant case the assessing authority can be said to have been satisfied about the escapement of the assessment as a consequence of any information which had come into his possession.	None
From the notices issued in 1955 as well as later on, it is clear that the assessing authorities were satisfied about the escapement of the assessment due from the appellants.	None
But the real question is whether they were so satisfied in consequence of any information which had come into their possession The assessing authorities knew that the appellants had neither submitted their returns nor treasury challans in proof of the payment of the tax due from them.	None
From that circumstance it is reasonable to hold that in consequence of the information that the appellants had not submitted their returns as well as the treasury challans the assessing authority should have been satisfied about the escapement of the assessment.	None
It was urged on behalf of the revenue that information contemplated by Section 11A should be from some outside source and not something that could be gathered by the assessing authority from his own records.	None
According to the revenue in the instant case there was no information from any outside source, therefore, it cannot he said that the assessing authority was satisfied about the escapement of tax in consequence of any information which has come into its possession.	None
In our view, this contention is untenable.	None
In 1959 Supp (1) SCR 10 (AIR 1959 SC 257 ) this Court held that the word information in Section 34 (1) (b) of the Incometax Act 1922, includes information as to the true and correct state of the law and so would cover information as to the relevant, judicial decisions.	None
It was laid down therein that the information need not be about any fact it may be even as to the legal position.	None
In other words, the term information in Section 34 (1) (b) of the Income Tax Act 1922 really means knowledge.	None
In Salem Provident Fund Society Ltd. v. Commr. of Income Tax, Madras, (1961) 42 ITR 547 (Mad) a division bench of the Madras High Court interpreting the scope of the words information which has come into his possession found in Sec. 34 of the Indian income Tax Act observed thus We are unable to accept the exterme proposition that nothing that can be found in the record of the assessment which itself would show escape of assessment or underassessment, can be viewed as information which led to the belief that there has been escape from assessment or underassessment.	None
Suppose a mistake in the original order of assessment is not discovered by the Income Tax Officer himself on further scrutiny but it is brought to his notice by another assessee or even by a subordinate or a superior officer, that would appear to be information disclosed to the Income Tax Officer.	None
If the mistake itself is not extraneous to the record and the informant gathered the information from the record, the immediate source of information to the Income Tax Officer in such circumstances is in one sense extraneous to the record.	None
It is difficult to accept the position that while what is seen by another in the record is information what is seen by the Income Tax Officer himself is not information to him.	None
In the latter case he just informs himself.	None
It will be information in his possession within the meaning of section 34.	None
In such cases of obvious mistakes apparent on the face of the record of assessment, that record itself can be a source of information, if that information leads to a discovery or belief that there has been an escape of assessment or underassessment.12.	None
The meaning of the word information came up again for consideration before a division bench of the Kerala High Court in United Mercantile Co., Ltd. v. Commr. of income Tax, Kerala, (1967) 64 ITR 218 (Ker) .	None
Their Lordships held that to inform means to impart knowledge and a detail available to the income tax officer in the papers filed before him does not by its mere availability become an item of information.	None
It is transmuted into an item of information in his possession only it and when its existence is realised and its implications recognised.	None
Applying that test to the case before them, the Court held that the awareness of the income tax officer for the first time after the assessment order of November 19, 1957, that the bonus shares were issued not out of premiums received in cash and the consequent result in the light of the Finance Act 1957, was information within the meaning of that expression as used in Section 34 (1) of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, and consequently, the reopening of the assessment under that provision was not illegal.13.	None
In our judgment, the knowledge of the fact that the appellants had not submitted their quarterly returns as well as the treasury challans, constituted an information to the assessing authority from which it could be satisfied and in fact it was satisfied that the turnovers with which we are concerned in this case had escaped assessment.14.	Reasoning
From the above conclusions it follows that the appellants case falls both under Section 11 (4) (a) and Section 11A (1).	None
Therefore, it was open to the assessing authority to proceed against them under any one of those two sections.	None
But as they were proceeded against under S 11 (4) (a) they cannot have the benefit of the period of limitation prescribed under S. 11A (1).	None
Hence, it must be held that the present case falls within the rule laid down by this Court in Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. v. A. V. Visvanatha Sastri.	None
l9551 SCR 448 (AIR 1954 SC 545 ).	None
On the facts found it follows that Section 11 (4) (a) has become a discriminatory provision in view of S. 11A (3).Hence, the same is liable to be struck down under Article 14.	None
But for the inclusion of subsection (3) in Section 11A, there would have been no discrimination between those dealt with under Section 11 (4) (a) and those under Section 11A (1).	None
The period of limitation prescribed in Section 11A (1) would have attracted itself to proceedings under Section 11 (4) (a) as held by this Court in Ghanshyam Dass case.15.	None
Mr. Bindra, learned counsel for the revenue, contended that a registered dealer has certain advantages over an unregistered dealer, therefore the classification made under the Act is a reasonable classification.	Arguments of Respondent
To be a valid classification, the same must not only be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes persons and things that are grouped together from others left out of the group but that differentia must have a reasonable relation to the objects ought to be achieved.	None
Both S. 11(4) (a) and Section 11A (1) concern themselves with escaped assessments.	None
The classification suggested has no nexus with that object.	None
That much is established by the decision of this Court in Ghanshyam Dass case which is binding on us.	None
It is true the State can by classification determine who should be regarded as a class for the purpose of legislation and in relation to a law enacted on a particular subject, but the classification must be based on some real and substantial distinction bearing a just and reasonable relation to the object sought to be attained and cannot be made arbitrarily and withoutany substantial basis.	None
Judged from the object sought to be achieved by the Act, we are of the opinion that the classification made between the registered and unregistered dealers is not a reasonable classification.	None
From this conclusion it follows that Section 11 (4) (a) is liable to be struck down as being discriminatory in view of Sec.	None
11A (3).16.	None
Section 11 (4) (a) is separable from the rest of the subsection.	None
Its separation from that subsection does not affect the implementation of the other provisions of the Act.17.	None
This takes us to the question which was debated at our instance whether the notices issued by the assessing authority in 1955 were valid notices.	None
The High Court had not considered this question, though it appears that the same was presented to it for decision by the parties.	None
In the course of its judgment, the High Court observedIn this view (in view of its earlier findings) of the matter it is not necessary to consider whether the earlier notices of the year 1955 are good and valid notices or whether they stood superseded by subsequent notices of 1958 and 1959.18.	None
For convenience we shall take up for consideration notice No. 4519/STN dated 13955.	None
Our conclusions in respect of that notice would cover the other notices.	None
The material facts as set out by the High Court, the correctness of which was not disputed before us are these On the 3rd (sic) September 1955, the Assistant Commissioner Sales Tax, issued a notice under Section 10 (3), Section 11 (4) (a), Section 11A and subsection (1) of Sec.	None
22C of the Act, calling upon the petitioners to show cause why action should not be taken against them under Section 10 (3) and Section 11 (4) of the Act on account of their failure to furnish the returns for the period 1153 to 311253.	None
Similar notices were given on 27th October, 1955 for the period 1154 to 311254 and on 7th July 1956, for the period 1155 to 311255.From those facts, it is seen that no notice had been issued within three years in respect of the turnover relating to the period 1552 to 311252.	None
The assessment in respect of that period is clearly barred in view of our earlier conclusion.	Reasoning
The period 11152 to 311252 forms part of the quarter commencing from 11152.	Reasoning
No notice was given in respect of that quarter.	Reasoning
A quarter forms a unit by itself.	Reasoning
Therefore, it follows that the proceeding in respect of that quarter is also barred by limitation.19.	None
Now we shall take up the question whether the notices issued in 1955 in respect of the turnovers relating to other quarters were in accordance withlaw.	None
MThe notice No. 4519/tSTN dated 13955 reads Notice (for 1153 to 311253) dated 13955.	None
No. 4519/STN D  139 55.Form XII(See rule 32)Notice under subsection (3) of Section 10, subsections (4) (a) and (5) of Section 11, subsection (1) of section 11 (A) and subsection (1) of section 22 of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947.Whereas Shri Anandji Haridas and Co., Ltd.	None
Nagpur.	None
You have failed to furnish a return as required by a notice in that behalf served on you under Section 10 (1) of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947ORYou being a registered dealer have failed to furnish a return for the periods 1153 to 311253 and have thereby rendered yourself liable under section 11 (4) to be assessed to the best of judgment Further, you are, hereby directed to attend in person or by a person authorised by you in writing in that behalf, being a person specified in section 11B (1) before me and to produce or cause to be produced your books of accounts and the documents specified in the schedule hereunder and any evidence on which you rely in support of your objection at Jabalpur at 11.00 A. M. on 22955.Sd Asstt.	None
Commissioner of Sales Tax.	None
Nagpur Region, Nagpur.20.	None
It is true that it is not a notice in respect of an particular quarter.	None
it is a notice in respect of the period 11 53 to 311253.	None
In the State of Orissa v. M s. Chakobhai Chelabhai and Co., (1961) 1	None
SCR 719 (AIR 1961 SC 284 ) this Court held that the issue of one notice under S. 12 (5) of the Orissa Sales Tax Act 1947 which section is similar to Section 11 (4) (a), for several quarters was not contrary to law as the section makes reference to a period which might consist of more than one quarter.21.	None
From the notice in question it cannot be made out whether the assessing authorities wanted to deal with the appellants under Section 10 (1) or under Sec.	None
11 (4).	None
The notice says that the appellants had failed to furnish the return as required by a notice in that behalf served on them under Section 10 (1) of the Act, or that they being registered dealers had failed to furnish return for the periods mentioned therein and thereby rendered themselves liable under Section 11 (4) to be assessed to the best of judgment.	None
Quite clearly, the first alternative mentioned in the notice did not apply to the appellants.	None
They are registered dealers.	None
No notice under Sec. 10 (1) had been given to them.	None
The assessing authority by mistake had failed to strike out the first alternative shown in the printed form.	None
That circumstance could not have prejudiced the appellants.	None
It was held by this Court in Chakobhai Chelabhais case 19611 SCR719 (AIR 1961 SC 284 ) referred to earlier that such a mistake does not vitiate the notice issued.22.	None
But the more serious mistake pointed out by Mr. Gokhale in that notice is that the assessment year mentioned in that notice is not the assessment year of the appellants.	None
Their assessment years commenced from 1st November.	Arguments of Petitioner
This error according to Mr. Gokhale vitiated the notices issued.	Arguments of Petitioner
Yet another complaint made by Mr. Gokhale was that though Rule 33 provides that ordinarily not less than 30 days notice should be given to the assessee, only 9 days notice was given.	Arguments of Petitioner
But this defect was found only in the notice quoted above and not in the other notices issued in l955.	None
For the reasons to be mentioned presently, we see no merit in either of these contentions.23.	None
We are unable to accept the contention of Mr. Gokhale that a notice under Section 11 (4) (a) or 11A (1) is a condition precedent for initiating proceedings under those provisions or that it is the very foundation for the proceedings to be taken under those provisions.	None
The notice contemplated under Rule 32 is not similar to a notice to be issued under Section 34 (1) (b) of the Income Tax Act, 1922.	None
All that Sections 11 (4) and 11A (1) prescribe is that before taking proceedings against an assessee under those provisions, he should be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.	None
In fact, those sections do not speak of any notice.	None
But Rule 32 prescribes the manner in which the reasonable opportunity contemplated by those provisions should be afforded to the assessee.	None
The period of 30 days prescribed in Rule 32 is not mandatory.	None
The rule itself says that ordinarily not less than 30 days notice should be given.	None
Therefore, the only question to be decided is whether the defects noticed in those notices had prejudiced the appellants.	None
It may be noted that when the assessees received the notices in question, they appeared before the assessing authority, but they did not object to the validity of those notices.	None
They asked for time for submitting their explanation.	Reasoning
The time asked for was given.	Reasoning
Therefore, the fact that only nine days were given to them for submitting explanation could not have in any manner prejudiced them.	Reasoning
So far as the mistake in the notice as regards the assessment year is concerned, the assessees kept silent about that circumstance till 1958.	Reasoning
It was only when they were sure that the period of limitation prescribed by Section 11A had expired, they brought that fact to the notice of the assessing authority.	Reasoning
It is clear that the appellants were merely trying to take advantage of the mistakes that had crept into the notices.	Reasoning
They cannot be permitted to do so.	Reasoning
We fail to see why those notices are not valid in respect of the periods commencing from February 1, l953 till 311055.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with Mr. Gokhales contention that each one of those notices should be read separately and that we should not consider them together.	Reasoning
If those notices are read together as we think they should be, then it is clear that those notices give the appellants the reasonable opportunity contemplated by Secs.	Reasoning
11 (4 (a) and 11A (1).	Reasoning
In Chatturam v Commr of Income Tax Bihar, (1947) 15 ITR 302 (AIR 1947 FC 32), the Federal Court held that any irregularity in issuing a notice under S. 22 of the Income Tax Act, l922 does not vitiate the proceeding, that the income tax assessment proceedings commence with the issue of the notice, but the issue or receipt of the notice is, however, not the foundation of the jurisdiction of the income tax officer to make the assessment or of the liability of the assessee to pay the tax.	Reasoning
The liability to pay the tax is founded on Sections 3 and 4 of the Income Tax Act which are the charging sections.	Reasoning
Section 22 and others are the machinery sections to determine the amount of tax The ratio of that decision applies to the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the notices issued in the year 1955 are valid notices so far as they relate to the period commencing from February 1, 1953 to October 31, 1955.24.	Reasoning
In view of our conclusion that every escapement of assessment coming within the scope of Section 11 (4) (a) is also an escapement of assessment under S. 11A (1) a notice issued under Section 11 (4) (a) would be a valid notice in respect of a proceeding under Section 11A (1).25.	Reasoning
In the result, we hold that the assessing authority has no competence to assess the turnovers of the appellants in respect of the quarters commencing from 1552 and ending with January 31, 1953 as the same is barred by time under S. 11A. We further hold that Section 11 (4) (a) is void as it is violative of Article 14.	Decision
We accordingly issue a direction to the respondents to refrain from assessing the appellants in respect of those turnovers.	Decision
In other respects, the appeals fail and they are dismissed.	Decision
In the circumstances of these cases, we make no order as to costs.26.	Decision
Bachawat, J.(with him	None
Ramaswami, J.)  Sections 11 (4), 11 (5) and 11A of the C. P. and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947 are as follows 11 (4) If a registered dealer (a) does not furnish returns in respect of any period by the prescribed date, or(b) having furnished such return fails to comply with any of the terms of a notice issued under subsection (2), or(c) has not regularly employed any method of accounting, or if the method employed is such that, in the opinion of the Commissioner assessment cannot properly be made on the basis thereof.the Commissioner shall in the prescribed manner assess the dealer to the best of his judgment Provided that he shall not so assess him in respect of the default specified in Cl.	None
(a) unless the dealer has been first given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.(5) If upon information which has come into his possession, the Commissioner is satisfied that any dealer has been liable to pay tax under this Act in respect of any period and has nevertheless wilfully failed to apply for registration, the Commissioner shall, at any time within three calendar years from the expiry of such period, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, proceed in such manner as may be prescribed to assess to the best of his judgment the amount of tax due from the dealer in respect of such period and all subsequent periods, and the Commissioner may direct that the dealer shall pay by way of penalty in addition to the amount of tax so assessed a sum not exceeding one and a half times that amount.11A. (1) If in consequence of any information which has come into his possession, the Commissioner is satisfied that any turnover of a dealer during any period has been underassessed or has escaped assessment or assessed at a lower rate or any deduction has been wrongly made therefrom the Commissioner may, at any time within three calendar years from the expiry of such period, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after making such inquiry as he considers necessary, proceed in such manner as may be prescribed to reassess or assess as the case may be, the tax payable on any such turnover, and the Commissioner may direct that the dealer shall pay, by way of penalty in addition to the amount of tax so assessed, a sum not exceeding that amount.(2) The assessment or reassessment made under subsection (1) shall be at the rate at which it would have been made, had there been no underassessment or escapement.27.	None
The Bombay Sales Tax Laws (Validating Provisions and Amendment) Act, 1959 inserted the following subsection (3) in Section 11A (3) (a) Nothing in subsections (1) and (2 ) (i) shall apply to any proceeding (including any notice issued) under Section 11 or 22A or 22B, and(ii) notwithstanding any Judgment, decree or order of a court or Tribunal, shall be deemed ever to have been applicable to such proceeding, or notice.(b)	None
The validity of any such proceeding or notice shall not be called in question merely on the ground that such proceeding or notice was inconsistent with the provisions of subsections (1) and (2).28.	None
The appellant is a registered dealer.	None
It failed to file returns for the periods 151952 to 31101952, 1111952 to 31101953, 1111953 to 31101954 and 1111954 to 31101955.	None
The Sales Tax Officer, Nonresident Circle, Nagpur issued four notices to the appellant initiating proceedings under Sections 10 (3), 11 (4), 11A (1) and 22C (1) of the Act.	None
The appellant filed a writ petition in the High Court challenging the notices and asking for an order restraining the respondents from taking steps under the notices making assessments or levying penalties in respect of the aforesaid periods.	None
The High Court dismissed the application.	None
From this order, the appellant has preferred the present appeals.29.	None
Notices under Section 22C (1) can be issued only in course of any proceedings under the Act.	None
As no proceedings were pending against the appellant, no notice under Section 22C (1) could be issued to it.	None
We shall presently show that no notice can be issued to a registered dealer under Section 11A (1) for assessing the turnover which has escaped assessment by reason of his not filing a return.	None
The impugned notices so far as they were issued under Sections 22C (1) and 11A (1) may be treated as surplusage and rejected.30.	None
Under Section 10 (3), if a registered dealer fails to furnish his return for any period within the prescribed time without any sufficient cause, the Commissioner may after giving him reasonable opportunity of being heard direct him to pay by way of penalty a sum not exceeding onefourth of the amount which may be assessed on him under Section 11.	None
If no assessment can be made under Section 11, no penalty can be levied under Section 10 (3).	None
Therefore, the point for determination is whether the impugned notices so far as they were issued under Section 11 (4) are valid.31.	None
The contention of the appellant is that the notices under Section 11 (4) are invalid as they were not issued within three years from the expiry of the aforesaid periods.	None
We see no force in this contention.	None
Section 11 (4) does not prescribe a period of limitation for the issue of a notice under it.	None
In (1964) 4	None
SCR 436 (AIR 1964 SC 766 ), the Court by a majority decided with reference to Section 11 (4) and Section 11A, as it stood before its amendment by the Bombay Sales Tax Laws (Validating Provisions and Amendment) Act, 1959, that a notice under Section 11 (4) initiates new proceedings and it also decided or to be more accurate, assumed that the period of limitation prescribed by Section 11A (1) should be imported into Section 11 (4).	None
The case was decided without reference to Section 11A (3) inserted by the Amending Act and is no authority on the interpretation of that subsection.	None
Section 11A (3) now expressly provides that nothing in S.11A (1) shall apply to any proceeding including any notice issued under Section 11.	None
The Section is retrospective in operation.	None
It follows that the period of limitation perscribed by Section 11A (1) cannot be applied to a proceeding or a notice issued under S. 11 (4).There is no period of limitation prescribed for a notice or a proceeding initiated under Section 11 (4).	None
Consequently, the impugned notices issued under Section 11 (4) are not barred by limitation and are not invalid.32.	None
The argument then is that Section 11 (4) (a) offends Article 14 of the Constitution in two ways.	None
Firstly, it is said that it is open to the sales tax authorities to proceed at their sweet will either under Section 11 (4) (a) or under Section 11A (1) against a registered dealer for his failure to file returns and the principle of Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, 19551 SCR 787 (AIR 1955 SC 13 ) is invoked.	None
We find no merit in this contention.	None
Section 11 (4) (a) specially provides for the initiation of proceedings against a registered dealer who has not furnished returns in respect of any period by the prescribed date.	None
Having made this special provision, the legislature must be taken to have intended that in a case falling under S. 11 (4) (a) the sales tax authorities must proceed against the registered dealer under S. 11 (4) (a) and not under S. 11A (1).	None
The special provision must be taken silently to exclude all cases falling within it from the purview of the more general provision.	None
Moreover, if a statute is capable of two constructions, that construction should be given which will uphold it rather than the one which will invalidate it.	None
Construing Ss. 11 (4) (a) and 11A (1) together we should therefore hold that the cases falling within S. 11 (4) (a) are excluded from the purview of S. 11A (1).	None
The point that there is no overlapping of Ss. 11 (4) (a) and 11A (1) is made clearer by S. 11A (3).The decisions under S. 34 (1) (b) of the Indian Incometax Act 1922 such as 1959 Supp (1) SCR 10 (AIR 1959 SC 257 ) and under S. 14 of the Business Profits Tax Act, 1947 such as (1960) 3 SCR 988 (AIR 1960 SC 1232 ) are distinguishable.	None
In those Acts, there was no special provision corresponding to S. 11 (4) for proceeding against registered dealers who have not filed returns, and the question how far the special provisions would exclude cases within it from the purview of the more general provision could not arise.	None
In Ghanshyam Dass case, (1964) 4 SCR 436 (AIR 1964 SC 766) , none of the notices in question was issued under S. 11A, and the Court did not say that a registered dealer could be proceeded against under S. 11A for not filing a return.	None
Nor did the Court consider the effect of S. 11A (3).It is true that the majority decision held that the phrase escaped assessment in S. 11A includes that of a turnover which has not been assessed at all because no assessment proceedings were initiated.	None
But having regard to the special provisions of S. 11 (4) read with S. 11A (3), the power under S. 11A (1) as interpreted in Ghanshyam Dass case, (1964) 4	None
SCR 436 (AIR 1964 SC 766 ) to assess turnover which escaped assessment by reason of nonfiling of returns must be confined to cases of unregistered dealers.	None
As pointed out already, cases of registered dealers falling within S. 11 (4) are excluded from the purview of S. 11A (1).33.	None
It is next said that S. 11 (4) offends Art.	None
14 of the Constitution because no period of limitation is prescribed for a notice under it, whereas periods of limitation are prescribed for notices under Ss. 11A (1) and 11 (5).	None
We see no merit in this contention.	None
The Act deals with registered and unregistered dealers differently in many ways.	None
The classification and differential treatment of registered and unregistered dealers are based on substantial differences having reasonable relation to the object of the Act.	None
A registered dealer unlike an unregistered dealer is under a statutory obligation to file returns without any notice being served upon him and to pay the full amount of tax due from him before furnishing the return.	None
(Ss 10 and 12).	None
A dealer who has registered himself under the Act admits his liability to furnish returns whereas a dealer who has not registered himself makes no such admission.	None
A registered dealer has certain advantages under the Act which are denied to an unregistered dealer.	None
Section 2 (j) (a) (ii) exempts from tax sales of a registered dealer of goods specified in his certificate of registration as being intended for use by him as raw material in the manufacture of goods for sale by actual delivery in the State for consumption therein.	None
An unregistered dealer cannot get the benefit of this exemption.	None
Moreover, S. 2 (j) (a) (ii) exempts from tax sales to a registered dealer of goods declared by him in the prescribed form as being intended for resale by him by actual delivery in the State for consumption therein.	None
The sales to an unregistered dealer are not so exempt.	None
Consequently, a registered dealer can buy his goods from the producer or the wholesaler at a cheaper price and has thus an economic advantage over an unregistered dealer.	None
In the matter of penalties, Ss. 10 (3) and 22C (1) treat the two classes of dealers on the same footing, but Ss 11 (4) 11(5) and 11A (1) treat them differently.	None
No penalty can be levied on a registered dealer under S. 11 (4) but heavy penalties may be levied on an unregistered dealer under Ss.11 (5) and 11A (1).While prescribing periods of limitation for proceedings against an unregistered dealer under Ss. 11 (5) and 11A (1), the legislature has wisely not prescribed a period of limitation for a proceeding initiated under S. 11 (4) (a) against a registered dealer considering that (1) the registered dealer is under a statutory obligation to file the return, (2) no penalty is leviable under S. 11 (4), and (3) the registered dealer is given many advantages under the Act which are denied to an unregistered dealer.	None
The bar of limitation in the case of an unregistered dealer and the absence of such a bar in the case of a registered dealer cannot be regarded as unjust or discriminatory.	None
Questions of policy are not to be debated in this Court.	None
There is no compulsion on the legislature to prescribe a period of limitation in every case.	None
In taxing statutes the legislature has a large measure of discretion.	None
We cannot strike down S. 11 (4) (a) because of some preconceived notion that the same period of limitation should be prescribed for proceedings against both registered and unregistered dealers.	None
In Ghanshyam Dass case, (1964) 4 SCR 436 (AIR 1964 SC 766 ) Raghubar Dayal, J. at p. 459 clearly held that S. 11 (4) is not violative of Art.	None
14.	None
The majority did not dissent from this opinion.	None
We hold that S. 11 (4) is not violative of Art.	None
14	None
and we uphold it.34.	None
It follows that the notices issued on July 8, 1959 under S. 11 (4) are valid in respect of the entire period from 1111952 to 31101955.	None
As regards the alternative contention of the respondent that the notices issued in 1955 validly initiated proceedings under S. 11 (4) for the period from 121953 to 31101955 we are glad to find that the majority has accepted this contention.	None
The irregularities, if any, in the notices do not invalidate them.	None
However, for the reasons already mentioned, we are of opinion that the impugned notices issued on July 8, 1959 are valid.35.	None
In the result, the appeals are dismissed with costs.	None
Order36.	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority these appeals are partly allowed with respect to turnover from 1 5 1952 to 3111953.	Decision
In other respects the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
No order as to costs.37.	None
Appeal partly allowed.	None
