 Hidayatullah, J.1.	None
The assessee, who is the respondent here, had received on July 20, 1946 a sum of Rs. 40, 000/.	Facts
In the proceedings for a assessment for the assessment year, 194647, this came to the notice of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
Since the receipt fell within the accounting year relative to the assessment year, 194748, the Incometax Officer did not assess the amount making a note, The question will however be considered again at the time of 194748 assessment.	Facts
In the return filed for the assessment year, 194748, this amount was not shown by the assessee.	Facts
The Incometax Officer also overlooked the note at the end of his order in the back years assessment, with the result that this item was omitted.	Facts
The assessee appealed to Appellate Assistant Commissioner against his assessment for the year, 194748.	Facts
While the appeal was pending, the Incometax Officer wrote a letter to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner intimating him that he would like to be present, and also requesting him to assess the amount of Rs. 40, 000/.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner, after issuing notice, assessed the amount and included it in the original assessment.	Facts
The contention of the assessee was that the amount of Rs. 40, 000/ represented a receipt of a capital nature, while it was held to be a receipt on the revenue account.	Facts
With this controversy, we are not concerned.	Facts
The Tribunal agreed with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, but on the application of the assessee, referred two questions to the High Court under s. 66(1).	Facts
These question were(1)	None
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was competent to enhance the assessment of the Appellant for the assessment year 194748 by a sum of Rs. 40, 000/ ?(2) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the said sum of Rs. 40, 000/ is a revenue receipt and assessable to tax in the assessment year 194748 ?	Facts
The High Court answered the first question against the Department, and declined to answer the second, in a much as it become academic.	None
This appeal has been filed with special leave, against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay.2.	Facts
The question which arises in this appeal may be formulated thus whether in an appeal filed by assessee, the Appellate Assistance Commissioner can find a new source of income not considered by the Incometax Officer and assess it under his powers granted by s. 31 of the Incometax Act ?	Issue
Section 31 reads as follows31.	None
(1) The Appellate Assistant Commissioner shall fix a day and place for the hearing of the appeal, and may from time to time adjourn the hearing.(2)	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, before disposing of any appeal, make such further inquiry as he thinks fit, or cause further inquiry to be made by the Incometax Officer.x x x x(3) in disposing of an appeal the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, in the case of an order of assessment, (a) confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment(b) set aside the assessment and direct the Incometax Officer to make a fresh assessment after making such further inquiry as the Incometax Officer thinks fit or the Appellate Assistant Commissioner may direct, and the Incometax Officer shall thereupon proceed to make such fresh assessment and determine where necessary the amount of tax payable on the basis of such fresh assessment3.	None
There is no doubt that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner can enhance the assessment.	Reasoning
It is admitted also by the assessee that within the four corners of the sources processed by the Incometax Officer, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner can enhance the assessment.	Reasoning
This power must, at least, fall within the words enhance the assessment, if they are not to be rendered wholly nugatory.	Reasoning
The controversy in this case is about his discovering new sources, not mentioned in the return and not considered by the Incometax Officer.	None
The High Court held, following its earlier view in Narrondas Manordass v. Commissioner of Incometax ((1957) 31 I.T.R. 909.), that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner has revisional powers, but that they are confined to what was before the Incometax Officer and considered by the latter.	None
The correctness of this view is challenged in this appeal by the Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay.	None
The earliest case, which considered the meaning of s. 31(3), was Jagarnath Therani v. Commissioner of Incometax ((1925)	None
I.I.R. 4 Pat. 385.) decided by the Patna High Court.	None
In that case, the assessee had three businesses at Purnea, Jalpaiguri and Calcutta.	None
His income from Purnea only was assessed by the Incometax Officer.	None
On appeal by the assessee, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner assessed him with regard to the income from the other two businesses.	None
The head of income was the same with s. 6 of the Incometax Act, but the sources of income were different.	None
The Patna High Court observedNow	None
this section relating to appeals is enacted for the benefit of the subject and also to the limited extent therein stated, for the benefit of the Crown.	None
But the subjectmatter of the appeal is the assessment and the scope of the appeal must in my opinion be limited by the subjectmatter.	None
The appellate authority has no power to travel beyond the subjectmatter of the assessment and, for all the reasons advanced by the appellant, is in my opinion not entitled to assess new sources of income.4.	None
The view of the Patna High Court receives support from a decision of the Madras High Court in Gajalakshmi Ginninq Factory v. Commissioner of Incometax ((1942) 22 I.T.R. 502, 510.) where the Divisional Bench observed as followsOf course, it would not be open to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to introduce into the assessment new sources, as his power of enhancement should be restricted only to the income which was the subjectmatter of consideration for purposes of assessment by the Incometax Officer.5.	None
In Bishwanath Prasad Bhagwat Prasad v. Commissioner of Incometax ((1957) 31 I.T.R. 909), the Appellate Assistant Commissioner had actually remanded the case, but while considering the powers of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the Divisional Bench appears to have approved of the abovequoted passage from Madras case.	None
The observations in that case may be treated as obiter.	None
In Narrondas Manordass v. Commissioner of Incometax ((1925) I.L.R. 4 Pat. 335.) is to be found the earlier case of the Bombay High Court which was followed in the judgment under appeal.	None
In that case, the assessee was carrying on business in Bombay and also in Rajkot.	None
The profits from the Rajkot business were assessed by the Incometax Officer at Rs. 1, 17, 643/. The Incometax Officer also found remittances to the extent of Rs. 4 lakhs from Rajkot to Bombay, but did not include that amount in the assessment in view of the concession allowed by the Part B States Taxation Concession Order.	None
The assessee appealed with respect to the sum of Rs. 1, 17, 643/, contending that the Rajkot business had no profits but only loss.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner accepted this contention, but set aside the assessment and remanded the case to the Incometax Officer for reassessment with a view of assessing the sum of Rs. 4 lakhs.	None
In dealing with the case, the High Court held that the powers of remand were extremely wide, but it quoted with approval the decision of the Patna High Court in Jagarnath Therani v. Commissioner of Incometax ((1952) 22 I.T.R. 502, 510.) and also the above observation of the Madras High Court.	None
The learned Chief Justice on the occasion added that there was a distinction between the subjectmatter of the appeal and the subjectmatter of the assessment, and that the Appellant Assistant Commissioners powers under s. 31 were not confined to the subjectmatter of the appeal but extended to the subjectmatter of the assessment.	None
Those powers included a power of remand to include in the assessment something which ought to have been so included by the Incometax Officer, and a remand in that case was, therefore, proper.	None
The matter also came before this Court in The Commissioner of Incometax v. M s. McMillan Co. ((1958)	None
S.C.R. 689, 701.)	None
but the question, with which we are concerned, was left open.	None
There is, however, a passage in the judgment, approving of the observations of Chagla, C.J., in Narrondas Manordass v. Commissioner of Incometax ((1925) I.L.R. 4 Pat. 385.)	None
to the following effectIt is clear that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner has been constituted a revising authority against the decisions of the Incometax Officer a revising authority not in the narrow sense of revising what is the subjectmatter of the appeal, not in the sense of revising those matters about which the assessee makes a grievance, but a revising authority in the sense that once the appeal is before him he can revise not only the ultimate computation arrived at by the Incometax Officer but he can revise every process which led to the ultimate computation or assessment.	None
In other words, what he can revise is not merely the ultimate amount which is liable to tax, but he is entitled to revise the various decisions given by the Incometax Officer in the course of the assessment and also the various incomes or deductions which came in for consideration of the Incometax Officer.6.	None
The learned Chief Justice in the judgment under appeal considers that this Court has thus given approval to his view and also the view of the Patna High Court in the earlier case.7.	None
In our opinion, this Court must be held not to have expressed its final opinion on the point arising here, in view of what was stated at pp.	None
709 and 710 of the Report.	Reasoning
This Court, however, gave approval to the opinion of the learned Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court that s. 31 of the Incometax Act confers not only appellate powers upon the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in so far as he is moved by an assessee but also a revisional jurisdiction to revise the assessment with power to enhance the assessment.	Reasoning
So much, of course, follows from the language of the section itself.	None
The only question is whether in enhancing the assessment for any year he can travel outside the record, that is to say, the return made by the assessee and the assessment order passed by the Incometax Officer with a view of finding out new sources of income, not disclosed in either.	None
It is contended by the Commissioner of Incometax that the word assessment here means the ultimate amount which an assessee must pay, regard being had to the charging section and his total income.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this view, it is said that the words enhance the assessment are not confined to the assessment reached through a particular process but the amount which ought to have been computed if the true total income had been found.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no doubt that this view is also possible.	None
On the other hand, it must not be overlooked that there are other provisions like s. 34 and 33B which enable escaped income from new sources to be brought to tax after following a special procedure.	None
The assessee contends that the powers of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner extend to matters considered by the Incometax Officer, and if a new source is to considered, then the power of remand should be exercised.	Arguments of Respondent
By the exercise of the power to assess fresh sources of income, the assessee is deprived of a finding by two tribunals and one right of appeal.	None
The question is whether we should accept the interpretation suggested by the Commissioner in preference to the one, which has held the field for nearly 37 years.	None
In view of the provisions of ss. 34 and 33B by which escaped income can be brought to tax, there is reason to think that the view expressed uniformly about the limits of the powers of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to enhance the assessment has been accepted by the legislature as the true exposition of the words of the section.	Reasoning
If it were not, one would expect that the legislature would have amended s. 31 and specified the other intention in express words.	Reasoning
The Incometax Act was amended several times in the last 37 years, but no amendment of s. 31(3) was undertaken to nullify the rulings, to which we have referred.	Reasoning
In view of this, we do not think that we should interpret s. 31 differently from what has been accepted in India as its true import, particularly as that view is also reasonably possible.8.	Reasoning
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed but in the circumstances of the case we, make no order about costs.9.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
