 Krishna Iyer, J.1.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai, counsel for the appellants in both the appeals, correctly assured us that the facts are not in dispute, although the legal inference bearing on taxability is very much in controversy.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant who has arrived in this Court by certificate under Art.133(1) (a) of the Constitution urges before us that he is not liable to sales tax under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (LXXIV of 1956) (for short, the Act) sought to be levied from him.	Facts
Admittedly the appellant is a leading dairy of Benaras and has been sending cream to Calcutta for being converted into butter or ghee.	Facts
The long journey involved and the considerable quantities despatched necessarily called for protective receptacles during transport.	Facts
So the cream used to be carefully sent in canisters whose lids were sealed by the seller.	Facts
The Calcutta buyers received the cream and paid for it on the basis of the ghee butter recovered from the cream supplied.	Facts
Although there was some controversy even on the facts, counsel on both sides proceeded on the factual findings recorded by the Judge (revisions) who held that the sales were of cream, that they were interState sales and that the exemption extended by Government notification under the Act for cream could not be enjoyed by the assessee as he fell withinthe areaof exclusion contained in the exemption notification.	Facts
It is appropriate at this stage to reproduce the notification, dated May 10, 1956, under which the exemption is claimed.	Facts
It readsNo.	Facts
ST3506/X D  10556 Exemption has been allowed to Milk and Milk products such as Chhena, Dahi, Khowa, Butter and Cream but excluding (i) products sold in sealed containers (ii) sweetmeats and (iii) ghee.	Facts
Thus in general terms, cream is exempted from payment of Central Sales Tax by virtue of this notification but it carves out an exception to the exemption.	Reasoning
If the cream were sold in sealed containers the seller could not come within the exemption notification.	Reasoning
We need not go into the technique of sealing adopted in this case since it is common ground now that the cream is put in containers whose lids are properly soldered.	Reasoning
The short question is whether cream sold in soldered containers in the, circumstance set out above can be described appropriately as products sold in sealed containers.3.	None
Fascinated we were by the imaginative and realistic picturisation of the expression products sold in sealed containers projected by Shri S. T. Desai, counsel for the assessee  appellant but, on further reflection, we veered round to the view presented by Sri Sanghi, for the State, that after all law is not always logic and taxation considerations may stem from administrative experience and other factors of life and not artistic visualisation or neat logic and so the literal, though pedestrian, interpretation must prevail.4.	None
The High Court has negatived the plea of the assessee and since we are inclined to agree with its reasoning, we express our grounds only briefly,although we may, in passing, make reference to two decisions cited before us viz.	Reasoning
, Govindram Ramprasad v Assessing Authority (Sales Tax), 8 STC 407 (AIR 1958 Madh Pra 16) and Commr, of Sales Tax, U.P. v. G. G. Industries.	Reasoning
(1968) 21	Reasoning
STC 63 (SC).	Reasoning
Govindram a decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court is not germane to the question we are dealing with and therefore we need not discuss it.	Reasoning
The latter  The Commissioner of Sales Tax, U.P.  we shall discuss as it in some measure, governs the issue before us.5.	None
The assessees main contention is that cream sold in sealed containers must bear a market meaning, if we may say so, and not be taken literally.	Arguments of Petitioner
What Shri Desai urges is that there are many articles which the consumers buy on the strength of the image projected before them in their packed state.	Arguments of Petitioner
For instance, a well secured box of chocolates, carton of dried fruits or a tin of coffee put out with wellknown markings, a sealed bottle of whisky sold in such manner that its quality, quantity and genuineness are easily acceptable, these, going by the consumers habit of looking for articles properly packed or tinned and acquiring a special value as a unit of consumer commodity, may legitimately be described as items sold in sealed containers.	Arguments of Petitioner
If we consult our housewives or our village vendors there is no doubt that these illustrations may be borne out as apt and may even be supplemented by other like instances.	Arguments of Petitioner
A thing is bought loose for a price by a buyer on certain assumptions.	Arguments of Petitioner
But a securely packed or properly sealed commodity sold by a wellknown manufacturer is purchased by the consumer based on a sort of flavoured considerations.	Arguments of Petitioner
The assessees case is that here no cream in sealed containers as a unit with an individulityis sold.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand cream qua cream is bargained for and despatched.	Arguments of Petitioner
The canister is used because, ex necessitae, large quantities of cream cannot be transported over distances without being put in some container and its leakage and spoilage can be prevented only by soldering or sealing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Items sold in containers are usually so sold for two reasons (i) for easy consumption by the retail consumer who, by mere sight, is able to distinguish the particular patented brand and picks it off the counter (ii) to prevent adulteration or mixing with spurious stuff.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case the containers used are for bulk transmission  like tea chests  and sealing is for preventing abuse on the way or pilferage.	Arguments of Petitioner
And soldering is a sure method of sealing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, if the item were not a liquid like cream, but a solid, it could be transported even in gunny bags  merely stitched and without any seal.	Arguments of Petitioner
If this view be sound, certainly the Benaras cream dealer is out of the liability zone.	None
We do not examine the impact on taxability had the receptacles been returned by the buyer since it does not arise on the evidence.6.	Reasoning
Shri Desai further drew our attention to the fact that the containers had no particular design nor did they bear any special marks or have a uniform size.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the sealed container had no connection with the bargain or the stuff sold.	Arguments of Petitioner
The emphasis was on the cream and the container had no pertinence in the context.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, he also referred to Section 8 of the Act which refers to containers and packing material.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is force in the argument, certainly.	None
But as earlier indicated, judicial adventure in interpretation  particularly in tax matters  is severely circumscribed.	None
Mr. Desai posed the question whether sale in loose quantities and unsealed containers (in this very case, cream had also been sold in milk cans which were not sealed and had been granted tax exemption) made any difference from similar sales, in old kerosene tins, the soldering being no sin which attached tax guilt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Not that we are oblivious to the force of this argument but we are influenced by the words whose normal meaning should ordinarily guide interpretation.	None
All that the notification states is that products sold in sealed containers must sail out of the harbour of exemption.	Reasoning
The simple question is this Was the sale of cream?	None
Yes.	Reasoning
Was it, when sold, packaged in containers which were sealed?	Reasoning
Yes.	Reasoning
On these two affirmative answers the exclusion from the exemption operates.	None
Such is the contention put forward on behalf if the taxing authority by Shri Sanghi, learned counsel.7.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, he drew our attention to Commissioner of Sales Tax, U. P. (1968) 21	Arguments of Respondent
STC 63 (SC).	Reasoning
Sikri J. (as he then was), speaking for the Court, considered a somewhat similar question of exemption where sales tax dealers in cooked food other than cooked food sold in sealed containers were conferred exemption, on certain conditions.	None
The commodity there was confectionery sold in sealed containers and the High Court upheld the assessees case with these wordsIn commercial world in such trades, particularly where food materials are concerned, it would be seen that the name and reputation of the manufacturer by itself is a sufficient evidence or guarantee of the quality of the contents.	None
The most usual form or method for furnishing such evidence or guarantee of the quality and quantity of the contents is by way of putting its seal by the manufacturer in order to secure the goods in the container in such manner that to have access to the contents of the container the seal so put has to be destroyed or broken.	None
For if it were not so done neither the retailer nor the purchaser would be sure whether the goods inside the container as to their quality and quantity are the same as represented and have not been otherwise adulterated or mixed up by extraneous elements is hardly necessary to mention that a dealer carrying on the business of selling sweetmeats and confectionery on a comparatively smaller scale would find it uneconomical commercially to put the stuff sold or to be sold in sealed containers it is only a large scale manufacturer who manufactures and exports the confectionery who would need selling the same in a container.	None
In our opinion, therefore it is only that class of dealers carrying on the business of sale of confectionery in sealed containers as explained above who were not intended to be exempted from the liability to pay sales tax on their turnover.	None
On appeal, this Court, after noticing the plausibility of the opposite point of view and guessing the possible administrative and other reasons for the exclusion from exemption, heldBe that as it may, in the context it is difficult to give to the expression sealed container a meaning different from the ordinary dictionary meaning.8.Sealed container merely means a container which is so closed that access to the contents is impossible without breaking the fastening.	None
The expression seal in this context does not involve an affixture of the seal of the seller such as impressing a signet in wax etc., as evidence or guarantee of authenticity.	Reasoning
An article may be regarded as put in sealed containers if it is closed securely in any vessel or container by any kind of fastening or covering that must be broken before access can be obtained to what is packed inside.	Reasoning
This is the popular, perhaps the literal, meaning of the expressions used in the notification.	Reasoning
May be the State thought that sealed containers would be used only by big manufacturers who were able to bear the burden of tax may be administrative convenience in assessing quantities sold induced this step.	Reasoning
It is not for the Court to launch on obscure fiscal astrology but merely to construe what has been expressed in plain words.	Reasoning
We should have been happier if the State had furnished the reasons prompting the exclusion from the exemption.	Reasoning
An intelligent appreciation of the reason of the rule is an aid to judicial construction but the State has not been as alert on this score as we might have wished.	Reasoning
Why should a sale, if generally exempt from tax being a milk product, forfeit it merely because the wholesome step of sealing the container and insulating the food article from contamination, is taken during transit?	None
But counsel for the state has expressed his inability to throw light on this aspect or on the reasons for the policy.	None
Had the States counteraffidavit been more illuminating on these questions, it would have performed a service to this Court and to the public and rendered the task of judicial construction simpler.9.	None
With these observations, we dismiss the appeals but there will be no order as to costs in this Court.10.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
