 Wanchoo, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal on a certificate granted by the Patna High Court.	Facts
The respondent sued the Union of India as representing G. I. P. Railway, Bombay and E. I. R. Calcutta for recovery of damages for nondelivery of 31 bales of piece goods, out of 60 bales which had been consigned to Baidyanathdham from Wadibundar.	Facts
This consignment was loaded in wagon No. 9643 on December 1, 1947.	Facts
It is not in dispute that the consignment reached Mughalsarai on the morning of December 9, 1947 by 192 Dn. goods train.	Facts
After reaching Mughalsarai, the wagon was kept in the marshalling yard till December 12, 1947.	Facts
It was sent to Baidyanathdham by 214 Dn. goods train from Mughalsarai at 640 p.m. on December 12, 1947 and eventually reached Baidyanathdham on December 21, 1947.	Facts
The respondent who was the consignee presented the railway receipt on the same day for delivery of the consignment.	Facts
Thereupon the railway delivered 29 bales only to respondent and the remaining 31 bales were said to be missing and were never delivered.	Facts
Consequently on August 31, 1948, notice was given under S. 80 of the Civil Procedure Code and this was followed by the suit out of which present appeal has arisen on November 20, 1948.	Facts
The consignment had been booked under risk note form Z, which for all practical purposes is in the same terms as risk note from B. The respondent claimed damages for nondelivery on the ground that of the nondelivery was due to the misconduct of the servants of the railway, and the claim was for a sum of Rs.36,461120.	Facts
2.	None
The suit was resisted by the appellant and a number of defences were taken.	Facts
In the present appeal we are only concern with two defences.	Facts
It was first contended that the suit was barred by S. 77 of the Indian Railways Act, No. IX of 1890, (hereinafter referred to as the Act), in asmuch as notice required therein was not given by the respondent.	Facts
Secondly it was contended that the consignment was sent under risk note form Z and under the terms of that risk note the railway was absolved from all responsibility for loss, destruction or deterioration of goods consigned thereunder from any cause whatsover except upon proof of misconduct of the railway or its servants, and that the burden of proving such misconduct subject to certain exceptions was on the respondent and that the respondent had failed to discharge that burden.	Facts
Further in compliance with the terms of the risk note, the Railway made a disclosure in the written statement as to how the consignment was dealt with throughout the period it was in its possession or control.	Facts
The case of the railway it this connection was that there was a theft in the running train between Mughalsarai and Buxar on December 12, 1947 and that was how part of the consignment was lost.	Facts
As the loss was not due to any misconduct on the part of the railway or its servants and as the respondent had not discharged the burden which lay on him after the railway had given evidence of how the consignment had been dealt with, there was no liability, on the railway.	Facts
3.	None
On the first point, the trial Court held on the basis of certain decisions of the Patna High Court that no notice under, S. 77 was necessary in a case of nondelivery which was held to be different from loss.	Facts
On the second point relating to the responsibility of the railway on the basis of risk note form Z, the trial Court held that it had not been proved that the loss was due to misconduct of the railway or its servants.	Facts
It therefore, dismissed the suit.	Facts
4. Then followed an appeal by the respondent to the High Court.	None
The High Court apparently upheld the finding of the trial Court on the question of notice under S. 77.	Facts
But on the second point the High Court was of opinion that there was a breach of the condition of disclosure provided in risk note Z under which the consignment had been booked, and, therefore, the appellant could not take advantage of the risk note at all and the liability of the railway must be assessed on the footing of a simple bailee.	Facts
It, therefore, went on to consider the liability of the railway as a simple bailee and held on the evidence that the railway did not take proper care of the wagon at Mughalsarai and that in all probability, the seals and rivets of the wagon had been allowed to be broken there and all arrangements had been completed as to how the goods would be removed from the wagon when the train would leave that station and this could only be done either by or in collusion with the servants of the railway at Mughalsarai.	Facts
In this view of the matter the High Court allowed the appeal and decreed the suit with costs.	Facts
As the judgment was one of reversal and the amount involved was over rupees twenty thousand, the High Court granted a certificate and that is how the matter has come up before us.	Facts
5.	None
We shall first deal with the question of the notice.	None
We are in this case concerned with the Act as it was in 1947 before its amendment by central Act 56 of 1949 and central Act No. 39 of 1961 and all references in this judgment must be read as applying to the Act as it was in 1947.	None
Now S. 77 inter alia provides that a person shall not be entitled to compensation for the loss, destruction or deterioration of animals or goods delivered to be carried by railway, unless his claim to compensation has been preferred in writing by him or on his behalf to the railway, administration within six months from the date of the delivery of the animals or goods, for carriage by railway.	None
There was a conflict between the High Courts on the question whether nondelivery of goods carried by railway amounted to loss within the meaning of S. 77.	None
Some High Courts (including the Patna High Court) held that a case of nondelivery was distinct from a case of loss and no notice under S. 77 was necessary in the case of nondelivery.	Facts
Other High Courts, however, took a contrary view and held that a case of nondelivery also was a case of loss.	None
This conflict has now been resolved by the decision of this Court in GovernorGeneral in Council v. Musaddilal, 1961 SCR 647 (AIR 1961 SC 725 ) and the view taken by the Patna High Court has been overruled.	None
This Court has held that failure to deliver goods is the consequence of loss or destruction and the cause of action for it is not distinct from the cause of action for loss or destruction, and, therefore, notice under S. 77 is necessary in the case of nondelivery which arises from the loss of goods.	None
Therefore, notice under S. 77 was necessary in the present case.	None
It is true that the respondent stated in the plaint in conformity with the view of the Patna High Court prevalent in Bihar that no notice under S. 77 was necessary as it was a case nondelivery.	None
But we find in actual fact that a notice was given by the respondent to the railway on April 10, 1948 to the Chief Commercial Manager, E. I. R. in which it was stated that 60 bales of cloth were booked for the respondent but only 29 bales had been delivered and the balance of 31 bales had not been delivered.	None
Therefore, the respondent gave notice that if the bales were not delivered to him within a fortnight, he would file a suit for the recovery of Rs. 36,461120, and the details as to how the amount was arrived at were given in this notice.	None
It is true that the notice was not specifically stated to be a notice under S. 77 of the Act but it gave all the particulars necessary in a notice under that section.	None
This notice or letter was sent within six months of the booking of the consignment.	None
A similar case came up before this Court in Jetmull Bhojraj v. Darjeeling Himalayan Rly. Co. Ltd.	None
(1963) 2 SCR 832 (AIR 1962 SC 1879 ), and this Court held that the letter to the railway in that case was sufficient notice for the purpcse of S. 77 of the Act.	None
Following that decision we hold that the letter in the present case which is even more explicit is sufficient notice for the purpose of S. 77 of the Act.	None
We may add that the learned Additional solicitorGeneral did not challenge this in view of the decision in Jetmull Bhojrajs case (1963)	None
2 SCR 832 (AIR 1962 SC 1879 ).	None
6.	None
This brings us to the second question raised in the appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already indicated that the High Court held that as the burden of disclosure which was on the railway had not been discharged there was a breach of one of the terms of the risk note Z and, therefore, the risk note did not apply at all and the responsibility of the railway had to be assessed under S. 72 (1) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This view of the law has been contested on behalf of the appellant and it is urged that after the risk note is executed either in form Z or in form B, the responsibility of the railway must be judged in accordance with the risk note even if there is some breach of the condition as to disclosure.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be mentioned that risk note form Z and risk note form B are exactly similar in their terms insofar as the responsibility of the railway is concerned for risk note form B applies to individual consignments while form Z is executed by a party who has usually to send goods by railway in large numbers.	Arguments of Petitioner
Risk note from Z is general in its nature and applies to all consignments that a party may send after its execution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is proved that the consignment in this case was covered by risk note form Z.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main advantage that a consignor gets by sending a consignment under from Z or form B is a specially reduced rate as compared to the ordinary rate at which goods are carried by the railway and it is because of this specially reduced rate that the burden is thrown on the consignor in a suit for damages to prove misconduct on the part of the railway or its servants in the case of loss, etc., of the goods, subject to one exception.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	None
On the other hand the argument on behalf of the respondent is that the view taken by the Patna High Court is right and it is the duty of the railway administration under the risk note, as soon as there is nondelivery and a claim is made on the railway for compensation, to disclose how the consignment was dealt with throughout while it was in its possession or control and that its failure to do so results immediately in breach of the contract with the result that the responsibility of the railway has to be judged solely on the basis of S. 72 (1) of the Act ignoring the risk note altogether.	Arguments of Respondent
8. Section 72 (1) defines the responsibility of the railway administration for the loss, destruction or deterioration of animals or goods delivered to the administration to be carried by railway to be the same as that of a bailee under Ss. 152 and 161 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, subject to other provisions of the Act.	None
Subsection (2) of S. 72 provides that an agreement purporting to limit the responsibility under S. 72 (1) can be made subject to two conditions, namely, (i) that it is in writing signed by or on behalf of the person sending or delivering to the railway administration the animals or goods, and (ii) that it is in a form approved by the GovernorGeneral.	None
Subsection (3) of S. 72 provides that nothing in the common law of England or in the Carriers Act 1865 regarding the responsibility of common carriers with respect to carriage of animals or goods shall affect the responsibility as in this section defined of the railway administration.	None
So the responsibility of the railway for loss etc., is the same as that of a bailee under the Indian Contract Act.	None
But this responsibility can be limited as provided in S. 72 (2).	None
For the purpose of limiting this responsibility risk notes form B and form Z have been approved by the GovernorGeneral and where goods are booked under these risk notes the liability is limited in the manner provided thereunder.	None
It is, therefore, necessary to set out the relevant terms of the risk note, for the decision of this case will turn on the provisions of the risk note itself.	None
9.	None
The risk note whether it is in form B or form Z provides that where goods are carried at owners risk on specially reduced rates, the owner agrees or undertakes to hold the railway administration harmless and free from all responsibility for any loss, deterioration or destruction of or damage to all or any of such consignments from any cause whatever, except upon proof that such loss, destruction, deterioration or damage arose from the misconduct on the part of the railway administration or its servants.	Issue
Thus risk notes B and Z provide for complete immunity of the railway except upon proof of misconduct.	Issue
But to this immunity there is a proviso and it is the construction of the proviso that arises in the present appeal.	Issue
10.	None
The proviso is in these termsProvided that in the following cases (a) Nondelivery of the whole of a consignment packed in accordance with the instruction laid down in the tariff or where there are no instructions, protected otherwise than by paper or other packing readily removable by hand and fully addressed, where such nondelivery is not due to accidents to train or to fire (b) the railway administration shall be bound to disclose to the consignor how the consignment was dealt with throughout the time it was in its possession or control, and if necessary, to give evidence thereof before the consignor is called upon to prove misconduct, but, if misconduct on the part of the railway administration or its servants cannot be fairly inferred from such evidence, the burden of proving such misconduct shall lie upon the consignor.	None
11.	None
It is not in dispute that the present case comes under cl.	None
(a) of the risk note.	None
An exactly similar provision in risk note form B came up for consideration before the Privy Council in Surat Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills v. Secy. of State for India in Council, 64 Ind App 176 (AIR 1937 PC 152 ) and the law on the subject was laid down thus at pp.	None
181182	None
(of Ind App) (at pp. 153154 of AIR)The first portion of the proviso provides that the Railway Administration shall be bound to disclose to the consignor how the consignment was dealt with throughout the time it was in its possession or control, and, if necessary to give evidence thereof, before the consignor is called upon to prove misconduct.	Reasoning
In their Lordships opinion, this obligation arises at once upon the occurrence of either of cases (a) or (b), and is not confined to the stage of litigation.	None
Clearly one object of the provision is to obviate, if possible, the necessity for litigation.	None
On the other hand, the closing words of the obligation clearly apply to the litigious stage.	None
As to the extent of the disclosure, it is confined to the period during which the consignment was within the possession or control of the Railway Administration it does not relate, for instance, to the period after the goods have been theftuously removed from the premises.	None
On the other hand, it does envisage a precise statement of how the consignment was dealt with by the Administration or its servants.	None
The character of what is requisite may vary according to the circumstances of different cases, but, if the consignor is not satisfied that the disclosure has been adequate, the dispute must be judicially decided.	None
As to the accuracy or truth of the information given, if the consignor is doubtful or unsatisfied and considers that these should be establish by evidence, their Lordships are of opinion that evidence before a Court of law is contemplated, and that, as was properly done in the present suit, the Railway Administration should submit their evidence first at the trial.	None
At the close of the evidence for the Administration two questions may be said to arise, which it is important to keep distinct.	None
The first question is not a mere question of procedure, but is whether they have discharged their obligation of disclosure, and, in regard to this, their Lordships are of opinion that the terms of the Risk Note require a step in procedure, which may be said to be unfamiliar in the practice of the Court if the consignor is not satisfied with the disclosure made, their Lordships are clearly of opinion that is for him to say so, and to call on the Administration to fulfil their obligation under the contract, and that the Administration should then have the opportunity to meet the demands of the consignor before their case is closed any question as to whether the consignors demands go beyond the obligation should be then determined by the Court.	None
If the Administration fails to take the opportunity to satisfy the demands of the consignor so far as endorsed by the Court, they will be in breach of their contractual obligation of disclosure.	None
The other question which may be said to arise at this stage is whether misconduct may be fairly inferred from the evidence of the Administration if so, the consignor is absolved from his original burden of proof.	None
But, in this case, the decision of the Court may be given when the evidence of both sides has been completed.	None
It is clearly for the Administration to decide for themselves whether they have adduced all the evidence which they consider desirable in avoidance of such fair inference of misconduct.	None
They will doubtless keep in mind the provisions of S. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act. 12.	None
With respect we are of opinion that this exposition of the law relating to risk note B applies also to risk note Z and we accept it as correct.	Reasoning
Thus the responsibility of the railway administration to disclose to the consignor how the consignment was dealt with throughout the time it was in its possession or control arises at once under the agreement in either of the cases (a) or (b) and is not confined to the stage of litigation.	Reasoning
But we are not prepared to accept the contention on behalf of the respondent that this responsibility to make full disclosure arises immediately the claim is made by the consignor and if the railway immediately on such claim being made does not disclose all the facts to the consignor, there is immediately a breach of this term of the contract contained in the risk note.	Reasoning
It is true that the railway is bound to disclose to the consignor how the consignment was dealt with throughout the time it was in its possession even before any litigation starts but we are of opinion that such disclosure is necessary only where the consignor specifically asks the Railway to make the disclosure.	Reasoning
If no such disclosure is asked for, the administration need not make it before the litigation.	Reasoning
In the present case there is no proof that any disclosure was asked for in this behalf by the consignor at any time before the suit was filed.	Reasoning
Therefore, if the railway did not disclose how the consignment was dealt with throughout before the suit was filed, it cannot be said to have committed breach of this term of the contract.	Reasoning
The disclosure envisages a precise statement of how the consignment was dealt with by the railway or its servants.	Reasoning
If the disclosure is asked for before the litigation commences and is not given or the disclosure is given but it is not considered to be sufficient by the consignor, the dispute has to be judicially decided and it is for the Court then to say if a suit is brought whether there has been a breach of this term of the contract.	Reasoning
13.	None
After this, comes the stage where the consignor or the consignee being dissatisfied brings a suit for compensation.	Reasoning
At that stage evidence has to be led by the railway in the first instance to substantiate the disclosure which might have been made before the litigation to the consignor or which might have been made in the written statement in reply to the suit.	Reasoning
When the railway administration has given its evidence in proof of the disclosure and the plaintiff is not satisfied with the disclosure made in the evidence, the plaintiff is entitled to ask the Court to call upon the railway to fulfil its obligation under the contract and the railway should then have the opportunity of meeting the demands of the plaintiff before its case is closed.	Reasoning
Thus in addition to the evidence that the railway may adduce on its own (and in doing so the railway has necessarily to keep in mind the provisions of S. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act) the plaintiff can and should draw the attention of the Court if he feels that full disclosure has not been made.	Reasoning
In that case he can ask the Court to require the railway to make further disclosure and should tell the Court what further disclosure he wants.	Reasoning
It is then for the Court to decide whether the further disclosure desired by the plaintiff should be made by the railway, and if the Court decides that such further disclosure should be made the railway has to make such further disclosure as the Court orders it to make on the request of the plaintiff.	Reasoning
If the railway fails to take the opportunity so given to satisfy the demands of the plaintiff, endorsed by the Court, the railway would be in breach of its contractual obligation of disclosure.	Reasoning
It is at this stage, therefore, that the railway can be truly said to be in breach of its contractual obligation of disclosure, and that breach arises because the railway failed to disclose matters which the Court on the request of the plaintiff asks it to disclose.	Reasoning
The question then is what is the effect of this breach.	Reasoning
14.	None
It is remarkable that the Privy Council did not lay down that as soon as the breach is made as above the risk note comes to an end and the responsibility of the railway is that of a bailee under S. 72 (1) of the Act.	Reasoning
In the observations already quoted, the Privy Council has gone on to say that after this stage is over, the question may arise whether misconduct may be fairly inferred from the evidence of the railway.	Reasoning
It seems to us, therefore, that even if there is a breach of the term as to full disclosure it does not bring the contract to an end and throw the responsibility on the railway as if the case was a simple case, of responsibility under S. 72 (1) of the Act the case is thus not assimilated to a case where goods are carried at the ordinary rates at railway risk.	Reasoning
The reason for this seems to be that the goods have already been carried at the reduced rates and the consignor has taken advantage of that term in the contract.	Reasoning
Therefore, even though there may be a breach of the term as to complete disclosure by the railway the consignor cannot fall back on the ordinary responsibility of the railway under S. 72 (1) of the Act as if the goods had been carried at railways risk at ordinary rates, for he has derived the advantage of the goods having been carried at a specially reduced rates.	Reasoning
The risk note would in our opinion continue to apply and the Court would still have to decide whether misconduct can be fairly inferred from the evidence of the railway with this difference that where the railway has been in breach of its obligation to make full disclosure misconduct may be more readily inferred and S. 114 of the Indian Evidence Act more readily applied.	Reasoning
But we do not think that the conditions in the risk note can be completely ignored simply because there has been a breach of the condition of complete disclosure.	Reasoning
The view of the Patna High Court that as soon as there is breach of the condition relating to complete disclosure the risk note can be completely ignored and the responsibility of the railway judged purely on the basis of S. 72 (1) as if the goods were carried at the ordinary rates on railways risk cannot, therefore, be accepted as correct.	Reasoning
15.	None
We may point out that in Surat Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Ltd.s case, 64 Ind App 176 (AIR 1937 PC 152 ), the plaintiffs wanted the guard of the train to be examined and he was undoubtedly a material witness.	Reasoning
Even so the witness was not examined by the railway.	Reasoning
Finally, therefore, the Privy Council allowed the appeal with these observations at p. 189 (of Ind App) (at p. 157 of AIR)While their Lordships would be inclined to hold that the respondent, by his failure to submit the evidence of Rohead, was in breach of his contractual obligation to give the evidence necessary for disclosure of how the consignment was dealt with, they are clearly of opinion that the failure to submit the evidence of Rohead, in the circumstances of this case, entitles the Court to presume, in terms of S. 114 (g) of the Evidence Act, that Roheads evidence, if produced, would be unfavourable to the respondent, and that, in consequence, misconduct by complicity in the theft of some servant or servants of the respondent may be fairly inferred from the respondents evidence.	Reasoning
These observations show that even though there may be a breach of the obligation to give full disclosure that does not mean that the risk note form Z or form B can be ignored and the responsibility of the railway fixed on the basis of S. 72 (1) as a simple bailee.	Reasoning
If that was the effect of the breach, the Privy Council would not have come to the conclusion after applying S. 114 (g) of the Evidence Act in the case of Rohead that misconduct by complicity in the theft of some servant or servants of the railway may be fairly inferred from the railways evidence.	Reasoning
The appeal was allowed by the Privy Council after coming to the conclusion that misconduct by the servant or servants of the railway might be fairly inferred from the evidence including the presumption under S. 114(g) of the Evidence Act.	Reasoning
It seems to us clear, therefore that even if there is a breach of the obligation to make full disclosure in the sense that the railway does not produce the evidence desired by the plaintiff in the suit even though the request of the plaintiff is endorsed by the Court, the effect of such breach is not that the risk note is completely out of the way, the reason for this as we have already indicated bring that the consignor has already taken advantage of the reduced rates and, therefore, cannot be allowed to ignore the risk note altogether.	Reasoning
But where there is a breach by the railway of the obligation to make full disclosure the Court may more readily infer misconduct on the part of the railway or its servants or more readily presume under S. 114(g) of the Evidence Act against the railway.	Reasoning
This in our opinion is the effect of the decision of the Privy Council in Surat Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Limiteds case, 64 Ind App 176 (AIR 1937 PC 152 ).	Reasoning
As we have already said we are in respectful agreement with the law as laid down there.	Reasoning
16.	None
So far as the present appeal is concerned, there was no demand by the consignor for disclosure before the suit Even after the suit was filed there was no statement by the respondent at any stage that the disclosure made by the appellant in the evidence was in any way inadequate.	Reasoning
The respondent never told the Court after the evidence of the railway was over that he was not satisfied with the disclosure and that the railway be asked to make further disclosure by producing such further evidence as the respondent wanted.	Reasoning
In these circumstances it cannot be said in the present case that there was any breach by the railway of its responsibility to make full disclosure.	Reasoning
In the circumstance, we are of opinion that the risk note would still apply and the Court would have to decide whether misconduct on the part of the railway can be fairly inferred from the evidence produced by it.	Reasoning
If the Court cannot fairly infer misconduct from the evidence adduced by the railway, the burden will be on the respondent to prove misconduct.	Reasoning
That burden, if it arises, has clearly not been discharged for the respondent led no evidence on his behalf to discharge the burden.	Reasoning
We, therefore, turn to the evidence to see whether from the evidence produced by the railway a fair inference of misconduct of the railway or its servants can be drawn on the facts of this case.	None
17.	None
It is not in dispute in this case that the wagon containing the consignment arrived intact at Mughalsarai on December 9, 1947.	None
Besides there is evidence of Damodar Prasad Sharma, Assistant Trains Clerk, Muglalsarai, P.W. 14, who had the duty to receive trains at the relevant time that 192 Dn. goods train was received by him on line No. 4 and that there were two watchmen on duty on that line for examining the goods train and they kept notes of the same.	None
He also produced the entry relating to the arrival of the train and there is nothing in the entry to show anything untoward with this wagon when the train arrived at Mughalsarai.	None
His evidence also shows that the train was sent to the marshalling yard on December 11, 1947.	None
Finally there is the evidence of Chatterji (P.W. 8) who is also an Assistant Trains Clerk.	None
It was his duty to make notes with respect to goods trains which left Mughalsarai.	None
He stated that this wagon was sent by train No. 214 on December 12, 1947 in the evening.	None
He also stated that the wagon was in good condition and produced the entry relating to this wagon.	None
It appears, however, from his evidence that rivets and seals are examined by the watch and ward staff and they keep record of it.	None
Apparently therefore, he did not actually inspect the wagon before it left though he says that it was in good condition.	None
The relevance of his evidence, however, is only this that in his register showing the despatch of trains there is no entry to the effect that there was anything wrong with this wagon when it was despatched.	None
18.	None
The most important evidence, however, is of the guard of the train, Ram Prasad Ram (P.W. 2).	None
He stated that before the train started from Mughalsarai he patrolled both sides of it and the place from where the train started was well lighted and watch and ward staff also patrolled the area.	None
He also stated that the rivest and seals of all the wagons in the train were checked at Mughalsarai and there was apparently nothing wrong with them.	None
Now if the evidence of the guard is believed it would show that the wagon containing the consignment was intact at Mughalsarai up to the time 214 goods train including this wagon left Mughalsarai.	None
If so there would be no reason to hold that anything was done to the wagon before the train left Mughalsarai.	None
It may be mentioned that the trial Court accepted the evidence of the guard while the High Court was not prepared to believe it.	None
On a careful consideration of the evidence of the guard we see no reason why his evidence should not be believed.	None
It is obviously the duty of the guard to see that the train was all right, when he took charge of it.	None
It appears that in discharge of his duty the guard patrolled the train on both sides and looked at rivets and seals to see that they were intact.	None
It is, however, urged that the guards evidence does not show that the seals which he found intact were the original seals of Wadibundar and the possibility is not ruled out that the original seals might have been tampered with and new seals put in while the train was in the marshalling yard at Mughalsarai for two days, as the evidence of the watch and ward staff had not been produced.	None
It would perhaps have been better if the evidence of the watch and ward staff had been produced by the railway but if the evidence of the guard is believed that the seals and rivets were intact when the train left Mughalsarai the evidence of the watch and ward staff is not necessary.	None
It is true that the guard does not say that the seals were the original seals of Wadibundar but it appears from the evidence of Jagannath Prasad (P.W. 9) who was the Assistant Station Master at Dildarnagar that he found when the train arrived there that the northern flapdoors of the wagon were open while southern flap doors were intact with the original seals.	None
This evidence suggests that the original seals could not have been tampered with when the train left Mughalsarai and that the guards evidence that seals and rivets were intact shows that nothing had happened to the wagon while it was at Mughalsarai.	None
Further it is also in evidence that there is ample light in the marshalling yard at Mughalsarai and that watch and ward staff is posted there as well.	None
So the chances of tampering with the seals and rivets in the marshalling yard in the circumstances are remote.	None
As such the evidence of the guard that the seals and rivets were intact when he left with the train on the evening of December 12, would apparently exclude the possibility that there was any tampering with the wagon before it left Mughalsarai.	None
It is true that on the last day when the evidence for the railway was recorded and the guard had been recalled for further crossexamination it was suggested to him that the railway servants at Mughalsarai had removed the bales and were responsible for the theft.	None
He, however, denied that.	None
But it is remarkable that if the respondent was dissatisfied with the evidence of the guard which was to the effect that the wagon was all right when he left Mughalsarai with the train on December 12, it did not ask the Court to order the railway to produce the evidence of the watch and ward staff with respect to this wagon while it was in the marshalling yard at Mughalsarai.	None
The respondent could ask for such disclosure.	None
If the Court had accepted the request and the railway had failed to produce the evidence of the watch and ward staff it may have been possible to use S. l14 of the Evidence Act and hold that the watch and ward staff having not produced their evidence, if produced, would have gone against the railway.	None
But in the absence of any demand by the respondent for the production of the watch and ward staff which he could ask for, we see no reason why the statement of the guard to the effect that seals and rivets of the wagon were intact when he left Mughalsarai with the train should not be accepted.	None
In the absence of any demand by the respondent for the production of watch and ward staff his mere suggestion that the railway servants at Mughalsarai might have committed the theft cannot be accepted.	None
19.	None
There is the further evidence of the guard as to what happened between Mughalsarai and Buxar.	None
It appears between these two stations the train stops only at Dildarnagar.	None
The evidence of the guard, however, is that the train suddenly stopped between the warner and home signals before it reached Dildarnagar.	None
He, therefore, got down to find out what the trouble was.	None
He found that the hosepipe between two wagons had got disconnected and this resulted in the stoppage of the train.	None
The evidence further is that the hosepipe was intact when the train started from Mughalsarai.	None
He made a note of this in his rough memo book which was produced.	None
It is noted by him that the northern flapdoor of this wagon was open.	None
He reconnected the hosepipe and went up to Dildarnagar.	None
There he reported the matter to the station staff.	None
His further evidence is that there were three escorts with the train and that they were guarding the train when the train was standing between the warner and the home signals before it reached Dildarnagar.	None
Nothing untoward was reported to him by these escorts.	None
It was at this stop between the two signals that the guard noticed that the rivets and seals of this wagon on one side had been broken.	None
The case of the railway is that there was theft in the running train between Mughalsarai and Buxar and that is how part of the consignment was lost.	Facts
The evidence of the guard does suggest that some thing happened between Mughalsarai and Dildarnagar and then between Dildarnagar and Buxar.	None
In addition to this the evidence of the station staff at Dildarnagar is that the flapdoors of this wagon were found open when the train arrived at Dildarnagar.	None
The contents were not checked at Dildarnagar as there was no arrangement for checking at that station.	None
The wagon was resealed at Dildarnagar and the fact was noted in the station masters diary.	None
It may be mentioned that the evidence of the station staff was that the wagon was rivetted also at Dildarnagar.	None
The entry in the guards rough memo, however, is only that the wagon was resealed.	None
The guard certainly says that it was rivetted also at Dildarnagar but that is not supported by the station staff and the entry in the guards rough memo.	None
It seems that the statement of the guard may be due to some error on his part.	None
That may also explain why, when the train arrived at Buxar, the flapdoor again was found open, for it had not been rivetted at Dildarnagar.	None
Then the evidence of the Buxar station staff is that the northern flapdoors of this wagon were open when the train arrived at Buxar.	None
It was then resealed and rivetted and was detached for checking.	None
The checking took place on December 14th at Buxar.	None
It was then found that one side had the original seals of Wadibunder while the other side had the seals of Buxar, on checking the wagon, 27 bales were found intact, covering of one bale was torn and one bale was found loose and slack.	None
This evidence as to what happened between Mughalsarai and Buxar thus makes it probable that there was theft in the running train between Mughalsarai and Buxar and that may account for the loss of part of the consignment.	None
20.	None
It is, however, contended on behalf of the respondent that no evidence was produced from Mughalsarai as to what happened while the wagon was in the marshalling yard and that the seal book which is kept at every railway station containing entries of resealing when a wagon is resealed was not produced from Mughalsarai and an adverse inference should be drawn from this nonproduction.	Arguments of Respondent
We are, however of opinion that the evidence of the guard to the effect that the seals were intact when he left Mughalsarai with the train is sufficient to show that the wagon was intact with the original seals when it left Mughalsarai and, therefore, it is not possible to draw any adverse inference from the nonproduction of the watch and ward staff or the seal book of Mughalsarai in the circumstances of this case.	Reasoning
It would have been a different matter if the respondent had asked for the production of the seal book as well as the evidence of the watch and ward staff.	Reasoning
But the respondent contended itself merely with the suggestion that a theft might have taken place at Mughalsarai which was denied by the guard and did not ask the Court to order the railway to produce this evidence.	Reasoning
In these circumstances in the face of the evidence of the guard and the fact that one seal on the southern side of the door was of the original station, we do not think that it is possible to draw an adverse inference against the railway on the ground that the evidence of the watch and ward staff and the seal book at Mughalsarai were not produced.	Reasoning
The seal book would have been of value only if the wagon had been resealed at Mughalsarai but there is, in our opinion, no reason to think that the wagon had been resealed at Mughalsarai after the evidence of the guard that he found the seals and rivets intact when he left Mughalsarai with the train.	Reasoning
On a careful consideration of the evidence, therefore, we are of opinion that a fair inference cannot be drawn from the evidence of the railway that there was misconduct by the railway or its servants at Mughalsarai during the time when the wagon was there.	Reasoning
If the evidence of the guard is accepted, and we do accept it, there can be no doubt that the loss of the goods took place because of theft in the running train between Mughalsarai and Buxar.	Reasoning
There is no evidence on behalf of the respondent to prove misconduct and as misconduct cannot fairly be inferred from the evidence produced on behalf of the railway, the suit must fail.	Reasoning
21.	None
We, therefore, allow the appeal, set aside the judgment and decree of the High Court and restore that of the Additional Subordinate Judge.	Decision
In the circumstances of this case we order parties to bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
22.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
