 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
These two appeals, involving common questions of fact and law, were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	Issue
We will, however, notice the fact of the matter from M s. Victory Papers and Boards India Ltd.s case.4.	Facts
The State of Kerala adopted an industrial policy in the year 1992 and in the light thereof a notification bearing No.G.O.(MS)No.4/92/PD dated 6.2.1992, was issued, which reads as under ORDERIn the light of the statement of Industrial Policy approved for implementation by Government the following incentives in respect of electricity are ordered1.	Facts
New industrial units will be exempted for 5 years from payment of enhanced power tariff which came into effect on 1.1.92.	Facts
This concession will be available.i.	Facts
to new units from the date of commercial production, which start such production between 1.1.92 and 31.12.96.ii.	Facts
to manufacturing units only and not to service and entertainment units.iii.	Facts
To existing units for substantial expansion modernization diversification the concession in such cases will be available only for the consumption of the new machinery and equipments which adds to the capital asset, by not less than 25 of the exiting fixed capital investment excluding land and building, the installation of which is to be certified by the competent authority.iv.	Facts
for modernization, to industrial units having a contract demand not exceeding 500 KVA.	Facts
In such cases, new equipments alone will be eligible for the concession.	Facts
The said industrial policy of the State was accepted by the Kerala State Electricity Board, which is a body constituted and incorporated under the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, in respect of which a notification was issued on 27.3.1992.	Facts
By reason of the said notification, some guidelines were also issued.	Facts
The appellant herein contended that pursuant to or in furtherance of the representation made by the State of Kerala and or the respondentBoard, they altered their position by investing a huge amount by setting up factories new units.	Facts
The State, admittedly, at the district level constituted a Green Channel Clearance Committee (GCC).6.	Facts
The appellant had applied for grant of electric power allocation to the extent of 2500 KVA.	Facts
It obtained loan on 19.1.1995.	Facts
As the application of the appellant had not allegedly been processed, GCC issued several reminders to the Board.	Facts
On or about 17.11.1995, Appellant informed the Board that the project was at an advanced stage.	Facts
It was recorded that despite recommendations by GCC, sanction for grant of electrical connection had not been issued, stating We wish to add at this juncture that the Government is inviting entrepreneurs to start their industrial units in the State and are offering Power, Water and other infrastructural facilities availability so easily.	Facts
But on the contrary the concerned authorities are reluctant to sanction the necessary infrastructural facilities to the units.	Facts
Our case is one of the examples.	Facts
Your good self will appreciate that without electric power we cannot start out production as schedule, which will hamper the work and finally affect the production of the unit.	Facts
The delay in implementing the project will, finally, escalate the cost of the project.	Facts
Since more than one year has lapsed after submitting our application to the KSEB, we have so far not received sanction of Power to our unit.	Facts
Hence we request to your good self to kind enough to prevail upon the authority to sanction Electric Power to out unit to the extent of our requirement.	Facts
It, allegedly, imported machinery from abroad, which fact was intimated to the Board by a letter dated 24th June, 1996, stating Under the circumstances, our Bankers are reluctant to clear term loan because of nonsanctioning of Power to the Project.	Facts
Presently, the total machinery worth Rs.3.5 Crore have already arrived at site and the erection is in progress.	Facts
Any further delay in receiving the power allocation will affect our total project which will lead to a financial constraint.	Facts
It is really unexpected from the authorities such a situation by the entrepreneur who is taking initiative to install a factory in Kerala.	Facts
Since we have already invested a huge amount for land, building and machinery, we do not have other alternative other than to complete the project and start production at the earliest.	Facts
We have informed these facts and figures to the previous Ministry vide our letter dated 22nd February, 1996, addressed to Honble Minister of Electricity.	Facts
We are sorry to inform you that so far we have not received any favourable decision.	Facts
According to our schedule, we are planning to start production in the month of August, 1996.	Facts
Of the huge investment of Rs.12.5 crore, 75 of the total cost of the project has already been invested and any more delay in power allocation will effect our project very seriously.	Facts
To avoid unnecessary delay in starting the production, we need the sanction of power allocation urgently.	Facts
We understand that our file is pending with the Chief Engineer, World Bank Projects, Vaiduthy Bhavanam, Thiruananthapuram and with the Secretary, Kerala State Electricity Board, Trivandrum vide No.	Facts
TSI PA Victory Paper/9596/3019 dated 7.8.1995.	Facts
Emphasis supplied The response of the Board thereto is to be found in the letter dated 11.2.1997, whereby sanction for power allocation was sought for by the Deputy Chief Engineer from the Chief Engineer of the Board.	Facts
Having regard to the fact that there was no adequate transformer capacity at Kanjiokode Sub Station, the allocation could not be granted, as was informed to the appellant by the Board in terms of its letter dated 21.4.1997.	Facts
Electrical energy was allocated for six months on trialrun basis on 24.12.1997 and a final sanction was granted on 21.12.1998.	Facts
Appellant started commercial production on 10.3.1999.	Facts
It evidently denied the benefit of the said incentive scheme dated 6.2.1992.	Facts
A writ petition was filed by the appellant, which has been dismissed by reason of the impugned judgment of the High Court, inter alia, stating The only question to be considered is whether the Petitioner had satisfied the various terms and conditions laid down in the order dated 6.2.1992.	Facts
Facts would eloquently show that Petitioner had not satisfied the various conditions laid down in the order.	Facts
Petitioner might have submitted an application during the year 1994.	Facts
Mere submission of application would not be sufficient to hold that Petitioner had complied with all the terms and conditions.	Facts
Power allocation was issued by the fourth Respondent on 24.12.1997 with specific condition that the connection would be effected only after providing a separate 22 KV feeder with outlet from the substation to the factory under OYEC scheme.	Facts
Respondent could start the work of drawing at 2.8 km of 22 KV line only after the Petitioner remitting the OYEC amount.	Facts
Even though allocation was given on 24.12.1997 Petitioner took his own time to remit the amount.	Facts
Petitioner has taken considerable time to complete the work and was not ready for availing power supply.	Facts
Petitioner has produced energization sanction order under Rule 63 of the Indian Electricity Rules 1956 from the Chief Electrical Inspector only during December 1998 even though power allocation was sanctioned on 24.12.1997. Petitioner had executed the H.T. agreement only on 22.1.1999 and the unit was energised on 10.3.1999, by the time period fixed for concessional tariff was already over.	Facts
We are of the view, ext.	Facts
P1 order of the apex court would not apply to the facts of this case where power allocation was made from the year 1991 but the power could not be supplied.	Facts
Hence commercial production could not be started by 31.12.1996.	Facts
Hence Petitioner had not complied with the formalities so as to get the benefit of the concession orders.	Facts
The principle of promissory estoppel in the facts and circumstances of the case cannot be put against the Board.	Facts
Above being the factual situation, we are of the view Petitioner is not entitled to get concessional tariff.	Facts
So far as case of M s. A.P. Steel ReRolling Mill Ltd. is concerned, we need not go into the factual aspect of the matter.	Facts
Suffice it to notice that its writ petition was permitted to withdrawn by the High Court by an order dated 24th November, 2003.	Facts
A review application filed by the said appellant was also dismissed by an order dated 25th May, 2004.	Facts
We may, however, note that an application for grant of electrical connection was filed by it in November, 1995 and actual commercial production started in or about October, 1998.10.	Facts
The principal contentions which have been raised by Mr. Ranjit Kumar and Mr. Venkatararamani, learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, are  Appellants having altered their position pursuant to or in furtherance of the representation made by the State of Kerala as also the Board, the doctrine of promissory estoppel would squarely apply in the instant casesii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court committed a manifest error in proceeding on the premise that the appellants were not entitled to grant of such exemption as they had started commercial production after the period envisaged in the said notificationiii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Board was statutorily obligated to supply electrical energy to the appellant within a reasonable time.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
Had electrical energy been supplied to the appellants within a reasonable time, they would have been able to obtain the benefit of the said exemption.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Venkataramani added(v)	Arguments of Petitioner
A concession made by the Counsel on a question of law being not binding on the client, the High Court should have allowed the application for review of its earlier order permitting to withdraw its writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. M.T. George, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the Board, on the other hand, would urge that the appellants themselves were guilty of serious delay and latches on their part in complying with the statutory requirements and thus, it is idle to put the blame on the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the language of the notification dated 6.2.1992 being clear and explicit, the same does not envisage grant of any benefit beyond 31.12.1996.12.	Arguments of Respondent
Before adverting to the rival contentions raised on behalf of the parties, we may notice that construction of the notification in question came up for consideration before a Bench of this Court in Hitech Electrothermics Hydropower Ltd. vs. State of Kerala Ors.	None
(2003) 2 SCC 716 , wherein this Court opined On a perusal of the industrial policy of the government, unequivocally indicting that concessional tariff rate would be given as well as the order of the Electricity Board adopting the same, it can be safely held that such concession could be availed of by the industrial units for a period of five years from the date, they start such production between 1.1.1992 and 31.12.1996.	None
In this context the stand of the Board as well as the State Government cannot be held to be devoid of any substance when admittedly the commercial production of the appellants unit did not start till 31.12.1996.	None
But the question for consideration is when the government has itself come forward alluring industrial units to set up their industries and when under the provisions of the Electricity Act, every consumer has the right to get the supply of power and in the case in hand, when power allocation has been made in favour of the appellant as early as in 1995, and yet the same power could not be supplied for such nonsupply of power, the commercial production could not start by 31.12.1996, would it at all be equitable to deny the relief to the appellant by giving a literal interpretation to the incentive scheme of the government as adopted by the Board?	None
Our answer to this question must be in the negative.	None
There are several documents on record, which were produced before us to indicate that the appellant has been communicating with the Board, seeking power connection at an early date so that it would be able to start commercial production by 31.12.1996.	None
In making such communication, the appellant has been bringing it to the notice of the Board but for supply, the appellant has made all other arrangements to set the production, but yet there has been inaction on the part of the Board in providing power to the appellant.	None
Mr. Rohatgi, appearing for the Board no doubt brought to our notice a letter from the appellant to the Board and contended that it could not have been possible for the appellant to start production by 31.12.96 but we are unable to accept this submission nor are we making deeper probe into the matter.	None
Suffice it to say that the appellant has been denied power supply by the Board in appropriate time, which has prevented the appellant from starting the commercial production by 31.12.1996.	None
This being the position, and having regard to the gamut of the circumstances, starting from the government policy resolution and culminating in setting up of the factory by the appellant in Kerala and commencing the production of ferro alloys, though not by 31.12.1996, we are of the considered opinion that granting the concessional tariff for a period of three years instead of five years, as indicated in the policy resolution would meet the ends of justice and we, accordingly, so direct.	None
A review application filed by the Kerala State Electricity Board, in the said matter again fell for consideration of this Court in Kerala State Electricity Board vs. Hitech Electrothermics Hydropower Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
(2005) 6 SCC 651 .	None
The said review application was dismissed, stating This Court has referred to several documents on record and also considered the documentary evidence brought on record.	None
This Court on a consideration of the evidence on record concluded that the respondent had been denied power supply by the Board in appropriate time which prevented the respondent from starting the commercial production by 31.12.1996.	None
This is a finding of fact recorded by this Court on the basis of the appreciation of evidence produced before the Court.	None
In a review petition it is not open to this Court to reappreciate the evidence and reach a different conclusion, even if that is possible.	None
Learned counsel for the Board at best sought to impress us that the correspondence exchanged between the parties did not support the conclusion reached by this Court.	None
We are afraid such a submission cannot be permitted to be advanced in a review petition.	None
The appreciation of evidence on record is fully within the domain of the appellate court.	None
If on appreciation of the evidence produced, the Court records a finding of fact and reaches a conclusion, that conclusion cannot be assailed in a review petition unless it is shown that there is an error apparent on the face of the record or for some reason akin thereto.	None
It has not been contended before us that there is any error apparent on the face of the record.	None
To permit the review petitioner to argue on a question of appreciation of evidence would amount to converting a review petition into an appeal in disguise.	None
Applicability of doctrine of promissory estoppel in a case where entrepreneur alters his position pursuant to or in furtherance of a promise made by the State to grant exemption from payment of charges on the basis of current tariff is not in dispute.	Reasoning
The State made its policy decision.	Reasoning
The said policy decision could be made by the State in exercise of its power under Section 78A of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.	Reasoning
The Electricity Board framed tariff for supply of electrical energy in terms of Sections 46 and 49 of the 1948 Act.	Reasoning
While framing its tariff, the Board could take into consideration the policy decision of the State.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, permissible both for the State to issue a policy decision and for the Board to adopt the same in exercise of their respective statutory powers under the 1948 Act.	Reasoning
When a beneficent scheme is made by the State, the doctrine of promissory estoppel would undoubtedly apply.	Reasoning
In Union of India Ors.	None
vs. M s. IndoAfgan Agencies Ltd. (1968)	None
2	None
SCR 366 , this Court opined We hold that the claim of the respondents is appropriately founded upon the equity which arises in their favour as a result of the representation made on behalf of the Union of India in the Export Promotion Scheme, and the action taken by the respondents acting upon that representation under the belief that the Government would carry out the representation made by it.	None
On the facts proved in this case, no ground has been suggested before the Court for exempting the Government from the equity arising out of the acts done by the exporters to their prejudice relying upon the representation.	None
In M s. Motilal Padampat Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. vs. State of Uttar Pradesh Ors.	None
(1979) 2 SCC 409 , this Court rejected the plea of the State to the effect that in the absence of any notification issued under Section 4A of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, the State was entitled to enforce the liability to sales tax imposed on the petitioners thereof under the provisions of the Sales Tax Act and there could be no promissory estoppel against the State so as to inhibit it from formulating and implementing its policy in public interest.	None
The question came up for consideration before this Court also in Pournami Oil Mills Ors.	None
vs. State of Kerala Anr. 1986	None
(Supp) SCC 728 , wherein it was held Under the order dated April 11, 1979, new small scale units were invited to set up their industries in the State of Kerala and with a view to boosting of industrialisation, exemption from sales tax and purchase tax for a period of five years was extended as a concession and the fiveyear period was to run from the date of commencement of production.	None
If in response to such an order and in consideration of the concession made available, promoters of any small scale concern have set up their industries within the State of Kerala, they would certainly be entitled to plead the rule of estoppel in their favour when the State of Kerala purports to act differently.	None
Several decisions of this Court were cited in support of the stand of the appellants that in similar circumstances the plea of estoppel can be and has been applied and the leading authority on this point is the case of M.P. Sugar Mills.	None
On the other hand, reliance has been placed on behalf of the State on a judgment of this Court in Bakul Cashew Co. v. STO.	None
In Bakul Cashew Co. case this Court found that there was no clear material to show any definite or certain promise had been made by the Minister to the concerned persons and there was no clear material also in support of the stand that the parties had altered their position by acting upon the representations and suffered any prejudice.	None
On facts, therefore, no case for raising the plea of estoppel was held to have been made out.	None
This Court proceeded on the footing that the notification granting exemption retrospectively was not in accordance with Section 10 of the State Sales Tax Act as it then stood, as there was no power to grant exemption retrospectively.	None
By an amendment that power has been subsequently conferred.	None
In these appeals there is no question of retrospective exemption.	None
We also find that no reference was made by the High Court to the decision in M.P. Sugar Mills case.	None
In our view, to the facts of the present case, the ratio of M.P. Sugar Mills case directly applies and the plea of estoppel is unanswerable.	None
Yet again in Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Asst.)	None
Dharwar Ors.	None
vs. Dharmendra Trading Company Ors.	None
(1988) 3 SCC 570 , this Court, on the factual matrix obtaining therein, rejected the contention of the State that any misuse of the concessions granted was committed by the respondent therein and thus the State cannot go back on its promise.	None
It was further observed The next submission of learned counsel for the appellants was that the concessions granted by the said order dated 3061969 were of no legal effect as there is no statutory provision under which such concessions could be granted and the order of 3061969 was ultra vires and bad in law.	None
We totally fail to see how an Assistant Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax who are functionaries of a State can say that a concession granted by the State itself was beyond the powers of the State or how the State can say so either.	None
Moreover, if the said argument of learned counsel is correct, the result would be that even the second order of 1211977 would be equally invalid as it also grants concessions by way of refunds, although in a more limited manner and that is not even the case of the appellants.	None
Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilisers Limited vs. Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Ors. 1992 Supp (1) SCC 21 is a case where this Court had the occasion to consider as to whether subsequent change in the eligibility criteria can undo the eligibility for the condition stipulated in the earlier notification and answered the same in the negative.	None
This Court reaffirmed the legal position in Pawan Alloys Casting Pvt. Ltd., Meerut vs. U.P. State Electricity Board Ors.	None
(1997) 7 SCC 251 , holding As a result of the aforesaid discussion on these points the conclusion becomes inevitable that the appellants are entitled to succeed.	None
It must be held that the impugned notification of 3171986 will have no adverse effect on the right of the appellantnew industries to get the development rebate of 10 for the unexpired period of three years from the respective dates of commencement of electricity supply at their units from the Board with effect from 181986 onwards till the entire three years period for each of them got exhausted.	None
This result logically follows for the appellants who have admittedly entered into supply agreements with the Board as new industries prior to 181986.	None
The question yet again came up for consideration before this Court recently in State of Punjab vs. Nestle India Ltd. Anr.	None
(2004) 6 SCC 465 , wherein this Court surveyed the growth of the said doctrine and held the doctrine to be applicable to legislative action also.	None
In Jai Narain Parasurampuria (Dead) Ors vs. Pushpa Devi Saraf Ors.	None
(2006) 7 SCC 756 , this Court held The doctrine of estoppel by acquiescence was not restricted to cases where the representor was aware both of what his strict rights were and that the representee was acting on the belief that those rights would not be enforced against him.	None
Instead, the court was required to ascertain whether in the particular circumstances, it would be unconscionable for a party to be permitted to deny that which, knowingly or unknowingly, he had allowed or encouraged another to assume to his detriment.	None
Accordingly, the principle would apply if at the time the expectation was encouraged.	None
In Shrijee Sales Corporation Anr.	None
vs. Union of India (1997) 3 SCC 398 , this Court referring to Motilal Padampat (supra), it was stated Two propositions follow from the above analysis(1)	None
The determination of applicability of promissory estoppel against public authority Government hinges upon balance of equity or public interest.(2)	None
It is the Court which has to determine whether the Government should be held exempt from the liability of the promise or representation.	None
In the present case, the first Notification exempting the customs duty on PVC itself recites Central Government being satisfied that it is necessary in public interest to do so In the Notification issued later which gave rise to the present cause of action, the same recitation is present.	None
An exemption notification, however, can be withdrawn only if it is permissible to do so in public interest.	None
Yet again, in Dr. Ashok Kumar Maheshwari vs. State of U.P. Anr.	None
(1998) 2 SCC 502 , it was held There are many aspects of Promissory Estoppel, but in the instant case we are concerned only with one aspect which is to the effect that if any promise has been made contrary to law, can it still be enforced by invoking this rule.	None
The basic principle is that the plea of estoppel cannot be raised to defeat the provisions of a Statute.	None
(See G.H.C. Ariff v. Jadunath Majumdar Bahadur Mathra Parshad Sons v. State of Punjab and Ors.	None
Rishabh Kumar Sons v. State of U.P.)This principle was reiterated in Union of India v. R.C. DSouza, where a retired army officer was recruited as Assistant Commandant on temporary basis and was called upon to exercise his option for regularisation contrary to the statutory rules.	None
It was held that it would not amount to estoppel against the Department.	None
Whether a Promissory Estoppel, which is based on a promise contrary to law can be invoked has already been considered by this Court in Kasinka Trading and Anr.	None
v. Union of India and Ors., as also in Shabi Construction Co. Ltd v. City Industrial Development Corporation and Anr.	None
wherein it is laid down that the Rule of Promissory Estoppel cannot be invoked for the enforcement of a promise or a declaration which is contrary to law or outside the authority or power of the Government or the person making that promise.	None
See also M s. Ashoka Smokeless Coal Ind. P. Ltd.	None
Ors.	None
vs. Union of India Ors.	None
Civil Appeal No.5302 of 2006 SLP(C)No.20471 of 2005 and batch, disposed of on 1st December, 2006.	None
We may notice that a somewhat different view viz.	None
strict construction of such notification was advocated in the case of State Level Committee Anr.	None
vs. Morgardshammar India Ltd. (1996)	None
1 SCC 108 , wherein, B.P. Jeevan Reddy, J., referring to CCE vs. Parle Exports (P) Ltd. (1989) 1 SCC 345 , opined We agree with the above statement of law except insofar as it states that where two views of the exemption notification are possible, it should be construed in favour of the subject since it is contrary to the decisions aforementioned including the threeJudge Bench decision in	None
Novopan India Ltd.	None
It may be noted that this decision was referred to in Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers and yet a slightly different principle enunciated.	None
So far as decision in Hindustan Aluminium Corporation (referred to in Parle Export), rendered by a Bench comprising Tulzapurkar and R.S. Pathak, JJ., is concerned, it only holds that the expression metal occurring in a notification issued under U.P. Sales Tax Act should be understood in its primary sense, i.e., in the form in which it is marketable as a primary commodity.	None
The learned Judges held that the subsequent forms evolved from the primary form constituted distinct commodities marketable as such and must be regarded as new commercial commodities and not included within the four corners of the notification.	None
This decision cannot therefor be understood as supporting the proposition enunciated in Parle Exports with which we have disagreed.	None
Be that as it may, the occasion for applying the said proposition arises only where there is real difficulty, in ascertaining the meaning of a particular enactment (statement in Parle Exports).	None
In the case before us, there is neither any ambiguity in the language nor does the clause in question present a real difficulty in ascertaining its meaning.	None
We may, however, also notice that in Southern Ispat Ltd. vs. State of Kerala Ors.	None
(2004) 4 SCC 68 , this Court took somewhat different view then Hitech Electrothermics Hydropower Ltd. vs. State of Kerala Ors.	None
(2003) 2 SCC 716 , stating As the Division Bench rightly pointed out, the question to be decided in this case is essentially a question of fact, namely, whether the appellant had started commercial production between 1.1.1992 and 31.12.1996 so as to be entitled to power supply at concessional tariff rates.	None
As a rule, it is not the practice of this Court to interfere with factual findings which have been concurrently recorded by two courts below.	None
Both the learned single Judge and Division Bench have concurrently answered all factual findings against the appellant.	None
On that ground itself the appellant must fail.	None
Nonetheless, as the appeal was argued with some seriousness, we propose to deal with the facts and examine the factual findings only from the point of view of interference under our special jurisdiction under Article 136.The Division Bench of the High Court rightly pointed out that though the policy of granting concessional tariff was announced by the State Government on 6.2.1992 followed by the KSEB order dated 27.3.1992, the appellant did nothing till or about June 1995.	None
It is only in June 1995 that the appellant company was incorporated and an application for power allocation was made on 17.7.1995.	None
The appellants factory had yet to be constructed and machinery to be transported and installed after the construction of the factory building.	None
Undoubtedly, the application was moved on 17.7.1995 in anticipation.	None
The material on record suggests that there was acute shortage of electricity as a result of which even domestic power connections were being refused.	None
The high tension power supply required by the appellant had to be specially arranged by drawing the electrical lines on OYEC basis by construction of PSC polls along the line at the Appellants cost.	None
This amount was deposited on 11.12.1996, only a few days before the concession was about to lapse.	None
Having examined the correspondence on record, we are not in a position to accept the contention of the appellant that the respondents had acted with undue tardiness or lethargy.	None
Further, the remittances of Rs.8,54,700/ and Rs.3,45,200/ made by way of security deposit for executing the power supply agreement were actually made on 1.2.1997 and 4.2.1997, after the expiry of the period of concession.	None
The general principles with regard to construction of exemption notification are not of much dispute.	Reasoning
Generally, an exemption notification is to be construed strictly, but once it is found that the entrepreneur fulfils the conditions laid down therein, liberal construction would be made.	Reasoning
In M s. O.N.G.C. Ltd. vs. Commnr.	None
Of Customs, Mumbai (2006) 8 SCALE 551 , this Court held This Court, times without number, has construed such exemption notifications in liberal manner.	None
See Commissioner of Customs (Imports), Mumbai v. Tullow India Operations Ltd., (2005) 13 SCC 789 , See Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd. v. State of Jharkhand and Others, (2005) 4 SCC 272 , Government of India and Ors.	None
v. Indian Tobacco Association, (2005) 7 SCC 396 , Commnr.	None
Of Central Excise, Raipur v. Hira Cement, JT 2006 (2) SC 369 .	None
and P.R. Prabhakar v. Commnr.	None
Of Income Tax, Coimbatore, 2006 (7) SCALE 191 .	None
If, thus, the Appellant was entitled to the same, it should not be denied the benefits thereof.	None
It is directed accordingly.	None
A question as to whether, in a given situation, an entrepreneur was entitled to the benefit under an exemption notification or not, thus, would depend upon the fact of each case.	Reasoning
A bare perusal of the notification dated 6.2.1992 issued by the 1st respondent would show that the purport and object thereof was to grant benefit of a concessional power tariff which came into force on and from 1.1.1992.	Reasoning
The phraseology used in the said notification postulates that the benefit was to be granted in regard to the enhanced power tariff.	Reasoning
Thus, where the new units had started production between 1.1.1992 and 31.12.1992, such exemption was available to the entrepreneurs.31.	Reasoning
Evidently, except in a situation as might have been existing in Hitech Electrothermics (supra) that any application filed by the entrepreneur had not been processed within a reasonable time, in which case benefit might not be denied on equitable ground in cases where there has been a substantial failure on the part of the industrial unit to obtain such benefit owing to acts of omission and commission on its part, in our opinion, no such benefit can be given.32.	Reasoning
The High Court has arrived at a finding of fact that the appellant herein had failed and or neglected to comply with the terms and conditions of the scheme or contributed to a large extent in not being able to obtain such sanction within a reasonable time.33.	Reasoning
The appellant applied for grant of electrical connection on 9.11.1994.	Reasoning
It, however, on its own showing did not receive any sanction till 17.11.1995.	Reasoning
But even on that date the project was not complete.	Reasoning
It was only at an advanced stage.34.	Reasoning
From the appellants letter dated 24th June, 1996, as noticed supra, it would appear that it merely had been complaining of about nongrant of sanction, but then, evidently, it was not ready for commencing commercial production.	Reasoning
Machineries were obtained by it only on 4.6.1996.	Reasoning
How much time was taken for installation of machinery and completion of the project, is not known.35.	Reasoning
Sanction, evidently, had been allocated on 24.2.1997.	Reasoning
It accepted the same without any demur.	Reasoning
It had been making payments in terms of the new tariff.	Reasoning
It filed the writ petition only in the year 2003, i.e., only after this Court rendered its decision in Hitech Electrothermics (supra) on 17th December, 2002.36.	Reasoning
The benefit of a judgment is not extended to a case automatically.	Reasoning
While granting relief in a writ petition, the High Court is entitled to consider the fact situation obtaining in each case including the conduct of the petitioner.	Reasoning
In doing so, the Court is entitled to take into consideration the fact as to whether the writ petitioner had chosen to sit over the matter and then wake up after the decision of this Court.	Reasoning
If it is found that the appellant approached the Court after a long delay, the same may disentitle him to obtain a discretionary relief.	Reasoning
See Chairman, U.P. Jal Nigam Anr.	None
vs. Jaswant Singh Anr. 2006 (12) SCALE 347 .	None
We are, thus, of the opinion that the principle of promissory estoppel will apply where an entrepreneur has altered its position pursuant to a promise made by the State, but the application thereof would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
Having regard to the findings of fact arrived at by the High Court, we are of the opinion that it cannot be said to have committed any illegality in passing the impugned judgment.	Reasoning
So far as the case of M s. A.P. Steel ReRolling Mill Ltd. is concerned, evidently the question involved therein was a disputed question of fact.	Reasoning
Although, the High Court could have entertained a writ petition, as has been done in the case of M s. Victory Papers and Boards India Ltd., but as M s. A.P. Steel ReRolling Mill Ltd. withdrew its writ application, in our opinion, no case has been made out for interference with the impugned judgment.	Reasoning
As the appellant has still its remedies open, it may avail the same.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, there is no merit in these appeals which are dismissed accordingly.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
