 Sarkar, J. 1.	None
In 1944, the appellant was a resident of Lahore.	None
On October 14, 1944, he was assessed to incometax by the Incometax Officer, Lahore for the assessment year 194445 on an income of Rs. 49,047.	None
As is well known in August 1947, India was partitioned and Lahore came to be included in the newly created Dominion of Pakistan and went out of India.	None
After the partition, the appellant shifted to Delhi and was residing there at all material times.	None
2.	None
The appellant held shares in a company called Indra Singh and Sons Ltd. which had its office at Calcutta.	Facts
The other shares in that Company were held by Indra Singh and Ajaib Singh.	Facts
The holding of all the shareholders were equal.	Facts
An annual general meeting of this company was held on April 17, 1943, in which the accounts for year ending March 31, 1942, were placed for consideration.	Facts
The accounts were passed at the meeting but no dividend was declared though the accounts disclosed large profits.	Facts
3.	None
On June 11, 1947, an Incometax Officer of Calcutta passed an order under S. 23A of the Incometax Act that Rs. 14,23,110 being the undistributed portion of the assessable income of the company for the year ending March 31, 1942, after the deductions provided in the section, be deemed to have been distributed as dividend among the three shareholders on the date of the general meeting, that is, April 17, 1943.	Facts
As a result of this order a sum of Rs. 4,74,370 being his share of the amount directed to be distributed, had under the section, to be included in the income of the appellant for the assessment year 194445.	Facts
The validity of this order was never challenged.	Facts
4. The Incometax Officer, Calcutta informed the Incometax Officer, Delhi of the order made by him under S. 23A.	None
Thereupon the Incometax Officer, Delhi on April 10, 1948, issued a notice under S. 34 of the Act to the appellant then residing in Delhi, requiring him to file within thirtyfive days, a revised return for the year 194445 as a part of his income for that year had escaped assessment.	Facts
Obviously the notice was on the basis that the said sum of Rs. 4,74,370 had escaped assessment for the year 194445.	Facts
On February 10, 1949, the appellant submitted a revised return under protest and included in it the said sum of Rs. 4,74,370.	Facts
The Incometax Officer, Delhi then reopened the earlier assessment and on March 25, 1949, made a fresh assessment order for 194445 assessing the appellant on an income of Rs. 5,23,417.	Facts
The appellant appealed against this order to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner but his appeal was dismissed.	Facts
He then appealed to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal but was again unsuccessful.	Facts
He has filed the present appeal with special leave of this Court against the judgment and order of the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
5.	None
A preliminary point as to the maintainability of this appeal was taken by learned SolicitorGeneral appearing on behalf of the respondent Commissioner of Incometax, that the appellant having been unsuccessful in availing himself of the other remedy provided in the Act should not be allowed the extraordinary remedy of approaching this Court with special leave.	Arguments of Respondent
Now, under the Incometax Act, the appellant could apply to the Tribunal to refer to a High Court any question of law that arose out of the formers decision.	Reasoning
The Act itself gave no right of appeal at all from that decision, nor any other remedy against it.	Reasoning
The appellant had applied to the Tribunal for an order referring certain questions arising out of its decision to the High Court at Calcutta but was unsuccessful in getting an order for reasons to be presently stated.	Reasoning
The Tribunal was in Calcutta.	Reasoning
The appellant who was in Delhi, asked a firm of Incometax practitioners named S. K. Sawday and Co. in Calcutta, to move the Tribunal for an order of reference.	Reasoning
Sawday and Co. had the necessary petition and papers prepared.	Reasoning
They sent these to the appellant at Delhi by post on January 5, 1953, for his signature and the papers reached Delhi on January 7, 1953.	Reasoning
The appellant who was then the Defence Minister of the Government of India, was at the time away from Delhi on official tour.	Reasoning
Immediately on his return from tour he signed the papers and on January 21/22,1953, sent them from Delhi by post to Sawday and Co. in Calcutta.	Reasoning
The papers reached Calcutta on January 24, 1953, but were not delivered to Sawday and Co. before January 28, 1953, due to a postmans default as was admitted by the postal authority concerned.	Reasoning
Sawday and Co. filed the petition in the Tribunal on the same date but that was one day too late as it should have been filed on January 27, 1953.	Reasoning
The Tribunal thereupon dismissed the application as having been made out of time.	Reasoning
The appellant appealed against this dismissal to the High Court at Calcutta but the High Court dismissed the appeal.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, the appellant moved this court for special leave to appeal and asked for condonation of delay in moving this Court, placing before it all the facts which we have earlier mentioned.	Reasoning
This Court on a consideration of these facts condoned the delay and granted special leave.	Reasoning
There was no attempt by the appellant to overreach or mislead the Court and the Court in its discretion gave the leave.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, we are unable to agree with the contention that the appellant is not entitled to proceed with this appeal, because he could have availed himself of the remedy provided by the Act and was by his own conduct, unable to do so.	Reasoning
This Court had in spite of this thought fit to grant leave to the appellant to appeal from the decision of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Further the learned counsel for the appellant intends to confined himself to questions of law arising from the judgment of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
We, therefore, see no reason why the appeal should not be heard.	None
6.	None
The main question in this appeal is whether the proceedings taken against the appellant under S. 34 of the Act were valid.	Issue
That section has been amended but we are concerned with it as it stood on April 10, 1948, when the notice under it was issued.	Issue
7. The first point is that the proceedings under S. 34 could not be taken by the Incometax Officer, Delhi.	None
It is said that the proceedings under that section are only a continuation of the original assessment proceedings, and therefore, it is the Officer who made the original assessment order or his successor in office, who alone could start the fresh proceedings.	None
It is hence contended that it is the Incometax Officer, Lahore who could proceed against the appellant under S. 34 and the Incometax Officer, Delhi had no jurisdiction to do so.	None
The contention then comes to this that in the circumstances of this case, no proceedings under S. 34 could be taken against the appellant in India at all.	None
8.	None
The learned SolicitorGeneral said that this was an objection as to the place of assessment under S. 64 of the Act, and could not be entertained as it had not been taken within the time provided under the second proviso to subsec.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) of that section.	None
If that proviso applied to the present case, the appellant had to raise the objection that proceedings under S. 34 could not be taken at Delhi within the thirtyfive days mentioned in the notice under the section.	Reasoning
It is said that this had not been done.	Reasoning
It seems to us however that the proviso would apply only if an objection to a place of assessment had been taken under S. 64 and the objection that the appellant has taken in this case is not one under that section.	Reasoning
That section applies where the assessment can be made in one place or another in India and an objection is taken to one of such places.	Reasoning
Here the contention is that the assessment under S. 34 can be made only in Lahore and therefore cannot be made in India at all.	Reasoning
To such a contention S. 64 has no application.	Reasoning
The SolicitorGenerals point must therefore fail.	None
9.	None
We are however of the opinion that the contention of the appellant is without foundation.	Reasoning
Section 34 provides that in the case mentioned in it, the income may be assessed or reassessed and the provisions of the Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice issued under the section had been issued under S. 22 (2) of the Act.	Reasoning
Now the place where an assessment is to be made pursuant to a notice under S. 22(2) has to be determined under S. 64.	Reasoning
Indeed that is the only provision in the Act for deciding the proper place for any assessment.	Reasoning
There is nothing which makes S. 64 inapplicable to an assessment made under S. 34.	Reasoning
Therefore, it seems to us clear, that the place where an assessment under S. 34 can be made has to be decided under S. 64.	Reasoning
Now the appellant was not carrying on any business, profession or vocation.	Reasoning
He was working as the Defence Minister of Government of India and residing in Delhi.	Reasoning
He could be properly assessed by the Incometax Officer, Delhi under S. 64 (2) if the assessment was the original assessment .	Reasoning
This is not in dispute.	Reasoning
It follows that no objection can legitimately be taken by the appellant to his assessment under S. 34 by the Incometax Officer, Delhi.	Reasoning
10.	None
We find nothing in the two cases cited by Mr. Sastri, who appeared for the appellant, to support the contention that in this case the assessment under S. 34 could not have been made in India at all.	Reasoning
In neither of these cases any question as to the place of assessment under S. 34 or any other section arose.	Reasoning
In the first, C. V. Govindarajulu v. Commissioner of Incometax, Madras, ILR (1949) Mad 624 (AIR 1949 Mad 399 ), it was held that the proceedings under S. 34 and the original assessment proceedings were not separate and therefore in the former, a penalty could be levied under S .28 for failure to submit a return pursuant to a general notice under S. 22(1) on which the latter were deemed to have commenced.	Reasoning
It does not follow that because the two assessments are not separate for certain purposes, the latter must take place only where the first had been made.	Reasoning
In the second, Lakshminarain Bhadani v. Commissioner of Incometax, B and O., 195120 ITR 594 (AIR 1953 SC 429 ) this Court held that a proceeding under S. 34 may be taken against a karta of a Hindu undivided family to reopen an original assessment on the family, though in the meantime, there had been a disruption of the family and an order in respect of it had been passed under S. 25A(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
It was said that the position was as if the Incometax Officer was proceeding to assess the income of the Hindu undivided family as in the year of assessment.	Reasoning
This of course does not mean that the assessment under S. 34 must take place at the place where the original assessment was made or not at all.	Reasoning
11.	None
Then it is said that the Incometax Officer reassessed the appellants income under S. 34 on the basis that part of it, namely, the dividend that became liable to be included in the appellants income under S. 23A, had escaped assessment.	Reasoning
It is contended that on a proper reading of S. 34 this would not be a case of income escaping assessment because that section applies to income actually escaping assessment and not to income deemed to have escaped assessment which is all that has happened in the present case.	Reasoning
It is said that in order that income may escape assessment there must in fact have been an income.	Reasoning
It is also said that in order to apply S. 34 to this case two fictions have to be resorted to, namely, (a) bringing an income into existence where none existed and (b) holding that that income has escaped assessment where no income actually did so.	Reasoning
It is argued that the language of S. 34 does not permit two fictions being created, and that as the section reopens a closed transaction, it must be strictly construed.	Reasoning
12.	None
Reliance was placed on certain decisions in support of this contention.	None
First, we were referred to two English cases, namely, Dodworth v. Dale, (1936) 20 Tax Cas 285 and D. and G. R. Rankine v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1952)	None
32 Tax Cas 520.	None
These cases do not assist the appellant for they were not concerned with a statutory provision like S. 23A on which the present case turns and which requires that an assessee would be deemed to have received a certain income on a specified date in the past and also requires that income to be included in his total income for assessment to tax.	None
The other case to which we were referred was the decision of this Court in Chatturam Horiram Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, B. and O. 19552	None
SCR 290 at pp. 300, 301 ((S)AIR 1955 SC 619 at p. 623) where it was said that the contention that the escapement from assessment is not to be equated to nonassessment simpliciter, is not without force.	None
This Court however in the very next sentence proceeded to state clearly that it is unnecessary to lay down what exactly constitutes escapement from assessment.	None
The actual decision in this case affords no assistance to the appellant and has not been relied on by him.	None
It is clear from what we have read from the judgment in it that it does not lay down a test to decide when an income may be said to have escaped assessment.	None
13.	None
On its own merits also we are unable to accept the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant.	Reasoning
Section 23A requires that on an order being made under it, the undistributed portion of the assessable income of the company for a year as computed for incometax purposes and after the deductions provided in the section, is to be deemed to have been distributed as dividends amongst the shareholders as at the date of the general meeting, being the meeting at which the accounts for the year concerned were passed, and thereupon, the proportionate share thereof of each shareholder shall be included in the total income of such shareholder for the purpose of assessing his total income.	Reasoning
The section creates a fictional income arising as on a specified date in the past and it does so for the purpose of that income being included in the income of the shareholders for assessment of their incometax.	Reasoning
The income must therefore be deemed to have been in existence on the date mentioned for the purpose of assessment to tax.	Reasoning
It is as if it actually existed then.	Reasoning
Now if the assessment for the relevant year does not included that income, it has escaped assessment.	Reasoning
That is what happened in this case.	Reasoning
Therefore the case is one to which S. 34 would clearly apply.	Reasoning
14.	None
It is said that S. 23A was meant to apply only to cases where pending assessment for any year, an order is made under that section creating a fictional income in that year.	Arguments of Petitioner
We see no reason however so to restrict the operation of the section the words in it do not warrant such restriction.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no limitation of time as to when an order under S. 23A can be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore it can be made at a time when the assessment of the income of the shareholder for the year concerned has been completed.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no reason why that order should not be given effect to by proceedings duly taken under S. 34. 15.	None
We do not also agree that the rejection of the appellants present argument will compel us to raise two fictions.	Reasoning
There is only one fiction, namely, that raised by S. 23A. That fiction having been raised, the income that has thereby to be deemed to exist must be held to have actually escaped assessment.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree that in order to apply S. 34 to an income deemed to exist under S. 23A, we would have to read the former section to cover a case where income has to be deemed to have escaped assessment.	Reasoning
If the income had come into existence, and not been assessed, it has escaped assessment it is not a case where the income has to be deemed to have escaped assessment .In	Reasoning
our view, therefore, the present contention of the appellant must fail and the income deemed to have been received by him by virtue of the order made under S. 23A on June 11, 1947, must be held to have escaped assessment for the year 194445 and his income must therefore be liable to reassessment under S. 34.	Reasoning
16.	None
It is now necessary to refer to one of the reasons on which the judgment of the Tribunal is based.	Reasoning
It was there said that It was incumbent on the Incometax Officer, Calcutta, passing the order under S. 23A to have included the sum of Rs.4,74,370 in the other assessed income of the assessee and to have recomputed the assessable income and the tax thereon.	Reasoning
It was held that the Incometax Officer, Delhi went wrong in having recourse to the provisions of S.34 and making an assessment thereunder but that this amounted to a mere irregularity not vitiating the assessment made under that section.	Reasoning
In the end the Tribunal observed, Anyhow, the Tribunal is empowered to substitute its own order for that of the Incometax Officer and acting under that power we assess the assessee under the provisions of Sec.	Reasoning
23A(1) of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
17.	None
It seems to us that the Tribunal was wrong in the view that it took.	Reasoning
The learned SolicitorGeneral conceded that this is so.	None
We are unable to agree that an assessment could be made under S. 23A. That section does not provide for any assessment being made.	Reasoning
It only talks of the fictional income being included in the total income of the shareholders for the purpose of assessing his total income.	Reasoning
The assessment therefore has to be made under the other provisions of the Act including S. 34, authorising assessments.	Reasoning
In our view, the assessment in this case had been properly made by the Incometax Officer, Delhi under the provisions of S. 34.	None
18.	None
Lastly, it is said that S. 23A is unconstitutional inasmuch as it was beyond the competence of the legislature that enacted it.	Reasoning
This section has been redrafted and amended several times since it was first enacted in 1930.	Reasoning
We are concerned with the section as it stood on June 11, 1947, when the order under it was made in this case.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) of the section in the form that it stood thenand that is the material portion of the section for our purposeswas enacted by Act VII of 1939.	None
It is that subsection which gave the power to make an order that the undistributed portion of the assessable income of the company shall be deemed to have been distributed as dividends and provided that thereupon the proportionate share thereof of each shareholder shall be included in his income for assessment.	Reasoning
The enactment was by the Central legislature which then derived its competence to legislate from the Government of India Act, 1935.	Reasoning
There is no doubt, and neither is it disputed that that subsection had been enacted under the power contained in entry 54 of List 1 in the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act, 1935.	Reasoning
The entry read, Taxes on income other than agricultural income.	Reasoning
The argument of Mr. Sastri is that this entry only authorises legislation for taxing a person on his income under it a law cannot be made taxing one person on the income of another.	Reasoning
19.	None
Mr. Sastri says that in law a company and its shareholders are different persons, a proposition which is indisputable  and therefore S. 23A is incompetent as it purports to tax the shareholders on the income of the company in which they hold shares.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out, and this again is not in dispute, that the section does not give a right to a shareholder on an order being made under it, to realise from the company the dividend, which by the order is to be deemed to have been paid to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says, and this also seems right, that the income remains the income of the company and a shareholder is taxed on a portion of it representing the dividend deemed to have been paid to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	None
In spite of all this it seems to us that the legislation was not incompetent.	Reasoning
Under entry 54 a law could of course be passed imposing a tax on a person on his own income.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that under that entry a law could also be passed to prevent a person from evading the tax payable on his own income.	Reasoning
As is well known the legislative entries have to be read in a very wide manner and so as to include all subsidiary and ancillary matters.	Reasoning
So entry 54 should be read not only as authorising the imposition of a tax but also as authorising an enactment which prevents the tax imposed being evaded.	Reasoning
If it were not to be so read, then the admitted power to tax a person on his own income might often be made infructuous by ingenious contrivances.	Reasoning
Experience has shown that attempts to evade the tax are often made.	Reasoning
21.	None
Now it seems to us that S. 23A was enacted for preventing such evasion of tax.	Reasoning
The conditions of its applicability clearly lead to that conclusion.	Reasoning
The first condition is that the company must have distributed as dividend less than sixty per cent.	Reasoning
of its assessable income after deduction of incometax and supertax payable by it.	Reasoning
The taxing authority must then be satisfied that the payment of a dividend or of a larger dividend than that declared, would, in view of losses incurred in earlier years or the smallness of the profit made, be unreasonable.	Reasoning
Lastly, the section does not apply to a company in which the public are substantially interested or a subsidiary company of a public company whose shares are held by the parent company or by the nominees thereof.	Reasoning
The section provides by an explanation as followsFor the purpose of this subsection, a company shall be deemed to be a company in which the public are substantially interested if shares of the company (not being shares entitled to a fixed rate of dividend, whether with or without a further right to participate in profits) carrying not less than twentyfive per cent.	Reasoning
of the voting power have been allotted unconditionally to, or acquired unconditionally by, and are at the end of the previous year beneficially held by the public (not including a company to which the provisions of this subsection apply), and if any such shares have in the course of such previous year been the subject of dealings in any stock exchange in the taxable territories or in fact freely transferable by the holders to other members of the public.	Reasoning
22.	None
The section thus applies to a company in which at least 75 per cent of the voting power lies in the hands of persons other than the public, which can only mean, a group of persons allied together in the same interest.	Reasoning
The company would thus have to be one which is controlled by a group.	Reasoning
The group can do what it likes with the affairs of the company, of course, within the bounds of the Companies Act.	Reasoning
It lies solely in its hands to decide whether a dividend shall be declared or not.	Reasoning
When therefore in spite of there being money reasonably available for the purpose, it decides not to declare a dividend it is clear that it does so because it does not want to take the dividend.	Reasoning
Now it may not want to take the dividend if it wants to evade payment of tax thereon.	Reasoning
Thus by not declaring the dividend the persons constituting the group in control, could evade payment of super tax, which, of course, is a form of incometax.	Reasoning
They would be able to evade the supertax because supertax is payable on the dividend in the hands of the shareholders even though it may have been paid by the company on the profits out of which the dividend is paid, and because the rate at which supertax is payable by a company may be lower than the rate at which that tax is payable by other assessees.	Reasoning
By providing that in the circumstances mentioned in it, the available assessable income of a company would be deemed to have been distributed as dividend and be taxable in the hands of the shareholders as income received by them, the section would prevent the members of such a group from evading by the exercise of their controlling power over the company, payment of tax on income that would have come to them.	Reasoning
That being so, the section would be within entry 54.	Reasoning
23.	None
In conceivable circumstances the section may work hardship on members of the public who hold shares in such a company but that would not take the section outside the competence of the legislature.	Reasoning
It would still be an enactment preventing evasion of tax.	Reasoning
Considerations of hardship are irrelevant for deciding questions of legislative competence.	Reasoning
24.	None
It is further quite clear that in the absence of a provision like S. 23A it is possible so to manipulate the affairs of a company of this kind as to prevent the undistributed profits from ever being taxed and experience seems to have shown that this has often happened.	None
The following passage from Simons Incometax, 2nd Edn., Vol. 3, P. 341 fully illustrates the situationGenerally speaking surtax is charged only on individuals, not on companies or other bodies corporate.	None
Various devices have been adopted for time to time to enable the individual to avoid surtax on his real total income or on a portion of it, and one method involved the formation of what is popularly called a oneman company.	None
The individual transferred his assets, in exchange for shares, to a limited company, specially registered for the purpose, which thereafter received the income from the assets concerned.	None
The individuals total income for tax purposes was then limited to the amount of the dividends distributed to him as practically the only shareholder, which distribution was in his own control.	None
The balance of the income which was not so distributed, remained with the company to form, in effect, a fund of savings accumulated from income which had not immediately attracted surtax.	None
Should the individual wish to avail himself of the use of any part of these savings he could effect this by borrowing from the company, any interest payable by him going to swell the savings fund and at any time the individual could acquire the whole balance of the fund in the character of capital by putting the company into liquidation.	None
The section prevents the evasion of tax by, among others, the means mentioned by Simon.	None
25.	None
The learned SolicitorGeneral sought to support the competence of the legislature to enact the section also on another ground.	Arguments of Respondent
He said that entry 54 permitted tax on income and contended that it authorised taxing of A on the income of B. He said that, where a shareholder was taxed on the income of the company, the two being considered separate legal entities, the tax was nonetheless on income though the burden of the tax was put on one to whom the income had not accrued or by whom it had not been received and so was within the scope of entry 54.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this contention he referred to B. M. Amina Umma v. Incometax Officer, Kozhikode, (1954) 26 ITR 137 (AIR 1954 Mad 1120 ), Janab Jameelamma v. Incometax Officer, Nagapattnam, (1956) 29 ITR 246 ((S) AIR 1956 Mad 387 ) and C. W. Spencer v. Incometax Officer, City circle II Madras, (1957) 31 ITR 107 ((S)AIR 1957 Mad 133 ).	None
As earlier stated, Mr. Sastri disputes the correctness of this contention.	None
We do not consider it necessary to pronounce on this question or as to the correctness of the decisions cited so far as they support it.	None
In our view, the legislative competence to enact the section can be clearly upheld on the ground that it was to prevent evasion of Incometax and that would be enough to dispose of the argument advanced by Mr. Sastri that the section was an incompetent piece of legislation.	None
26.	None
This appeal therefore fails and it is dismissed with costs.	Decision
27.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
