 B. Sinha, J. INTRODUCTION Whether in view of the provisions of the Burmah Shell (Acquisition of Undertakings in India), Act, 1976 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) the appellant was entitled to a renewal of lease is the short question involved in these appeals.	Issue
FACTUAL BACKGROUND	None
The factual matrix of the matter is being noticed from Civil Appeal No. 1383 of 1999.	None
A deed of lease was executed on or about 22.11.1967 by one Smt.	Facts
Angammal wife of Shri Angappa Chettiar in favour of Burmah Shell Oil Storage Distributing Company Limited (Burmah Shell) in respect of 23 acres and 16 cents of property land situated in the town of Bhavani for a period of twenty years on a quarterly rent of Rs. 300/ for the purpose of erecting an installation and or one or more pumps service filling stations together with overhead underground tanks and other fittings for storage of petroleum products and such other facilities and buildings as the lessee may require and for carrying business is such products through such facilities and other kindered motor accessories or any other trade or business that can conveniently be carried on in the demised premises.	Facts
The original lessor allegedly executed a will bequeathing the said site to her grandson Meenashisundaram, who expired on 3.11.171 whereafter rent used to be paid to the guardian and mother of the said Meenashisundaram, Smt.	Facts
G. Chellammal.4.	Facts
The appellant herein claimed itself to be a tenant in respect of the said premise relying on or on the basis of the provisions of the said Act.	Facts
It is not in dispute that the lessor by a notice dated 4.2.1987 purported to terminate the tenancy calling upon the appellant herein to quit and deliver the peaceful and vacant possession as per terms of the lease dead.	Facts
In reply to the said notice, the appellant herein in terms of letter dated 26.2.1987 addressed to its advocate invoked the provisions of Sections 5(2) and 7(3) of the Act stating that it had no intention to vacate the site on the expiry of the existing lease on 30.6.1987 and wish to continue occupying the same for a period of twenty years from 1.7.1987 by paying the existing rental of Rs. 500/ per quarter.	Facts
By reason of letter dated 19.5.1987, the appellant herein exercised its option to renew the lease for a further period of twenty years commencing from 1.7.1989 on the same terms and conditions on which the Burmah Shell held the lease immediately prior to the appointed day.	Facts
It was requested May we therefore request you to let us know when it will be convenient for you to have the lease registered on terms similar to those existing in the current lease.	Facts
On receipt of your advice in this matter, we shall take further action.	Facts
Despite the said letter, the tenancy was purported to have been terminated and as the appellant did not quit and deliver possession unto the lessor on expiry of the said period of lease, a suit was filed in the Court of the District Munsif, Bhawani.	Facts
It appears that the appellant herein had also filed a suit for specific performance of contract which was not pressed.	None
The learned Munsif decreed the suit holding, inter alia, that although in terms of Section 5 of the Act, the lease may be renewed for the same period but as per Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act, necessary documents had to be executed by the company.	Facts
An appeal there against by the appellant herein was dismissed by the District Judge, Erode.	Facts
The appellant herein filed a second appeal before the High Court of Madras which was also dismissed stating It is clear that the suit filed for renewal of the lease was only subsequent to expiry of the lease and as such it cannot be said that the affidavit he has taken steps for the renewal of the lease, especially when he kept quiet for nearly 3 years without taking any steps, in spite of the filing of the suit by the appellant.	Facts
It cannot be said that the filing of the suit was be construed as step being taken for the renewal.	Facts
When the suit for recovery of possession is pending, as soon as filing of suit for renewal of the lease, the appellant ought to have taken steps for joint trial.	Facts
He has allowed two suits to be proceed with, independently.	Facts
That means, he wanted to take a chance before both the courts below.	Facts
This conduct of the appellant cannot be appreciated.	Facts
Hence, I do not find any error in the findings of the Courts below that the appellant has not taken any steps to get the lease renewed prior to the expiry of the lease.	Facts
Hence, the second appeal is dismissed.	Facts
Consequently, CMP 8085 of 1998 is also dismissed.	None
Hence this appeal.	None
SUBMISSIONS Mr. K. Ramamoorthy, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the appellant would submit that the High Court went wrong in passing the impugned judgment holding that Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act was attracted in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would urge that the provisions of the said Act, having regard to Section 11 thereof, shall prevail over the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would submit that the provisions of Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act and Section 5(2) of the said Act should be read together so as to come to conclusion that a registered instrument is required to be executed even if the appellant exercised its option to renew the said lease.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, the learned counsel would contended that keeping in view the fact that a paltry sum had been paid by way of rent for a long time, this Court with a view to do complete justice between the parties, may not interfere with the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
STATUTORY PROVISIONS	None
The Parliament enacted that Act which came into force on or about 24.1.1976, in terms whereof the right, title and interest of Burmah Shell in relation to its undertakings in India stood transferred to and vested in the Central Government.	None
The effect of such vesting is stated in Section 4 of the Act whereby and whereunder, inter alia, all aspects rights, powers, authorities and privileges and all property, movable and immovable vested in the Central Government.	None
By reason of subsection (1) of Section 5 of the Act where any property was held in India by Burmah Shell under any lease or under any right of tenancy, the Central Government became the lessee and tenant, as the case may be, in respect thereof as if the lease or tenancy in relation to such property had been granted to it and thereupon all the rights under such lease or tenancy was to be deemed to have been transferred to, and vested in the Central Government.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 5 of the Act provides that on the expiry of the term of any lease or tenancy referred to in subsection (1), such lease or tenancy was, if so desired by the Central Government, to be renewed on the same terms and condition on which the lease and tenancy was held by Burmah Shell immediately before the appointed day.	None
Appointed day has been defined to mean the date of commencement of the said Act which, as noticed hereinbefore, has been specified on 24.1.1976.	None
Section 7 of the said Act provides for the Central Government to direct vesting of the undertakings of the Burmah Shell in a Government company.	None
It is not in dispute that an appropriate notification in terms of subsection (1) of Section 7 has been issued in favour of the appellant herein.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 7 provides that the provisions of subsection (2) of Section 5 shall apply to a lease or tenancy which vests in a Government company as tenancy in the Central Government and reference therein to the Central Government shall be construed as the reference to the Government company.	None
Section 11 of the Act provides for a nonobstante clause stating that the provisions thereof shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than the said Act.	None
FINDINGS The said Act is a special statute visavis the Transfer of Property Act which is a general statute.	None
By reason of the provisions of the said Act, the right, title and interest of Burmah Shell vested in the Central Government and consequently upon the appellant Company.	None
A lease of immovable property is also an asset and or right in an immovable property.	None
The leasehold right, thus, held by Burmah Shell vested in the appellant.	None
By reason of subsection (2) of Section 5 of the Act, a right of renewal was created in the appellant in terms whereof in the event of exercise of its option, the existing lease was renewed for a further term on the same terms and conditions.	None
As noticed hereinbefore, Section 11 of the Act provides for a nonobstante clause.	None
As would appear from the preamble of the Transfer of Property Act, the same applies only to transfer by act of parties.	None
A transfer by operation of law in not validated or invalidated by anything contained in the Act.	None
A transfer, which takes place by operation of law, therefore, need not meet the requirement of the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act or India Registration Act.	None
The said Act is a special statute.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 5 thereof mandates that in the event the appellant desires to renew the lease or tenancy, the same would be renewed on the same terms and conditions on which the lease or tenancy was held by Burmah Shell immediately prior to the appointed day.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 5 of the Act provides for a legal fiction in terms whereof the appellant herein became a lessee in respect of the leasehold.	None
A legal fiction, as is wellknown, must be given its full effect (See Bhavnagar University vs. Palitana Sugar Mill (P) Ltd. and others, (2003) 2 SCC 111 ).	None
Subsection (2) of Section 5 of the Act is imperative in character and must be construed as such.	None
The maxim generalia specialibus on derogant meaning thereby that general things do not derogate special things shall, thus, apply in the instant case and in that view of the matter ad admittedly the appellant herein has expressed its desire to renew the lease, subsection (2) of Section 5 read with subsection (3) of Section 7 thereof shall be attracted.	None
(See Indian Handicrafts Emporium and others vs. Union of India and others (2003) 7 SCC 589 ), D.R. Yadav and Another vs. R.K. Singh and another (2003) 7 SCC 110 ), Union of India and others vs. B.N. Jha, (2003) 4 SCC 531 ), Ashok Leyland Ltd. vs. State of Tamil Nadu and another (2004) (1) SCALE 224 ) and M.P. Vidyut Karamchari Sangh vs. M.P. Electricity Board (Civil Appeal No. 2510 of 2002) disposed of on 18.3.2004.	None
Furthermore, Section 11 of the Act provides for a nonobstante clause.	None
An overriding effect, therefore, has been given thereby over all other laws for the time being in force.	None
In Aswini Kumar Ghose and Another vs. Arabinda Bose and Another (AIR 1952 SC 369 ), it was observed The enacting part of a statute must, where it is clear, be taken to control the non obstante clause where both cannot be read harmoniously, for, even apart from such clause, a later law abrogate earlier, laws clearly inconsistent with it.	None
Posteriores leges priores contrarias abrogant (Broomes Legal Maxims, Edn. 10 p. 347).	None
Here, s. 2 entitles every Advocate of the Supreme Court as of right to practice in any High Court in India.	None
We, therefore, are of the opinion that the legislative scheme contained in the said Act leads to only one conclusion that if Government company expresses its desire to renew the lease, the same would stand renewed on the same terms and conditions.	Reasoning
Section 5(2) and Section 7(3) of the Act are required to be given its purposive meaning, having regard to the object and purport the statute seeks to achieve.	None
The Central Government by reason of the provisions of the said Act acquired running business undertakings dealing in distribution and marketing of petroleum products.	Reasoning
The leases or tenancy for outlets are, therefore, continued to be kept with the Central Government or the Government company, as the case may be, so that no let or hindrance is placed in the matter of distribution of the products from established retails outlets, unless alternate arrangements are made.	Reasoning
Having regard to the object of the Act, as noticed hereinbefore, it is difficult to agree with the submission of the learned counsel for the respondents to the effect that the expression mere desire by the Central Government or the appellant was not enough and they were required to show something more, as for example existence of need for renewal of the lease.	Reasoning
The central Government of the Government company is a state within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
There are required to act fairly.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the respondents herein that desire to get the lease renewed was actuated by any malice or illwill or the same was otherwise unfair and unreasonable.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, it is difficult to construe Section 5(32) of the Act as not laying down a law not contemplating automatic renewal of the lease.20.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Transfer of Property Act have no application in a case where a transfer of property takes place by operation of law.	None
In Harishchandra Hegde vs. State of Karnataka and others 2004(1)	None
SCALE 48, it was held By reason of an order passed under Section 4 of the Act, the lands are directed to be restored in the event the illegalities specified therein are discovered.	None
The consequences contained in Section 5 of the Act applies automatically in the event an order under Section 4 of the Act is passed.	None
Section 4 of the Act contains a nonobstante clause.	None
The said provision would, thus, apply notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement or any other Act for the time being in force.	None
The Act is a special Act whereas the Transfer of Property Act is a general Act and in that view of the matter also Section 51 of the Transfer of Property Act will have no application and the consequences contained in Section 5 would prevail.	None
Section 51 of the Transfer of Property Act applies to inter vivos transfers.	None
It, as noticed hereinbefore, does not apply to a transfer made by operation of law.	None
If a judicial order is passed restoring the land back to a member of Scheduled Tribes in terms of the purport and object of the statute, the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act cannot be applied in such a case.	None
The matter is governed by a special statute.	None
Unless there exists a provision therein, an order passed there under cannot be supplanted or supplemented with reference to another statute.	None
CONCLUSION	None
For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgments cannot be sustained and are set aside accordingly.23.	None
Before parting with this case, we may, however, place on records the statements made by Mr. M.A. Krishna Moorthy to the effect that the appellant is not interested in having the second renewal and the possession of leasehold shall be handed over the respondent herein on the expiry of the tenure of the renewed lease i.e. tenure of the lease.	Reasoning
With a view to do complete justice between the parties, in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, we direct that the appellant herein shall pay a sum of equivalent to 10 times of the original rental with effect from the date on which the original deed of lease expired.	Reasoning
This order shall, however, not be treated as a precedent.	Reasoning
These appeals are allowed on the aforementioned terms.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
