 Chinnappa Reddy, J. The International Airport Authority was constituted by Act 43 of 1971 to administer the Airports of Bombay (Santacrus) Calcutta (Dum Dum), Delhi Palam and Madras Meenamabakkam.	Facts
The Petitioners and respondents Nos. 3, 5, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15 were appointed on various dates, in the year 1972 and later as Airport Terminal Managers.	Facts
In 1972 the organisation of an Airport Management consisted of an Airport Director at the apex a Deputy Director immediately below him, an Airport Officer below the Deputy Director and Terminal Managers, Executive Engineers, Accounts Officer, Assistant Personnel Offices, etc., below the Airport Officer.	Facts
The scale of pay of a Terminal Manager was Rs. 350900 subsequently revised to Rs. 6501200.	None
The scale of pay of an Airport Officer was Rs. 400950 (subsequently revised to Rs. 7001300).	None
The duties of Airport Terminal Manager and Airport Officer were prescribed respectively in Circular Nos. 173174	None
Ops. dated August 30, 1974, and 173174 Ops. dated April 8, 1974.	None
Though it was claimed by the learned counsel for the petitioners that the duties of a Terminal Manager and an Airport Officer were the same a perusal of the two circulars reveals that it is not so in fact.	Facts
The circular prescribing the duties and responsibilities of a Terminal Manager expressly mentions that Terminal Manager will have to maintain very close liaison and seek the directionsinstructions in dealing with matters from the Airport Director Deputy Director Airport Officer as the case may be clearly indicating that Airport Officer was superior and Terminal Manager was subordinate in status.	Facts
The Terminal Manager is responsible for ensuring cleanliness of the Terminal Building and surrounding areas and to take periodical checks of the operational areas to see that runway, etc., are clear of hazards of aircraft movement.	Facts
They have to maintain liaison with airlines and Government Officers to collect information regarding aircraft movements.	Facts
The have to take possession of unclaimed lost property and to make the same over to the Airport Director.	Facts
They are required to keep a check on the distribution and sale proceeds of Airport admission tickets, car park admission tickets, etc.	Facts
They are to maintain liaison with local police and security forces.	Facts
The are required to check V.I.P. and V.V.I.P. lounges to keep them neat.	Facts
They are to check the suggestion box from time to time.	Facts
They are also to maintain discipline of the staff placed under them.	Facts
They are required to report to the Airport Director all events of unusual occurrence.	Facts
They are also required to perform any other duties that may be assigned to them by the Airport Directors.	Facts
On the other hand the Airport Officer is required to assist the Director and Deputy Director in the day to day running of the maintenance of the Airport runways, etc.	Facts
He is required to inspect the lighting systems and power generation sets and to check the efficient functioning of crash, fire and rescue services.	Facts
He is to be incharge of Coordination with all authorities, agencies for safety of aircraft operations.	Facts
He is expected to take preventive measures against bird hazards, cattle and dog nuisance.	Facts
He is to check the revenue from admission fees and passenger service fees at the Airport.	Facts
He is to keep liaison with all Government Departments.	Facts
He is to maintain discipline and orderly movement of vehicular traffic.	Facts
He is to inspect and check the functioning of various passengers amanitas and services, the functioning of P.A. system, Air craft Movement Boards etc. etc.	Facts
A comparison of the duties and responsibilities of the Terminal Manager with the duties and responsibilities of an Airport Officer clearly reveals that they are by no means the same and the duties and responsibilities of an Airport Officer are of a supervisory character, endowed with greater responsibility.	Facts
2.	None
The International Airport Authority of India at its meeting held on December 23, 1975 decided to accept the recommendations of a Task Force appointed by it to consider the question of reorganisation and rationalisation of the existing set up at the Airport and Head quarters.	Facts
According to the decision which was taken on December 23, 1975 there was to be an Airport Director at the top, next to him a Deputy Directors and below him Airport Officers, Executive Engineers etc.	Facts
There were to be five Airport Officers ops., instead of the existing single Airport Officer at the Bombay Airport.	Facts
Five posts of Terminal Manager at the Bombay were to be abolished.	Facts
Officers known as E and M Officers were to be redesignated, as also the Accounts Officer.	Facts
Similarly at the Airport of Delhi, Calcutta and Madras the number of Airport Officers ops was to be raised from one to five, from one to four, and from one to three respectively and the posts of Terminal Managers in all the Airports were to be abolished, five at Delhi, four at Calcutta and three at Madras.	Facts
The port previously called E and M Officers and Accounts Offices were to be redesignated.	Facts
The duties of Airport Officer Operation were stipulated in these terms they will be responsible for all operational management on the air side and terminal including facilitation management with Assistant Apron Controllers to assist them.	Facts
They will work directly under Deputy Directors.	Facts
3.	None
Even before the Board of the International Airport Authority passed its resolution accepting the scheme of reorganisation proposed by the Task Force, two posts of Airport Officers Operations were advertised in September, 1974.	Facts
Among other applicants for the posts there were ten out of the fourteen Airport Terminal Manager then employed.	Facts
After considering the rival merits of all applicants and interviewing them a common panel for the posts of Airport Offices Operations, Airport Officers Apron Control was prepared.	Facts
Four out of the ten Airport Terminal Managers who had applied were included in the panel.	Facts
After the approval of the proposal for rationalisation and reorganisation, the posts of Airport Officer Apron Control were abolished and those posts were cavorted into posts of Airport Officers Operations.	Facts
Appointments to some of the posts of Airport Officers Operation were made from the panel.	Facts
In order to facilities the absorption and appointment of the remaining Terminal Managers (which posts were abolished) as Airport Officers, a general mental ability and aptitude test was held.	Facts
The petitioners and various other employees of the International Airport Authority appeared at the aptitude test and were selected.	Facts
There after they were appointed as Airport Officers ops.	Facts
In December, 1977, a seniority list of Airport Officers was published and the complaint of the petitioners is that although they were senior to some of the respondents as Terminal Managers and had entered the service of the International Airport Authority long before the appointment of the remaining respondents as Airport Officers, they were placed below the respondents in the seniority list.	Facts
4. One of the principal submissions made by Smt.	None
Shyamla pappu, learned counsel for the petitioners was that the appointment of the respondents as Airport Officers ops was made at a time when there was no sanction for such posts and therefore, their appointment was illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Other reasons were also advanced in support of the claim that the respondents were irregularly appointed as Airport Officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are afraid that it is rather late in the day for the petitioners to question the appointment of the respondents as Airport Officers ops.	Reasoning
The respondents were appointed as Airport Officers in 1975 and the present writ petitions were filed in 1978.	None
We do not think we will be justified in reopening the question of the legality of the appointment of respondents as Airport Officers several years after the the appointment.	Issue
We also notice that the prayer in the Writ Petitions also is confined primarily to the seniority list and consequences flowing from the seniority list.	Issue
5.	None
The next submission of smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shyamla pappu was that Terminal Manager and Airport Officers were discharging the same duties and that the recommendation of the Task Force was, in effect merely to redesignate them as Airport Officers.	Arguments of Petitioner
ops.	Arguments of Petitioner
The erstwhile Terminal Managers were, therefore, entitled to claim seniority from the respective dates of their initial appointment as Terminal Managers.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have earlier referred to the respective duties of Terminal Managers, Airport Officers (Operations).	None
As already pointed out by us it is not possible to come to the conclusion that Terminal Managers were discharging the same duties as Airport Officers and Airport Officers (ops.)	None
Smt.	Reasoning
Shyamla Pappu relied on a duty roster which showed that Airport Officers (Operations) and Terminal Managers were relileving each other in the performance of their duties.	None
That the Airport Officers were also attending to the duties of Terminal Managers cannot lead to the conclusion that all their duties are identical.	None
For some time during the period before the selection and appointment of the petitioners as Airport Officers Operations they continued to work as Terminal Managers notwithstanding the abolition of those posts.	Reasoning
It was during that period that airport officers and terminal Managers were relieving each other in the performance of their duties.	Reasoning
We are not prepared to hold that this circumstances would entitled the petitioners to claim that they were already performing the duties of Airport Officers (ops.)	Reasoning
and that they were entitled to claim seniority on that basis.	Reasoning
Smt.	Reasoning
Shyamla Pappu also placed reliance on the office note put up by Shri Viswanath according to which the duties and responsibilities of Airport Officers (ops.)	Reasoning
are generally the same as were being performed by the erstwhile Terminal Managers.	Reasoning
Dr. Ananda Prakash, learned counsel for the International Airport Authority drew our attention to the circumstance that the note of the Director of Operation was part of a note file and he placed before us the rest of the file which showed that the Chief of Operations, the Chief of Personnel and the Deputy Director of Personnel disagreed and observed The Airport Officer (Operations) post was created which involves higher responsibilities than those which were shouldered by the Terminal Manager.	Arguments of Respondent
This is evident from the fact that Asstt.	Arguments of Respondent
Apron Controller is to assist them in carrying out the responsibilities.	Arguments of Respondent
The post of Terminal Manager was abolished and persons holding these posts were made to undergo a fresh interview and given specialised training at CATC, Allahabad.	Arguments of Respondent
New persons with requisite qualifications were inducted in the newly created post of Airport Officers (Operations) and on the basis of the marks obtained in the interview board, their seniority was decided upon.	Arguments of Respondent
Since there has been delay in implementation of the Apron Control and the Airport Officers (ops.) have been managing the duties of the Terminal Manager, it cannot be said that the duties of the Airport Officers (ops.) are the same as those of the Terminal Mangers.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
We are, therefore, unable to see any force in the submissions of Smt.	Decision
Shyamla Pappu.	Decision
In the result the Writ Petitions are dismissed but in the circumstances there is no order as to costs.	Decision
