 VERMA,	None
J. This appeal by special leave is against the judgment dated January 7, 1981, in Writ Petition No. 1248 of 1977 of the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court.	Issue
The special leave has been confined only to the question of liability of the appellant, the Life Insurance Corporation, to pay interest for the period after date of maturity of the insurance policy, in case of delay in payment.	Issue
Accordingly, this is the only question arising for decision in this appeal.	Facts
The writ petition in the High Court was filed by Smt.	Facts
Kamalaba G. Ranade, wife of Gangadhar Vishwanath Ranade of Nagpur.	Facts
The said G. V. Ranade took four policies on his own life from the Life Insurance Corporation of India (hereinafter referred to as the LIC) during the period 1958 to 1960.	Facts
These policies were paid up and the particulars thereof including their paid up value payable on the date of maturity are as under Policy number Sum assured Paid up value Date of maturity 19620636 10, 000.00 3415.70 14091972 13932229 3, 500.00 1118.65 28121973 13969144 5, 000.00 892.20 9111975 13972300 2, 000.00 557.70 21121975.	Facts
In April, 1969, G. V. Ranade assigned absolutely all these four insurance policies in favour of his wife, Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade, and the assignment to made was duly registered by the LIC as under In registering this assignment, the Corporation makes no admission as to its validity	Facts
Nagpur Sd  Dated April 8, 1969 P. Divisional Manager	None
It appears that there were some income tax dues against the said G. V. Ranade for recovery of which the Income tax Officer had commenced recovery proceedings.	Facts
Prior to the date of maturity of these policies, the Income tax Officer on January 27, 1971, issued a notice under section 226(3) of the Income tax Act, 1961, to the manager of the LIC at Nagpur directing the LIC to pay to the ITO forthwith any amount due from the LIC to or, held by the LIC for or on account of the said G. V. Ranade to meet the amount due from G. V. Ranade as arrears of income tax.	Facts
This notice further mentioned the consequences envisaged by section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.	Facts
The Divisional Manager of the LIC at Nagpur intimated the fact of receipt of the notice under section 226(3) of the Income tax Act, 1961, to the assignee of these policies, Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade, suggesting that she take steps to get the notice vacated in order to safeguard her interest in the policies.	Facts
The further correspondence in this behalf between the Income tax Officer, the LIC and the assignee shows that the Incometax Officer required the LIC to deposit the amount of Rs. 3415.70 payable against the first policy which was to mature on September 14, 1972, and the LIC kept the assignee informed of this demand by the ITO adding in its letter dated July 27, 1972, to the assignee that the moneys due under the policies will be paid to her only after your getting the notice served on us by the Income tax Officer vacated.	Facts
This was reiterated by the Life Insurance Corporation in its letter dated August 11, 1972, to the assignee.	Facts
The assignee sent a notice dated August 21, 1972, to the Life Insurance Corporation reiterating that the policies had been absolutely assigned to her as admitted by the Life Insurance Corporation as a result of which the amount payable against the same had to be paid only to her since the amount was not held by the Life Insurance corporation for or on account of G. V. Ranade.	Facts
The Life Insurance corporation was also require by this notice to take the necessary steps for revocation of the Income tax Officers notice and to make the payment due in respect of all these policies to the assignee.	Facts
The assignee sent a similar notice to the Income tax Officer asserting her claim as the assignee to get the moneys payable under the policies.	Facts
The Income tax Officer in a letter dated July 28, 1972, addressed to the Life Insurance Corporation had added that the alleged transfer of policies by G. V. Ranade to his wife are void with an intention to defraud the Revenue and the case falls within the mischief of section 281 of the Income tax Act, 1961 and the Life Insurance Corporation was requested to withhold any payment to Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade till further communication from the Income tax Officer.	Facts
On September 5, 1972, Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade filed a writ petition (S.C.A. No. 861 of 1972) in the High Court of Bombay impleading the Life Insurance Corporation and the Income tax Officer as respondents therein claiming several reliefs which are mentioned at pages 33 to 35 of the paper book.	Facts
The reliefs included a direction to the Life Insurance Corporation for payment of Rs.	Facts
3415.70 due on September 14, 1972, on maturity of the first policy to Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade and also to make a statement on oath as contemplated by Section 226(3) of the Income tax Act, 1961, that no part of the said amount is due to G. V. Ranade not does the Life Insurance Corporation hold any part of the sum for or on account of G. V. Ranade.	Facts
This writ petition was dismissed in limine by the High Court on September 14, 1972.	Facts
The amount of Rs. 3415.70 payable against the first policy which matured on September 14, 1972, was paid by the Life Insurance Corporation to the Income tax Officer.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade filed an appeal (C.A. No. 373 of 1973) by special leave in this Court against the dismissal of her writ petition by the Bombay High Court.	Facts
That appeal was disposed of by this Court on October 6, 1975, as under On behalf of the Life Insurance Corporation of India, Mr. Rathi stated that he would file the necessary statement on oath in accordance with subclause (vi) of clause (3) of Section 226 of the Income tax Act, 1961, and file it in court within two months from today stating that no sum of money is due to the assessee, insured person, before the Income tax Officer.	Facts
It will thereafter be open to the Income tax Officer to take such other proceedings as he might consider necessary in order to realise the amounts due from the assessee.	Facts
It is, however, stated that in respect of one policy, the Life Insurance Corporation has already paid the money to the Income tax Officer.	Facts
In respect of that no statement need be made and consequently no order can be made under section 226(3) (vi).	Facts
The appeal is disposed of accordingly.	Facts
There will be no order as to costs.	Facts
In pursuance of the above order of this Court, the Life Insurance Corporation filed on December 5, 1975, the requisite statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, in respect of the remaining three polices.	Facts
It appears that the Income Tax Officer did not revoke the order of attachment in spite of the Life Insurance Corporation making the requisite statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 on December 5, 1975.	Facts
This led to another writ petition (S.C.A. 302 of 1977), filed in the Bombay High Court by Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade praying for a direction to the Income Tax Officer to revoke all notices issued under Section 226(3) to the Life Insurance Corporation and to the Life Insurance Corporation to pay to her the amount due against the polices which had matured.	Facts
On April 4, 1978, counsel for the Income Tax Officer produced before the High Court a copy of the order dated April 1, 1977, passed by the Income Tax Officer withdrawing the notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, and the writ petition was dismissed as withdrawn.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade then promptly sent a notice to the Life Insurance Corporation demanding payment of the total amount due against these four policies together with interest at 15 per cent since the delay in payment had been occasioned by the default of the Life Insurance Corporation.	Facts
Admittedly the Life Insurance Corporation has made the payment of these amounts to Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade in these circumstances.	Facts
The Life Insurance Corporation has not disputed at any stage its liability to pay to Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade the amounts due under these policies.	Facts
However, it has disputed its liability to pay interest thereon for any period after the date of maturity on the ground that the delay was occasioned by the Income Tax Officers notice under section 226(3).	Facts
On the other hand, Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade claimed that the Life Insurance Corporation had wrongfully refused to make the statement as contemplated under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, resulting in delay in payment of the moneys after the maturity of the policies.	Facts
This dispute regarding the Life Insurance Corporations liability to pay interest led to the filing of Writ Petition No. 1248 of 1977 decided on January 7, 1981, which gives rise to this appeal.	Facts
The impugned judgment of the Bombay High Court in Writ Petition No. 1248 of 1977 holds that the two policies having matured on November 9, 1975, and December 21, 1975, i.e., a few days before or after December 5, 1975, when the statement on oath under section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, was made by the Life Insurance Corporation did not qualify for award of such interest which was payable in respect of the first two which had matured much earlier on September 14, 1972 and December 28, 1973.	Facts
For the period commencing from the date of maturity of the policy ending with the performance of the Life Insurance Corporations obligation to make the statement under section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, on December 5, 1975, the Life Insurance Corporation has been held liable to pay interest on the basis of its failure to perform its statutory obligation.	Facts
This view of the High Court on which the award of interest is based is assailed on behalf of the appellant.	Facts
The surviving dispute in this appeal is now only about the Life Insurance Corporations liability for payment of interest on the principal amounts from the date of maturity of the first two policies to December 31, 1975, at the rate of 15 per cent per annum which is alleged to be excessive.	Issue
Broadly stated, the contention of the appellant is that the appellant was not liable to pay any interest for the period during which it was restrained from making the payment on account of the Income Tax Officers notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, and the Income Tax Officer also adding that the matter fell within the ambit of Section 281 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this basis it was urged on behalf of the appellant that the award of interest on the first two policies from the date of their maturity till December 31, 1975 (statement on oath by the Life Insurance Corporation being made only on December 5, 1975), is contrary to law.	Arguments of Petitioner
To support the main contention of the appellant, that it is not liable for payment of any interest for any period after maturity of the policies, Shri P. P. Rao, learned counsel for the appellant advanced several arguments.	Arguments of Petitioner
His first argument is that the Income Tax Officer was a necessary party in the writ petition giving rise to this appeal and in his absence no effective adjudication of this dispute can be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second argument is that the High Court has misconstrued Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, and thereby wrongly fastened the liability for payment of interest up to December 31, 1975, on the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
The third argument is that the principle of res judicata or at least constructive res judicata, as a result of the earlier writ petitions, bars the claim for payment of interest in this writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fourth argument is that the writ petition (S.C.A. No. 302 of 1977) being withdrawn unconditionally without liberty to file a fresh petition, this writ petition (W.P No 1248 of 1977) is not maintainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fifth argument is that the rate of 15 per cent per annum at which interest has been awarded is excessive.	Arguments of Petitioner
The sixth and the last argument is that the appellant has been required to make double payment of Rs. 3415.70 due against the policy which matured on September 14, 1972, inasmuch as the Life Insurance Corporation had already deposited that amount earlier in September, 1972, with the Income Tax Officer in pursuance to the Income Tax Officers demand.	Arguments of Petitioner
In reply, Shri A. K. Sanghi, learned counsel for the respondent contended that the liability for payment of interest has been correctly fastened on the appellant because of its failure to discharge the statutory obligation of making the requisite statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, till December 5, 1975.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued that the Life Insurance Corporation having accepted and registered the absolute assignment made by the insured G. V. Ranade in favour of his wife, Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Kamalabai G. Ranade, it was the duty of the Life Insurance Corporation to promptly make the requisite statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, which it made much later on December 5, 1975, in pursuance to the courts order to enable the Income Tax officer to revoke the notice issued by him under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Sanghi stated that even though the special leave granted by this Court is confined only to the question of interest and, therefore, does not extend to the question of alleged double payment of Rs. 3415.70 by the Life Insurance Corporation yet the respondent concedes that the amount of Rs. 3415.70 deposited by the Life Insurance Corporation with the Income Tax Officer may be refunded by the Income Tax Officer to the Life Insurance Corporation together with interest, if any, payable on refund of that amount and that the respondent does not lay any claim to that amount from the Income Tax Officer having obtained that amount from the Life Insurance Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
We shall first dispose of the last point relating to double payment by the Life Insurance Corporation of the amount of Rs. 3415.70 in view of the express concession made by Shri Sanghi, learned counsel for the respondent that the respondent does not lay any claim to it and that the Life Insurance Corporation may obtain its refund from the Income Tax Officer.	Reasoning
In view of this statement of learned counsel for the respondent, Shri Sanghi, it is sufficient to observe that it would be open to the Life Insurance Corporation to obtain refund of the amount of Rs. 3415.70 deposited by it with the Income Tax Officer together with interest, if any, payable on that refund by the Income Tax department, since it has been conceded that the respondent does not claim that amount from the Income Tax Officer.	Reasoning
We shall now deal with the remaining arguments of Shri Rao, learned counsel for the appellant.	Reasoning
The first argument of learned counsel for the appellant is that the Income Tax Officer was a necessary party in the writ petition giving rise to this appeal.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this contention.	Reasoning
The only claim made in Writ Petition No. 1248 of 1977 decided on January 7, 1981, giving rise to this appeal is for payment of interest by the appellant, and no relief has been sought against the Income Tax Officer.	Reasoning
This being so, for effective adjudication of the Life Insurance Corporations liability towards the respondent, the presence of the Income Tax Officer is not necessary.	Reasoning
The respondents claim is only against the Life Insurance Corporation without any claim being made, in the alternative or otherwise against the Income Tax Officer.	Reasoning
The respondents claim has, therefore, to succeed or fail only on the basis of the Life Insurance Corporations liability visavis the respondent without involving the Income Tax Officer or anyone else in that process.	Reasoning
Merely because the defence of the Life Insurance Corporation was based on an act of the Income tax Officer, it was not incumbent on the respondent to implead the Income Tax Officer, in this proceeding when neither was any relief claimed against the Income Tax Officer nor was any suggestion of the Income Tax Officers liability for payment of interest made in the writ petition.	Reasoning
This argument is, therefore, rejected.	Reasoning
The second argument relating to construction of Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, is in fact, the main argument of Shri Rao and, therefore, we shall consider the same after disposing of the remaining arguments which are shorter points.	Reasoning
The third argument is based on the principle of res judicata and constructive res judicata on the basis of two earlier writ petitions filed by Smt.	None
Kamalabai G. Ranade.	None
The first writ petition was S.C.A. No. 861 of 1972 filed in the Bombay High Court on September 5, 1972, prior to the date of maturity of the first policy claim against which was required to be paid by the Life Insurance Corporation to the assignee, Smt.	None
Kamalabai G. Ranade.	None
This was after issuance of the notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, by the Income Tax officer to the Life Insurance Corporation.	None
One of the reliefs claimed therein was a direction to the Life Insurance Corporation to make a statement on oath as required by section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, that no part of the amount due against the policy maturing on September 14, 1972 was due to the insured, G. V. Ranade, nor did the Life Insurance Corporation hold any part of that sum for or on account of the alleged defaulter.	None
No doubt, some other reliefs including revocation of the notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, were also claimed including payment of the amount together with the accretions thereto.	None
This writ petition being dismissed, Smt.	None
Kamalabai G. Ranade came to this Court by special leave and Civil Appeal No. 373 of 1973 was disposed of by this Courts order dated October 6, 1975, requiring the Life Insurance Corporation to make the necessary statement on oath in accordance with Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act 1961, within two months.	Arguments of Respondent
It is obvious that with this direction requiring the Life Insurance Corporation to make the requisite statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, no further question survived in that writ petition and the consequent civil appeal in this Court since the further questions including payment of interest on the principal amount were to arise only at a subsequent stage.	None
Asking for any other relief was obviously premature at that stage.	None
It is apparently for this reason that this could did not at that stage go into the other questions relating to the further reliefs specified in that writ petition.	None
That decision cannot, therefore, preclude agitation of the question of interest subsequently.	None
The next writ petition filed by Smt.	Facts
Kamalabai G. Ranade was S.C.A. No. 302 of 1977 in the Bombay High Court.	Facts
The prayer made therein was for a direction to the Life Insurance Corporation to pay the principal amount together with interest thereon.	Facts
In this writ petition also, the Income Tax Officer was impleaded as a party.	Facts
This writ petition had to be filed because in spite of the Life Insurance Corporation having made the requisite statement under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, on December 5, 1975, the Income Tax Officer had not withdrawn the notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, issued to the Life Insurance Corporation and, therefore, the Life Insurance Corporation was not making the payment to the respondent.	Facts
On April 4, 1977, that writ petition was dismissed as withdrawn as a result of the Income Tax Officers counsel filing a copy of the order dated April 1, 1977, withdrawing the Income Tax Officers notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 enabling the Life Insurance Corporation to make the payment due against the policies to the respondent.	Facts
The operation of the notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the Income Tax Officer being the only reason given by the Life Insurance Corporation to support its action of nonpayment to the respondent, it was unnecessary to pursue that writ petition when the Income Tax Officer had made the order withdrawing the notice under Section 226(3) of the Act.	Facts
Admittedly, it was in consequence of the withdrawal of the Income Tax Officers notice by order dated April 1, 1977, that payment was actually made by the Life Insurance Corporation to the respondent.	Facts
It is, therefore, difficult to appreciate how the withdrawal of that writ petition can, in any manner, preclude the respondent from raising the question of the Life Insurance Corporations liability to pay interest when the principal amount alone was paid later.	Facts
The Life Insurance Corporation having refused to pay interest on the principal amount in spite of the inordinate delay in payment, Writ Petition No. 1248 of 1977 had to be filed giving rise to this appeal raising only the question of the Life Insurance Corporations liability to pay interest on the principal amount due against the policies.	Facts
The same is, therefore, clearly maintainable and the earlier writ petitions cannot, in any manner, bar the adjudication of this point herein for the reasons already given.	Facts
This contention of learned counsel for the appellant is also, therefore, rejected.	Facts
The fourth contention based on the withdrawal of the writ petition (S.C.A. No. 302 of 1977) being covered by the discussion relating to the third contention, the same is rejected.	Reasoning
The fifth argument relates to the rate of interest.	Reasoning
Shri Rao contended that the award of interest at 15 per cent per annum is excessive even if the Life Insurance Corporation is held liable for payment of interest.	Reasoning
Reference was made by Shri Rao to Section 244 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 providing for payment of interest on refund which prescribed the rate of 12 per cent per annum from July 1, 1972, to October 1, 1984, the increase to 15 per cent per annum being made therein only from October 1, 1984, by amendment of that Section.	Reasoning
It was urged that the period in question in the present case being prior to October 1, 1984, the rate of 15 per cent per annum in excess of the statutory provision of 12 per cent per annum in Section 244 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 is unjustified.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the award of interest, in the present case, for payment by the Life Insurance Corporation is not governed by section 244 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.	Reasoning
Apparently, for this reason, learned counsel for the appellant relied on Section 244 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as of persuasive value.	Reasoning
We are not impressed by this argument.	Reasoning
The High Court has relied on the fact that interest at 15 per cent per annum is reasonable, in the present case, particularly in view of the fact that the Life Insurance Corporation itself charges interest at that rate.	Reasoning
It is sufficient for us to state that there is no material produced, in the present case, to suggest that award of interest at 15 per cent per annum is excessive to permit interference with the rate in this appeal particularly when the High Court has come to the conclusion that this is the reasonable rate.	Reasoning
This argument also is, therefore, rejected.	Reasoning
The only point remaining for consideration now is the construction of Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 the relevant portion of which reads as under Other mode of recovery.  	None
(1) Notwithstanding the issue of a certificate to the Tax Recovery Officer under Section 222, the Income Tax Officer may recover the tax by any one or more of the modes provided in this section (3) (i) The Income Tax Officer may, at any time or from time to time, by notice in writing require any person from whom money is due or may become due to the assessee or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on account of the assessee, to pay to the Income Tax Officer either forthwith upon the money becoming due or being held or at or within the time specified in the notice (not being before the money becomes due or is held) so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the amount due by the assessee in respect of arrears or the would of the money when it is equal to or less than that amount A notice under this subsection may be issued to any person who holds or may subsequently hold any money for or on account of the assessee jointly with any other person and for the purposes of this subsection, the shares of the jointholders in such account shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to be equal A copy of the notice shall be forwarded to the assessee at his last address known to the Income Tax Officer, and in the case of a joint account to all the jointholders at their last addresses known to the Income Tax Officer Save as otherwise provided in this subsection, every person to whom a notice is issued under this subsection, shall be bound to comply with such notice, and, in particular, where any such notice is issued to a post office, banking company or an insurer, it shall not be necessary for any passbook, deposit receipt, policy or any other document to be produced for the purpose of any entry, endorsement or the like being made before payment is made, notwithstanding any rule, practice or requirement to the contrary(v)	None
Any claim respecting any property in relation to which a notice under this subsection has been issued arising after the date of the notice shall be void as against any demand contained in the notice Where a person to whom a notice under this subsection is sent objects to it by a statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the assessee or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the assessee, then, nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to require such person to pay any such sum or part thereof, as the case may be, but if it is discovered that such statement was false in any material particular, such person shall be personally liable to the Income Tax Officer to the extent of his own liability to the assessee on the date of the notice or to the extent of the assessees liability for any sum due under this Act, whichever is less The Income Tax Officer may, at any time or from time to time, amend or revoke any notice issued under this subsection or extend the time for making any payment in pursuance of such notice The Income Tax Officer shall grant a receipt for any amount paid in compliance with a notice issued under this subsection, and the person so paying shall be fully discharged from his liability to the assessee to the extent of the amount so paid Any person discharging any liability to the assessee after receipt of a notice under this subsection shall be personally liable to the Income Tax Officer to the extent of his own liability to the assessee so discharged or to the extent of the assessees liability for any sum due under this Act, whichever is less If the person to whom a notice under this subsection is sent fails to make payment in pursuance thereof to the Income Tax Officer, he shall be deemed to be an assessee in default in respect of the amount specified in the notice and further proceedings may be taken against him for the realisation of the amount as if it were an arrear of tax due from him, in the manner provided in Sections 222 to 225 and the notice shall have the same effect as an attachment of a debt by the Tax Recovery Officer in in Officer in exercise of his powers under Section 222.	None
The argument of learned counsel for the appellant is that on receipt of the Income Tax Officers notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the Life Insurance Corporation was not left with the option to make the payment to assignee of the policies since the Life Insurance Corporation or its officer making the statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) would thereby have been exposed to personal liability as the defaulter of the income Tax dues.	None
It was argued that, in these circumstances, the Life Insurance Corporation could make the payment only after revocation of the notice by the Income Tax Officers order dated April 1, 1977, and, therefore, the Life Insurance Corporation cannot be held liable for payment of interest for any period prior to revocation of the notice.	None
The period for which the Life Insurance Corporation has been held liable to pay interest being prior to revocation of the notice by the Income Tax Officer, it was urged that the same was unjustified.	None
Having given our anxious consideration to the argument, we cannot persuade ourselves to accept the same.	Reasoning
On a close scrutiny of the provision, we find that the benefit claimed by the Life Insurance Corporation is not available to it, in the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
Admittedly, assignment of the policies was made by the insured, G. V. Ranade and the same was duly accepted and registered by the Life Insurance Corporation in April 1969.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, obvious that the Life Insurance Corporation was bound to act on that assignment in favour of Smt.	Reasoning
Kamalabai G. Ranade unless the assignment was held to be invalid by a competent authority in a proper proceeding taken for this purpose.	Reasoning
It is significant that the Life Insurance Corporation never disputed the validity of the assignment and was throughout prepared to act on it.	Reasoning
It is undisputed that the assignment was not declared invalid by any competent authority.	Reasoning
Mere issuance of notice under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 did not have the effect of invalidating the assignment nor did the casual mention of Section 281 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the Income Tax Officer in his letter dated August 28, 1972 result in this consequence.	Reasoning
Any further step towards formation of the final opinion by the Income Tax Officer could be taken only after the Life Insurance Corporation had made the requisite statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 on the basis of the registered assignment of policies.	Reasoning
This act was performed by the Life Insurance Corporation only on December 5, 1975, which led to revocation of the notice under Section 225(3) of the Act, by the Income Tax Officer.	Reasoning
The question is of the liability of the Life Insurance Corporation in these circumstances.	Reasoning
Section 226 consists of several subsection of which subsections (1) and (3) alone are relevant for our purpose.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) enables the Income Tax Officer to recover the tax by any one or more of the further modes provided in this section.	Reasoning
Subsection (3) deals with one such mode where the defaulters money is held by another person.	Reasoning
Clause (i) of subsection (3) enables the Income Tax Officer by notice in writing to require any person from whom money is due or may become due to the assessee or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on account of the assessee to pay to the Income Tax Officer that money or so much of it as is sufficient to pay the dues of the assessee in respect of the arrears of tax.	Reasoning
It is in exercise of this power that the Income Tax Officer had issued the notice to the Life Insurance Corporation in the present case.	Reasoning
Obviously, the Income Tax Officer had assumed that the money payable on maturity of these policies belonged to the insured assessee defaulter, G. V. Ranade, overlooking the duly registered assignment made much earlier in favour of the assessees wife in April 1969.	Reasoning
The further clauses (ii) to (v) of subsection (3) deal with ancillary matters and also provide that any claim in respect of property covered by the notice shall be void after the date of the notice as against the demand contained in the notice.	Reasoning
Clause (vi) is relevant for the present purpose and speaks of the obligation of a person to whom such a notice has been sent.	Reasoning
Clause (vi) relieves the person receiving such a notice from the liability to pay any sum to the Income Tax Officer in obedience to the notice if he objects to it by a statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the assessee or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the assessee.	Reasoning
This clause further provides that if it is discovered that such statement was false in any material particular, such person shall be personally liable to the Income Tax Officer to the extent of the assessees liability on the date of notice.	Reasoning
Clause (vii) then provides, inter alia, for amendment or revocation of the notice issued under this subsection by the Income Tax Officer.	Reasoning
This stage of amendment or revocation of the notice under clause (vii) is reached only after the stage provided in clause (vi), in a case where the notice objects that he does not hold the moneys for or on behalf of the defaulter of tax dues.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, obvious that the question of revocation of the notice under clause (vii) of subsection (3) of Section 226 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 arose in the present case only after the Life Insurance Corporation made the requisite statement on oath under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Act in view of its consistent stand throughout that the moneys due under the policies were held by it for and on behalf of the assignee and not the defaulter.	Reasoning
Mere information of the assignment to the Income Tax Officer and keeping the assignee informed of the Income Tax Officers action did not amount to discharge of the statutory obligation under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Act, by the Life Insurance Corporation.	Reasoning
The statute having expressly provided the mode of raising such an objection in the form of a statement on oath specified in clause (vi), performance of that obligation by the notice had to be made only in that manner.	Reasoning
This statutory obligation was performed by the Life Insurance Corporation only on December 5, 1975, as stated earlier.	Reasoning
The personal liability arising after making the requisite statement on oath as envisaged by clause (vi) is only if it is discovered that such statement was false in any material particular and not otherwise.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant argued that the requisite statement under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, could not be made by the Life Insurance Corporation since it involved the risk of exposing the Life Insurance Corporation or its officer making the statement on oath to personal liability for the income Tax dues of the assessee defaulter, G. V. Ranade.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the first place, such a statement was, in fact, made without hesitation by the Life Insurance Corporation on December 5, 1975, after the assignee was compelled to obtain such a direction in a writ petition filed by her.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, the risk visualised on behalf of the Life Insurance Corporation, in the ultimate analysis, is entirely imaginary and not real.	Arguments of Petitioner
The risk of personal liability envisaged in clause (vi) arises only if it is discovered that such statement was false in any material particular.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, there is no risk of personal liability of the person making the statement on oath unless any material particular mentioned in the statement is false.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statement on oath required to be made by clause (vi) is only that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the assessee or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Life Insurance Corporation itself has taken the stand throughout that the sum demanded by the notice issued under Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the Income Tax Officer did not belong to the assessee inasmuch as it was payable only to the assignee, Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Kamalabai G. Ranade, by virtue of the assignment made, accepted and registered in April, 1969, much earlier to the date of the notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
This being so, the making of this statement on oath of the Life Insurance Corporations own stand which in fact was so made on December 5, 1975 did not involve even remotely the possibility of any risk of personal liability.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, the real risk of the Life Insurance Corporation being treated deemed defaulter assessee under clause (x) of subsection (3) of Section 226 of the Act lay in its failure to pay to the Income Tax Officer after receipt of notice under Section 226(3), the amounts of the matured policies within the time given by the Income Tax Officer or a reasonable time, without objecting to the demand by denying its liability to the assessed in the manner prescribed in clause (vi) thereof, instead of in doing so.	Arguments of Respondent
Prudence also required the Life Insurance Corporation in its own interest, to object to the demand according to clause (vi) instead of refusing or delaying the objection.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument that such a statement was not made since it involved the likelihood of exposing the Life Insurance Corporation or any of its officers to personal liability has, therefore, no merit.	Arguments of Respondent
This being the only reason given by the Life Insurance Corporation to justify the inordinate delay in making the requisite statement under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, it is obvious that this defence is untenable.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsection (3) of Section 226 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 clearly shows that, on a notice thereunder being issued by the Income Tax Officer to the Life Insurance Corporation in the present case, it was incumbent on the Life Insurance Corporation to make the requisite statement on oath under clause (vi) thereof raising an objection on the basis of the registered assignment.	Reasoning
It was then for the Income Tax Officer to proceed further and from his final opinion and revoke the notice under clause (vii).	Reasoning
It was not possible for the assignee of the policies to obtain revocation of the notice by the Income Tax Officer without the requisite statement on oath being made by the Life Insurance Corporation as envisaged in clause (vi) of subsection (3) of Section 226 of the Income Tax Act.	Reasoning
It is obvious that the inordinate delay in making the statement on oath by the Life Insurance Corporation under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 was the result of misconstruction of the provision and misappreciation of its liability thereunder.	Reasoning
Obviously, the assignee of the policies who had become entitled to receive the amounts due thereunder on the dates of their maturity must be compensated by the Life Insurance Corporation for its failure to perform its statutory obligation under Section 226(3)(vi) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 within a reasonable time.	Reasoning
We have no doubt that this is the proper construction of Section 226(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the consequential liability resulting from the failure of the notice to raise the objection in the prescribed manner under clause (vi) thereof within a reasonable time.	Reasoning
Performance of this statutory obligation by the Life Insurance Corporation in the present case, being after inordinate delay, award of interest to the assignee of the policies to whom the payment there under had to be made even according to the stand of the Life Insurance Corporation is, therefore, clearly justified.	Reasoning
This contention which is really the main contention urged on behalf of the appellant, therefore, fails and is rejected.	Reasoning
Consequently, the appeal is dismissed with costs.	Decision
The costs are quantified at Rs. 2000.	Decision
