 Leave granted.2.	None
An Agreement to Sell dated 12th October, 2010 was executed between appellant No.1 and respondent Nos. 1 to 5 for the sale of certain properties.	Issue
Disputes arose between the parties as a result of which a suit for specific performance was filed in the year 2014 by the appellants before us.3.	Issue
In the written statement that was filed in the said suit, a mention was made of an alleged telegram that was sent by the respondents dated 1st November, 2011, referring to cancellation of the aforesaid agreement on 22nd September, 2011.	Facts
As a result of this statement, the plaintiff applied to amend the plaint seeking to add that the alleged cancellation was illegal.	Facts
The trial Court, after hearing both sides, passed an order by which it allowed the amendment in the aforesaid terms7.	None
It is necessary to mention here that plaintiff mention in his application that to avoid any technical complication he wanted to carry out present amendment.	Facts
The ruling cited Supra (SurinderVs Kapoorsingh) is totally applicable to case in hand.	Facts
If present amendment application allowed then no prejudice will be caused to the defendants.	Facts
As discussed above the question regarding limitation so far as concerned is a mixed question of law and fact.	Facts
Considering this, for the purpose of determining the real question in controversies between the parties and to adjudicate the matter on merit, application deserves to be allowed.	Facts
However, in my view filing of this application after framing of issues can be compensated by imposing costs on plaintiffs.	Facts
Hence, I proceed to pass the following order.4.	Facts
It has also stated that this was allowed subject to payment of costs of Rs.	Facts
500/. Against this, a writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India was preferred by the respondents, and by the impugned judgment dated 31st January, 2017, the judgment has set aside the trial Court order which allowed the amendment.	Facts
This was done on two grounds  first, that there is nothing to show that the knowledge of the cancellation only came to the appellants in the year 2014, and second, that what is time barred cannot be allowed even by way of amendment.5.	Facts
The appellants before us have argued that in point of fact, it is clear from their application to amend, that they have stated that as a result of reading the written statement, they came to know about the alleged termination and that, therefore, the High Court was not correct on ground one.	Arguments of Petitioner
Equally, on ground two, learned counsel for the appellants argued that the question of time bar would be a mixed question of law and fact and could not be gone into at this stage.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel on behalf of the respondents has argued before us that the plaintiffs evidence is over and, at this belated stage, we should not, therefore, exercise our discretion under Article 136 of the Constitution of India to set aside the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
He also added that in March, 2016, the appellants had actually chosen to amend their plaint, which amendment was allowed, and at that stage they ought to have moved the present amendment as well, and not having done so, they have missed the bus.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it was argued that since no substantive pleading has been added to the plaint for cancellation, merely adding a prayer would not suffice and that, therefore, the amendment should be disallowed on these grounds.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, we are of the view that there was nothing perverse in the order of the trial Court allowing the amendment.	Reasoning
The High Court was not correct in interfering on the two grounds stated by it.	Reasoning
As was correctly pointed out by learned counsel for the appellants, the application to amend the plaint clearly states that it is only after the written statement was filed that the application to amend has been made as the written statement referred to the alleged cancellation.	Reasoning
Further, as has been held in L.J. Leach Co. Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
v. Messrs. Jardine Skineer Co., AIR 1957 SC 357 and Pirgonda Hongonda Patil v. Kalgonda Shidgonda Patil Ors, AIR 1957 SC 363 , the plea of time bar is not absolute to reject amendments.	Reasoning
As was held in those judgments, time bar is one factor to be considered, and the opposite party can always be compensated in costs, if the amendment is allowed.8.	Reasoning
In the present case, we have seen that costs were also imposed for allowing the amendment.	Decision
This being the case, we set aside the judgment of the High Court and restore the judgment of the trial Court.	Decision
The trial will now proceed in accordance with law.9.	Decision
The appeal is allowed accordingly.	None
