 Sikri, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Madras answering the following question of law in favour of the respondent.	None
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right, in law in holding that the sum of Rs. 84,633 expended by the assessee in obtaining the loan or any part thereof is an allowable expenditure?	Issue
2.	None
The facts and circumstances of the case as stated by the Tribunal in the statement of the case are as follows The appellant, India Cements Limited.	Facts
Madras hereinafter referred to as the assessee is a public limited company.	Facts
The question arises in respect of the assessment year 195051, accounting period April 1, 1949 to March 31, 1950.	Facts
During the accounting year it obtained a loan of 40 lakh, of rupees from the Industrial Finance Corporation of India.	Facts
This loan was secured by a charge on the fixed assets of the company.	Facts
Since, Mr. S. T. Desai the learned counsel for the respondent, has disputed some facts as stated by the Appellate Tribunal, it would be convenient to give these facts in the words of the Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
It is stated in the statement of the case that the proceeds of this loan was utilised to pay off a prior debt of 25 lakhs due to Messrs. A. F. Harvev Limited and Madurai Mills Limited.	Facts
It cannot be stated definitely how the balance of 15 lakhs was used but the directors, while reporting on the accounts for the year ended 31st March, 1949 on 4th October.	Facts
1949 stated that was utilised towards working funds.	Facts
The expenditure of Rs. 84.633 in connection with this loan was made up of the following items Stamps60,023 0 0	Facts
Registration Fee16,067 0 0	None
Charges for certified copy of the mortgage deed28 0 0	None
Indemnity deed by Essen and Company Limited15 0 0	None
Vakils fee drafting deed7,500 0 0	None
Legal fees1,000 0 0 Total84,633 0 0	None
The assessee did not charge this expenditure in the profits and loss account for that year.	Facts
It was shown in the Balance Sheet as mortgage loan expenses.	Facts
It continued to be so shown till March 31, 1952.	Facts
In the accounts for March 31, 1953 this was written off by appropriation against the profits of that year.	Facts
3.	None
The Incometax Officer refused to allow the deduction of Rs. 84,633.	Facts
He observed As per the information furnished by the auditors, Rs. 25 lakhs of the loan was to be paid to Messrs A. F. Harvey Limited and Mathurai Mills Limited in discharge of the amount borrowed from them and utilised on the capital assets of the company.	None
Though in the Companys books the amount of Rs. 84,633 was not charged to revenue but capitalised and carried forward in the Balance Sheet, for purposes of incometax, the Companys auditors claim the same as an admissible item of revenue expenditure.	None
He held that the expenditure was incurred in obtaining capital and should be distinguished from interest on borrowed capital which was alone admissible as a deduction under S. 10(2)(iii).	Facts
According to him, S. 10(2)(xv) specifically excluded from consideration any item of capital expenditure.	Facts
He further held that the case was not distinguishable from the decision in Nagpur Electric Light and Power Co. v. Commr. of Incometax Central Provinces, (1931) 6 ITC 28 (Nag).	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with the Incometax Officer.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal distinguished the case of (1931) 6 ITC 28 (Nag) on the ground that in the Nagpur Electric Light case, (1931) 6 ITC 28 (Nag) money was expended for obtaining capital.	Facts
It observed as follows Here we find the position to be different A study of the balancesheets of the company as at 31st march, 1949 discloses the fact that the paidup capital was sufficient to cover the entire capital outlay of the company and that the further borrowal of Rs. 25 lakhs was for augmenting the working funds of the company.	Facts
It appears to us that even at that early stage the money was borrowed and used not for capital purposes but for augmenting the working funds of the company.	Facts
We therefore, consider that the whole of the mortgage loan was used firstly to discharge the loan of Rs. 25 lakhs and the balance for working funds and, as such, the whole of the amount was purely for the purposes of augmenting the working capital of the company and that it could not be stated that it was used for capital purposes.	Facts
In this view of the matter, we hold that the money expended in obtaining the loan is an allowable expenditure.	Facts
The High Court, after noticing the findings of the Incometax Officer and the Tribunal preferred the findings of fact made by the Incometax Officer.	Facts
It observed At this stage, we may point out that the conclusion reached by the Tribunal that the money was borrowed only for working expenses and not for capital investment proceeded on an inference based upon the balancesheet.	Facts
The Tribunal did not investigate how the sum of Rs. 25 lakhs earlier borrowed from A. H. Harvey and Madurai Mills Ltd. was actually utilised.	Facts
Though in the order of the Incometax Officer it is found stated that amount was utilised on the capital assets of the company and that statement was based on the authority of the information furnished by the auditors of the assessee, the Tribunal either overlooked or ignored this circumstance.	Facts
In the face of the statement so recorded by the Incometax Officer, the Tribunal does not appear to have been justified in relying upon inferences in ascertaining whether the earlier borrowal was on capital or revenue account.	Facts
The High Court after reviewing various cases, observedIf we ask for what purpose the expenditure in the present case was incurred, the only answer must be that it was incurred for the purpose of bringing into existence an asset in the shape of borrowing these Rs. 40 lakhs.	Facts
The further question would then be whether this asset or advantage was not for the enduring benefit of the business and whether the expenditure incurred was one which was incurred once and for all.	Facts
The answer to both questions would again be in the affirmative.	Facts
It is true that the borrowed money has to be repaid and it cannot be an enduring advantage in the sense that the money becomes part of the assets of the company for all time to come.	Facts
But, it certainly is an advantage which the company derives from the duration of the loan and undoubtedly it could not have been for any purpose other than an advantage to the business, that the borrowing was made.	Facts
That it is not enduring in the sense that the borrowing has to be repaid after a short or long period, as it were, cannot affect the conclusion that it was nevertheless an asset or an advantage that was secured.	Facts
Viewed in the light of the tests adumbrated in the above decision (Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, (1955) 27 ITR 34 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 89 ))	Facts
it seems to us that the expenditure must be regarded as capital expenditure.	Facts
As the facts of the case which we have set out earlier indicate there can be no doubt that at least to the extent of Rs. 25 lakhs that amount was expended for purposes of a capital nature clearly in order to bring into existence capital assets.	Facts
We have also pointed out that though it was vaguely stated by the Tribunal that the other sum of Rs. 15 lakhs was utilised as working funds, there seems to be no material whatsoever before the Tribunal to justify its coming to that conclusion.	Facts
4.	None
The learned counsel for the assessee company, Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri urges that the expenditure is admissible as a deduction under S. 10(2)(xv) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that the High Court erred in holding that the expenditure was made to acquire any asset or advantage of an enduring nature within the test laid down by Viscount Cave and approved by this Court in (1955) 27 ITR 34 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 89 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
He further says that what was secured by the expenditure was a loan and in India money expended in raising a loan whether by means of a debenture or a mortgage and whether you call it a loan capital or not is not an expenditure in the nature of capital expenditure.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submits that the expenditure was expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	None
The learned counsel for the revenue, Mr. S. T. Desai, supports the reasoning of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He says that the High Court was right in preferring the findings of the Incometax Officer on the ground that there was no material for the finding made by the Appellate Tribunal and the finding was based on surmises and material evidence was ignored.	Arguments of Respondent
He says that the High Court in a reference is entitled to ignore any findings of fact made by the Appellate Tribunal if those findings are vitiated.	Arguments of Respondent
In the alternative, he says that the question referred is wide enough to include the question whether there was any material for the finding of the Appellate Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
On the merits he contends that expenditure takes the colour from the thing on which the expenditure is made.	Arguments of Respondent
If the money is spent to obtain capital then the expenditure assumes the nature of capital expenditure, but if the money is spent to obtain rawmaterials then the expenditure takes the colour of revenue expenditure.	Arguments of Respondent
He further says that the borrowed money is an enduring asset and any expenditure made to obtain this money falls within the test laid down by Viscount Cave and approved by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
A number of cases have been referred to during the hearing of the case by both the counsels but we do not propose to refer to all of them.	None
We must start first with the cases decided by this Court and see what principles have been laid down for distinguishing revenue expenditure from expenditure in the nature of capital expenditure, and especially those cases which dealt with similar problems.	None
We will first consider State of Madras v. G. J. Ceolho, (1964) 53 ITR (SC) 186 (AIR 1965 SC 321 ).	None
This was not a case arising under the Indian Incometax Act but under the Madras Plantations Agricultural Incometax Act, 1955, in which a section exactly similar to S. 10(2)(xv) existed.	None
In brief, the facts in that case were that the assessee had borrowed money for the purpose of purchasing the plaintations and he claimed that in computing his agricultural income from these plantations the entire interest paid by him on moneys borrowed for the purpose of purchasing the plantation should be deducted as expenditure, under S. 5(e) of the Ac.	None
In the Madras Act there was no provision similar to S. 10(2)(iii) of the Act and thus interest was not expressly deductible as an allowance.	None
This Court applied the test formulated by Viscount Cave, L. C., in Atherton v. British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd., (1926) 10 Tax Cas 155 and approved by this Court in (1955) 27 ITR 34 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 89 ), and held that the payment of interest was a revenue expenditure.	None
It observed that no new asset is acquired with it no enduring benefit is obtained.	None
Expenditure incurred was part of circulating or floating capital of the assessee.	None
In ordinary commercial practice payment of interest would not be termed as capital expenditure.	None
This Court further held that the expenditure was for the purpose of business.	None
Mr. Desai tried to distinguish that case on the ground that what was at issue was interest on loan and not expenditure incurred for obtaining the loan.	None
In our opinion, there is no justification for drawing this distinction in India.	None
As observed by Lord Atkinson in Scottish North American Trust v. Farmer, (1911) 5 Tax Cas 693 at p. 707 the interest is, in truth, money paid for the use or hire of an instrument of their trade as much as is the rent paid for their office or the hire paid for a typewriting machine.	None
It is an outgoing by means of which the Company procures the use of the thing by which it makes a profit, and like any similar outgoing should be deducted from the receipts, to ascertain the taxable profits and gains which the Company earns.	None
Were it otherwise they might be taxed on assumed profits when in fact, they made a loss.	None
7.	None
It will be remembered that there was no section like S. 10(2)(iii) of the Act in the English Incometax Act.	None
On the other hand, there were certain rules prohibiting the deduction in respect of any capital withdrawn from, or any sum employed or intended to be employed as capital in such trade .	None
or any interest which might have been made if any such sums as aforesaid had been laid out at interest.	None
Lord Atkinson first held in that case that the express prohibitions did not apply to the facts of the case and then proceeded to discuss general principles.	None
These observations show that where there is no express prohibition, an outgoing, by means of which an assessee procures the use of a thing by which it makes a profit, is deductible from the receipts of the business to ascertain taxable income.	None
On the facts of this case, the money secured by the loan was the thing for the use of which this expenditure was made.	None
In principle, apart from any statutory provisions, we see no distinction between interest in respect of a loan and an expenditure incurred for obtaining the loan.	None
Mr. Desai urges that these observations of Lord Atkinson should be limited to a case where temporary borrowings are made.	None
It is true that the House of Lords was dealing with the case of a company and the moneys that were borrowed were of a temporary character.	None
But this fact was only relied on to hold that the moneys secured were not capital within R. 3 of First Case, S. 100 (5 and 6 Vic.	None
Ch. 35) of the Incometax Act, 1842, for Lord Atkinson observed at p. 706it appears to me, simply, amounts to this that the word capital must, in this rule, be held to bear a wholly artificial meaning differing altogether from the ordinary signification, though there be no context in the clause requiring that there should be given to it a meaning different from that which it bears in ordinary commercial transactions.	None
He then referred to the decision in Bryon v. Metropolitan Saloon Omnibus Co. Ltd., (1858) 3	None
De G and J 123 to show that the borrowing by a jointstock company of money by the issue of debentures does not amount to an increasing of the capital of the company.	None
8.	None
In Bombay Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, (1965) 56 ITR 52 (AIR 1965 SC 1201 ) this Court again examined the question of distinguishing between capital expenditure and revenue expenditure.	None
This Court first held that on the facts of the case, Cl.	None
(iii) of S. 10(2) did not apply, because the assessee in that case had agreed to pay the balance of consideration due by the purchaser and this did not, in truth, give rise to a loan.	None
Then Shah, J., observedWhether a particular expenditure is revenue expenditure incurred for the purpose of business must be determined on a consideration of all the facts and circumstances, and by the application of principles of commercial trading.	None
The question must be viewed in the larger context of business necessity or expediency.	None
If the outgoing or expenditure is so related to the carrying on or conduct of the business, that it may be regarded as an integral part of the profit earning process and not for acquisition of an asset or a right of a permanent character, the possession of which is a condition of the carrying on of the business, the expenditure may be regarded as revenue expenditure.	None
9.	None
We will nor briefly deal with relevant decisions of the High Courts.	None
The first case referred is In re Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., 1 ITC 125 (AIR 1921 Bom 391).	None
In that case, the Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. had incurred an expenditure of Rs 28 lakhs as underwriting commission paid to underwriters on an issue of 7 lakhs preference shares of Rs. 100 each and the company claimed to deduct this amount as expenses under S. 9(2) (ix) of the Indian Incometax Act (VII of 1918).	None
Macleod, C. J. observedIf it is admitted that the cost of raising the original capital cannot be deducted from profit after the first year, it is difficult to see how the cost of raising additional capital can be treated in a different way.	None
Expenses incurred in raising capital are expenses of exactly the same character whether the capital is raised at the floatation of the company or thereafter The Texas Land and Mortgage Co. v. William Holtham, (1894)	None
3 Tax Cas 255.	None
He further observed that as long as the law allows preliminary expenses and goodwill to be treated as assets, although of an intangible nature, the money so spent is in the nature of capital expenditure just as much as money spent in the purchase of land and machinery.	None
The Chief Justice accordingly held that Rs. 28 lakhs could not be treated as expenditure (not in the nature of capital expenditure) solely incurred for the purpose of earning the profits of the companys business.	None
Shah, J., also came to the same conclusion, and he thought that the ratio decidendi in (1894)	None
3 Tax Cas 255 and the principles underlying the decision in Royal Insurance Co. v. Watson, 1897 AC 1 lent support to this conclusion.	None
10.	None
At this state it would be convenient to consider the case of (1894) 3 Tax Cas 255 relied on in this decision.	None
We have already mentioned that the statute law in England is different from the law in India and the observations of the learned Judges in the English cases must be appreciated in the light of the background of the English Incometax Act.	None
In this case a mortgage company had raised money by the issue of debentures and debenture stock and incurred expenses for the issue of mortgage and placing of such debentures and debenturestock.	None
The Company claimed to deduct these expenses but the High Court held that the expenses could not be deducted under Schedule D of the English Incometax Act as trading expenses.	None
Mathew, J., gave the following reasons for disallowing the claimThe amount paid in order to raise the money on debentures, comes off the amount advanced upon the debentures and therefore, is so much paid for the cost of getting it, but there cannot be one law for a company having sufficient money to carry on all its operations and another which is content to pay for the accommodation.	None
This appears to me to be entirely concluded by the decision of yesterday.	None
AngloContinental Guano Works.	None
v. Bell, (1894) 3	None
Tax Cas 239.	None
In the course of arguments, Cave, J., had remarked It is only so much capital.	None
A man wants to raise 100,000 pounds.	None
That capital, and in order to do that he has to pay 4,000 pounds.	None
That makes the capital 96,000 pounds.	None
That is all.	None
In reply to the argument of Finlay, O. C., that the capital of the company, properly so called, is the share capital.	None
Cave, J., remarkedTo the extent that you borrow you increase the capital of the company.	None
In our opinion, if one keeps in mind the background of the English Incometax Act, the observations reproduced above have no relevance to cases arising under the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
In face of R. 3, Case 1, S. 100 (5 and 6 Vict.	Reasoning
Ch. 35) prohibiting the deduction of any expenditure in respect of any sum employed or intended to be employed as capital, Mathew and Cave, JJ.	Reasoning
were only concerned with the question whether the amount secured by debentures and the amount obtained by the issue of debentures and debenture stock could be called capital employed or intended to be employed within the meaning of this rule.	Reasoning
Rightly or wrongly, the English Courts have held that the amount obtained by the issue of debentures is capital employed within the meaning of the rule, but this does not give us any guidance in interpreting the words capital expenditure occurring in S. 10(2)(xv) of the Act.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the Bombay High Court was wrong in relying on (1894) 3 Tax Cas 255.	Reasoning
But we do not say that the Tata Iron and Steel Co., 1 ITC 125 (AIR 1921 Bom 391) case was wrongly decided.	Reasoning
Obtaining capital by issue of shares is different from obtaining loan by debentures.	Reasoning
11.	None
In (1931) 6 ITC 28 (Nag) the Court of the Judicial Commissioner, Nagpur, held that expenses for raising debenture loan required for changing the system of supplying current from D. C. to A.C and for discharging a prior loan was not allowable as deduction of the companys assessable income.	Reasoning
The Judicial Commissioner followed the case of (1894) 3 Tax Cas 255 and 1 ITC 125 (AIR 1921 Bom 391).	Reasoning
After referring to these two cases, the only additional reason given was that apart from authority it seems to us to stand to reason that money expended in obtaining capital must be treated as capital expenditure With great respect we must hold that this case was wrongly decided.	Reasoning
12.	None
The Kerala High Court in Western India Plywood Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, Madras, (1960) 38 ITR 533 (AIR 1960 Ker 253 ) held that the expenditure incurred by the company to raise a loan by debenture was a capital expenditure and was therefore not deductible under S. 10(2)(xv).The High Court relying on European Investment Co. v. Jackson, (1938) 18 Tax Cas 1 and Ascot Gas Water Heaters v. Duff, (1943) 24 Tax Cas 171 and some other cases drew a distinction between the borrowing of capital and securing merely temporary or daytoday accommodation or banking or trading facilities.	Reasoning
According to the High Court, the expenses for borrowing capital could not be treated as revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
This distinction may be valid in English Law	Reasoning
but we are unable to appreciate how the distinction is valid under the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
As the decision is mainly based on this distinction and relies inter alia on 1 ITC 125 (AIR 1921 Bom 391) and (1931) 6 ITC 28 (Nag) we must with respect hold that the case was wrongly decided.	None
13.	None
In Vizagapatnam Sugars and Refinery Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, (1963) 47 ITR 139 (Andh Pra) the Andhra Pradesh High Court relying on (1894) 3 Tax Cas 255 and the decision in (1960) 38 ITR 533 (AIR 1960 Ker 253 ) held that on the facts and circumstances of that case, brokerage and commission of four annas on every maund of sugar paid by the assessee company was not revenue expenditure but capital expenditure.	None
In our opinion, the decision, as far as the brokerage was concerned, was wrong, but we do not say anything in this case with respect to the decision as far as the commission on sale of goods was concerned.	None
14.	None
The Calcutta High Court examined the question in great detail in Sri Annapurna Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Comr. of Incometax, (1964) 54 ITR 592 (Cal) .	None
Bachawat.	None
J., held that the loan of Rs. 10 lakhs obtained by the company was an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business of the assessee.	None
He placed reliance on a number of cases, some of which we have already considered.	None
But we are unable to agree that a loan obtained can be treated as an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business of the assessee.	None
A loan is a liability and has to be repaid and, in our opinion, it is erroneous to consider a liability as an asset or an advantage within the test laid down by Viscount Cave and approved and applied by this Court in many cases.	None
Sinha, J., after referring to a number of cases, felt that the raising of capital by issue of debentures was a recognised mode of raising capital and he felt that the decided cases had laid down the proposition that borrowing money by the issue of debentures was an acquisition of capital asset and that any commission or expenditure incurred in respect thereof was of a capital nature and not to be considered as in the nature of revenue.	None
He was impressed by the fact that not a single case to the contrary was brought to his notice.	None
But we have to decide the case on principle, and with respect it seems to us that he erred in treating the loan as equivalent to capital for the purpose of S. 10(2) (xv) of the Act.	None
15.	None
In S. F. Engineer v. Commr. of Incometax, (1965) 57 ITR 455 (Bom) , the Bombay High Court held that the expenditure incurred for raising loan for the carrying on of a business cannot in all cases be regarded as an expenditure of a capital nature.	None
On the facts of the case they held that as construction and sale of the building was the sole business of the firm and the building was its stockintrade, and the loan was raised and used wholly for the purpose of acquiring this stockintrade and not for obtaining any fixed assets or raising any initial capital or for expansion of the assessees business, the expenditure incurred for the raising of loan was not an expenditure of capital nature but revenue expenditure.	None
Although the conclusion of the High Court was correct, we are not able to agree with the principle that the nature of the expenditure incurred in raising a loan would depend upon the nature and purpose of the loan.	None
A loan may be intended to be used for the purchase of rawmaterial when it is negotiated, but the company may after raising the loan change its mind and spend it on securing capital assets.	None
Is the purpose at the time the loan is negotiated to be taken into consideration or the purpose for which it is actually used?	None
Further suppose that in the accounting year the purpose is to borrow and buy rawmaterial but in the assessment year the company finds it unnecessary to buy raw material and spends it on capital assets.	None
Will the incometax officer decide the case with reference to what happened in the accounting year or what happened in the assessment year.	None
In our opinion, it was rightly held by the Nagpur Judicial Commissioner in (1931) 6 ITC 28 (Nag) that the purpose for which the new loan was required was irrelevant to the consideration of the question whether the expenditure for obtaining the loan was revenue expenditure or capital expenditure.	None
16.	None
To summarise this part of the case, we are of the opinion that (a) the loan obtained is not an asset or advantage of an enduring nature (b) that the expenditure was made for securing the use of money for a certain period and (c) that it is irrelevant to consider the object with which the loan was obtained.	Reasoning
Consequently, in the circumstances of the case, the expenditure was revenue expenditure within S. 10(2) (xv).	Reasoning
17.	None
The last contention of Mr. Desai is that even if it is revenue expenditure, it was not laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business.	Reasoning
Subba Rao, J., reviewed the case law in Commr. of Incometax v. Malayalam Plantation Ltd., (1964) 53 ITR 140 (AIR 1964 SC 1722 ) and observed as followsThe expression for the purpose of the business is wider in scope than the expression for the purpose of earning profits.	Reasoning
Its range is wide it may take in not only the day to day running of a business but also the rationalisation of its administration and modernization of its machinery, it may include measures for the preservation of the business and for the protection of its assets and property from expropriation, coercive process or assertion of hostile title it may also comprehend payment of statutory dues and taxes imposed as a precondition to commence or for carrying on of a business it may comprehend many other acts incidental to the carrying on of a business.	Reasoning
Mr. Desai says that the act of borrowing money in this case was not incidental to the carrying on of a business.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this contention.	Reasoning
In Eastern Investments Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, (1951) 20 ITR 1 (AIR 1951 SC 278 ) this Court held that the Eastern Investments Ltd., an investment company, when it borrowed money on debentures, the interest paid by it was incurred solely for the purpose of making or earning such income, profits or gains within the purview of S. 12(2) of the Indian Incometax Act.	Reasoning
It held on a review of the facts that the transaction was voluntarily entered into in order indirectly to facilitate the running of the business of the company and was made on the ground of commercial expediency.	Reasoning
This case, in our opinion, directly covers the present case, although Mr. Desai suggests that the case of an investment company stands on a different footing from the case of a manufacturing company.	Reasoning
In some respects their position may be different but in determining the question whether raising money is incidental to a business or not, we cannot discern any difference between an investment company and a manufacturing company.	Reasoning
We may mention that in that case this Court was not considering whether the expenditure was in the nature of a capital expenditure or not, because it was agreed all through that the expenditure was not in the nature of capital expenditure, and the only question which this Court dealt with was whether the expenditure was incurred solely for the purpose of making or earning income, profits or gains.	Reasoning
18.	None
The case of Dharamvir Dhin v. Commr. of Incometax, (1961) 42 ITR 7 (AIR 1961 SC 668 ) also supports the conclusion we have arrived at on this part of the case.	Reasoning
It was held in that case that the payment of interest and a sum equivalent to 11/16th of the profits of the business of the assessee in pursuance of an agreement for obtaining loan from the lender were in a commercial sense expenditure wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the assessees business and they were, therefore, deductible revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
19.	None
Before we conclude we must deal with the point raised by Mr. Sastri that the High Court erred in law in preferring the findings of the Incometax Officer to that of the Appellate Tribunal.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to decide this question but it seems to us that in a reference the High Court must accept the findings of fact made by the Appellate Tribunal and it is for the person who has applied for a reference to challenge those findings first by an application under S. 66(1).	Reasoning
If he has failed to file an application under S. 66(1) expressly raising the question about the validity of the findings of fact, he is not entitled to urge before the High Court that the findings are vitiated for one reason or the other.	Reasoning
20.	None
To conclude we hold that the expenditure of Rs. 84,633 was not in the nature of capital expenditure and was laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the assessees business.	Reasoning
The answer to the question referred therefore, must be in the affirmative.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed, the judgment of the High Court set aside and the question referred answered in the affirmative.	Decision
The appellant will have its costs incurred here and in the High Court.	Decision
21.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
