 (Mrs.) RANJANA PRAKASH DESAI, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal, by special leave, has been filed by the appellanthusband, being aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 8/11/2006 passed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in Civil Miscellaneous Appeal No.797/03, setting aside the decree of divorce granted in his favour.	Issue
The appellanthusband is working as Assistant Registrar in the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	Facts
The marriage between the appellanthusband and the respondentwife was solemnized on 25/4/1999 as per Hindu rites and customs.	Facts
Unfortunately, on the very next day disputes arose between the elders on both sides which resulted in their abusing each other and hurling chappals at each other.	Facts
As a consequence, on 27/4/1999, the newly married couple got separated without consummation of the marriage and started living separately.	Facts
On 4/10/1999, the respondentwife lodged a criminal complaint against the appellanthusband before the Women Protection Cell alleging inter alia that the appellanthusband is harassing her for more dowry.	Facts
This complaint is very crucial to this case.	Facts
We shall advert to it more in detail a little later.	Facts
Escalated acrimony led to complaints and counter complaints.	Facts
The respondentwife filed a petition under Section 9 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 for restitution of conjugal rights before the Family Court, Secunderabad.	Facts
The appellanthusband filed a counterclaim seeking dissolution of marriage on the ground of cruelty and desertion under Section 13(1)(ia) and (b) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.	Facts
The Family Court while dismissing the petition for restitution of conjugal rights and granting decree of divorce inter alia held that the respondentwife stayed in the appellanthusbands house only for a day, she admitted that she did not have any conversation with anyone and hence any amount of oral evidence adduced by her will not support her plea that she was harassed and driven out of the house that the story that the appellanthusband made a demand of dowry of Rs.10,00,000/ is false that by filing false complaint against the appellanthusband and his family, alleging offence under Section 498A of the IPC in the Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Hyderabad and by filing complaints against the appellanthusband in the High Court where he is working, the respondentwife caused mental cruelty to the appellanthusband and that reunion was not possible.	Facts
The Family Court directed the appellanthusband to repay Rs.80,000/ given by the respondentwifes father to him with interest at 8 per annum from the date of the marriage till payment.	Facts
By the impugned judgment the High Court allowed the appeal carried by the respondentwife against the said judgment and set aside the decree of divorce granted in favour of the appellanthusband.	Facts
The High Court inter alia observed that the finding of the Family Court that lodging a complaint with the police against the appellanthusband amounts to cruelty is perverse because it is not a ground for divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.	Facts
The High Court further held that the appellanthusband and the respondentwife did not live together for a long time and, therefore, the question of their treating each other with cruelty does not arise.	Facts
According to the High Court, the conclusion that the respondentwife caused mental cruelty to the appellanthusband is based on presumptions and assumptions.	Facts
Mr. Jayanth Muth Raj, learned counsel for the appellanthusband assailed the conduct of the respondentwife and submitted that it disentitles her from getting any relief from this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel took us through the complaint lodged by the respondentwife with the Superintendent of Police, Women Protection Cell, Hyderabad, making defamatory allegations against the mother of the appellanthusband and drew our attention to the various legal proceedings initiated by her against the appellanthusband and his family.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that she also lodged complaints with the High Court asking for the removal of the appellanthusband from his job.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that by lodging such false complaints the respondentwife caused extreme mental cruelty to the appellanthusband.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that the High Court fell into a grave error in observing that because the respondentwife did not live with the appellanthusband for long she could not have caused mental cruelty to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that this observation is erroneous and is contrary to the law laid down by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
False and defamatory allegations made in the pleadings can also cause mental cruelty.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that the marriage has irretrievably broken down and, therefore, it is necessary to dissolve it by a decree of divorce.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submissions counsel placed reliance on G.V.N. Kameswara Rao vs. G. Jabilli (2002) 2 SCC 296 , Parveen Mehta vs. Inderjit Mehta (2002) 5 SCC 706 , Vijayakumar R. Bhate vs. Neela Vijayakumar Bhate (2003) 6 SCC 334 , Durga Prasanna Tripathy vs. Arundhati Tripathy (2005) 7 SCC 353 , Naveen Kohli vs. Neelu Kohli (2006) 4 SCC 558 and Samar Ghosh vs. Jaya Ghosh (2007) 4 SCC 511 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. D. Rama Krishna Reddy, learned counsel for the respondentwife, on the other hand, submitted that the father of the respondentwife had given Rs.80,000/ and 15 tolas of gold as dowry to the appellanthusbands family.	Arguments of Respondent
However, they demanded additional cash of Rs.10,00,000/. Because this demand could not be met, the respondentwife and her family was humiliated and illtreated.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the parents of the respondentwife had to return to their house along with her immediately after marriage.	Arguments of Respondent
The father of the respondentwife made efforts to talk to the appellanthusbands family, but, they did not respond to his efforts.	Arguments of Respondent
They persisted with their demands and, therefore, the respondentwife had no alternative but to lodge complaint against them under Section 498A of the IPC before the Metropolitan Magistrate, Hyderabad.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellanthusband thereafter gave a false assurance that he will not harass her and, therefore, she withdrew the complaint and went to the matrimonial house.	Arguments of Respondent
However, the approach of the appellanthusband and his family did not change.	Arguments of Respondent
She had to therefore renew her complaint.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that only because of the obstinate and uncompromising attitude of the appellanthusband and his family that the respondentwife had to take recourse to court proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that the respondentwife values the matrimonial tie.	Arguments of Respondent
She wants to lead a happy married life with the appellanthusband.	Arguments of Respondent
She had, therefore, filed a petition for restitution of conjugal rights which should have been allowed by the Family Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that after properly evaluating all the circumstances the High Court has rightly set aside the decree of divorce and granted a decree of restitution of conjugal rights.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Courts judgment, therefore, merits no interference.	Arguments of Respondent
The matrimonial dispute started with a quarrel between the elders of both sides in which initially the appellanthusband and the respondentwife were not involved.	None
The ego battle of the elders took an ugly turn.	None
Parties were dragged to the court and the inevitable happened.	None
The relations between the two families got strained.	None
With a fond hope that we could bring about a settlement we requested the counsel to talk to the parties and convey our wishes that they should bury the hatchet and start living together.	None
We also tried to counsel them in the court.	None
The respondentwife appears to be very keen to go back to the matrimonial home and start life afresh, but the appellanthusband is adamant.	None
He conveyed to us through his counsel that by filing repeated false complaints against him and his family the respondentwife has caused extreme cruelty to them and therefore it will not be possible to take her back.	None
In view of this we have no option but to proceed with the case.	None
The High Court has taken a view that since the appellanthusband and the respondentwife did not stay together, there is no question of their causing cruelty to each other.	Facts
The High Court concluded that the conclusion drawn by the Family Court that the respondentwife caused mental cruelty to the appellanthusband is erroneous.	None
We are unable to agree with the High Court.	None
Under Section 13(1)(ia) of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, a marriage can be dissolved by a decree of divorce on a petition presented either by the husband or the wife on the ground that the other party has, after solemnization of the marriage, treated the petitioner with cruelty.	None
In a series of judgments this Court has repeatedly stated the meaning and outlined the scope of the term cruelty.	None
Cruelty is evident where one spouse has so treated the other and manifested such feelings towards her or him as to cause in her or his mind reasonable apprehension that it will be harmful or injurious to live with the other spouse.	None
Cruelty may be physical or mental.	None
In Samar Ghosh this Court set out illustrative cases where inference of mental cruelty can be drawn.	None
This list is obviously not exhaustive because each case presents its own peculiar factual matrix and existence or otherwise of mental cruelty will have to be judged after applying mind to it.	None
We must quote the relevant paragraph of Samar Ghosh.	None
We have reproduced only the instances which are relevant to the present case.	None
No uniform standard can ever be laid down for guidance, yet we deem it appropriate to enumerate some instances of human behaviour which may be relevant in dealing with the cases of mental cruelty.	None
The instances indicated in the succeeding paragraphs are only illustrative and not exhaustive On consideration of complete matrimonial life of the parties, acute mental pain, agony and suffering as would not make possible for the parties to live with each other could come within the broad parameters of mental cruelty.	None
On comprehensive appraisal of the entire matrimonial life of the parties, it becomes abundantly clear that situation is such that the wronged party cannot reasonably be asked to put up with such conduct and continue to live with other party.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx Mental cruelty is a state of mind.	None
The feeling of deep anguish, disappointment, frustration in one spouse caused by the conduct of other for a long time may lead to mental cruelty.	None
A sustained course of abusive and humiliating treatment calculated to torture, discommode or render miserable life of the spouse.	None
Sustained unjustifiable conduct and behaviour of one spouse actually affecting physical and mental health of the other spouse.	None
The treatment complained of and the resultant danger or apprehension must be very grave, substantial and weighty.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
The married life should be reviewed as a whole and a few isolated instances over a period of years will not amount to cruelty.	None
The ill conduct must be persistent for a fairly lengthy period, where the relationship has deteriorated to an extent that because of the acts and behaviour of a spouse, the wronged party finds it extremely difficult to live with the other party any longer, may amount to mental cruelty.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
Where there has been a long period of continuous separation, it may fairly be concluded that the matrimonial bond is beyond repair.	None
The marriage becomes a fiction though supported by a legal tie.	None
By refusing to sever that tie, the law in such cases, does not serve the sanctity of marriage on the contrary, it shows scant regard for the feelings and emotions of the parties.	None
In such like situations, it may lead to mental cruelty.	None
It is pertinent to note that in this case the husband and wife had lived separately for more than sixteen and a half years.	None
This fact was taken into consideration along with other facts as leading to the conclusion that matrimonial bond had been ruptured beyond repair because of the mental cruelty caused by the wife.	None
Similar view was taken in Naveen Kohli.	None
In V. Bhagat v. D. Bhagat (1994) 1 SCC 337 in the divorce petition filed by the husband the wife filed written statement stating that the husband was suffering from mental hallucination, that his was a morbid mind for which he needs expert psychiatric treatment and that he was suffering from paranoid disorder.	None
In crossexamination her counsel put several questions to the husband suggesting that several members of his family including his grandfather were lunatics.	None
This court held that these assertions cannot but constitute mental cruelty of such a nature that the husband cannot be asked to live with the wife thereafter.	None
Such pleadings and questions it was held, are bound to cause immense mental pain and anguish to the husband.	None
In Vijaykumar Bhate disgusting accusations of unchastity and indecent familiarity with a neighbour were made in the written statement.	None
This Court held that the allegations are of such quality, magnitude and consequence as to cause mental pain, agony and suffering amounting to the reformulated concept of cruelty in matrimonial law causing profound and lasting disruption and driving the wife to feel deeply hurt and reasonably apprehend that it would be dangerous to live with her husband.	None
In Naveen Kohli the respondentwife got an advertisement issued in a national newspaper that her husband was her employee.	None
She got another news item issued cautioning his business associates to avoid dealing with him.	None
This was treated as causing mental cruelty to the husband.	None
In Naveen Kohli the wife had filed several complaints and cases against the husband.	None
This Court viewed her conduct as a conduct causing mental cruelty and observed that the finding of the High Court that these proceedings could not be taken to be such which may warrant annulment of marriage is wholly unsustainable.	None
Thus, to the instances illustrative of mental cruelty noted in Samar Ghosh, we could add a few more.	None
Making unfounded indecent defamatory allegations against the spouse or his or her relatives in the pleadings, filing of complaints or issuing notices or news items which may have adverse impact on the business prospect or the job of the spouse and filing repeated false complaints and cases in the court against the spouse would, in the facts of a case, amount to causing mental cruelty to the other spouse.	None
We shall apply the above principles to the present case.	None
Firstly, it is necessary to have a look at the legal proceedings initiated by both sides against each other.	None
The facts on record disclose that after the marriage, due to some dispute which arose between the elders, both sides abused and virtually attacked each other.	None
The respondentwife was taken by her parents to their house.	None
According to the respondentwife, her father made efforts to bring about an amicable settlement but the other side did not respond favourably and, therefore, on 4/10/1999 she lodged a complaint with the Superintendent of Police, Women Protection Cell against the appellanthusband and members of his family.	None
In our opinion, this complaint is, to a large extent, responsible for widening the rift between the parties.	None
In this complaint, after alleging illtreatment and harassment for dowry, it is alleged that mother of the appellanthusband asked the respondentwife to sleep with the father of the appellanthusband.	None
When she was crossexamined in the Family Court during the hearing of her petition for restitution of conjugal rights the respondentwife admitted that she had lodged the complaint.	None
PW2 her mother, in her crossexamination stated that though they had asked her not to lodge the complaint, the respondentwife lodged it.	None
She told them that she had lodged the complaint because the appellanthusband was not listening to her.	None
Thus, it appears that this complaint was lodged out of frustration and anger and was a reaction to the appellanthusbands refusal to live with her.	None
It was, perhaps, felt by her that because of the pressure of such a complaint the appellanthusband would take her back to his house.	None
Far from helping the respondentwife, the complaint appears to have caused irreparable harm to her.	None
It increased the bitterness.	None
Perhaps, the respondentwife was misguided by someone.	None
But, such evidence is not on record.	None
Even in this court, this complaint appears to us to be a major factor amongst others impeding settlement.	None
Pursuant to the said complaint, Crime No.8/2000 was registered by C.I.D., Hyderabad, in the Metropolitan Magistrate (Mahila Court), Hyderabad against the appellanthusband and his family under Section 498A of the IPC.	None
It is the respondentwifes case that the appellanthusband gave an assurance before the police that he will not harass her.	None
She, therefore, withdrew the complaint.	None
The police then filed a closure report.	None
According to the respondentwife, the appellant husband did not abide by the promise made by him and, therefore, she filed a protest petition.	None
The Magistrate Court, Hyderabad, then, took cognizance of the case and renumbered the case as C.C.No.62/2002.	None
In the meantime, the respondentwife filed O.P.No.88/2001 in the Family Court, Secunderabad, for restitution of conjugal rights.	None
The appellanthusband filed a counter claim for divorce on 27/12/2002.	None
The Family Court dismissed the petition for restitution of conjugal rights and allowed the counter claim for divorce filed by the appellanthusband.	None
The respondentwife challenged the Family Court judgment in the High Court.	None
On 8/12/2006 the High Court reversed the Family Courts order and allowed the petition for restitution of conjugal rights.	None
The present appeal is filed by the appellanthusband against the said judgment.	None
According to the respondentwife, on 17/9/2007 when she, along with her mother, came out of the court after a case filed by her against the appellanthusband was adjourned, the appellanthusband beat her mother and kicked her on her stomach.	None
Both of them received injuries.	None
She, therefore, filed complaint for the offence punishable under Section 324 of the IPC against the appellanthusband (C.C.No. 79/2009).	None
It may be stated here that on 19/10/2009 the appellanthusband was acquitted in this case.	None
On 24/6/2008 the judgment was delivered by Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Hyderabad in C.C.No.	None
62/2002.	None
The appellant husband was convicted under Section 498A of the IPC and was sentenced to undergo six months simple imprisonment.	None
He and his parents were acquitted of the offences under the Dowry Prohibition Act.	None
His parents were acquitted of the offence under Section 498A of the IPC.	None
After this judgment the respondentwife and her parents filed a complaint in the High Court saying that since the appellanthusband was convicted he should be dismissed from service.	None
Similar letters were sent to the High Court by the maternal uncle of the respondentwife.	None
On 14/7/2008 the appellanthusband filed Criminal Appeal No.186/2008 challenging his conviction under Section 498A of the IPC before the Metropolitan Sessions Judge.	None
It is pertinent to note that the respondent wife filed Criminal Appeal No.1219/2008 in the High Court questioning the acquittal of the appellanthusband and his parents of the offences under the Dowry Prohibition Act and also the acquittal of his parents of the offence punishable under Section 498A of the IPC.	None
This appeal is pending in the High Court.	None
Not being content with this, the respondentwife filed Criminal Revision Case No.1560/2008 in the High Court seeking enhancement of punishment awarded to the appellanthusband for offence under Section 498A of the IPC.	None
According to the appellanthusband on 6/12/2009 the brother of the respondentwife came to their house and attacked his mother.	None
His mother filed a complaint and the police registered a complaint under Section 354 of the IPC.	None
The brother of the respondentwife also lodged a complaint and an offence came to be registered.	None
Both the cases are pending.	None
On 29/6/2010 Criminal Appeal No. 186/2010 filed by the appellanthusband challenging his conviction for the offence under Section 498A of the IPC was allowed by the Metropolitan Sessions Judge and he was acquitted.	None
The respondentwife has filed criminal appeal in the High Court challenging the said acquittal which is pending.	None
We need to now see the effect of the above events.	None
In our opinion, the first instance of mental cruelty is seen in the scurrilous, vulgar and defamatory statement made by the respondentwife in her complaint dated 4/10/1999 addressed to the Superintendent of Police, Women Protection Cell.	None
The statement that the mother of the appellanthusband asked her to sleep with his father is bound to anger him.	None
It is his case that this humiliation of his parents caused great anguish to him.	None
He and his family were traumatized by the false and indecent statement made in the complaint.	None
His grievance appears to us to be justified.	None
This complaint is a part of the record.	None
It is a part of the pleadings.	None
That this statement is false is evident from the evidence of the mother of the respondentwife, which we have already quoted.	None
This statement cannot be explained away by stating that it was made because the respondentwife was anxious to go back to the appellanthusband.	None
This is not the way to win the husband back.	None
It is well settled that such statements cause mental cruelty.	None
By sending this complaint the respondentwife has caused mental cruelty to the appellanthusband.	Arguments of Petitioner
Pursuant to this complaint, the police registered a case under Section 498A of the IPC.	None
The appellanthusband and his parents had to apply for anticipatory bail, which was granted to them.	None
Later, the respondentwife withdrew the complaint.	None
Pursuant to the withdrawal, the police filed a closure report.	None
Thereafter, the respondentwife filed a protest petition.	None
The trial court took cognizance of the case against the appellanthusband and his parents (CC No. 62/2002).	None
What is pertinent to note is that the respondentwife filed criminal appeal in the High Court challenging the acquittal of the appellanthusband and his parents of the offences under the Dowry Prohibition Act and also the acquittal of his parents of the offence punishable under Section 498A of the IPC.	None
She filed criminal revision seeking enhancement of the punishment awarded to the appellanthusband for the offence under Section 498A of the IPC in the High Court which is still pending.	None
When the criminal appeal filed by the appellanthusband challenging his conviction for the offence under Section 498A of the IPC was allowed and he was acquitted, the respondentwife filed criminal appeal in the High Court challenging the said acquittal.	None
During this period respondentwife and members of her family have also filed complaints in the High Court complaining about the appellanthusband so that he would be removed from the job.	None
The conduct of the respondentwife in filing a complaint making unfounded, indecent and defamatory allegation against her motherinlaw, in filing revision seeking enhancement of the sentence awarded to the appellanthusband, in filing appeal questioning the acquittal of the appellanthusband and acquittal of his parents indicates that she made all attempts to ensure that he and his parents are put in jail and he is removed from his job.	None
We have no manner of doubt that this conduct has caused mental cruelty to the appellant husband.	None
In our opinion, the High Court wrongly held that because the appellanthusband and the respondentwife did not stay together there is no question of the parties causing cruelty to each other.	None
Staying together under the same roof is not a precondition for mental cruelty.	None
Spouse can cause mental cruelty by his or her conduct even while he or she is not staying under the same roof.	None
In a given case, while staying away, a spouse can cause mental cruelty to the other spouse by sending vulgar and defamatory letters or notices or filing complaints containing indecent allegations or by initiating number of judicial proceedings making the other spouses life miserable.	None
This is what has happened in this case.	None
It is also to be noted that the appellanthusband and the respondent wife are staying apart from 27/4/1999.	None
Thus, they are living separately for more than ten years.	None
This separation has created an unbridgeable distance between the two.	None
As held in Samar Ghosh, if we refuse to sever the tie, it may lead to mental cruelty.	None
We are also satisfied that this marriage has irretrievably broken down.	None
Irretrievable breakdown of marriage is not a ground for divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.	None
But, where marriage is beyond repair on account of bitterness created by the acts of the husband or the wife or of both, the courts have always taken irretrievable breakdown of marriage as a very weighty circumstance amongst others necessitating severance of marital tie.	None
A marriage which is dead for all purposes cannot be revived by the courts verdict, if the parties are not willing.	None
This is because marriage involves human sentiments and emotions and if they are driedup there is hardly any chance of their springing back to life on account of artificial reunion created by the courts decree.	None
In V. Bhagat this Court noted that divorce petition was pending for eight years and a good part of the lives of both the parties had been consumed in litigation, yet the end was not in sight.	None
The facts were such that there was no question of reunion, the marriage having irretrievably broken down.	None
While dissolving the marriage on the ground of mental cruelty this Court observed that irretrievable breakdown of marriage is not a ground by itself, but, while scrutinizing the evidence on record to determine whether the grounds alleged are made out and in determining the relief to be granted the said circumstance can certainly be borne in mind.	None
In Naveen Kohli, where husband and wife had been living separately for more than 10 years and a large number of criminal proceedings had been initiated by the wife against the husband, this Court observed that the marriage had been wrecked beyond the hope of salvage and public interest and interest of all concerned lies in the recognition of the fact and to declare defunct de jure what is already defunct de facto.	None
It is important to note that in this case this Court made a recommendation to the Union of India that the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 be amended to incorporate irretrievable breakdown of marriage as a ground for the grant of divorce.	None
In the ultimate analysis, we hold that the respondentwife has caused by her conduct mental cruelty to the appellanthusband and the marriage has irretrievably broken down.	Reasoning
Dissolution of marriage will relieve both sides of pain and anguish.	Reasoning
In this Court the respondentwife expressed that she wants to go back to the appellanthusband, but, that is not possible now.	Reasoning
The appellanthusband is not willing to take her back.	Reasoning
Even if we refuse decree of divorce to the appellanthusband, there are hardly any chances of the respondentwife leading a happy life with the appellanthusband because a lot of bitterness is created by the conduct of the respondentwife.	Reasoning
In Vijay Kumar, it was submitted that if the decree of divorce is set aside, there may be fresh avenues and scope for reconciliation between parties.	Reasoning
This court observed that judged in the background of all surrounding circumstances, the claim appeared to be too desolate, merely born out of despair rather than based upon any real, concrete or genuine purpose or aim.	Reasoning
In the facts of this case we feel the same.	None
While we are of the opinion that decree of divorce must be granted, we are alive to the plight of the respondentwife.	Reasoning
The appellanthusband is working as an Assistant Registrar in the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	Reasoning
He is getting a good salary.	Reasoning
The respondentwife fought the litigation for more than 10 years.	Reasoning
She appears to be entirely dependent on her parents and on her brother, therefore, her future must be secured by directing the appellanthusband to give her permanent alimony.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstance of this case, we are of the opinion that the appellanthusband should be directed to pay a sum of Rs.15,00,000/ (Rupees Fifteen Lakhs only) to the respondentwife as and by way of permanent alimony.	Reasoning
In the result, the impugned judgment is quashed and set aside.	Reasoning
The marriage between the appellanthusband  K. Srinivas Rao and the respondentwife D.A. Deepa is dissolved by a decree of divorce.	Reasoning
The appellanthusband shall pay to the respondentwife permanent alimony in the sum of Rs.15,00,000/, in three instalments.	Reasoning
The first instalment of Rs.5,00,000/ (Rupees Five Lakhs only) should be paid on 15/03/2013 and the remaining amount of Rs.10,00,000/ (Rupees Ten Lakhs only) should be paid in instalments of Rs.5,00,000/ each after a gap of two months i.e. on 15/05/2013 and 15/07/2013 respectively.	Reasoning
Each instalment of Rs.5,00,000/ be paid by a demand draft drawn in favour of the respondentwife D.A. Deepa.	Reasoning
Before parting, we wish to touch upon an issue which needs to be discussed in the interest of victims of matrimonial disputes.	Reasoning
Though in this case, we have recorded a finding that by her conduct, the respondent wife has caused mental cruelty to the appellanthusband, we may not be understood, however, to have said that the fault lies only with the respondentwife.	Reasoning
In matrimonial disputes there is hardly any case where one spouse is entirely at fault.	Reasoning
But, then, before the dispute assumes alarming proportions, someone must make efforts to make parties see reason.	None
In this case, if at the earliest stage, before the respondentwife filed the complaint making indecent allegation against her motherinlaw, she were to be counselled by an independent and sensible elder or if the parties were sent to a mediation centre or if they had access to a prelitigation clinic, perhaps the bitterness would not have escalated.	Reasoning
Things would not have come to such a pass if, at the earliest, somebody had mediated between the two.	Reasoning
It is possible that the respondentwife was desperate to save the marriage.	Reasoning
Perhaps, in desperation, she lost balance and went on filing complaints.	Reasoning
It is possible that she was misguided.	Reasoning
Perhaps, the appellanthusband should have forgiven her indiscretion in filing complaints in the larger interest of matrimony.	Reasoning
But, the way the respondentwife approached the problem was wrong.	Reasoning
It portrays a vindictive mind.	Reasoning
She caused extreme mental cruelty to the appellanthusband.	Reasoning
Now the marriage is beyond repair.	None
Quite often, the cause of the misunderstanding in a matrimonial dispute is trivial and can be sorted.	None
Mediation as a method of alternative dispute resolution has got legal recognition now.	None
We have referred several matrimonial disputes to mediation centres.	None
Our experience shows that about 10 to 15 of matrimonial disputes get settled in this Court through various mediation centres.	None
We, therefore, feel that at the earliest stage i.e. when the dispute is taken up by the Family Court or by the court of first instance for hearing, it must be referred to mediation centres.	None
Matrimonial disputes particularly those relating to custody of child, maintenance, etc. are preeminently fit for mediation.	None
Section 9 of the Family Courts Act enjoins upon the Family Court to make efforts to settle the matrimonial disputes and in these efforts, Family Courts are assisted by Counsellors.	None
Even if the Counsellors fail in their efforts, the Family Courts should direct the parties to mediation centres, where trained mediators are appointed to mediate between the parties.	None
Being trained in the skill of mediation, they produce good results.	None
The idea of prelitigation mediation is also catching up.	None
Some mediation centres have, after giving wide publicity, set up Help Desks at prominent places including facilitation centres at court complexes to conduct prelitigation mediation.	None
We are informed that in Delhi Government Mediation and Conciliation Centres, and in Delhi High Court Mediation Centre, several matrimonial disputes are settled.	None
These centres have a good success rate in prelitigation mediation.	None
If all mediation centres set up prelitigation desks clinics by giving sufficient publicity and matrimonial disputes are taken up for prelitigation settlement, many families will be saved of hardship if, at least, some of them are settled.	Decision
While purely a civil matrimonial dispute can be amicably settled by a Family Court either by itself or by directing the parties to explore the possibility of settlement through mediation, a complaint under Section 498A of the IPC presents difficulty because the said offence is not compoundable except in the State of Andhra Pradesh where by a State amendment, it has been made compoundable.	None
Though in Ramgopal Anr.	None
v. State of Madhya Pradesh Anr.	None
(2010) 13 SCC 540 , this Court requested the Law Commission and the Government of India to examine whether offence punishable under Section 498A of the IPC could be made compoundable, it has not been made compoundable as yet.	None
The courts direct parties to approach mediation centres where offences are compoundable.	None
Offence punishable under Section 498A being a noncompoundable offence, such a course is not followed in respect thereof.	None
This Court has always adopted a positive approach and encouraged settlement of matrimonial disputes and discouraged their escalation.	None
In this connection, we must refer to the relevant paragraph from G.V. Rao v. L.H.V. Prasad Ors.	None
(2000) 3 SCC 693 , where the complaint appeared to be the result of matrimonial dispute, while refusing to interfere with the High Courts order quashing the complaint, this court made very pertinent observations, which read thus There has been an outburst of matrimonial disputes in recent times.	None
Marriage is a sacred ceremony, the main purpose of which is to enable the young couple to settle down in life and live peacefully.	None
But little matrimonial skirmishes suddenly erupt which often assume serious proportions resulting in commission of heinous crimes in which elders of the family are also involved with the result that those who could have counselled and brought about rapprochement are rendered helpless on their being arrayed as accused in the criminal case.	None
There are many other reasons which need not be mentioned here for not encouraging matrimonial litigation so that the parties may ponder over their defaults and terminate their disputes amicably by mutual agreement instead of fighting it out in a court of law where it takes years and years to conclude and in that process the parties lose their young days in chasing their cases in different courts.	None
In B.S. Joshi Ors.	None
v. State of Haryana Anr.	None
AIR 2003 SC 1386 , after referring to the above observations, this Court stated that the said observations are required to be kept in view by courts while dealing with matrimonial disputes and held that complaint involving offence under Section 498A of the IPC can be quashed by the High Court in exercise of its powers under Section 482 of the Code if the parties settle their dispute.	None
Even in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab Anr.	None
(2012) 10 SCC 303 , this Court expressed that certain offences which overwhelmingly and predominantly bear civil flavour like those arising out of matrimony, particularly relating to dowry, etc. or the family dispute and where the offender and the victim had settled all disputes between them amicably, irrespective of the fact that such offences have not been made compoundable, the High Court may quash the criminal proceedings if it feels that by not quashing the same, the ends of justice shall be defeated.	None
We, therefore, feel that though offence punishable under Section 498A of the IPC is not compoundable, in appropriate cases if the parties are willing and if it appears to the criminal court that there exist elements of settlement, it should direct the parties to explore the possibility of settlement through mediation.	None
This is, obviously, not to dilute the rigour, efficacy and purport of Section 498A of the IPC, but to locate cases where the matrimonial dispute can be nipped in bud in an equitable manner.	Reasoning
The judges, with their expertise, must ensure that this exercise does not lead to the erring spouse using mediation process to get out of clutches of the law.	Reasoning
During mediation, the parties can either decide to part company on mutually agreed terms or they may decide to patch up and stay together.	Reasoning
In either case for the settlement to come through, the complaint will have to be quashed.	Reasoning
In that event, they can approach the High Court and get the complaint quashed.	Reasoning
If however they chose not to settle, they can proceed with the complaint.	Reasoning
In this exercise, there is no loss to anyone.	Reasoning
If there is settlement, the parties will be saved from the trials and tribulations of a criminal case and that will reduce the burden on the courts which will be in the larger public interest.	Reasoning
Obviously, the High Court will quash the complaint only if after considering all circumstances it finds the settlement to be equitable and genuine.	Reasoning
Such a course, in our opinion, will be beneficial to those who genuinely want to accord a quietus to their matrimonial disputes.	Reasoning
We would, however, like to clarify that reduction of burden of cases on the courts will, however, be merely an incidental benefit and not the reason for sending the parties for mediation.	Reasoning
We recognize mediation as an effective method of alternative dispute resolution in matrimonial matters and that is the reason why we want the parties to explore the possibility of settlement through mediation in matrimonial disputes.	Reasoning
We, therefore, issue directions, which the courts dealing with the matrimonial matters shall follow In terms of Section 9 of the Family Courts Act, the Family Courts shall make all efforts to settle the matrimonial disputes through mediation.	Decision
Even if the Counsellors submit a failure report, the Family Courts shall, with the consent of the parties, refer the matter to the mediation centre.	Decision
In such a case, however, the Family Courts shall set a reasonable time limit for mediation centres to complete the process of mediation because otherwise the resolution of the disputes by the Family Court may get delayed.	Decision
In a given case, if there is good chance of settlement, the Family Court in its discretion, can always extend the time limit.	Decision
The criminal courts dealing with the complaint under Section 498A of the IPC should, at any stage and particularly, before they take up the complaint for hearing, refer the parties to mediation centre if they feel that there exist elements of settlement and both the parties are willing.	Decision
However, they should take care to see that in this exercise, rigour, purport and efficacy of Section 498A of the IPC is not diluted.	Decision
Needless to say that the discretion to grant or not to grant bail is not in any way curtailed by this direction.	Decision
It will be for the concerned court to work out the modalities taking into consideration the facts of each case.	Decision
All mediation centres shall set up prelitigation desks clinics give them wide publicity and make efforts to settle matrimonial disputes at prelitigation stage.	Decision
The appeal is disposed of in the aforestated terms.	Decision
