 F. Nariman, J. The present appeal raises questions as to the triggering of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 when it comes to operational debts owed to operational creditors.	Issue
The appellant was engaged by Star TV for conducting televoting for the Nach Baliye program on Star TV.	Facts
The appellant in turn subcontracted the work to the respondent and issued purchase orders between October and December, 2013 in favour of the respondent.	Facts
In the Nach Baliye program, the successful dancer was to be selected on various bases, including viewers votes.	Facts
For this purpose, the respondent was to provide toll free telephone numbers across India, through which the viewers of the program could cast their votes in favour of one or more participants.	Facts
For this purpose, a software was customized by the respondent, who then coordinated the results and provided them to the appellant.	Facts
Since the respondent obtained toll free numbers from telephone operators in terms of the purchase orders, the appellant was liable to make payment of rentals for the toll free numbers, as well as primary rate interface rental to the telecom operators.	Facts
The respondent provided the requisite services and raised monthly invoices between December, 2013 and November, 2014  the invoices were payable within 30 days from the date on which they were received.	Facts
The respondent followed up with the appellant for payment of pending invoices through emails sent between April and October, 2014.	Facts
It is also important to note that a nondisclosure agreement (hereinafter referred to as the NDA) was executed between the parties on 26th December, 2014 with effect from 1st November, 2013.2.	Facts
More than a month after execution of the aforesaid agreement, the appellant, on 30th January, 2015, wrote to the respondent that they were withholding payments against invoices raised by the respondent, as the respondent had disclosed on their webpage that they had worked for the Nach Baliye program run by Star TV, and had thus breached the NDA.	Facts
The correspondence between the parties finally culminated in a notice dated 12th December, 2016 sent under Section 271 of the Companies Act, 2013.	Facts
Presumably because winding up on the ground of being unable to pay ones debts was no longer a ground to wind up a company under the said Act, a demand notice dated 23rd December, 2016 was sent for a total of Rs.20,08,202.55 under Section 8 of the new Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the Code).	Facts
By an email dated 27th December, 2016, the appellant responded to the aforesaid notice stating that there exists serious and bona fide disputes between the parties, that the notice issued was a pressure tactic, and that nothing was payable inasmuch as the respondent had been told way back on 30th January, 2015 that no amount will be paid to the respondent since it had breached the NDA.3.	Facts
An application was then filed on 30th December, 2016 before the National Company Law Tribunal under Sections 8 and 9 of the new Code stating that an operational debt of Rs.20,08,202.55 was owed to the respondent.4.	Facts
On 19th January, 2017, the respondent was orally intimated to remove a defect in the application, in that it did not contain the appellants notice of dispute.	Facts
This was rectified by an affidavit in compliance dated 24th January, 2017, by which various other documents were also supplied by the respondent to the Tribunal.	Facts
On 27th January, 2017, the Tribunal dismissed the aforesaid application in the following terms On perusal of this notice dated 27.12.2016 disputing the debt allegedly owed to the petitioner, this Bench, looking at the Corporate Debtor disputing the claim raised by the Petitioner in this CP, hereby holds that the default payment being disputed by the Corporate Debtor, for the petitioner has admitted that the notice of dispute dated 27th December 2016 has been received by the operational creditor, the claim made by the Petitioner is hit by Section (9)(5)(ii)(d) of The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, hence this Petition is hereby rejected.	Facts
An appeal was then filed before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal which was decided on 24th May, 2017.	Facts
This appeal was allowed in the following terms In the present case the adjudicating authority has acted mechanically and rejected the application under subsection (5)(ii)(d) of Section 9 without examining and discussing the aforesaid issue.	Facts
If the adjudicating authority would have noticed the provisions as discussed above and what constitutes dispute in relation to services provided by operational creditors then it would have come to a conclusion that condition of demand notice under subsection (2) of Section 8 has not been fulfilled by the corporate debtor and the defence claiming dispute was not only vague, got up and motivated to evade the liability.40.	Facts
For the reasons aforesaid we set aside the impugned order dated 27.1.2017 passed by adjudicating authority in CP	Facts
No.01/I BP NCLT MAH/2017 and remit the case to adjudicating authority for consideration of the application of the appellant for admission if the application is otherwise complete.41.	Facts
The appeal is allowed with the aforesaid observations.	Facts
However, in the facts and circumstances there shall be no order as to cost.	None
Shri Mohta, learned counsel on behalf of the appellant, raised various contentions before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, the application should have been dismissed on the ground that the operational creditor did not furnish a copy of the certificate from a financial institution, viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
IDBI in the present case, that maintained accounts of the operational creditor, which confirmed that there is no payment of any unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor under Section 9(3)(c) of the Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
This being so, the application ought to have been dismissed at the very threshold.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from this, the learned counsel took us through various committee reports and the provisions of the Code and argued that under Section 8 of the Code, the moment a corporate debtor, within 10 days of the receipt of a demand notice or copy of invoice, brings to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute between the parties, the Tribunal is obliged to dismiss the application.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, under Section (8)(2)(a), the expression existence of a dispute, if any, and record of the pendency of the suit or arbitration proceedings filed must be read as existence of a dispute or record of the pendency of the suit or arbitration proceedings filed, i.e. disjunctively.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, the definition of dispute under Section 5(6) of the Code is an inclusive one and the original draft bill not only had the word means instead of the word includes, but also the word bona fide before the words suit or arbitral proceedings, which is missing in the present Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, learned counsel argued that the moment there is existence of a dispute, meaning thereby that there is a real dispute to be tried, and not a sham, frivolous or vexatious dispute, the Tribunal is bound to dismiss the application.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel went on to argue that there is a fundamental difference between applications filed by financial creditors and operational creditors.	Arguments of Petitioner
A financial creditors application is dealt with under Section 7 of the Code, in which the adjudicating authority has to ascertain the existence of a default on the basis of the records of an information utility or other evidence furnished by the financial creditor.	Arguments of Petitioner
In contrast to this scheme, all that a corporate debtor needs to do is to file a reply within a period of 10 days of the receipt of demand notice or copy of invoice from an operational creditor, showing the existence of a dispute, which then does not need to be ascertained by the adjudicating authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was at pains to point out that the application itself must contain all the documents that are required by the statute and that the timelines indicated in the statute are mandatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this purpose, he referred us to Sections 61, 62 and 64 in addition to Sections 7 to 9 of the Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally, on facts, according to learned counsel, the Tribunal was wholly incorrect in remanding the matter on both counts  first, to find out whether the application is otherwise complete and, second, because the Tribunal found that the dispute in the present case was vague, got up and motivated to evade the liability, which, according to learned counsel, was a perverse conclusion reached on the facts of this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Jawaharlal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, has argued in reply that the only notice given to rectify the defects by the Tribunal was an oral notice of 19th January, 2017 and that too only to supply the notice of dispute by the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
This was done within time and the Tribunal, therefore, dismissed the application only on nonfulfillment of the conditions laid down in Section 9.	Arguments of Respondent
No plea was ever taken before the Tribunal that the IDBI certificate was not furnished.	Arguments of Respondent
This plea was taken for the first time only in appeal, and since the Tribunal did not think it fit to dismiss the application on a technical ground, this ground does not avail the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel then submitted that the expression dispute under Section 5(6) covers only three things, namely, existence of the amount of debt, quality of goods or services or breach of a representation or warranty and since what was sought to be brought as a defense was that the NDA was breached, it would not come within the definition of dispute under Section 5(6).	Arguments of Respondent
He further went on to state that, at best, the breach of the NDA is a claim for unliquidated damages which does not become crystallized until legal proceedings are filed, and none have been filed so far.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, there is no real dispute on the facts of the present case and the Tribunal was correct in its finding that the dispute was a sham one.	Arguments of Respondent
Before going into the contentions of fact and law argued by both counsel, it is a little important to trace the background of this pathbreaking legislation viz.	None
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.	None
The starting point is a Resolution of the UN General Assembly, Resolution No.59/40, passed on 2nd December, 2004, by which it was stated Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law of the United Nations Commission on International Trade LawThe General Assembly,Recognizing the importance to all countries of strong, effective and efficient insolvency regimes as a means of encouraging economic development and investment,Noting the growing realization that reorganization regimes are critical to corporate and economic recovery, the development of entrepreneurial activity, the preservation of employment and the availability of finance in the capital market,Noting also the importance of social policy issues to the design of an insolvency regime,Noting with satisfaction the completion and adoption of the Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law by the Commission at its thirtyseventh session, on 25 June 2004,Believing that the Legislative Guide, which includes the text of the Model Law on CrossBorder Insolvency and Guide to Enactment recommended by the General Assembly in its resolution 52/158 of 15 December 1997, contributes significantly to the establishment of a harmonized legal framework for insolvency and will be useful both to States that do not have an effective and efficient insolvency regime and to States that are undertaking a process of review and modernization of their insolvency regimes,Recognizing the need for cooperation and coordination between international organizations active in the field of insolvency law reform to ensure consistency and alignment of that work and to facilitate the development of international standards,Noting that the preparation of the Legislative Guide was the subject of due deliberations and extensive consultations with Governments and international intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations active in the field of insolvency law reform,1.	None
Expresses its appreciation to the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law for the completion and adoption of its Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law2.	None
Requests the SecretaryGeneral to publish the Legislative Guide and to make all efforts to ensure that it becomes generally known and available3.	None
Recommends that all States give due consideration to the Legislative Guide when assessing the economic efficiency of their insolvency regimes and when revising or adopting legislation relevant to insolvency4.	None
Recommends also that all States continue to consider implementation of the Model Law on CrossBorder Insolvency of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law.	None
The purpose of the Legislative Guide for various nations was stated as follows The purpose of the Legislative Guide on Insolvency Law is to assist the establishment of an efficient and effective legal framework to address the financial difficulty of debtors.	None
It is intended to be used as a reference by national authorities and legislative bodies when preparing new laws and regulations or reviewing the adequacy of existing laws and regulations.	None
The advice provided in the Guide aims at achieving a balance between the need to address the debtors financial difficulty as quickly and efficiently as possible and the interests of the various parties directly concerned with that financial difficulty, principally creditors and other parties with a stake in the debtors business, as well as with public policy concerns.	None
The Guide discusses issues central to the design of an effective and efficient insolvency law, which, despite numerous differences in policy and legislative treatment, are recognized in many legal systems.	None
It focuses on insolvency proceedings commenced under the insolvency law and conducted in accordance with that law, with an emphasis on reorganization, against a debtor, whether a legal or natural person, that is engaged in economic activity.	None
Issues specific to the insolvency of individuals not so engaged, such as consumers, are not addressed.	None
In stating some of the key objectives of effective and efficient insolvency law, the Legislative Guide goes on to state When a debtor is unable to pay its debts and other liabilities as they become due, most legal systems provide a legal mechanism to address the collective satisfaction of the outstanding claims from assets (whether tangible or intangible) of the debtor.	None
A range of interests needs to be accommodated by that legal mechanism those of the parties affected by the proceedings including the debtor, the owners and management of the debtor, the creditors who may be secured to varying degrees (including tax agencies and other government creditors), employees, guarantors of debt and suppliers of goods and services, as well as the legal, commercial and social institutions and practices that are relevant to the design of the insolvency law and required for its operation.	None
Generally, the mechanism must strike a balance not only between the different interests of these stakeholders, but also between these interests and the relevant social, political and other policy considerations that have an impact on the economic and legal goals of insolvency proceedings.xxx xxx xxxAn insolvency law should be transparent and predictable.	None
This will enable potential lenders and creditors to understand how insolvency proceedings operate and to assess the risk associated with their position as a creditor in the event of insolvency.	None
This will promote stability in commercial relations and foster lending and investment at lower risk premiums.	None
Transparency and predictability will also enable creditors to clarify priorities, prevent disputes by providing a backdrop against which relative rights and risks can be assessed and help define the limits of any discretion.	None
Unpredictable application of the insolvency law has the potential to undermine not only the confidence of all participants in insolvency proceedings, but also their willingness to make credit and other investment decisions prior to insolvency.	None
As far as possible, an insolvency law should clearly indicate all provisions of other laws that may affect the conduct of the insolvency proceedings (e.g. labour law commercial and contract law tax law laws affecting foreign exchange, netting and setoff and debt for equity swaps and even family and matrimonial law).An insolvency law should ensure that adequate information is available in respect of the debtors situation, providing incentives to encourage the debtor to reveal its positions and, where appropriate, sanctions for failure to do so.	None
The availability of this information will enable those responsible for administering and supervising insolvency proceedings (courts or administrative agencies, the insolvency representative) and creditors to assess the financial situation of the debtor and determine the most appropriate solution.	None
While referring to the commencement of insolvency proceedings, the Legislative Guide states The standard to be met for commencement of insolvency proceedings is central to the design of an insolvency law.	None
As the basis upon which insolvency proceedings can be commenced, this standard is instrumental to identifying the debtors that can be brought within the protective and disciplinary mechanisms of the insolvency law and determining who may make an application for commencement, whether the debtor, creditors or other parties.	None
As a general principle it is desirable that the commencement standard be transparent and certain, facilitating access to insolvency proceedings conveniently, costeffectively and quickly to encourage financially distressed or insolvent businesses to voluntarily commence proceedings.	None
It is also desirable that access be flexible in terms of the types of insolvency proceedings available (reorganization and liquidation), and the ease with which the proceedings most relevant to a particular debtor can be accessed, and that conversion between the different types of proceeding can be achieved.	None
Restrictive access can deter both debtors and creditors from commencing proceedings, while the effects of delay can be harmful to the value of assets and the successful completion of insolvency proceedings, in particular in cases of reorganization.	None
Ease of access needs to be balanced with proper and adequate safeguards to prevent improper use of proceedings.	None
Examples of improper use may include application by a debtor that is not in financial difficulty in order to take advantage of the protections provided by the insolvency law, such as the automatic stay, or to avoid or delay payment to creditors and application by creditors who are competitors of the debtor, where the purpose of the application is to take advantage of insolvency proceedings to disrupt the debtors business and thus gain a competitive edge.	None
On the fixation of time limits and denial of an application to commence proceedings, the Legislative Guide states Where a court is required to make a decision as to commencement, it is desirable that that decision be made in a timely manner to ensure both certainty and predictability of the decisionmaking and the efficient conduct of the proceedings without delay.	None
This will be particularly important in the case of reorganization to avoid further diminution of the value of assets and to improve the chances of a successful reorganization.	None
Some insolvency laws prescribe set time periods after the application within which the decision to commence must be made.	None
These laws often distinguish between applications by debtors and by creditors, with applications by debtors tending to be determined more quickly.	None
Any additional period for creditor applications is designed to allow prompt notice to be given to the debtor and provide the debtor with an opportunity to respond to the application.	None
Although the approach of fixing time limits may serve the objectives of providing certainty and transparency for both the debtor and creditors, the achievement of those objectives may need to be balanced against possible disadvantages.	None
For example, a fixed time period may be insufficiently flexible to take account of the circumstances of the particular case.	None
More generally, such time periods may be set without regard to the resources available to the body responsible for supervising insolvency proceedings or of the local priorities of that body (especially where insolvency is only one of the matters for which it has responsibility).	None
It may also prove difficult to ensure that the decisionmaking body adheres to the established limit and to provide appropriate consequences where there is no compliance.	None
The time period between application and the decision to commence proceedings should also reflect the type of proceeding applied for, the application procedure and the consequences of commencement in any particular regime.	None
For example, the extent to which notification of parties in interest and information gathering must be completed prior to commencement will vary between regimes, requiring different periods of time.	None
For these reasons, it is desirable that an insolvency law adopt a flexible approach that emphasizes the advantages of quick decisionmaking and provides guidance as to what is reasonable, but at the same time also recognizes local constraints and priorities.(d)	None
Denial of an application to commence proceedingsThe preceding paragraphs refer to a number of instances where it will be desirable, in those cases where the court is required to make the commencement decision, for the court to have the power to deny the application for commencement, either because of questions of improper use of the insolvency law or for technical reasons relating to satisfaction of the commencement standard.	None
The cases referred to include examples of both debtor and creditor applications.	None
Principal among the grounds for denial of the application for technical reasons might be those cases where the debtor is found not to satisfy the commencement standard where the debt is subject to a legitimate dispute or offset in an amount equal to or greater than the amount of the debt where the proceedings will serve no purpose because, for example, secured debt exceeds the value of assets and where the debtor has insufficient assets to pay for the insolvency administration and the law makes no other provision for funding the administration of such estates.	None
Examples of improper use might include those cases where the debtor uses an application for insolvency as a means of prevaricating and unjustifiably depriving creditors of prompt payment of debts or of obtaining relief from onerous obligations, such as labour contracts.	None
In the case of a creditor application, it might include those cases where a creditor uses insolvency as an inappropriate substitute for debt enforcement procedures (which may not be well developed) to attempt to force a viable business out of the market place or to attempt to obtain preferential payments by coercing the debtor (where such preferential payments have been made and the debtor is insolvent, investigation would be a key function of insolvency proceedings).As noted above, where there is evidence of improper use of the insolvency proceedings by either the debtor or creditors, the insolvency law may provide, in addition to denial of the application, that sanctions can be imposed on the party improperly using the proceedings or that that party should pay costs and possibly damages to the other party for any harm caused.	None
Remedies may also be available under noninsolvency law.	None
Where an application is denied, any provisional measures of relief ordered by the court after the time of the application for commencement should terminate (see chap.	None
II, para.	None
53).	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Ultimately, recommendation 19 of the Legislative Guide reads as under Commencement on creditor application (paras.57 and 67)19.	None
The law generally should specify that, where a creditor makes the application for commencement(a) Notice of the application promptly is given to the debtor(b)	None
The debtor be given the opportunity to respond to the application, by contesting the application, consenting to the application or, where the application seeks liquidation, requesting the commencement of reorganization proceedings and(c)	None
The court will promptly determine its jurisdiction and whether the debtor is eligible and the commencement standard has been met and, if so, commence insolvency proceedings.1 1	None
A determination that the commencement standard has been met may involve consideration of whether the debt is subject to a legitimate dispute or offset in an amount equal to or greater than the amount of the debt.	None
The existence of such a setoff may be a ground for dismissal of the application (see above, paras. 6163).	None
The legislative history of legislation relating to indebtedness goes back to the year 1964 when the 24th Law Commission recommended amendments to the Provincial Insolvency Act of 1920.	None
This was followed by the Tiwari Committee of 1981, which introduced the Sick Industrial Companies Act, 1985.	None
Following economic liberalization in the 1990s, two Narsimham Committee reports led to the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993 and the SARFAESI Act, 2002.	None
Meanwhile, the Goswami Committee Report, submitted in 1993, condemned the liquidation procedure prescribed by the Companies Act, 1956 as unworkable and being beset with delays at all levels  delaying tactics employed by the management, delays at the level of the Courts, delays in making auction sales etc.	None
This then led to the Eradi Committee Report of 1999, which proposed amendments to the Companies Act and proposed the repeal of SICA.	None
This Committee echoed the findings of the Goswami Committee and recommended an overhaul of the liquidation procedure under the Companies Act.	None
It was for the first time, in 2001, that the L.N. Mitra Committee of the RBI proposed a comprehensive Bankruptcy Code.	None
This was followed by the Irani Committee Report, also of the RBI in 2005, which noted that the liquidation procedure in India is costly, inordinately lengthy and results in almost complete erosion of asset value.	None
The Committee also noted that the insolvency framework did not balance stakeholders interests adequately.	None
It proposed a number of changes including changes for increased protection of creditors rights, maximization of asset value and better management of the company in liquidation.	None
In 2008, the Raghuram Rajan Committee of the Planning Commission proposed improvement to the credit infrastructure in the country, and finally a Committee of Financial Sector Legislative Reforms in 2013 submitted a draft Indian Financial Code, which included a resolution corporation for resolving distressed financial firms.	None
All this then led to the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee, set up by the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, under the Chairmanship of Shri T.K. Viswanathan.	None
This Committee submitted an interim report in February 2015 and a final report in November of the same year.	None
It was, as a result of the deliberations of this Committee, that the present Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code of 2016 was finally born.	None
The interim report went into the existing law on indebtedness in some detail and discussed the tests laid down in Madhusudan Gordhandas v. Madhu Woollen Industries Pvt. Ltd (1972) 2	None
SCR 201 , by which a petition presented under the Companies Act on the ground that the company is unable to pay its debts can only be dismissed if the debt is bona fide disputed, i.e. that the defense of the debtor is genuine, substantial and is likely to succeed on a point of law.	None
The interim report also adverted to an amendment made in the Companies Act, 2003, by which the threshold requirement of Rs.500 was replaced by Rs.1 lakh.	None
The interim report found Once the petitioning creditor has proved the inability of the debtor company to pay debts, van Zwieten states that courts in India have recognised a wide discretion that enabled it to give time to the debtor to make payment or even dismiss the petition.	None
This is in stark contrast with the position in the UK (from where the law was transplanted) where once the companys inability to pay debts has been proven, the petitioning creditor is ordinarily held to be entitled to a winding up order (although it should be noted that there is an alternative corporate rescue procedure, administration, which a debtor may be entitled to enter).The effect of these above mentioned judicial developments has been to add significant delays in the liquidation process under CA 1956 and to add uncertainty regarding the rights of the creditors in the event of the companys insolvency.	None
Consequently, this has made creditor recourse to the liquidation procedure as a means of debt enforcement rather difficult, and secondly, rendered the liquidation procedure ineffective as a disciplinary mechanism for creditors against insolvent debtors.	None
The interim report then recommended Recommendations In order to reinstate the debt enforcement function of the statutory demand test for winding up, if a company fails to pay an undisputed debt of a prescribed value as per Section 271(2) (a), the creditor should be entitled to a winding up order irrespective of whether it is insolvent (in commercial or balance sheet terms) or not.	None
Further, the NCLT should have the discretion to refer the company for rehabilitation under Chapter XIX before making a winding up order on such ground, if the company appears to be prima facie viable.	None
Further, in order to prevent abuse of the provision by creditors and ensure that it is not used to force debtor companies to settle disputed debts, the provision should specify the factors that the NCLT may take into account to determine whether the debt under consideration is disputed or not.	None
As laid down by the courts, a petition may be dismissed if the debt in question is bona fide disputed, i.e., where the following conditions are satisfied (i) the defence of the debtor company is genuine, substantial and in good faith (ii) the defence is likely to succeed on a point of law and (iii) the debtor company adduces prima facie proof of the facts on which the defence depends.	None
Further, as with initiation of rescue proceedings, the NCLT should also have the power to impose sanctions costs damages on a petitioning creditor and disallow reapplications on the same grounds if it finds that a petition has been filed to abuse the process of law.	None
The Government may also consider revising the present value for triggering the statutory demand test under Section 271 (2) (a) from one lakh rupees to a higher amount or revise the provision to state one lakh rupees or such amount as may be prescribed.	None
Balance sheet insolvency and commercial insolvency should be identified as separate grounds indicating a companys inability to pay debt in order to avoid conflicts confusion with the statutory demand test (as is the case of the IA 1986 where the statutory demand test, the commercial insolvency test and the balance sheet insolvency test are alternate grounds for determining a companys inability to pay debts under Sections 123(1) (a),123 (1) (e) and 123(2), respectively).	None
By the final report dated November 2015, the recommendation of the interim report was shelved.	None
The Committee made a distinction between financial contracts and operational contracts.	None
It stated 4.3.3 Information about the liabilities of a solvent entityOperational contracts typically involve an exchange of goods and services for cash.	None
For an enterprise, the latter includes payables for purchase of rawmaterials, other inputs or services, taxation and statutory liabilities, and wages and benefits to employees.xxx xxx xxxThe Code specifies that if the Adjudicator is able to locate the record of the liability and of default with the registered IUs, a financial creditor needs no other proof to establish that a default has taken place.xxx	None
xxx xxxThe second set of liabilities are operational liabilities, which are more difficult to centrally capture given that the counterparties are a wide and heterogeneous set.	None
In the state of insolvency, the record of all liabilities in the IUs become critical to creditors in assessing the complexity of the resolution required.	None
Various private players, including potential strategic acquirers or distressed asset funds, would constantly monitor entities that are facing stress, and prepare to make proposals to the committee of creditors in the event that an insolvency is triggered.	None
Easy access to this information is vital in ensuring that there is adequate interest by various kinds of financial firms in coming up to the committee of creditors with proposals.	None
It is not easy to set up mandates for the holders of operational liabilities to file the records of their liabilities, unlike the case of financial creditors.	None
However, their incentives to file liabilities are even stronger when the entity approaches insolvency.4.3.4 Information about operational creditorsOnce the invoice or notice is served, the debtor should be given a certain period of time in which to respond either by disputing it in a court, or pay up the amount of the invoice or notice.	None
The debtor will have the responsibility to file the information about the court case, or the repayment record in response to the invoice or notice within the specified amount of time.	None
If the debtor does not file either response within the specified period, and the creditor files for insolvency resolution, the debtor may be charged a monetary penalty by the Adjudicator.	None
However, if the debtor disputes the claim in court, until the outcome of this case is decided, the creditor may not be able to trigger insolvency on the entity.	None
This process will act as a deterrent for frivolous claims from creditors, as well as act as a barrier for some types of creditors to initiate insolvency resolution.	None
The Committee then went on to consider as to who can trigger the insolvency process.	None
In paragraph 5.2.1 the Committee stated Box 5.2  Trigger for IRP1.	None
The IRP can be triggered by either the debtor or the creditors by submitting documentation specified in the Code to the adjudicating authority.2.	None
For the debtor to trigger the IRP, she must be able to submit all the documentation that is defined in the Code, and may be specified by the Regulator above this.3.	None
The Code differentiates two categories of creditors financial creditors where the liability to the debtor arises from a solely financial transaction, and operational creditors where the liability to the debtor arises in the form of future payments in exchange for goods or services already delivered.	None
In cases where a creditor has both a solely financial transaction as well as an operational transaction with the entity, the creditor will be considered a financial creditor to the extent of the financial debt and an operational creditor to the extent of the operational debt is more than half the full liability it has with the debtor.4.	None
The Code will require different documentation for a debtor, a financial creditor, and an operational creditor to trigger the IRP.	None
These are listed in Box 5.3 under what the Adjudicator will accept as requirements to trigger the IRP.5.2.1 Who can trigger the IRP?Here, the Code differentiates between financial creditors and operational creditors.	None
Financial creditors are those whose relationship with the entity is a pure financial contract, such as a loan or a debt security.	None
Operational creditors are those whose liability from the entity comes from a transaction on operations.	None
Thus, the wholesale vendor of spare parts whose spark plugs are kept in inventory by the car mechanic and who gets paid only after the spark plugs are sold is an operational creditor.	None
Similarly, the lessor that the entity rents out space from is an operational creditor to whom the entity owes monthly rent on a threeyear lease.	None
The Code also provides for cases where a creditor has both a solely financial transaction as well as an operational transaction with the entity.	None
In such a case, the creditor can be considered a financial creditor to the extent of the financial debt and an operational creditor to the extent of the operational debt.5.2.2 How can the IRP be triggered?An application from a creditor must have a record of the liability and evidence of the entity having defaulted on payments.	None
The Committee recommends different documentation requirements depending upon the type of creditor, either financial or operational.	None
A financial creditor must submit a record of default by the entity as recorded in a registered Information Utility (referred to as the IU) as described in Section 4.3 (or on the basis of other evidence).	None
The default can be to any financial creditor to the entity, and not restricted to the creditor who triggers the IRP.	None
The Code requires that the financial creditor propose a registered Insolvency Professional to manage the IRP.	None
Operational creditors must present an undisputed bill which may be filed at a registered information utility as requirement to trigger the IRP.	None
The Code does not require the operational creditor to propose a registered Insolvency Professional to manage the IRP.	None
If a professional is not proposed by the operational creditor, and the IRP is successfully triggered, the Code requires the Adjudicator to approach the Regulator for a registered Insolvency Professional for the case.	None
When the Adjudicator receives the application, she confirms the validity of the documents before the case can be registered by confirming the documentation in the information utility if applicable.	None
In case the debtor triggers the IRP, the list of documentation provided by the debtor is checked against the required list.	None
The proposal for the RP is forwarded to the Regulator for validation.	None
If both the documentation and the proposed RP checks out as required within the time specified in regulations, the Adjudicator registers the IRP.In case the financial creditor triggers the IRP, the Adjudicator verifies the default from the information utility (if the default has been filed with an information utility, it shall be incontrovertible evidence of the existence of a default) or otherwise confirms the existence of default through the additional evidence adduced by the financial creditor, and puts forward the proposal for the RP to the Regulator for validation.	None
In case the operational creditor triggers the IRP, the Adjudicator verifies the documentation.	None
Simultaneously, the Adjudicator requests the Regulator for an RP.	None
If either step cannot be verified, or the process verification exceeds the specified amount of time, then the Adjudicator rejects the application, with a reasoned order for the rejection.	None
The order rejecting the application cannot be appealed against.	None
Instead, application has to be made afresh.	None
Once the documents are verified within a specified amount of time, the Adjudicator will trigger the IRP and register the IRP by issuing an order.	None
The order will contain a unique ID that will be issued for the case by which all reports and records that are generated during the IRP will be stored, and accessed.	None
Annexed to this Committee Report is the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Bill, 2015.	None
Interestingly, Section 5(4) defined dispute as DefinitionsIn this Part, unless the context otherwise requires(4) dispute means a bona fide suit or arbitration proceeding regarding (a) the existence or the amount of a debt (b) the quality of a good or service or (c) the breach of a representation or warranty Sections 8 and 9 in the said Bill read as under Insolvency resolution by operational creditor.(1)	None
An operational creditor shall, on the occurrence of a default, deliver a demand notice or copy of an invoice demanding payment of the amount involved in the default to the corporate debtor in such form as may be prescribed, through an information utility, wherever applicable, or by registered post or courier or by any electronic communication.(2)	Reasoning
The corporate debtor shall, within a period of ten days of the receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in subsection (1) bring to the notice of the operational creditor (a) the existence of a dispute, if any, and record of the pendency of the suit or arbitration proceedings filed at least sixty days prior to the receipt of such invoice or notice in relation to such dispute through an information utility or by registered post or courier or by any electronic communication(b) the repayment of unpaid operational debt (i) by sending an attested copy of electronic transfer of the unpaid amount from the bank account of the corporate debtor or (ii) by sending an attested copy of proof that the operational creditor having encashed a cheque issued by the corporate debtor.	None
Explanation.  	None
For the purpose of this section a demand notice means a notice served by an operational creditor to the corporate debtor demanding repayment of the debt in respect of which the default has occurred.9.	None
Application for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process by operational creditor.(1) After the expiry of the period of ten days from the date of delivery of the invoice or notice demanding payment under subsection (1) of section 8, if the operational creditor does not receive payment from the corporate debtor or notice of the dispute under subsection (2) of section 8, the operational creditor may file an application with the Adjudicating Authority in the prescribed form for initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process.(2)	None
The application under subsection (1) shall be filed in such form and manner and accompanied with such fee as may be prescribed.(3)	None
The operational creditor shall, along with the application furnish(a)	None
the invoice demanding payment or notice delivered by the operational creditor to the corporate debtor(b) affidavit to the effect that there is no notice given by the corporate debtor relating to a dispute of the unpaid operational debt(c) a confirmation from the financial institutions maintaining accounts of the operational creditor that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor and(d) such other information or as may be specified.(4)	None
The Adjudicating Authority shall, within two days of the receipt of the application under subsection (2), admit the application and communicate such decision to the operational creditor and the corporate debtor if, (a) the application is complete(b) there is no repayment of the unpaid operational debt(c) the invoice or notice for payment to the corporate debtor has been delivered by the operational creditor and(d) no notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is no record of dispute in the information utility.(5)	None
The Adjudicating Authority shall reject the application and communicate such decision to the operational creditor and the corporate debtor if (a) the application made under this section is incomplete(b) there has been repayment of the unpaid operational debt(c) the creditor has not delivered the invoice or notice for payment to the corporate debtor and(d) notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor and there is no record of dispute in the information utility.(6) Without prejudice to the conditions mentioned in subsection (3), an operational creditor initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process under this section, may also propose a resolution professional to act as an interim resolution professional.(7)	None
The corporate insolvency resolution process shall commence from the date of admission of the application under subsection (4) of this section.	None
Meanwhile, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Bill that was annexed to the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee Report underwent a further change before it was submitted to a Joint Committee of the Lok Sabha.	None
In this Bill, the definition of dispute now read as follows Definitions.	None
In this Part unless the context otherwise requires,(6) dispute includes a suit or arbitration proceedings relating to(a) the existence or the amount of debt(b) the quality of goods or service or(c) the breach of a representation or warranty Sections 8 and 9 read as follows Insolvency resolution by operational creditor.(1)	None
An operational creditor may, on the occurrence of a default, deliver a demand notice of unpaid operational debt or copy of an invoice demanding payment of the amount involved in the default to the corporate debtor in such form as may be prescribed, through an information utility, wherever applicable, or by registered post or courier or by such electronic mode of communication, as may be specified.(2)	Reasoning
The corporate debtor shall, within a period of ten days of the receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in subsection (1), bring to the notice of the operational creditor(a) the existence of a dispute, if any, and record of the pendency of the suit or arbitration proceedings filed prior to the receipt of such notice or invoice in relation to such dispute through an information utility or by registered post or courier or by such electronic mode of communication as may be specified(b) the repayment of unpaid operational debt(i) by sending an attested copy of the record of electronic transfer of the unpaid amount from the bank account of the corporate debtor or(ii) by sending an attested copy of record that the operational creditor has encashed a cheque issued by the corporate debtor.Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section, a demand notice means a notice served by an operational creditor to the corporate debtor demanding repayment of the operational debt in respect of which the default has occurred.9.	None
Application for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process by operational creditor.(1) After the expiry of the period of ten days from the date of delivery of the notice or invoice demanding payment under subsection (1) of section 8, if the operational creditor does not receive payment from the corporate debtor or notice of the dispute under subsection (2) of section 8, the operational creditor may file an application before the Adjudicating Authority for initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process.(2)	None
The application under subsection (1) shall be filed in such form and manner and accompanied with such fee as may be prescribed.(3)	None
The operational creditor shall, along with the application furnish(a) a copy of the invoice demanding payment or demand notice delivered by the operational creditor to the corporate debtor(b) an affidavit to the effect that there is no notice given by the corporate debtor relating to a dispute of the unpaid operational debt(c) a copy of the certificate from the financial institutions maintaining accounts of the operational creditor confirming that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor and(d) such other information or as may be specified.(4)	Reasoning
An operational creditor initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process under this section, may propose a resolution professional to act as an interim resolution professional.(5)	None
The Adjudicating Authority shall, within fourteen days of the receipt of the application under subsection (2), by an order(i) admit the application and communicate such decision to the operational creditor and the corporate debtor if,(a) the application made under subsection (2) is complete(b) there is no repayment of the unpaid operational debt(c) the invoice or notice for payment to the corporate debtor has been delivered by the operational creditor(d) no notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is no record of dispute in the information utility and(e) there is no disciplinary proceeding pending against any resolution professional proposed under subsection (4), if any.(ii) reject the application and communicate such decision to the operational creditor and the corporate debtor, if(a) the application made under subsection (2) is incomplete(b) there has been repayment of the unpaid operational debt(c) the creditor has not delivered the invoice or notice for payment to the corporate debtor(d) notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is a record of dispute in the information utility or(e)	None
any disciplinary proceeding is pending against any proposed resolution professionalProvided that Adjudicating Authority, prior to rejecting an application under subclause (a) of clause (ii) of this subsection, shall give a notice to the applicant to rectify the defect in his application within three days of the date of receipt of such notice from the Adjudicating Authority.(6)	None
The corporate insolvency resolution process shall commence from the date of admission of the application under subsection (5).	None
The notes on clauses annexed to the Bill are extremely important and read as follows Notes on ClausesClause 6 provides that where a corporate debtor has defaulted in paying a debt that has become due and payable but not repaid, the corporate insolvency resolution process under Part II may be initiated in respect of such corporate debtor by a financial creditor, an operational creditor or the corporate debtor itself.	None
Early recognition of financial distress is very important for timely resolution of insolvency.	None
A default based test for entry into the insolvency resolution process permits early intervention such that insolvency resolution proceedings can be initiated at an early stage when the corporate debtor shows early signs of financial distress rather than at the point where it would be difficult to revive it effectively.	None
It also provides a simple test to initiate resolution process.	None
This clause permits any financial creditor to initiate the corporate insolvency resolution process where the corporate debtor has defaulted in paying a debt that has become due and payable but not repaid.	None
Financial creditors are those creditors to whom a financial debt (i.e., a debt where the creditor is compensated for the time value of the money lent) is owed.	None
Further, the Code also permits the corporate debtor itself to initiate the insolvency resolution process once it has defaulted on a debt.	None
Additionally, operational creditors (i.e., creditors to whom a sum of money is owed for the provision of goods or services or the Central State Government or local authorities in respect of payments due to them) are also permitted to initiate the insolvency resolution process.	None
This will bring the law in line with international practices, which permit unsecured creditors (including employees, suppliers etc. who fall under the definition of operational creditors) to file for the initiation of insolvency resolution proceedings.	None
Clause 7 lays down the procedure for the initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process by a financial creditor or two or more financial creditors jointly.	None
The financial creditor can file an application before the National Company Law Tribunal along with proof of default and the name of a resolution professional proposed to act as the interim resolution professional in respect of the corporate debtor.	None
The requirement to provide proof of default ensures that financial creditors do not file frivolous applications or applications which prematurely put the corporate debtor into insolvency resolution proceedings for extraneous considerations.	None
The adjudicating authority Tribunal can, within fourteen days from the date of receipt of the application, ascertain the existence of a default from the records of a regulated information utility.	None
A default may also be proved in such manner as may be specified by the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India.	None
Once the adjudicating authority Tribunal is satisfied as to the existence of the default and has ensured that the application is complete and no disciplinary proceedings are pending against the proposed resolution professional, it shall admit the application.	None
The adjudicating authority Tribunal is not required to look into any other criteria for admission of the application.	None
It is important that parties are not allowed to abuse the legal process by using delaying tactics at the admissions stage.	None
Clause 8 lays down the procedure for the initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process by an operational creditor.	None
This procedure differs from the procedure applicable to financial creditors as operational debts (such as trade debts, salary or wage claims) tend to be small amounts (in comparison to financial debts) or are recurring in nature and may not be accurately reflected on the records of information utilities at all times.	None
The possibility of disputed debts in relation to operational creditors is also higher in comparison to financial creditors such as banks and financial institutions.	None
Accordingly, the process for initiation of the insolvency resolution process differs for an operational creditor.	None
Once a default has occurred, the operational creditor has to deliver a demand notice or a copy of an invoice demanding payment of the debt in default to the corporate debtor.	None
The corporate debtor has a period of ten days from the receipt of the demand notice or invoice to inform the operational creditor of the existence of a dispute regarding the debt claim or of the repayment of the debt.	Reasoning
This ensures that operational creditors, whose debt claims are usually smaller, are not able to put the corporate debtor into the insolvency resolution process prematurely or initiate the process for extraneous considerations.	None
It may also facilitate informal negotiations between such creditors and the corporate debtor, which may result in a restructuring of the debt outside the formal proceedings.	None
Clause 9 On the expiry of the period of ten days from the date of receipt of the invoice or demand notice under Clause 8, if the operational creditor does not receive either the payment of the debt or a notice of existence of dispute in relation to the debt claim from the corporate debtor, he can file an application with the adjudicating authority for initiating the insolvency resolution process in respect of such debtor.	None
He also has to furnish proof of default and proof of nonpayment of the debt along with an affidavit verifying that there has been no notice regarding the existence of a dispute in relation to the debt claim.	None
Within fourteen days from the receipt of the application, if the adjudicating authority Tribunal is satisfied as to (a) the existence of a default, and (b) the other criteria laid down in clause 9(5) being met, it shall admit the application.	None
The adjudicating authority Tribunal is not required to look into any other criteria for admission of the application.	None
It is important that parties are not allowed to abuse the legal process by using delaying tactics at the admissions stage.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Joint Committee in April, 2016 made certain small changes in the said Bill, by which the Committee stated Mode of delivery of demand notice of unpaid operational debt  Clause 8The Committee find that clause 8(1) of the Code provides that an operational creditor may, on the occurrence of a default, deliver a demand notice of unpaid operational debt or copy of an invoice demanding payment of the amount involved in the default to the corporate debtor in such form as may be prescribed, through an information utility, wherever applicable, or by registered post or courier or by such electronic mode of communication, as may be specified.	None
The Committee are of the view that the details of the mode of delivery of demand notice can be provided in the rules.	None
The Committee, therefore, decide to substitute words in such form as may be prescribed, through an information utility, wherever applicable, or by registered post or courier or by such electronic mode of communication, as may be specified as appearing in clause 8(1) with the words in such form and manner, as may be prescribed.	None
Besides as a consequential amendment words through an information utility or by registered post or courier or by such electronic mode of communication as may be specified as appearing in clause 8(2) may also be omitted.	None
The Committee also revised the time limits set out in various sections of the Code from 2, 3 and 5 days to a longer uniform period of 7 days.	None
The stage is now set for setting out the relevant provisions of the Code insofar as operational creditors and their corporate debtors are concerned.	None
Definitions.	None
In this Code, unless the context otherwise requires,xxx xxx xxx(12) default means nonpayment of debt when whole or any part or instalment of the amount of debt has become due and payable and is not repaid by the debtor or the corporate debtor, as the case may be5.	None
Definitions.	None
In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,(6) dispute includes a suit or arbitration proceedings relating to(a) the existence of the amount of debt(b) the quality of goods or service or(c) the breach of a representation or warrantyxxx xxx xxx(20) operational creditor means a person to whom an operational debt is owed and includes any person to whom such debt has been legally assigned or transferred(21) operational debt means a claim in respect of the provision of goods or services including employment or a debt in respect of the repayment of dues arising under any law for the time being in force and payable to the Central Government, any State Government or any local authority8.	None
Insolvency resolution by operational creditor.(1)	None
An operational creditor may, on the occurrence of a default, deliver a demand notice of unpaid operational debt or copy of an invoice demanding payment of the amount involved in the default to the corporate debtor in such form and manner as may be prescribed.(2)	None
The corporate debtor shall, within a period of ten days of the receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in subsection (1) bring to the notice of the operational creditor(a) existence of a dispute, if any, and record of the pendency of the suit or arbitration proceedings filed before the receipt of such notice or invoice in relation to such dispute(b) the repayment of unpaid operational debt(i) by sending an attested copy of the record of electronic transfer of the unpaid amount from the bank account of the corporate debtor or(ii) by sending an attested copy of record that the operational creditor has encashed a cheque issued by the corporate debtor.Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section, a demand notice means a notice served by an operational creditor to the corporate debtor demanding repayment of the operational debt in respect of which the default has occurred.9.	None
Application for initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process by operational creditor.(1) After the expiry of the period of ten days from the date of delivery of the notice or invoice demanding payment under subsection (1) of section 8, if the operational creditor does not receive payment from the corporate debtor or notice of the dispute under subsection (2) of section 8, the operational creditor may file an application before the Adjudicating Authority for initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process.(2)	None
The application under subsection (1) shall be filed in such form and manner and accompanied with such fee as may be prescribed.(3)	None
The operational creditor shall, along with the application furnish(a) a copy of the invoice demanding payment or demand notice delivered by the operational creditor to the corporate debtor(b) an affidavit to the effect that there is no notice given by the corporate debtor relating to a dispute of the unpaid operational debt(c) a copy of the certificate from the financial institutions maintaining accounts of the operational creditor confirming that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor and(d) such other information as may be specified.(4)	Reasoning
An operational creditor initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process under this section, may propose a resolution professional to act as an interim resolution professional.(5)	None
The Adjudicating Authority shall, within fourteen days of the receipt of the application under subsection (2), by an order(i) admit the application and communicate such decision to the operational creditor and the corporate debtor if,(a) the application made under subsection (2) is complete(b) there is no repayment of the unpaid operational debt(c) the invoice or notice for payment to the corporate debtor has been delivered by the operational creditor(d) no notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is no record of dispute in the information utility and(e) there is no disciplinary proceeding pending against any resolution professional proposed under subsection (4), if any.(ii) reject the application and communicate such decision to the operational creditor and the corporate debtor, if(a) the application made under subsection (2) is incomplete(b) there has been repayment of the unpaid operational debt(c) the creditor has not delivered the invoice or notice for payment to the corporate debtor(d) notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is a record of dispute in the information utility or(e)	None
any disciplinary proceeding is pending against any proposed resolution professionalProvided that Adjudicating Authority, shall before rejecting an application under subclause (a) of clause (ii) give a notice to the applicant to rectify the defect in his application within seven days of the date of receipt of such notice from the Adjudicating Authority.(6)	None
The corporate insolvency resolution process shall commence from the date of admission of the application under subsection (5) of this section.	None
Together with Section 8(1), the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016, speak of demand notices by the operational creditor and applications by the operational creditor in the following terms Demand notice by operational creditor.(1)	None
An operational creditor shall deliver to the corporate debtor, the following documents, namely.(a) a demand notice in Form 3 or(b) a copy of an invoice attached with a notice in Form 4.(2)	Reasoning
The demand notice or the copy of the invoice demanding payment referred to in subsection (2) of section 8 of the Code, may be delivered to the corporate debtor,(a) at the registered office by hand, registered post or speed post with acknowledgement due or(b) by electronic mail service to a whole time director or designated partner or key managerial personnel, if any, of the corporate debtor.(3) A copy of demand notice or invoice demanding payment served under this rule by an operational creditor shall also be filed with an information utility, if any.6.	None
Application by operational creditor.(1)	None
An operational creditor, shall make an application for initiating the corporate insolvency resolution process against a corporate debtor under section 9 of the Code in Form 5, accompanied with documents and records required therein and as specified in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016.(2)	None
The applicant under subrule (1) shall dispatch forthwith, a copy of the application filed with the Adjudicating Authority, by registered post or speed post to the registered office of the corporate debtor.	None
FORM 3(See clause (a) of subrule (1) of rule 5)FORM OF DEMAND NOTICE INVOICE DEMANDING PAYMENT UNDER THE INSOLVENCY AND BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016(Under rule 5 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016)DateTo,Name and address of the registered office of the corporate debtorFrom,Name and address of the registered office of the operational creditorSubject Demand notice invoice demanding payment in respect of unpaid operational debt due from corporate debtor under the Code.	None
Madam Sir,1.	None
This letter is a demand notice invoice demanding payment of an unpaid operational debt due from name of corporate debtor.2.	None
Please find particulars of the unpaid operational debt belowPARTICULARS OF OPERATIONAL DEBT1.TOTAL AMOUNT OF DEBT, DETAILS OF TRANSACTIONS ON ACCOUNT OF WHICH DEBT FELL DUE, AND THE DATE FROM WHICH SUCH DEBT FELL DUE2.AMOUNT	None
CLAIMED TO BE IN DEFAULT AND THE DATE ON WHICH THE DEFAULT OCCURRED (ATTACH THE WORKINGS FOR COMPUTATION OF DEFAULT IN TABULAR FORM)3.PARTICULARS OF SECURITY HELD, IF ANY, THE DATE OF ITS CREATION, ITS ESTIMATED VALUE AS PER THE CREDITOR.	None
ATTACH A COPY OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF CHARGE ISSUED BY THE REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES (IF THE CORPORATE DEBTOR IS A COMPANY)4.DETAILS OF RETENTION OF TITLE ARRANGEMENTS (IF ANY) IN RESPECT OF GOODS TO WHICH THE OPERATIONAL DEBT REFERS5.RECORD OF DEFAULT WITH THE INFORMATION UTILITY (IF ANY)6.PROVISION OF LAW, CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT UNDER WHICH DEBT HAS BECOME DUE7.LIST OF DOCUMENTS ATTACHED TO THIS APPLICATION IN ORDER TO PROVE THE EXISTENCE OF OPERATIONAL DEBT AND THE AMOUNT IN DEFAULT3.	None
If you dispute the existence or amount of unpaid operational debt (in default) please provide the undersigned, within ten days of the receipt of this letter, of the pendency of the suit or arbitration proceedings in relation to such dispute filed before the receipt of this letter notice.4.	None
If you believe that the debt has been repaid before the receipt of this letter, please demonstrate such repayment by sending to us, within ten days of receipt of this letter, the following(a) an attested copy of the record of electronic transfer of the unpaid amount from the bank account of the corporate debtor or(b) an attested copy of any record that name of the operational creditor has received the payment.5.	None
The undersigned, hereby, attaches a certificate from an information utility confirming that no record of a dispute raised in relation to the relevant operational debt has been filed by any person at any information utility, (if applicable)6.	None
The undersigned request you to unconditionally repay the unpaid operational debt (in default) in full within ten days from the receipt of this letter failing which we shall initiate a corporate insolvency resolution process in respect of c.Yours sincerely,Signature of person authorised to act on behalf of the operational creditorName in block lettersPosition with or in relation to the operational creditorAddress of person signingInstructions1.	None
Please serve a copy of this form on the corporate debtor, ten days in advance of filing an application under section 9 of the Code.2.	None
Please append a copy of such served notice to the application made by the operational creditor to the Adjudicating Authority.	None
Form 4(See clause (b) of subrule (1) of rule 5)FORM OF NOTICE WITH WHICH INVOICE DEMANDING PAYMENT IS TO BE ATTACHED(Under Rule 5 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016)DateTo,Name and address of registered office of the corporate debtorFrom,Name and address of the operational creditorSubject Notice attached to invoice demanding paymentMadam Sir,Name of operational creditor, hereby provides notice for repayment of the unpaid amount of INR insert amount that is in default as reflected in the invoice attached to this notice.	None
In the event you do not repay the debt due to us within ten days of receipt of this notice, we may file an application before the Adjudicating Authority for initiating a corporate insolvency resolution process under section 9 of the Code.	None
Yours sincerely,Signature of person authorised to act on behalf of the operational creditorName in block lettersPosition with or in relation to the operational creditorAddress of person signingForm 5(See subrule (1) of rule 6)APPLICATION BY OPERATIONAL CREDITOR TO INITIATE CORPORATE INSOLVENCY RESOLUTION PROCESS UNDER THE CODE.(Under rule 6 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016)DateTo,The National Company Law TribunalAddressFrom,Name and address for correspondence of the operational creditorIn the matter of name of the corporate debtorSubject Application to initiate corporate insolvency resolution process in respect of name of the corporate debtor under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.Madam Sir,Name of the operational creditor, hereby submits this application to initiate a corporate insolvency resolution process in the case of name of corporate debtor.	None
The details for the purpose of this application are set out belowPart  IPARTICULARS OF APPLICANT1.NAME OF OPERATIONAL CREDITOR2.IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF OPERATIONAL CREDITOR (IF ANY)3.ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE OF THE OPERATIONAL CREDITORPart  IIPARTICULARS OF CORPORATE DEBTOR1.NAME OF THE CORPORATE DEBTOR2.IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF CORPORATE DEBTOR3.DATE OF INCORPORATION OF CORPORATE DEBTOR4.NOMINAL SHARE CAPITAL AND THE PAIDUP SHARE CAPITAL OF THE CORPORATE DEBTOR AND OR DETAILS OF GUARANTEE CLAUSE AS PER MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION (AS APPLICABLE)5.ADDRESS OF THE REGISTERED OFFICE OF THE CORPORATE DEBTOR6.NAME, ADDRESS AND AUTHORITY OF PERSON SUBMITTING APPLICATION ON BEHALF OF OPERATIONAL CREDITOR (ENCLOSE AUTHORISATION)7.NAME AND ADDRESS OF PERSON RESIDENT IN INDIA AUTHORISED TO ACCEPT THE SERVICE OF PROCESS ON ITS BEHALF (ENCLOSE AUTHORISATION)PartIIIPARTICULARS OF THE PROPOSED INTERIM RESOLUTION PROFESSIONAL	None
IF PROPOSED1.NAME, ADDRESS, EMAIL ADDRESS AND THE REGISTRATION NUMBER OF THE PROPOSED INSOLVENCY PROFESSIONALPartIVPARTICULARS OF OPERATIONAL DEBT1.TOTAL AMOUNT OF DEBT, DETAILS OF TRANSACTIONS ON ACCOUNT OF WHICH DEBT FELL DUE, AND THE DATE FROM WHICH SUCH DEBT FELL DUE2.AMOUNT	None
CLAIMED TO BE IN DEFAULT AND THE DATE ON WHICH THE DEFAULT OCCURRED (ATTACH THE WORKINGS FOR COMPUTATION OF AMOUNT AND DATES OF DEFAULT IN TABULAR FORM)PartVPARTICULARS OF OPERATIONAL DEBT DOCUMENTS, RECORDS AND EVIDENCE OF DEFAULT1.PARTICULARS OF SECURITY HELD, IF ANY, THE DATE OF ITS CREATION, ITS ESTIMATED VALUE AS PER THE CREDITOR.	None
ATTACH A COPY OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION OF CHARGE ISSUED BY THE REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES (IF THE CORPORATE DEBTOR IS A COMPANY)2.DETAILS OF RESERVATION RETENTION OF TITLE ARRANGEMENTS (IF ANY) IN RESPECT OF GOODS TO WHICH THE OPERATIONAL DEBT REFERS3.PARTICULARS OF AN ORDER OF A COURT, TRIBUNAL OR ARBITRAL PANEL ADJUDICATING ON THE DEFAULT, IF ANY (ATTACH A COPY OF THE ORDER)4.RECORD OF DEFAULT WITH THE INFORMATION UTILITY, IF ANY (ATTACH A COPY OF SUCH RECORD)5.DETAILS OF SUCCESSION CERTIFICATE, OR PROBATE OF A WILL, OR LETTER OF ADMINISTRATION, OR COURT DECREE (AS MAY BE APPLICABLE), UNDER THE INDIAN SUCCESSION ACT, 1925 (10 OF 1925) (ATTACH A COPY)6.PROVISION OF LAW, CONTRACT OR OTHER DOCUMENT UNDER WHICH OPERATIONAL DEBT HAS BECOME DUE7.A STATEMENT OF BANK ACCOUNT WHERE DEPOSITS ARE MADE OR CREDITS RECEIVED NORMALLY BY THE OPERATIONAL CREDITOR IN RESPECT OF THE DEBT OF THE CORPORATE DEBTOR (ATTACH A COPY)8.LIST OF OTHER DOCUMENTS ATTACHED TO THIS APPLICATION IN ORDER TO PROVE THE EXISTENCE OF OPERATIONAL DEBT AND THE AMOUNT IN DEFAULTI, Name of the operational creditor person authorised to act on behalf of the operational creditor hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, name of proposed insolvency professional, is fully qualified and permitted to act as an insolvency professional in accordance with the Code and the rules and regulations made thereunder.	None
WHERE APPLICABLEName of the operational creditor has paid the requisite fee for this application through state means of payment on date.	None
Yours sincerely,Signature of person authorised to act on behalf of the operational creditorName in block lettersPosition with or in relation to the operational creditorAddress of person signingInstructions Please attach the following to this applicationAnnex	None
I Copy of the invoice demand notice as in Form 3 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016 served on the corporate debtor.	None
Annex II Copies of all documents referred to in this application.	None
Annex III Copy of the relevant accounts from the banks financial institutions maintaining accounts of the operational creditor confirming that there is no payment of the relevant unpaid operational debt by the operational debtor, if available.	None
Annex IV Affidavit in support of the application in accordance with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016.Annex V Written communication by the proposed interim resolution professional as set out in Form 2 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016.	None
WHERE APPLICABLEAnnex VI Proof that the specified application fee has been paid.	None
NoteWhere workmen employees are operational creditors, the application may be made either in an individual capacity or in a joint capacity by one of them who is duly authorised for the purpose.	None
Regulation 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016 is also relevant and reads as under7.	None
Claims by operational creditors.(1)	None
A person claiming to be an operational creditor, other than workman or employee of the corporate debtor, shall submit proof of claim to the interim resolution professional in person, by post or by electronic means in Form B of the ScheduleProvided that such person may submit supplementary documents or clarifications in support of the claim before the constitution of the committee.(2) The existence of debt due to the operational creditor under this Regulation may be proved on the basis of(a) the records available with an information utility, if any or(b) other relevant documents, including (i) a contract for the supply of goods and services with corporate debtor(ii) an invoice demanding payment for the goods and services supplied to the corporate debtor(iii) an order of a court or tribunal that has adjudicated upon the nonpayment of a debt, if any or(iv) financial accounts.	None
FORM BPROOF OF CLAIM BY OPERATIONAL CREDITORS EXCEPT WORKMEN AND EMPLOYEESUnder Regulation 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016DateToThe Interim Resolution Professional Resolution ProfessionalName of the Insolvency Resolution Professional Resolution ProfessionalAddress as set out in public announcementFromName and address of the operational creditorSubject Submission of proof of claim.	None
Madam Sir,Name of the operational creditor, hereby submits this proof of claim in respect of the corporate insolvency resolution process in the case of name of corporate debtor.	None
The details for the same are set out belowPARTICULARS1.NAME OF OPERATIONAL CREDITOR2.IDENTIFICATION NUMBER OF OPERATIONAL CREDITOR (IF AN INCORPORATED BODY PROVIDE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER AND PROOF OF INCORPORATION.	None
IF A PARTNERSHIP OR INDIVIDUAL PROVIDE IDENTIFICATION RECORDS OF ALL THE PARTNERS OR THE INDIVIDUAL)3.ADDRESS AND EMAIL ADDRESS OF OPERATIONAL CREDITOR FOR CORRESPONDENCE4.TOTAL AMOUNT OF CLAIM (INCLUDING ANY INTEREST AS AT THE INSOLVENCY COMMENCEMENT DATE)5.DETAILS OF DOCUMENTS BY REFERENCE TO WHICH THE DEBT CAN BE SUBSTANTIATED.6.DETAILS OF ANY DISPUTE AS WELL AS THE RECORD OF PENDENCY OR ORDER OF SUIT OR ARBITRATION PROCEEDINGS7.DETAILS OF HOW AND WHEN DEBT INCURRED8.DETAILS OF ANY MUTUAL CREDIT, MUTUAL DEBTS, OR OTHER MUTUAL DEALINGS BETWEEN THE CORPORATE DEBTOR AND THE CREDITOR WHICH MAY BE SETOFF AGAINST THE CLAIM9.DETAILS OF ANY RETENTION OF TITLE ARRANGEMENTS IN RESPECT OF GOODS OR PROPERTIES TO WHICH THE CLAIM REFERS10.DETAILS OF THE BANK ACCOUNT TO WHICH THE AMOUNT OF THE CLAIM OR ANY PART THEREOF CAN BE TRANSFERRED PURSUANT TO A RESOLUTION PLAN11.LIST OF DOCUMENTS ATTACHED TO THIS PROOF OF CLAIM IN ORDER TO PROVE THE EXISTENCE AND NONPAYMENT OF CLAIM DUE TO THE OPERATIONAL CREDITORSignature of operational creditor or person authorised to act on his behalfPlease enclose the authority if this is being submitted on behalf of an operational creditorName in BLOCK LETTERSPosition with or in relation to creditorAddress of person signingPAN number, passport, AADHAAR Card or the identity card issued by the Election Commission of India.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In the passage of the Bills which ultimately became the Code, various important changes have taken place.	None
The original definition of dispute has now become an inclusive definition, the word bona fide before suit or arbitration proceedings being deleted.	None
In Section 8(1), the words through an information utility, wherever applicable, or by registered post or courier or by any electronic communication have been deleted.	None
Likewise, in Section 8(2), the period of at least 60 days through an information utility or by registered post or courier or by any electronic communication has also been deleted.	None
In Section 9(5), the absence of a proviso similar to the proviso occurring in Section 7(5) was also rectified.	None
Further, the time periods of 2 and 3 days were uniformly substituted, as has been seen above, by 7 days, so that a sufficiently long period is given to do the needful.	None
The scheme under Sections 8 and 9 of the Code, appears to be that an operational creditor, as defined, may, on the occurrence of a default (i.e., on nonpayment of a debt, any part whereof has become due and payable and has not been repaid), deliver a demand notice of such unpaid operational debt or deliver the copy of an invoice demanding payment of such amount to the corporate debtor in the form set out in Rule 5 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016 read with Form 3 or 4, as the case may be (Section 8(1)).	None
Within a period of 10 days of the receipt of such demand notice or copy of invoice, the corporate debtor must bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute and or the record of the pendency of a suit or arbitration proceeding filed before the receipt of such notice or invoice in relation to such dispute (Section 8(2)(a)).	Reasoning
What is important is that the existence of the dispute and or the suit or arbitration proceeding must be preexisting  i.e. it must exist before the receipt of the demand notice or invoice, as the case may be.	None
In case the unpaid operational debt has been repaid, the corporate debtor shall within a period of the selfsame 10 days send an attested copy of the record of the electronic transfer of the unpaid amount from the bank account of the corporate debtor or send an attested copy of the record that the operational creditor has encashed a cheque or otherwise received payment from the corporate debtor (Section 8(2)(b)).	None
It is only if, after the expiry of the period of the said 10 days, the operational creditor does not either receive payment from the corporate debtor or notice of dispute, that the operational creditor may trigger the insolvency process by filing an application before the adjudicating authority under Sections 9(1) and 9(2).	None
This application is to be filed under Rule 6 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016 in Form 5, accompanied with documents and records that are required under the said form.	None
Under Rule 6(2), the applicant is to dispatch by registered post or speed post, a copy of the application to the registered office of the corporate debtor.	None
Under Section 9(3), along with the application, the statutory requirement is to furnish a copy of the invoice or demand notice, an affidavit to the effect that there is no notice given by the corporate debtor relating to a dispute of the unpaid operational debt and a copy of the certificate from the financial institution maintaining accounts of the operational creditor confirming that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor.	None
Apart from this information, the other information required under Form 5 is also to be given.	None
Once this is done, the adjudicating authority may either admit the application or reject it.	None
If the application made under subsection (2) is incomplete, the adjudicating authority, under the proviso to subsection 5, may give a notice to the applicant to rectify defects within 7 days of the receipt of the notice from the adjudicating authority to make the application complete.	None
Once this is done, and the adjudicating authority finds that either there is no repayment of the unpaid operational debt after the invoice (Section 9(5)(i)(b)) or the invoice or notice of payment to the corporate debtor has been delivered by the operational creditor (Section 9(5)(i)(c)), or that no notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor from the corporate debtor or that there is no record of such dispute in the information utility (Section 9(5)(i)(d)), or that there is no disciplinary proceeding pending against any resolution professional proposed by the operational creditor (Section 9(5)(i)(e)), it shall admit the application within 14 days of the receipt of the application, after which the corporate insolvency resolution process gets triggered.	None
On the other hand, the adjudicating authority shall, within 14 days of the receipt of an application by the operational creditor, reject such application if the application is incomplete and has not been completed within the period of 7 days granted by the proviso (Section 9(5)(ii)(a)).	None
It may also reject the application where there has been repayment of the operational debt (Section 9(5)(ii)(b)), or the creditor has not delivered the invoice or notice for payment to the corporate debtor (Section 9(5)(ii)(c)).	None
It may also reject the application if the notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is a record of dispute in the information utility (Section 9(5)(ii)(d)).	Reasoning
Section 9(5)(ii)(d) refers to the notice of an existing dispute that has so been received, as it must be read with Section 8(2)(a).	None
Also, if any disciplinary proceeding is pending against any proposed resolution professional, the application may be rejected (Section 9(5)(ii)(e)).	None
Therefore, the adjudicating authority, when examining an application under Section 9 of the Act will have to determine Whether there is an operational debt as defined exceeding Rs.1 lakh?	None
(See Section 4 of the Act)(ii) Whether the documentary evidence furnished with the application shows that the aforesaid debt is due and payable and has not yet been paid?	None
and(iii)	None
Whether there is existence of a dispute between the parties or the record of the pendency of a suit or arbitration proceeding filed before the receipt of the demand notice of the unpaid operational debt in relation to such dispute?	None
If any one of the aforesaid conditions is lacking, the application would have to be rejected.	None
Apart from the above, the adjudicating authority must follow the mandate of Section 9, as outlined above, and in particular the mandate of Section 9(5) of the Act, and admit or reject the application, as the case may be, depending upon the factors mentioned in Section 9(5) of the Act.	None
Another thing of importance is the timelines within which the insolvency resolution process is to be triggered.	None
The corporate debtor is given 10 days from the date of receipt of demand notice or copy of invoice to either point out that a dispute exists between the parties or that he has since repaid the unpaid operational debt.	Reasoning
If neither exists, then an application once filed has to be disposed of by the adjudicating authority within 14 days of its receipt, either by admitting it or rejecting it.	None
An appeal can then be filed to the Appellate Tribunal under Section 61 of the Act within 30 days of the order of the Adjudicating Authority with an extension of 15 further days and no more.	None
Section 64 of the Code mandates that where these timelines are not adhered to, either by the Tribunal or by the Appellate Tribunal, they shall record reasons for not doing so within the period so specified and extend the period so specified for another period not exceeding 10 days.	None
Even in appeals to the Supreme Court from the Appellate Tribunal under Section 62, 45 days time is given from the date of receipt of the order of the Appellate Tribunal in which an appeal to the Supreme Court is to be made, with a further grace period not exceeding 15 days.	None
The strict adherence of these timelines is of essence to both the triggering process and the insolvency resolution process.	None
As we have seen, one of the principal reasons why the Code was enacted was because liquidation proceedings went on interminably, thereby damaging the interests of all stakeholders, except a recalcitrant management which would continue to hold on to the company without paying its debts.	None
Both the Tribunal and the Appellate Tribunal will do well to keep in mind this principal objective sought to be achieved by the Code and will strictly adhere to the time frame within which they are to decide matters under the Code.	None
It is now important to construe Section 8 of the Code.	None
The operational creditors are those creditors to whom an operational debt is owed, and an operational debt, in turn, means a claim in respect of the provision of goods or services, including employment, or a debt in respect of repayment of dues arising under any law for the time being in force and payable to the Government or to a local authority.	None
This has to be contrasted with financial debts that may be owed to financial creditors, which was the subject matter of the judgment delivered by this Court on 31.8.2017 in Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank Anr.	None
(Civil Appeal Nos.83378338 of 2017).	None
In this judgment, we had held that the adjudicating authority under Section 7 of the Code has to ascertain the existence of a default from the records of the information utility or on the basis of evidence furnished by the financial creditor within 14 days.	None
The corporate debtor is entitled to point out to the adjudicating authority that a default has not occurred in the sense that a debt, which may also include a disputed claim, is not due i.e. it is not payable in law or in fact.	None
This Court then went on to state The scheme of Section 7 stands in contrast with the scheme under Section 8 where an operational creditor is, on the occurrence of a default, to first deliver a demand notice of the unpaid debt to the operational debtor in the manner provided in Section 8(1) of the Code.	None
Under Section 8(2), the corporate debtor can, within a period of 10 days of receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in subsection (1), bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute or the record of the pendency of a suit or arbitration proceedings, which is preexisting  i.e. before such notice or invoice was received by the corporate debtor.	Reasoning
The moment there is existence of such a dispute, the operational creditor gets out of the clutches of the Code.30.	None
On the other hand, as we have seen, in the case of a corporate debtor who commits a default of a financial debt, the adjudicating authority has merely to see the records of the information utility or other evidence produced by the financial creditor to satisfy itself that a default has occurred.	None
It is of no matter that the debt is disputed so long as the debt is due i.e. payable unless interdicted by some law or has not yet become due in the sense that it is payable at some future date.	None
It is only when this is proved to the satisfaction of the adjudicating authority that the adjudicating authority may reject an application and not otherwise.	None
It is, thus, clear that so far as an operational creditor is concerned, a demand notice of an unpaid operational debt or copy of an invoice demanding payment of the amount involved must be delivered in the prescribed form.	Reasoning
The corporate debtor is then given a period of 10 days from the receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice to bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute, if any.	Reasoning
We have also seen the notes on clauses annexed to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Bill of 2015, in which the existence of a dispute alone is mentioned.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the word and occurring in Section 8(2)(a) must be read as or keeping in mind the legislative intent and the fact that an anomalous situation would arise if it is not read as or.	Reasoning
If read as and, disputes would only stave off the bankruptcy process if they are already pending in a suit or arbitration proceedings and not otherwise.	Reasoning
This would lead to great hardship in that a dispute may arise a few days before triggering of the insolvency process, in which case, though a dispute may exist, there is no time to approach either an arbitral tribunal or a court.	Reasoning
Further, given the fact that long limitation periods are allowed, where disputes may arise and do not reach an arbitral tribunal or a court for upto three years, such persons would be outside the purview of Section 8(2) leading to bankruptcy proceedings commencing against them.	Reasoning
Such an anomaly cannot possibly have been intended by the legislature nor has it so been intended.	Reasoning
We have also seen that one of the objects of the Code qua operational debts is to ensure that the amount of such debts, which is usually smaller than that of financial debts, does not enable operational creditors to put the corporate debtor into the insolvency resolution process prematurely or initiate the process for extraneous considerations.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that it is enough that a dispute exists between the parties.	Reasoning
It is settled law that the expression and may be read as or in order to further the object of the statute and or to avoid an anomalous situation.	None
Thus, in Samee Khan v. Bindu Khan (1998) 7 SCC 59 at 64, this Court held Since the word also can have meanings such as as well or likewise, cannot those meanings be used for understanding the scope of the trio words and may also?	None
Those words cannot altogether be detached from the other words in the subrule.	None
Here again the word and need not necessarily be understood as denoting a conjunctive sense.	None
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary, it is stated that the word and has generally a cumulative sense, but sometimes it is by force of a context read as or.	None
Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes has recognised the above use to carry out the interpretation of the legislature.	None
This has been approved by this Court in Ishwar Singh Bindra v. State of U.P. AIR 1968 SC 1450 1969 Cri LJ 19.	None
The principle of noscitur a sociis can profitably be used to construct the words and may also in the subrule.	None
In Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. Essar Power Ltd. (2008) 4 SCC 755 at 765, this Court held It may be noted that Section 86(1)(f) of the Act of 2003 is a special provision for adjudication of disputes between the licensee and the generating companies.	None
Such disputes can be adjudicated upon either by the State Commission or the person or persons to whom it is referred for arbitration.	None
In our opinion the word and in Section 86(1)(f) between the words generating companies and to refer any dispute for arbitration means or.	None
It is well settled that sometimes and can mean or and sometimes or can mean and (vide G.P. Singhs Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 9th Edn., 2004, p. 404).27.	None
In our opinion in Section 86(1)(f) of the Electricity Act, 2003 the word and between the words generating companies and the words refer any dispute means or, otherwise it will lead to an anomalous situation because obviously the State Commission cannot both decide a dispute itself and also refer it to some arbitrator.	None
Hence the word and in Section 86(1)(f) means or.	None
In a recent judgment in Maharishi Mahesh Yogi Vedic Vishwavidyalaya v. State of M.P. (2013) 15 SCC 677 at 718, this Court held Besides the above two decisions, which discuss about the methodology of interpretation of a statute, we also refer to the following decisions rendered by this Court in Ishwar Singh Bindra Ishwar Singh Bindra v. State of U.P., AIR 1968 SC 1450 1969 Cri LJ 19, wherein in para 11 it has been held as under (AIR p. 1454)11.	None
It would be much more appropriate in the context to read it disconjunctively.	None
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary, 3rd Edn., it is stated at p. 135	None
that and has generally a cumulative sense, requiring the fulfilment of all the conditions that it joins together, and herein it is the antithesis of or.	None
Sometimes, however, even in such a connection, it is, by force of a context, read as or.	None
Similarly in Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, 11th Edn., it has been accepted that to carry out the intention of the legislature it is occasionally found necessary to read the conjunctions or and and one for the other.94.	None
We may also refer to para 4 of the decision rendered by this Court in Director of Mines Safety v. Tandur and Nayandgi Stone Quarries (P) Ltd. (1987) 3 SCC 208 (SCC p. 211, para 4)4.	None
According to the plain meaning, the exclusionary clause in subsection (1) of Section 3 of the Act read with the two provisos beneath clauses (a) and (b), the word and at the end of para (b) of subclause (ii) of the proviso to clause (a) of Section 3(1) must in the context in which it appears, be construed as or and if so construed, the existence of any one of the three conditions stipulated in paras (a), (b) and (c) would at once attract the proviso to clauses (a) and (b) of subsection (1) of Section 3 and thereby make the mine subject to the provisions of the Act.	None
The High Court overlooked the fact that the use of the negative language in each of the three clauses implied that the word and used at the end of clause (b) had to be read disjunctively.	None
That construction of ours is in keeping with the legislative intent manifested by the scheme of the Act which is primarily meant for ensuring the safety of workmen employed in the mines.	None
This being the case, is it not open to the adjudicating authority to then go into whether a dispute does or does not exist?	None
It is important to notice that Section 255 read with the Eleventh Schedule of the Code has amended Section 271 of the Companies Act, 2013 so that a company being unable to pay its debts is no longer a ground for winding up a company.	Reasoning
The old law contained in Madhusudan (supra) has, therefore, disappeared with the disappearance of this ground in Section 271 of the Companies Act.35.	Reasoning
We have already noticed that in the first Insolvency and Bankruptcy Bill, 2015 that was annexed to the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee Report, Section 5(4) defined dispute as meaning a bona fide suit or arbitration proceedings In its present avatar, Section 5(6) excludes the expression bona fide which is of significance.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is difficult to import the expression bona fide into Section 8(2)(a) in order to judge whether a dispute exists or not.	Reasoning
The expression existence has been understood as follows The Shorter Oxford English Dictionary gives the following meaning of the word existencea) Reality, as opp to appearance.b)	None
The fact or state of existing actual possession of being.	None
Continued being as a living creature, life, esp.	None
under adverse conditions.	None
Something that exists an entity, a being.	None
All that exists.	None
(Page 894  Oxford English Dictionary)	None
Two extremely instructive judgments, one of the Australian High Court, and the other of the Chancery Division in the UK, throw a great deal of light on the expression existence of a dispute contained in Section 8(2)(a) of the Code.	None
The Australian judgment is reported as Spencer Constructions Pty Ltd v. G M Aldridge Pty Ltd. 1997 FCA 681.	None
The Australian High Court had to construe Section 459H of the Corporations Law, which read as under (1) (a) that there is a genuine dispute between the company and the respondent about the existence or amount of a debt to which the demand relates(b) The expression genuine dispute was then held to mean the followingFinn J was content to adopt the explanation of genuine dispute given by McLelland CJ in Eq in Eyota Pty Ltd v. Hanave Pty Ltd (1994) 12 ACSR 785 at 787 where his Honour saidIn my opinion the expression connotes a plausible contention requiring investigation, and raises much the same sort of considerations as the serious question to be tried criterion which arises on an application for an interlocutory injunction or for the extension or removal of a caveat.	None
This does not mean that the court must accept uncritically as giving rise to a genuine dispute, every statement in an affidavit however equivocal, lacking in precision, inconsistent with undisputed contemporary documents or other statements by the same deponent, or inherently and probable in itself, it may be not having sufficient prima facie plausibility to merit further investigation as to its truth (cf Eng Mee Yong v. Letchumanan 1980 AC 331 at 341), or a patently feeble legal argument or an assertion of facts unsupported by evidence cf South Australia v. Wall (1980) 24 SASR 189 at 194.His Honour also referred to the judgment of Lindgren J in Rohala Pharmaceutical Pty Ltd (supra) where, at 353, his Honour saidThe provisions of s 459H(1) and (5) assume that the dispute and offsetting claim have an objective existence the genuineness of which is capable of being assessed.	None
The word genuine is included in genuine dispute to sound a note of warning that the propounding of serious disputes and claims is to be expected but must be excluded from consideration.	None
There have been numerous decisions of single judges in this Court and in State Supreme Courts which have analysed, in different ways, the approach a court should take in determining whether there is a genuine dispute for the purposes of s 459H of the Corporations Law.	None
What is clear is that in considering applications to set aside a statutory demand, a court will not determine contested issues of fact or law which have a significant or substantial basis.	None
One finds formulations such as at least in most cases, it is not expected that the court will embark upon any extended enquiry in order to determine whether there is a genuine dispute between the parties and certainly will not attempt to weigh the merits of that dispute.	None
All that the legislation requires is that the court conclude that there is a dispute and that it is a genuine dispute.	None
See Mibor Investments Pty Ltd v. Commonwealth Bank of Australia (1993)	None
11 ACSR 362 at 366 7, followed by Ryan J in Moyall Investments Services Pty Ltd v. White (1993) 12 ACSR 320 at 324.Another formulation has been expressed as followsIt is clear that what is required in all cases is something between mere assertion and the proof that would be necessary in a court of law.	None
Something more than mere assertion is required because if that were not so then anyone could merely say it did not owe a debt	None
See John Holland Construction and Engineering Pty Ltd v. Kilpatrick Green Pty Ltd (1994) 12 ACLC 716 at 718, followed by Northrop J in Aquatown Pty Ltd v. Holder Stroud Pty Ltd (Federal Court of Australia, 25 June 1996, unreported).In Re Morris Catering (Australia) Pty Ltd (1993) 11 ACSR 601 at 605, Thomas J saidThere is little doubt that Div 3 is intended to be a complete code which prescribes a formula that requires the court to assess the position between the parties, and preserve demands where it can be seen that there is no genuine dispute and no sufficient genuine offsetting claim.	None
That is not to say that the court will examine the merits or settle the dispute.	None
The specified limits of the courts examination are the ascertainment of whether there is a genuine dispute and whether there is a genuine claim.	None
It is often possible to discern the spurious, and to identify mere bluster or assertion.	None
But beyond a perception of genuineness (or the lack of it) the court has no function.	None
It is not helpful to perceive that one party is more likely than the other to succeed, or that the eventual state of the account between the parties is more likely to be one result than another.	None
The essential task is relatively simple  to identify the genuine level of a claim (not the likely result of it) and to identify the genuine level of an offsetting claim (not the likely result of it).In Scanhill Pty Ltd v. Century 21 Australasia Pty Ltd (1993) 12 ACSR 341 at 357 Beazley J said the test to be applied for the purposes of s 459H is whether the court is satisfied that there is a serious question to be tried that the applicant has an offsetting claim.	None
In Chadwick Industries (South Coast)	None
Pty Ltd v. Condensing Vaporisers Pty Ltd (1994) 13 ACSR 37 at 39, Lockhart J said what appears clearly enough from all the judgments is that a standard of satisfaction which a court requires is not a particularly high one.	None
I am for present purposes content to adopt any of the standards that are referred to in the cases The highest of the thresholds is probably the test enunciated by Beazley J, though for myself I discern no inconsistency between that test and the statements in the other cases to which I have referred.	None
However, the application of Beazley Js test will vary according to the circumstances of the case.	None
Certainly the court will not examine the merits of the dispute other than to see if there is in fact a genuine dispute.	None
The notion of a genuine dispute in this context suggests to me that the court must be satisfied that there is a dispute that is not plainly vexatious or frivolous.	None
It must be satisfied that there is a claim that may have some substance.	None
In Greenwood Manor Pty Ltd v. Woodlock (1994) 48 FCR 229 Northrop J referred to the formulations of Thomas J in Re Morris Catering (Australia) Pty Ltd (1993) 11 ACLC 919, 922 and Hayne J in Mibor Investments Pty Ltd v. Commonwealth Bank of Australia (supra), where he noted the dictionary definition of genuine as being in this context not spurious real or true and concluded (at 234)Although it is true that the Court, on an application under ss 459G and 459H is not entitled to decide a question as to whether a claim will succeed or not, it must be satisfied that there is a genuine dispute between the company and the respondent about the existence of the debt.	None
If it can be shown that the argument in support of the existence of a genuine dispute can have no possible basis whatsoever, in my view, it cannot be said that there is a genuine dispute.	None
This does not involve, in itself, a determination of whether the claim will succeed or not, but it does go to the reality of the dispute, to show that it is real or true and not merely spurious.	None
In our view a genuine dispute requires that the dispute be bona fide and truly exist in fact the grounds for alleging the existence of a dispute are real and not spurious, hypothetical, illusory or misconceived.	None
We consider that the various formulations referred to above can be helpful in determining whether there is a genuine dispute in a particular case, so long as the formulation used does not become a substitute for the words of the statute.	None
To similar effect is the judgment of the Chancery Division in Hayes v. Hayes (2014) EWHC 2694 (Ch) under the U.K. Insolvency Rules.	None
The Chancery Division held I do not think it necessary, for the purposes of this appeal, to embark on a survey of the authorities as to precisely what is involved in a genuine and substantial crossclaim.	None
It is clear that on the one hand, the court does not need to be satisfied that there is a good claim or even that it is a claim which is prima facie likely to succeed.	None
In In re Bayoil SA 1999 1 WLR 147 itself, Nourse LJ referred, at p 153, to what Harman LJ had said in In re LHF Wools Ltd 1970 Ch 27, 36 where Harman LJ, having referred to a previous case, saidThe majority decided in that case that, shadowy as the crossclaim was and improbable as the events said to support it seemed to be, there was just enough to make the principle work, namely, that it was right to have the matter tried out before the axe fell.	None
On the other hand, the court should be alert to detect wholly spurious claims merely being put forward by an unwilling debtor to raise what has been called a cloud of objections as I referred to earlier.	None
Interestingly enough in In Re Portman Provincial Cinemas Ltd. (1999) 1 WLR 157, a sharply divided Court of Appeal had to decide whether a winding up petition should be dismissed on the ground that a crossclaim had to be tried.	None
Lord Denning, the minority Judge put it thus It comes to this Mr. Hymanson has put forward a most astonishing claim for an indemnity against losses in perpetuitybased on an oral agreement eight years agoin a railway carriage or a solicitors officewith nothing to support it at all against a man now dead.	None
If there was substance in it fit for the court to consider, he should have condescended to a great deal more particularity.	None
At all events, he should have done so if he wished to convince me.	None
I do not think this crossclaim has any substance at all.	None
I would reject it as an answer to this creditors debt and I would allow the appeal accordingly.	None
On the other hand, Justice Harman in agreeing with the Chancery Division judgment, held I do not think that on this proceeding we are entitled to adjudicate upon that matter.	None
I do not think we ought to reject out of hand statements on oath by Mr. Hymanson and Mr. Waller which, unsatisfactory as they may be, do yet set up affirmatively this story.	None
There is nobody, of course, to contradict them.	None
I think we must take it that there is at least a chance that the judge will believe that story and will agree that there was such a bargain made, and, moreover, that it was an inherent part of the sale agreement.xxx xxx	None
xxxTherefore, I have had grave doubts about this matter	None
but I have come to the conclusion on the whole that it cannot be said that the story was so vague and the likelihood of success so slight that we can say there was no substance in the crossclaim.	None
I think the judge was right to say that the matter ought to go to trial, and therefore according to the modern practice the petition should be dismissed, and I would so hold.	None
Similarly, Russell L.J. held Lord Denning M.R. has taken the view that the deponents of the company really have made up this story, so strong are the circumstances which seem to point in the opposite direction.	None
As I have said, I agree it is a most extraordinary story, but I am not prepared, merely on the basis of affidavits and circumstances appearing in the Companies Court, to hold that really not only is their story strange, but palpably untrue.	None
It is clear, therefore, that once the operational creditor has filed an application, which is otherwise complete, the adjudicating authority must reject the application under Section 9(5)(2)(d) if notice of dispute has been received by the operational creditor or there is a record of dispute in the information utility.	Reasoning
It is clear that such notice must bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute or the fact that a suit or arbitration proceeding relating to a dispute is pending between the parties.	Reasoning
Therefore, all that the adjudicating authority is to see at this stage is whether there is a plausible contention which requires further investigation and that the dispute is not a patently feeble legal argument or an assertion of fact unsupported by evidence.	Reasoning
It is important to separate the grain from the chaff and to reject a spurious defence which is mere bluster.	Reasoning
However, in doing so, the Court does not need to be satisfied that the defence is likely to succeed.	Reasoning
The Court does not at this stage examine the merits of the dispute except to the extent indicated above.	Reasoning
So long as a dispute truly exists in fact and is not spurious, hypothetical or illusory, the adjudicating authority has to reject the application.41.	Reasoning
Coming to the facts of the present case, it is clear that the argument of Shri Mohta that the requisite certificate by IDBI was not given in time will have to be rejected, inasmuch as neither the appellant nor the Tribunal raised any objection to the application on this score.	Reasoning
The confirmation from a financial institution that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor is an important piece of information that needs to be placed before the adjudicating authority, under Section 9 of the Code, but given the fact that the adjudicating authority has not dismissed the application on this ground and that the appellant has raised this ground only at the appellate stage, we are of the view that the application cannot be dismissed at the threshold for want of this certificate alone.	Reasoning
On the other hand, Shri Mohta is on firmer ground when he argues that a dispute certainly exists on the facts of the present case and that, therefore, the application ought to have been dismissed on this ground.43.	None
According to learned counsel for the respondent, the definition of dispute would indicate that since the NDA does not fall within any of the three subclauses of Section 5(6), no dispute is there on the facts of this case.	Arguments of Respondent
We are afraid that we cannot accede to such a contention.	Arguments of Respondent
First and foremost, the definition is an inclusive one, and we have seen that the word includes substituted the word means which occurred in the first Insolvency and Bankruptcy Bill.	Reasoning
Secondly, the present is not a case of a suit or arbitration proceeding filed before receipt of notice  Section 5(6) only deals with suits or arbitration proceedings which must relate to one of the three subclauses, either directly or indirectly.	Arguments of Respondent
We have seen that a dispute is said to exist, so long as there is a real dispute as to payment between the parties that would fall within the inclusive definition contained in Section 5(6).	Reasoning
The correspondence between the parties would show that on 30th January, 2015, the appellant clearly informed the respondent that they had displayed the appellants confidential client information and client campaign information on a public platform which constituted a breach of trust and a breach of the NDA between the parties.	Reasoning
They were further told that all amounts that were due to them were withheld till the time the matter is resolved.	Reasoning
On 10th February, 2015, the respondent referred to the NDA of 26th December, 2014 and denied that there was a breach of the NDA.	Reasoning
The respondent went on to state that the appellants claim is unfounded and untenable, and that the appellant is trying to avoid its financial obligations, and that a sum of Rs.19,08,202.57 should be paid within one week, failing which the respondent would be forced to explore legal options and initiate legal process for recovery of the said amount.	Reasoning
This email was refuted by the appellant by an email dated 26th February, 2015 and the appellant went on to state that it had lost business from various clients as a result of the respondents breaches.	Reasoning
Curiously, after this date, the respondent remained silent, and thereafter, by an email dated 20th June, 2016, the respondent wished to revive business relations and stated that it would like to follow up for payments which are long stuck up.	Reasoning
This was followed by an email dated 25th June, 2016 to finalize the time and place for a meeting.	Reasoning
On 28th June, 2016, the appellant wrote to the respondent again to finalize the time and place.	Reasoning
Apparently, nothing came of the aforesaid emails and the appellant then fired the last shot on 19th September, 2016, reiterating that no payments are due as the NDA was breached.	Reasoning
The demand notice sent by the respondent was disputed in detail by the appellant in its reply dated 27th December, 2016, which set out the email of 30th January, 2015.	None
The appellant then went on to state Sometime during June and September 2016, an officer of your Client, one Mr. Jasmeet Singh wrote to our Client that he wanted to meet and revive business relationship and exploring common interest points to work together.	None
In fact, in his email, he admits that there should be resolution to the impending payments thereby implying that there was (a) a dispute (as defined under the Code) and (b) there was a breach of the NDA which needed to be resolved.	None
Mr. Singhs emails to our client were sent after 1 year and 6 months had elapsed from the date of our Clients email of 30 January 2015.	None
This clearly shows that your Client was silent during this period and had not bothered to answer the questions raised by our Client.	None
Hence, once again in September, our Client called upon your Client to explain its breach of the NDA.	None
Your Client instead of explaining its breach of the NDA remained silent for about 3 months and thereafter chooses to issue the Notice as a form of pressure tactic and extort monies from our Client for your Clients breach of the NDA.	None
All the conduct of your Client explicitly shows laches on its part.	None
Your Clients should note that under the NDA, it has agreed that a breach of the NDA will cause irreparable damage to our Client and our Client is entitled to all remedies under law or equity against your Client for the enforcement of the NDA.	None
Accordingly, given the severity of the breaches of the NDA committed by your Client, the delay and laches committed by your Client and the conduct of your Client, our Client is not liable to make payments to your Client against the breaches of the NDA and the delay and laches committed by your Client.	None
In fact, at this stage, our Client is contemplating initiating necessary legal actions against your Client and its parent company for the breach of the NDA to seek further compensations and damages and other legal and equitable remedies against your Client and its parent company.	None
Going by the aforesaid test of existence of a dispute, it is clear that without going into the merits of the dispute, the appellant has raised a plausible contention requiring further investigation which is not a patently feeble legal argument or an assertion of facts unsupported by evidence.	Reasoning
The defense is not spurious, mere bluster, plainly frivolous or vexatious.	Reasoning
A dispute does truly exist in fact between the parties, which may or may not ultimately succeed, and the Appellate Tribunal was wholly incorrect in characterizing the defense as vague, gotup and motivated to evade liability.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondent, however, argued that the breach of the NDA is a claim for unliquidated damages which does not become crystallized until legal proceedings are filed, and none have been filed so far.	Arguments of Respondent
The period of limitation for filing such proceedings has admittedly not yet elapsed.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the appellant has withheld amounts that were due to the respondent under the NDA till the matter is resolved.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the matter has never been resolved.	Reasoning
Also, the respondent itself has not commenced any legal proceedings after the email dated 30th January, 2015 except for the present insolvency application, which was filed almost 2 years after the said email.	Reasoning
All these circumstances go to show that it is right to have the matter tried out in the present case before the axe falls.47.	None
We, therefore, allow the present appeal and set aside the judgment of the Appellate Tribunal.	Decision
There shall, however, be no order as to costs.	Decision
