 Kailasam, J. 1.	None
These three appeals are filed by the Shivraj Fine Arts Litho Works, Vasant Fine Arts Litho Works and Shakti Offset Works by special leave granted by this Court against the decision of the Nagpur High Court.	Issue
The history of the industrial dispute may be shortly stated.	Issue
2.	None
The dispute relates to the Litho Industry in the Vidarbha region.	Facts
An award known as the Puranik award was made on October 26, 1956.	Facts
The award fixed Rs. 35 as the minimum wage but did not attach any scale of pay to the basic pay of Rs. 35 for the unskilled employees.	Facts
By a notice dated January 22, 1958 the employees of the Litho industry gave notice of change and as a result the Puranik award stood terminated as from July 22, 1958.	Facts
The employees of Shivraj, Shakti and Raj gave notice of change dated September 2, 1960 making certain demands against their respective employers.	Facts
On March 13, 1961 the employees of the said three units filed three references under S. 38A of the C.P. and Berar Industrial Disputes Settlement Act, 1947 before the State Industrial Court, which were numbered as references 9, 10 and 11 of 1961.	Facts
When the three references were pending employees of other industrial concerns made certain demands against their employers.	Facts
Pending the decision in references 9, 10, and 11 of 1961 an agreement was entered into on February 21, 1964 between the employers and the employees of various concerns requesting the State Government to exercise its power under S.39 of the Act and to refer to the arbitration of the State Industrial Court the disputes mentioned in that agreement.	Facts
On January 7, 1965 the State Government issued its notification making a reference to the State Industrial Court under S.39 of the Act.	Facts
By the notification the Government referred the disputes in respect of the demands of the employees set out in Schedule II of the notification made against the 10 employers specifically mentioned in Schedule I to the notification, being the employers in the Litho Press Industry in the Vidarbha region.	Facts
The demands that are set out in Schedule II are 15 in number but as we are concerned only with demands 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 we will leave the rest out of consideration.	Facts
Demand No. 3 relates to the disputes to living wage and Demand No. 4 for scales of wages for each category and occupation.	Facts
Demand No. 5 is for fitment of the employees already in service at the date of the demand.	Facts
Demand No. 6 is that the revised scales of wages should be given with retrospective effect from 1958 and Demand No. 7 is for dearness allowance with retrospective effect from 1959 and the dearness allowance should be linked with the index number at the rate of 2 paise per point with 1955 as 100.	Facts
The State Government by its Notification dated December, 1964 fixed Rs. 70 per month as the minimum wage under the Minimum Wages Act.	Facts
The notification divided the employee into several classes.	Facts
It did not attach any scale of pay to the minimum wages fixed but provided that at an interval of every six months the State Government may issue a notification fixing certain amounts payable in addition to the minimum wages as special allowance.	Facts
3.	None
The Industrial Court made its award on May 10, 1968.	Facts
The award divided the employers into two classes being Classes A and B on the basis of the financial capacity of the employers to pay.	Facts
The award fixed rates and scales of wages for the employees of the three employers in Class A being Shivraj, Shakti and Vasant Litho Works.	Facts
The award did not fix any rates and scales of wages in respect of other units of the industry the reason being that they did not have adequate financial capacity.	Facts
In the case of Class A the award also fixed the employees of various duration of service by way of fitment into the scales of wages awarded in the award.	Facts
It also fixed the date from which the new rates and scales of wages are to be deemed to have commenced.	Facts
4.	None
Against the award six writ petitions were filed before the High Court, three by the appellants in this Court, Shivraj Fine Arts Litho Works, Vasant Fine Arts Litho Works and Shakti Offset Works.	Facts
Another three writ petitions were filed by the employees, they being Special Civil Application Nos. 210 of 1969, 733 of 1969 and 734 of 1969.	Facts
There are no appeals filed in this Court by the employees.	Facts
5.	None
The High Court agreed with the view of the Industrial Court and held that the award classifying the employers into two classes A and B on the basis of their paying capacity determining the rates and scales of wages and the dearness allowance regarding A employers is valid.	Facts
The High Court set aside the award on Demands 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and directed the Industrial Court to reconsider the above 5 demands and to make a fresh award in accordance with the law and principles laid down by the High Court.	Facts
In so directing the High Court held that fixation of an industrial minimum wage the factor of employers capacity to pay is irrelevant and the industry or the employer must pay it or perish.	Facts
According to the High Court the Industrial minimum wage should be fixed on a consideration of different ingredients which it seeks to provide for, i.e., contents of the basket.	Facts
It was possible that the industrial minimum wage can be higher in some cases than the current statutory minimum wage and when the industrial minimum wage happens to be higher than the statutory wage it will be industrial minimum wage which has to be paid because when it is fixed by an industrial award it become enforceable at law.	Facts
The High Court further held that the provisions of minimum wages show that there is nothing in it to prevent payment of anything more than the minimum wage fixed under it.	Facts
The appellants in these appeals seriously challenge the direction of the High Court to the Industrial Court to fix an industrial minimum wage regardless of the paying capacity of the industry or the employer.	None
Their contention is that there is no warrant for such a conclusion.	None
6.	None
The High Court went into the question as to how the capacity of an industry to pay a fair wage has to be determined.	None
For determining the surplus for paying capacity the High Court held that a sort of loss and profit account will have to be prepared having a credit and debit side.	None
On the credit side will appear all the gross taking of the unit of the industry.	None
Gross taking will include gross realisation by the sale of the goods or services, the income, if any, earned by way of rents, interest or dividends or investments and the income of all other nature.	None
Dealing with the items of expenses that can be legitimately deducted from the gross income the High Court held that all the expenses incurred by the employer in connection with the working of the industry will have to be deducted.	None
It accepted the plea on behalf of the employers that the cost of raw material which are necessary for production and expenses in connection with the working of the industry and sale of the finished products will have to be deducted, but not any other wage paid apart from the minimum wage payable.	None
The Court held that appropriate amount for depreciation is deductible and interest on capital will also have to be deducted.	None
It also held that a fair amount of remuneration payable to the partners can also be deducted.	None
Regarding the bonus the High Court held that annual incidence of only the minimum bonus can be deducted, and any excess bonus paid is not deductible.	None
It disallowed the claims of the amounts that were paid as incometax or other taxes in ascertaining the paying capacity of the industry or the employer.	None
7.	None
Regarding dearness allowance the High Court held that the Industrial minimum wage has got to be paid on the basis of pay or parish and the nationalisation must be 100 per cent of the rise in prices.	None
Regarding the claim for giving effect to the enhanced rates of wage, scale of wages and dearness allowance from the date of the order of reference, i.e., from 7th January, 1965 the Court held that the provisions of the award should take effect from January 7, 1965 being the date of the order on reference.	None
While fixing January 7, 1965 as the date of operation it gave a discretion to the Industrial Court for valid and lawful reasons to fix a later date in respect of all or any of the employerunits.	None
In the result the High Court found that the award in respect of demands 3, 4, 6 and 7 was not in accordance with law and had to be set aside as the award did not ascertain the rates and scales of wages and dearness allowance on the basic of an industrial minimum wage and that the industrial minimum wage should be ascertained without any reference to the capacity of the industry or the employer to pay.	None
The Court also found that the correctness and truthfulness of the accounts and the balance sheets of some of the employers units has not been properly appreciated, investigated into and taken into account.	None
The financial capacity to pay has not been properly evaluated.	None
The financial capacity to pay has not been taken into consideration for the purposes of awarding a fair wage with corresponding dearness allowance.	None
Finally the question of giving retrospective effect and fixing the date from which the wage has not been properly considered.	None
As Demand No. 5 is also an integral part of the award the Court also quashed the award on that demand.	None
8.	None
The appellants in these appeals challenge to correctness of the order of the High Court remanding the award for fresh disposal according to the directions given in the judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
First and foremost the appellants question the correctness of the order of the Industrial Court as confirmed by the High Court classifying the employers into two categories, Class A and B and directing that the employer belonging to Class A should pay enhanced wages, dearness allowance, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, it was submitted that the High Court misdirected itself in holding that the Industrial Court ought to have fixed an industrial minimum wage and that such wage should have been fixed without taking into account the paying capacity of the industry or the employee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, it was contended that the Court erred in holding that in determining the paying capacity certain items such as minimum wage and the minimum bonus can alone be deducted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The disallowance of the incometax and other taxes were paid was also questioned.	Arguments of Petitioner
The method of fixation of the dearness allowance as well as the direction to give retrospective effect to the payment of wages, dearness allowance, etc., from the date of the order of reference was challenged as imposing an intolerable burden on the industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
We will now proceed to deal with each of the above contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	None
Mr. Phadki, the learned counsel for the appellants, submitted that the classification of the employers into two categories A and B.	Arguments of Petitioner
Depending upon the profits is not justified in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the rule is that the wages, dearness allowance, scales of pay, etc., should be fixed on the basis of region cumindustry, the wages normally being the same in all industries in the region.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Tribunal in its award found that the Industrial Court is entitled to fix a wage for every unit in accordance with its capacity to pay.	Arguments of Petitioner
This view was affirmed by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the submission of the learned counsel is that this view is unsustainable in law.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before the High Court apart from the proposition of law enunciated that the classification should be fixed on the basis of regioncumindustry, it was submitted that as on the facts of the present case no such classification was contemplated in the agreement between the parties or in the reference by the Government, the Tribunal ought not to have classified the industry in two categories.	None
Reliance was placed on the wording of the agreement requesting the Government to make an industrywise reference to the entire region and the reference necessarily being in accordance with the agreement it was submitted would not justify any such classification.	None
This argument was rejected by the High Court on the ground that the Industrial Court had inherent jurisdiction to classify the employers into several categories.	None
Reference was made by the appellants to the demands and it was submitted that the power to classify was restricted only in respect of employees and not as regards employers.	None
This plea was rightly rejected by the High Court as no such express reference is necessary in view of the power of the Industrial Court.	None
The third contention of the appellants before the High Court was that the pleadings did not refer to the classification of the employers.	None
It was rightly held by the High Court that the absence of any reference to the classification of the employers in the pleadings would not affect the power of the Industrial Court.	None
The other contention put forward before the High Court basing on the construction of S.22 of the Industrial Disputes Act and Rule 288 of the C.P. and Berar Industrial Disputes Settlement Rules, 1949, that the increase or decrease of wages should be in an industry as a whole and not differing from one industry to another is also without any basis.	None
11.	None
This Court has clearly laid down in a series of decisions starting from the case of Express Newspaper (P) Ltd., and another v. The Union of India and others, 1961I L.L.J. 339 (1959) S.C.R. 12, that it is permissible to divide the industry into appropriate classes and then deal with the capacity of the industry to pay classwise.	Reasoning
At p. 90 of the reports this Court in laying down the principles in determining the capacity of an industry observed The relevant criterion should be the capacity of a particular industry in a specified region and as far as possible the same wages should be prescribed for all units of that industry in that region.	Reasoning
But the Court qualified the rule by stating It is clear, therefore, that the capacity of an industry to pay should be gauged on an industrycumregion basis after taking a fair crosssection of that industry.	Reasoning
In a given case it may be ever permissible to divide the industry into appropriate classes and then deal with the capacity of the industry to pay classwise.	Reasoning
12.	None
Williamsons (India) Private Limited v. The Workmen, 1962I L.L.J. 302, this Court held that the extent of the business carried on by the concerns, the capital invested by them, the profits made by them, the nature of the business carried on by them, their standing, the strength of their labour force, the dividends declared by them and the prospects about the future of their business and other relevant factors have to be borne in mind for the purpose of comparison.	Reasoning
Approving the view expressed in the above decision in French Motor Car Co. Ltd. v. Workmen, 1962II L.L.J. 744 (1963) Suppl.	Reasoning
2 S.C.R. 16, this Court observed at p. 20 that comparison should be made in the same line of business and a small concern cannot be compared even in the same line of business with a large concern.	Reasoning
When there is a large disparity in the two concerns in the same business, it would not be safe to fix the same wage structure as in the large concern without any other consideration.	Reasoning
13.	None
In Cinema Theatres v. Their Workmen, 1964II L.L.J. 123, this Court approved the classification of the Tribunal of the cinemas into two classes based on gross revenue.	Reasoning
The Court observed that the gross revenue taken by the Tribunal as the basis for classification appears to be a satisfactory criterion.	Reasoning
14.	None
In Workmen of Balmer Lawrie Co., v. Balmer Lawrie and Co., 1964  I L.L.J. 380 (1964) 5 S.C.R. 344 at p. 353, this Court held that in determining the question whether one concern is comparable with another in the matter of fixing wages the total capital invested by the concern, the extent of its business, the order of the projects made by the concern the dividends paid, the number of employees employed in the concern, the standing in the industry to which it belongs and other matters have to be examined.	Reasoning
In Greaves Cotton Co., and others v. Their Workmen, 1964  	Reasoning
I L.L.J. 342 (1964) 5 S.C.R. 362 after referring to the decision in French Motor Car Co., Ltd. v. Workmen (supra) this Court held that the principle is that in applying the industry cumregion formula for fixing wage scales the Tribunal should lay stress on the industry part of the formula if there were a large number of concerns in the same region carrying on the same industry, but where the number of industries of the same kind in a particular region was small, it was the region part of the formula which assumed importance.	Reasoning
In the former case in order that production cost may not be unequal and there may be equal competition, wages should generally be fixed on the basis of the same kind. 15.	Reasoning
In Unichem Laboratories Ltd. v. The Workmen, 1972  	Reasoning
I L.L.J. 576 (1972) 3 S.C.R. 567, this Court after referring to the cases cited above held that in the fixation of wages and dearness allowance the legal position is wellestablished that it has to be done on industrycumregion basis having due regard to the financial capacity of the unit under consideration.	Reasoning
The same view was reiterated in The Silk and Art Silk Mills Association Ltd. v. Mill Mazdoor Sabha, 1972  II L.L.J. 175 (1973) 1 S.C.R. 277 at page 288, where the Court reemphasised the principles laid down in the earlier cases.	Reasoning
There is thus ample authority in support of the view taken by the Tribunal and the High Court that the employer can be classified according to his paying capacity.	Reasoning
16.	None
The second contention of the learned counsel for the appellants is that the High Court was in error in holding that the Tribunal ought to have fixed on industrial minimum without any reference to the paying capacity of the employer.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the High Court even when a statutory minimum wages is payable an industrial minimum wages has to be ascertained to find out which is high because it is the higher of the two which has to be paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court also held that the industrial minimum wage will have to be fixed without reference to the paying capacity of the industry.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
The agreement dated July 30, 1968 entered into between the parties which led to the reference by the Government states that both the parties also requested the Government to expedite fixation of minimum wages in the Litho Industry in the Vidarbha region if necessary by appointing a subcommittee for this purpose.	None
In pursuance of the agreement the notification was issued by the Government on January 7, 1965 Schedule II Lists the demands of the employees.	None
The demands with which we are concerned in this appeal have already been referred to.	None
The demand is that the employees should be paid a living wage.	None
In pursuance of the agreement the Government fixed a minimum wage on December 30, 1964 under the Minimum Wages Act 11 of 1948 and again revised it pending the appeal before this Court on May 7, 1976.	None
It was conceded before the Tribunal by the employees that there was no justification for demanding a living wage but that the units had the capacity to pay fair wages.	None
On the basis of stand taken by the employees, the Tribunal proceeded to fix a fair wage taking into account the paying capacity of the industry.	None
The dispute, therefore, related to fixation of a fair wage and not a minimum wage.	None
In fact the employees requested the Government to fix a minimum wage which was accordingly fixed.	None
The High Court relied mainly on two decisions of this Court in Express Newspaper (P) Ltd., and another v. The Union of India and others (supra) and U. Unichoyi and others v. The State of Kerala (1962) 1 S.C.R. 946, for coming to the conclusion that the Tribunal is bound to fix an industrial minimum wage.	None
In the former case this Court stated that broadly speaking the wages have been classified into three categories, the living wage, the fair wage and the minimum wage.	None
After elaborately setting out the concept of living wage at p. 79, the concept of minimum wage at p. 82 and the concept of fair wage at p. 84 of the reports, this Court observed that fair wage is a mean between living wage and minimum wage and even the minimum wage contemplated above is something more than the bare minimum of the subsistence wage which would be sufficient to cover the bare physical needs of the workers and his family a wage which would provide also for the preservation of the efficiency of the worker and for some measure of education, medical requirements and amenities.	None
The Court further observed that it must be remembered that whereas the bare minimum or subsistence wage would have to be fixed irrespective of the capacity of the industry to pay, a minimum wage thus contemplated postulates the capacity of the industry to pay and no fixation of wages which ignores this essential factor of the capacity of the industry to pay could ever be supported.	None
This view is explained in U. Unichoyi and others v. The State of Kerala (supra).	None
The Court in rejecting the contention on behalf of the employers that the minimum wage prescribed under the Minimum Wages Act can only be fixed taking into account the capacity of the industry to pay held that it had no hesitation in rejecting the argument that because the Act prescribed the minimum wage rates it is necessary that the capacity of the employer to bear the burden of the wage structure must be considered.	None
It is now not in dispute that so far as minimum wage is concerned it is to be fixed without any reference to the paying capacity of the industry.	None
18.	None
The Minimum Wages Act, Act 11 of 1948, secures the payment of the minimum wages.	None
This Act was enacted with a view to provide for fixing minimum rates of wages in certain employments.	None
It provides under S. 3 that the appropriate Government shall fix the minimum rates of wages according to the provision of the section.	None
Section 4 provides that the minimum rates of wages fixed or revised by the Government in respect of scheduled employment under S. 3 may consist of basic rate of wages and a special allowance at a rate to be adjusted at such intervals and in such manner as the appropriate Government may direct, to accord as nearly as practicable with the variation in the most of living index.	None
Section 5 provides the procedure for fixing and revising minimum wages.	None
Section 3(2A) provides that when an industrial disputes relating to the rates of wages payable to any of the employees employed in a scheduled employment is pending before a Tribunal or National Tribunal under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 or before any like authority under any other law for the time being in force, or an award made by any Tribunal, National Tribunal or such authority in operation and a notification fixing or revising the minimum rates of wages is issued during the pendency of such proceeding or the operation of the award, then, notwithstanding anything contained in the Act, the minimum rates of wages so fixed or so revised shall not apply to those employees during the period in which the proceeding is pending and the award is made.	None
It is, therefore, clear that when a dispute is pending before any Tribunal regarding the minimum wage, the award will bind and to that extent the provisions of the Act will not be applicable but in other cases the Government is entitled under the Minimum Wages Act to fix a minimum wage.	None
Section 5 prescribes the procedure under which the minimum wage is to be fixed and revised.	None
Provision is made for appointment of committee and consultation of the persons concerned before the minimum wage is fixed.	None
The procedure is that in the absence of a dispute pending before the Tribunal regarding the fixation of minimum wages the minimum wages fixed by the Government will bind the parties.	None
It has been decided in Ahmedabad Mill Owners Association v. The Textile Labour Association, 1966  	None
I L.L.J. 1 (1966) 1 S.C.R. 382, that in an industrial dispute a basic minimum wage can be fixed when the statute has not fixed the minimum wage.	None
Section3(3A) of the Minimum Wages Act does contemplate fixation of minimum wages by the Tribunal.	None
In fixing such a minimum wage the Tribunal may take into account all the facts and fix a minimum wage which is to be higher than the minimum wage contemplated under the Minimum Wages Act.	None
We have already found that the Industrial Tribunal was not called upon to fix a minimum wage for both the employer as well as the employees proceeded on the basis that the Tribunal was fixing a fair wage.	None
In fact the employees requested the Government to fix a minimum wage which was accordingly done.	None
In this view no further reference need be made to S.3(2A) of the Minimum Wages Act.	None
The Tribunal proceeded on the basis that it was called upon to fix a fair wage.	None
In the circumstances, we do not find any support in law for the view taken by the High Court that it was incumbent on the Tribunal to fix an industrial wage apart from the minimum wage without taking into account the paying capacity of the industry.	None
19.	None
The Tribunal was not called upon to fix the minimum wage.	None
The demand by the employees was for a living wage and after observing that living wage cannot be secured the Tribunal proceeded to determine the fair wage.	None
In the circumstances, there is no substance in the plea of the respondent that the Tribunal was only fixing a minimum wage.	None
The plea of the respondents that the cases under appeal fall under S. 3(2A) in that the dispute as to fixation of minimum was pending before the Tribunal and it was a continuation of the proceedings in references 9, 10 and 11 cannot be accepted, for the three references in question got merged in the reference by the Government under S. 39 which included not only demands which was not included in the original reference but also disputes relating to their industries.	None
The reference as it has been pointed out earlier did not relate to the fixation of minimum wages as shown either in the agreement or in the order of reference by the Government.	None
20.	None
At this stage it will be proper to deal with the plea of the respondents that the Tribunal was in error in stating that so far as the industries classified as B are concerned, the employees are not entitled to any relief by way of fair wage fixation, fitment or dearness allowance as the concerns did not have the financial capacity.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of our finding that when the Tribunal was called upon to fix was a fair wage and not a minimum wage, the financial capacity of the concerns classified under B is relevant and the finding of the Tribunal that their finances would not justify any provision for fair wages has to be accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
Further it will be seen that the employees of the concerns classified under B have not preferred any appeal and the question cannot be gone into in those appeals.	Arguments of Respondent
21.	None
The fixation of rate of wages which includes within its compass the fixation of scales of wages and fitment of workmen into wage scales will also depend upon the paying capacity of the industry.	None
The Tribunal dealing with Demand No. 5 in its award accepted the suggestion that the Court may grant some increments in proportion to the years of service put by an employee.	None
It provided two increments for persons who have put in 2 to 5 years of service, three increments for persons who put in service of 5 to 10 years, four increments for persons who have put in service of 10 to 15 years and five increments who have put in service over 15 years.	None
The Tribunal also directed that there shall be a fitment and the employee should be fitted into the scale of pay by placing him at the stage in the scale equal to next above, his basic pay.	None
The award regarding the fitment and increment was accepted by the High Court but in the order of remand the High Court directed a general revision as it was not satisfied with the manner in which the financial capacity of the concerns was determined.	None
22.	None
This leaves us with the question as to how the financial capacity of the concerns is to be determined.	None
After fixing of the financial capacity the fairwage which would include fitment, wage scales, dearness allowance payable has to be determined.	None
The question as to the period during which retrospective effect has to be given for payment of fair wages has to be considered.	None
23.	None
A fair wage is a mean between the living wage and the minimum wage.	None
Wages must be fair, that is to say sufficiently high to provide a standard family with food, shelter, clothing, medical care and education of children appropriate to the workmen but not at a rate exceeding its wage earning capacity in the class of establishment to which he belongs.	None
A fair wages is thus related to the earning capacity and workload.	None
While the lower limit of wage structure is the minimum wage any increase over that will depend upon the capacity of the industry to pay.	None
The factors which determine the capacity to pay will be the productivity of labour, the prevailing rates of wages in the same or similar industries in the same or neighbouring localities, the present economic position of the industry, its prospects in the near future, etc.	None
The fair wage will grow with the growth and development of the national economy and the progress made by the industry must be approximate to the capacity of the industry to pay.	None
As stated by the National Commission Labour a policy dealing with this chronic problems cannot be simply economic as it is to reckon with relative multidimensional.	None
Social phenomena in which the workers and the management, the consumer and the society at large and in consequence the State are all vitally interested.	None
The claims of the employees for a fair and higher wage depends not only on the financial capacity of the employer but also on the interest of the consumer and the State, the employers desire for a reasonable profit, the rise in price which may affect the consumer and the national economy which may have an adverse affect on the labour itself.	None
24.	None
In order to determine the fair wage including the scale of pay, the price rise, the dearness allowance, etc., the financial capacity of the concern has to be determined.	None
A close scrutiny of the concerns working has to be made.	None
The profit and loss account, the prospects of the company improving itself in future and all other relevant matter will have to be taken into account.	None
The expenses properly incurred for working the industry such as buying of the raw materials, expenses incurred in running the factory office and other transport expenses, the expenses, incurred in marketing and other such allowable expenditure has to be deducted.	None
We are unable to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the respondents that the gross profits alone has to be taken into account.	None
Equally we are unable to accept the plea on behalf of the appellants that net profit alone should be the basis of determining the financial capacity.	None
The determination of gross profit vary according to the basis of accounting adopted.	None
In Gramophone Company Ltd. v. Its Workmen, 1964  II L.L.J. 131, this Court held thatwhen an industrial Tribunal is considering the question of wage structure and gratuity which in out opinion stands more or less on the same footing as wagestructure, it has to look at the profits made without considering provision for taxation in the shape of incometax and for reserves must, in our opinion, take second place as compared to provision for wagestructure and gratuity, which stands on the same footing as provident fund which is also a retirement benefit.	None
Payment towards provident fund and gratuity is expense to be met by an employer like any other expenses including wages and if the financial position shows that the burden of payment of gratuity and provident fund can be met without undue strain on the financial position of the employer, that burden must be borne by the employer.	None
While of the one hand casting of this burden reduces the margin of profits on the other hand it will result in the reduction of taxation in the shape of incometax.	None
This Court affirmed the view taken in the above case in Indian Link Chain Manufacturers Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 1971  II L.L.J. 581 (1971) 2 S.C.R. 759.	None
The law was stated in Unichem Laboratories Ltd. v. The Workmen (supra) at p. 583 as follows From the above decision it is clear that (1) Fixation of wage structure stands more or less on the same footing as framing of a gratuity scheme and the principles applicable for ascertaining the profits are the same, (2) Provision for taxation and provision for reserves cannot take precedence over for gratuity and fixation of wages and (3) the provision for incometax and for reserves must take second place as compared to provision for wagestructure and gratuity.	None
Summing up the position the Court held that the above decision Gramophone Company Ltd. v. Its Workmen, categorically rules out and deduction of taxation.	None
It also excludes from deduction all provision for reserve which will take in depreciation reserve also.	None
The decision makes it clear that provisions for taxation and reserve cannot take precedence over gratuity and fixation of wages.	None
The provisions for incometax, reserve and depreciation are not permitted.	None
The High Court was, therefore, right on its view that no rebate can be allowed towards payment of incometax.	None
25.	None
After allowing certain deductions the High Court held that so far as bonus in concerned as the minimum bonus is compulsorily payable it can be deducted in determining the financial capacity of the employer.	Reasoning
But the High Court was of the view that in the case of any amount which was paid as bonus in addition to the minimum bonus like the incidence of basic wage is fixed and is known at the beginning of the financial year of the employer and is not be calculated unlike in the case of excess bonus after the end of that year when the amount of profit that is available surplus is determined.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with the view taken by the High Court that any amount paid as bonus in addition to the minimum bonus cannot be deducted as expenses.	Reasoning
The amount which is paid as bonus goes in substance to augment the wages and as such is liable to be deducted in determining the paying capacity of the employer.	Reasoning
It seems that the High Court was influenced by the fact that the additional bonus cannot be deducted at the beginning of the year.	Reasoning
We do not think that it will make any difference for the paying capacity of the concern can be ascertained after deducting the amount in the subsequent year.	Reasoning
26.	None
The two questions that now remain for consideration are the fixation of dearness allowance and the data from which the dearness allowance and the wage structure as determined should be given effect to The Government in fixing the minimum rate of wages under the Minimum Wages Act also makes a provision for special allowance to be paid along with the basic rate of wages.	Issue
The special allowances is fixed by the Government to accord us nearly as practicable with the variation in the cost of living index number applicable to such workers.	Reasoning
So far as provisions under the Minimum Wages Act relating to the minimum wages and special allowances are concerned they are fixed without any reference to the paying capacity of the employer, but when a dearness allowance is fixed as a part of the fair wage it will have to depend upon the paying capacity of the employer.	Reasoning
It has been held that though the dearness allowance is given to compensate for the rise of cost of living, cent per cent neutralisation is not given as it may tend to inflation.	Reasoning
It was held in Clerks of Calcutta Tramways v. Calcutta Tramways Co. Ltd., 1956II L.L.J. 450 (1956) S.C.R. 772.We can now take it as settled that in matters of the grant of dearness allowance except to the very lowest class of manual labourers whose income is just sufficient to keep body and soul together, it is impolitic and unwise to neutralise the entire rise in the cost of living by dearness allowance.	Reasoning
In Hindustan Times Ltd., New Delhi v. Their Workmen, 1963I L.L.J. 108 (1964) 1 S.C.R. 234, it was held that the purpose of dearness allowance was to neutralise a portion of the increase in the cost of living.	Reasoning
The same view was expressed in Kamani Metals and Alloys Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 1967II L.L.J. 55 (1967) 2 S.C.R. 463.	Reasoning
It was noted that onehundred per cent neutralisation is not advisable as it will lead to inflation and, therefore, Dearness Allowance is often a little less than onehundred per cent neutralisation.	Reasoning
In fixing the dearness allowance the principle that is followed in determining the paying capacity for fixing wage structure, is equally applicable.	Reasoning
In determining the dearness allowance, increase in the cost of living, the resulting change in the economic conditions and the patterns of dearness allowance prevailing in other concerns in the same region are factors to be taken into account.	Reasoning
In Ahmedabad Mill Owners Association v. The Textile Labour Association, (supra) it has been held that in giving effect to the demand for a fair wage including the payment of dearness allowance to provide for adequate neutralisation, industrial adjudication must always take into account the problems of the additional burden which such wage structure would impose upon the employer and as itself whether the employer can reasonably be called upon to bear such burden.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has taken into account the paying capacity of the three concerns which it has classified as A and fixed the dearness allowance payable by them.	Reasoning
But the High Court has found that the Tribunal has not adopted the correct principles in arriving at the paying capacity.	Reasoning
The learned counsel appearing for the respondents also pointed out that even a cursory examination of the profit and loss account would show that the three companies which are classified as A had a larger income than was taken into account by the Industrial Tribunal.	Reasoning
The High Court is not right in its observation that the dearness allowance should effect a cent per cent neutralisation as it is not in conformity with the decision cited above.	Reasoning
27.	None
Regarding the date from which retrospective effect should be given the High Court has observed that the reference was made on 7th January, 1965 and the award was given on 10th May, 1968, that is after a lapse of about three and a half years.	Reasoning
Taking all the circumstances into account the High Court directed that subject to any other consideration which may require to the contrary effect should have been given to the provisions of the award relating to rates and scales of wages and dearness allowance as and from 7th January, 1965 being the date of the general reference.	Reasoning
Having observed so the High Court left it open to the Tribunal to examine whether there are any other circumstances which would require the later date to be fixed in the case of all or any of the employers.	Reasoning
In granting retrospective effect the Tribunal has a discretion to fix the date taking into account the financial position of the company.	Reasoning
The delay in giving the award and the subsequent proceedings in the High Court and in the Supreme Court has caused a lapse of several years.	Reasoning
Though the employees are entitled to be given the increase in wages from the date of reference it may not be practicable taking into account the considerable lapse of time.	Reasoning
The employers may not have the capacity to pay the entire arrears.	Reasoning
It may be that in some cases the employer may be able to do so if it is directed to make the payment in instalment.	Reasoning
These questions will have to be taken into account depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
28.	None
To sum up we agree with the view taken by the Tribunal and the High Court that the appellants belong to A category and are liable to pay fair wages.	Reasoning
29.	None
We do not agree with the view taken by the High Court that the Industrial Tribunal should fix an industrial minimum wage without taking unto account the paying capacity of the employer.	None
To this extent the order of the High Court will have to be set aside.	None
30.	None
Mr. Phadke, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that as the employees have not preferred any appeal against the Judgment of the High Court no order adverse to the Industry can be passed in these appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
As we have not agreed with the view of the High Court that an industrial minimum should be fixed by the Tribunal even though it was fixed by the Government under the Minimum Wages Act, the judgment of the High Court cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
As in the absence of an appeal by the employees final decision can only be by the Tribunal we confirm the order of the High Court remanding the matter for a fresh disposal by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
But as we do not agree with some of the conclusions arrived at by the High Court we modify the order of remand.	Arguments of Petitioner
We confirm the classification of the industries into class A and B as determined by the Tribunal and the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
We also find that the appellants and industries belonging to Class A are in a position to pay fair wages.	Arguments of Petitioner
We also find so far as the order of the Industrial Tribunal as confirmed by the High Court that the industries classified as B are not in a position to pay anything more than the minimum wages under the Minimum Wages Act, is concerned it will have to be confirmed.31.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has found that the determination of the paying capacity of the industry has not been satisfactory.	Reasoning
It has found that some of the accounts maintained by the industry are suspicious and cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The Tribunal will have to examine the account afresh and determine the paying capacity.	Reasoning
In fixing the paying capacity the Tribunal will have to fix the income as well as permit deduction and allowances properly incurred.	Reasoning
There can be no dispute that expense incurred for purchase of raw material, maintenance of the factory expenses incurred towards rent, public charge, maintenance of the establishment and expenses incurred in marketing of the produce should be deducted.	Reasoning
The item mentioned above are not exhaustive.	Reasoning
As to whether a particular item of expenditure is liable to be deducted or not will have to be determined on the facts of the case.	Reasoning
This Court has clearly laid down that no deduction should be allowed for payments of incometax or for allowances made for depreciation or for making provision for reserves.	Reasoning
So far as expenses incurred towards payment of wage bill inclusive of dearness allowance, bonus, gratuity, etc., are concerned they will have to be deducted.	Reasoning
After properly determining the paying capacity of the industry the Tribunal will have to proceed to fix fair wage which would include the fitment, scale of wages and dearness allowance.	Reasoning
While after fixing the above the Tribunal will have to determine as to from which date retrospective effect will have to be given for payment of the wages thus fixed.	Reasoning
As the paying capacity will have to be redetermined the wage structure including fitment, scale of wages, dearness allowance, period during which retrospective effect is to be given will have to be determined afresh.	Reasoning
32.	None
We accordingly allow these appeals in part and modify the order of remand made by the High Court to the extent and in the manner indicated above.	Decision
We make no order as to costs.	Decision
As there has been enormous delay the Tribunal will dispose of the case expeditiously as possible not later than six months.	Decision
