Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. The State of U.P. has filed this appeal against the judgment passed by a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court directing acquittal of the three respondents (hereinafter referred to as the A1, A2 and A3) respectively.2.	Issue
The accused persons were convicted for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the IPC) by the IVth Additional and Sessions Judge, Bareilly in Sessions Trial No. 359/78.	Issue
Background facts in a nutshell are as followsThe first information report (Ex. Ka. 1) was to the effect that Buddhi was the husband of the complainant (PW1) whereas A1, Abdul Karim was his elder brother.	Facts
He was indebted to some Punjabi, and hence had mortgaged his house and 1 bigha agricultural land with him and abandoning the village 20 years back had gone to Baheri and settled there with his wife and children.	Facts
The husband of the complainant redeemed that property after paying debt of the Punjabi and exercised possession over the house and agricultural land of that accused.	Facts
Three months before the occurrence accused Abdul Karim approached her husband and requested him to return his house or to build a shop for him.	Facts
Hence her husband had given him a shop in a portion of his house.	Facts
Subsequently, he has summoned his son, Salim to the village and both of them started grocery shop therein.	Facts
Subsequently some dishonesty cropped in his mind and he started pressing for return of his house and 1 bigha agricultural land but her husband refused to do so.	Facts
The agricultural plot of the accused exists by the side of the plot of the deceased, hence he used to cultivate the same together.	Facts
He had been ploughing these fields for the last three years and one day before the occurrence accused Abdul Karim asked her husband not to plough his field but her husband refused to do so.	Facts
This enraged the accused and they threatened to teach him a lesson next day if he attempted to plough the field.	Facts
Her husband did not care for it and challenged them to stop him if they had any courage to do so.	Facts
On the date of occurrence in the early morning her husband had gone to plough the field with bullocks and plough and at about 7 A.M. the complainant and her son Mukhtar were going to provide him food there and when they reached near the field, they saw the accused Salim (A3) armed with an iron rod, Abdul Hamid (A2)armed with a spade and Abdul Karim (A1) armed with a Kassi proceeding towards their field hurling abuses at her husband and they started belabouring him with arms and their hands and injured him.	Facts
He fell down on the ground.	Facts
They kept on beating him there.	Facts
Hearing shrieks of the complainant and her husband, her brother Chhotey who had come there for call of nature appeared there and several other covillagers also arrived there and on their challenge the accused left the place running towards forest considering that her husband was dead.	Facts
Later on she arranged for a charpai from the village and after keeping the injured thereon proceeded towards the police station in company of Rafiq, Rashid Alauddin, Munshi, Abdul Samad and reaching near village Etaua.	Facts
On the way her husband breathed his last and then she had gone to the police station and lodged report at about 11.00 A.M. on the same day.	Facts
Head Moharrir Jagdish Singh prepared check report and G.D. report (Ex. Ka.3) on the basis of oral information of the complainant in presence of S.I. D.D. Agarwal (PW.5) who took up the investigation immediately.	Facts
He interrogated the complainant and then prepared inquest report, challan and photo of the Corpse (Ex. Ka. 4 to Ka. 6) and sealed the corpse and entrusted the same to constables for onward transmission to the hospital for postmortem examination alongwith necessary papers.	Facts
He also prepared recovery memo (Ex. Ka. 7) for the blood stained Chadar covering the corpse.	Facts
Later on he went to the place of occurrence and prepared site plan (Ex. Ka. 8) after inspecting the spot.	Facts
He took sample and blood stained earth and sealed the same in separate containers (Ex. 1 and 2) after preparing recovery memo (Ex. Ka. 9).	Facts
Later on other witnesses were also interrogated and after concluding the investigation he submitted the chargesheet against the accused.	Facts
The accused kept on absconding and surrendered to the court later on.	Facts
He proved statement of Smt.	Facts
Mango recorded under section 161 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short the Code) vide Ex.	Facts
Ka. 12 during trial.	Facts
Dr. I.S. Tomar (PW.4) carried on postmortem examination of the corpse of the deceased on 1341978 at about 3.15 P.M. and he found that the deceased was aged about 40 years and his death occurred within 1 days.	Facts
He was average built and rigor mortis was present in the lower limbs whereas it passed of the upper limbs.	Facts
He found following antemortem injuries on his person Lacerated wound 2.5 cm x .5 cm x scalp deep over left side head 9 cm above left ear, placed obliquely.2.	Facts
Lacerated wound 2 cm x 5 cm.	Facts
X scalp deep over right side head 7 cm above right ear, placed obliquely.3.	Facts
Lacerated wound 3 cm x 1 cm.	Facts
X scalp deep over top of head in middle, placed obliquely.4.	Facts
Multiple clotted contusions in an area of 24 cm x 4 cm over outer aspect of right arm from upper to lower end.5.	Facts
Abraded contusion 3 cm x 2 cm over back of right elbow.6.	Facts
Contusion 4 cm x 3 cm over dorsum of right hand.7.	Facts
Multiple abraded contusion in area of 6 cm x 1.7 cm over of left shoulder.8.	Facts
Multiple abraded contusions in an area of 25 cm x 8 cm over back and anterior aspect of left arm, from shoulder to elbow.9.	Facts
Two lacerated woundsone 3 cm x 5 cm x 6 cm deep and other 2 cm x 5 cm x bone deep over back of left forearm in upper third.10.	Facts
Abraded contusion 10 cm x 4 cm area over back of left forearm.11.	Facts
Contusion 6 cm x 4 cm over dorsum of left hand and left ring finger is fractured.12.	Facts
Multiple contusions in an area of 36 cm x 11 cm over outer aspect of left thigh and left buttock placed parallel to each other and two parallel lines in every contusion.13.	Facts
Multiple lacerated wounds in an area of 21 cm x 5 cm xbone deep over front of left leg.14.	Facts
Lacerated wound 1 cm x 1 cm x 6 cm deep outer aspect of left knee.15.	Facts
Multiple contusions in an crea of 6 cm x 2 cm over back of leg in upper third.16.	Facts
Lacerated wound 4 cm x 1.5 cm x bone deep over front ofright led in middle and both bones are fractured.17.	Facts
Contusion 4 cm x 3 cm over outer aspect of right knee.18.	Facts
Contusion 2 cm x 1 cm right side chest 9 cm from nipple at 5 0 clock position.19.	Facts
Multiple contusions in an area of 43 cm x 26 cm over whole of back from shoulder to waist placed parallel and obliquely.	Facts
Two parallel lines seen in every contusion.	None
On internal examination, he found parietal bone and axillary bone fractured and brain and membrane congested.	Facts
Blood present around the membrane.	Facts
Heart was full on right side with blood whereas it was empty on left side.	Facts
Stomach and small intestines were empty whereas large intestine was half full.	Facts
Death was due to shock and haemorrhage resulted through antemortem injuries.	Facts
He proved postmortem examination report Ex.	Facts
Ka. 1 and he had sent the same alongwith blood stained shirts and underwear of the deceased in a sealed packet to the Investigating Officer.	Facts
In his opinion the injuries and death of the deceased was possible at 1241978 at about 78 A.M. through iron rod, spade and Kassi.	None
After the investigation was completed charge sheet was filed.	None
But the accused persons pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.	Facts
Five witnesses were examined to further the prosecution version.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Mango (PW1) widow of the deceased, Chhotey (PW2) brother of wife of the deceased and Mukhtar Ahmad (PW3) son of the deceased were stated to be eye witnesses.	Facts
The trial Court found the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3 to be credible and cogent and convicted the respondents as aforestated.	Facts
In appeal, the High Court analysed the evidence to hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its accusations.	None
Accordingly, the judgment of acquittal was passed.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellantState submitted that the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3 leaves no manner of doubt that the respondents were the assailants and the trial Court had rightly convicted them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondents on the other hand supported the judgment of acquittal.	Arguments of Respondent
As rightly noted by the High Court the fate of the case depends on the acceptability of the evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3.	Reasoning
PW1 partially resiled from her statement made during investigation.	Reasoning
According to her, she saw the assailants from a distance of one mile.	Reasoning
Sugarcanes were standing in the field which intervened between the place where she was and the field where the incident occurred.	Reasoning
She accepted that she had not herself seen the assault but saw the accused persons while they were making their escape towards the jungle.	Reasoning
As noted above, she claimed to have seen them running from a distance of one mile.	Reasoning
She further admitted that in between the village and her field the number of fields were situated where sugarcane and wheat crops were standing.10.	Reasoning
PW2 stated that he had also seen the accused persons committing the assaults.	Reasoning
But in the cross examination he admitted that he had come to the place when the assault was over and he had seen the accused persons running towards the jungle in the sugarcane field.	Reasoning
He accepted that he was with PW 1.11.	Reasoning
PW3 was a child of 9 years at the time of incident.	Reasoning
He also admitted to have seen the accused persons running away with their backs towards him standing near his mother.12.	Reasoning
The evidence of PWs 1, 2 and 3 clearly indicated that they were far away from the field where the alleged incident took place.	Reasoning
The High Court noted that identification was practically impossible from such a large distance particularly when the field was obstructed by standing crops of sugarcane which were not less than 67 ft in height.	Reasoning
The High Court therefore rightly observed that they could not have seen the assaults not only because of the distance but because of the presence of heights of crops of sugarcane.	Reasoning
Additionally, though all the witnesses stated that the accused persons were carrying sharp cutting weapons and rods, not even one injury was an incised one.	Reasoning
All the injuries were either lacerated wounds or contusion.	Reasoning
In view of the total discrepant nature of the evidence the High Court has rightly discarded the prosecution version and set aside the conviction.	Decision
We find no reason to interfere with the conclusions of the High Court.	Decision
The appeal fails and is dismissed accordingly.	Decision
