 Jagannadhadas, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by leave of the High Court of Calcutta under Art. 132(1) of the Constitution.	None
The appellant before us was the Registrar and AccountantGeneral of the High Court at Calcutta on its Original Side.	Facts
He was appointed to the post by the Chief Justice of the High Court on 431948 and confirmed therein on 15111948.	None
He was dismissed thereform with effect from 191951 by an order of the Chief Justice dated 391951.There were various charges against him and Mr. Justice Das Gupta was deputed by order of the Chief Justice dated 2851951, to make an enquiry and submit a report.	Facts
Das Gupta J. made a full enquiry and submitted his report on 1181951, in which he exonerated the appellant in respect of some of the charges but found him guilty in respect of the other charges.	Facts
The learned Judges expressed his conclusion as follows Mr. Bose (the appellant) must be held to be guilty of misconduct and dishonest conduct and (that) he is unfit to hold the office of Registrar of the Original Side of this Court.	Facts
The Chief Justice issued to the appellant a notice on 1681951, intimating that he agreed with the report after careful consideration thereof and asking him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from his post.	None
The appellant was given a hearing by the Chief Justice on 3181951.	None
The order dated 391951, of the Chief Justice dismissing the appellant from his offices a copy of which was served on him, runs as follows A full and thorough enquiry was held by K. C. Das Gupta J. into the charges made against Shri P. K. Bose the Registrar of the Original Side of this Court.	Facts
Sri P. K. Bose was represented by eminent Counsel and every opportunity was given to him to meet the charges and put forward his explanation and defence.	Facts
The learned Judge, however in a full and very carefully considered report found Sri P. K. Bose guilty of serious charges involving moral turpitude and dishonesty and further he was of opinion that Shri P. K. Bose was by reason thereof unfit to hold the said office of Registrar.	Facts
I considered this report and the evidence most anxiously and found myself in entire agreement with the leaned Judge.	Facts
Sri.	Facts
P. K. Bose was, in my view, clearly guilty of the matter comprised in the charges specified by K. C. Das Gupta J. I considered that prima facie the conduct of Sri P. K. Bose warranted dismissal and I, therefore, gave him notice under Art. 311(2), Constitution of India to show cause against the action proposed against him, namely dismissal.	Facts
On 3181951, Sri. P. K. Bose showed cause before me and I heared Sri Sachin Chaudhari his counsel and Sri P. K. Bose personally.	Facts
In all the circumstances this is not a case in which I can properly show any leniency, Sri P. K. Bose has abused the trust and confidence reposed in him and has been found guilty of serious malpractices and dishonesty.	Facts
Conduct such as this of an officer of the status of the Registrar of the Original Side of this Court is unpardonable and must be dealt with severely.	Facts
I, therefore, dismiss Sri P. K. Bose from his office as Registrar of the Original Side of the Court, the dismissal to take effect from 191951.Let a copy of this order be served on Sri P. K. Bose.	Facts
On 2511952, the appellant submitted a petition to the Governor of West Bengal for cancellation of the above order.	None
He received intimation dated 971952, that the Governor declines to interfere on his behalf.	Facts
Thereupon he filed an application to the Chief Justice for review of the prior order of dismissal.	Facts
It may be mentioned that it was Chief Justice Sir.	Facts
Arthur Trevor Harries, who had initiated the proceedings against the appellant and passed the order of dismissal.	Facts
He retired in June, 1952.The application for review was made to the successor Shri P. B. Chakravarti C. J. on 1191952.	Facts
This application was rejected on 1691952.	Facts
Thereafter on 24111952 i.e. more than a year after the order of dismissal, a writ application was filed on the Original Side of the High Court under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution against the Honble the Chief Justice of the High Court.for calling upon to bring up the records of the proceedings relating to his dismissal, in order that justice may be done by quashing or otherwise dealing with the said proceedings and the said order dated 391951, purporting to terminate his service and for directions being given to the Chief Justice to desist from giving effect to or acting in any manner under the said order.	Facts
On the presentation of the application the leaned Judge on the Original Side, Bose J. issued a rule nisi calling upon the Honble the Chief Justice to show cause why an order in the nature of a writ as asked for should not be made.	None
This order was duly served and on its return the learned Judge made an order referring the hearing of the application to a Special Bench of three Judges as per the rules of the Court.	Facts
Accordingly the petition was, under the directions of the Chief Justice, heard by three learned Judges of the High Court, who after elaborate hearing and consideration of the points urged on behalf of the appellant dismissed the application.	Facts
Leave to appeal to this Court was, however, granted by them under Art.	Facts
132 (1) on the ground that the case involves substantial question of law relating to interpretation of the Constitution.2.	Facts
The main points that have been urged by the appellant before us, as before the High Court, are that (1) The Chief Justice of the High Court had no power under the law to dismiss him(2) even if he had the power, he could not delegate the enquiry into the charges, to another Judge but should have enquired into the same himself, and(3) in any case the order of dismissal could not have been passed in the absence of previous consultation with the Public Service Commission of the State as provided under Art. 320 of the ConstitutionOn behalf of the respondent, i.e. the Honble the Chief Justice of the High Court at Calcutta, the learned AdvocateGeneral of West Bengal has appeared before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition to controverting the correctness of the above contentions raised on behalf of the appellant, he strongly urged that (1) no writ could issue from the High Court against its own Chief Justice.(2) the order of the Chief Justice, the validity of which is being challenged, is a purely administrative order against which no application for writ is maintainable and(3) this was not a case in which having regard to all the circumstances, any application by way of a writ should have been entertained.	Arguments of Respondent
The points urged on behalf of the appellant may first be taken up.	None
The most important out of them is the one relating to the authority of the Chief Justice to pass the order of dismissal as against the appellant.3.	None
It is beyond dispute that the Chief Justice is the authority for appointing the appellant.	None
It was in fact the Chief Justice who appointed the appellant and confirmed him.	None
But it is strongly urged that he had not the power to dismiss.	None
This argument is based on the assumption that the appellant falls within the category of public servants who are governed by the Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, (hereinafter referred to as the Civil Services Rules) of the year 1930 as amended from time to time and that the said rules continue to apply, to an official holding the post which he did, even after the Government of India Act, 1935, and later the Constitution of India of 1950 successively came into force.	None
The argument recognises the fact the dismissal is a matter which falls within conditions of service of a public servant as held by the Privy Council in NorthWest Frontier Province v. Suraj Narain Anand AIR 1949 PC 112 (A) and that the power of making rules relating to conditions of service of the staff of the High Court is vested in the Chief Justice of the Court under S. 242(4) taken with S. 241, Government of India Act, 1935, as also under Art.	None
229(2), Constitution of India, 1950.But	None
it is said that no such rules have been framed by the Chief Justice, and	None
that, therefore, by virtue of S. 276, Government of India Act, 1935, and Art.	None
313 of the Constitution, the Civil Services Rules continued to apply to him.	None
It is necessary to examine the correctness of these assumptions.4.	None
The Civil Services Rules were framed by the Secretary of State in Council under powers vested in him by S. 96B(2) Government of India Act, 1915, as amended in 1919.	Reasoning
These rules were framed on 1961930, and published on 2161930.	None
It is desirable therefore to consider the position relating to the staff of the High Courts before that date.	None
It is not disputed that the said position was governed by the Letters Patent of the High Court.	None
Clause 8 of the Letters Patent of 1965 as amended in 1919, which continues to be operative, as also Cl. 4 thereof, are relevant for the present purpose.	None
They are as follows 8.	None
We do hereby authroise and empower the Chief Justice of the said High Court of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal, from time to time, as occasion may require, and subject to any rules and restrictions which may be prescribed by the GovernorGeneral in Council, to appoint so many and such clerks and other ministerial officers as shall be found necessary for the administrative of justice, and the due execution of all the powers and authorities and committed to the said High Court by these Our Letters Patent.	None
And it is Our further will and pleasure and, We do hereby for Us, Our heirs and successors give, grant, direct, and appoint, that all and every the officers and clerks to be appointed as aforesaid shall have and receive respectively such reasonable salaries as the Chief Justice shall, from time to time, appoint for each office and place respectively and as the GovernorGeneral in Council shall approve of Provided always, and it is Our will and pleasure, that all and every the officers and clerks to be appointed as aforesaid shall be resident within the limits of the jurisdiction of the said Court, so long as they shall hold their respective offices but this proviso shall not interfere with or prejudice the right of any officer or clerk to avail himself of leave of absence under any rules prescribed by the GovernorGeneral in Council, and to absent himself from the said limits during the term of such leave, in accordance with the said rules.4.	None
We do hereby appoint and ordain, that every clerk and ministerial officer of the said High Court of Judicature at Fort William in Bengal, appointed by virtue of the said Letters Patent of the Fourteenth of May, One continue to hold and enjoy his office and employment, with the salary thereunto annexed, until he be removed from such office and employment and he shall be subject to the like power of removal, regulations, and provisions if he were appointed by virtue of these Letters Patent.	None
It will be noticed that Cl. 8 specifically vests in the Chief Justice the power of appointment, but makes no mention of power of removal or of making regulations or provisions.	None
But it is obvious from the last portion of Cl. 4 that such power was taken to be implicit under Cl. 8 and presumably as arising from the power of appointment.5.	None
It may be mentioned that under Cl. 10 of the Character of the Supreme Court of Calcutta issued in 1774, the said Court also was in specific terms authorised and empowered from time to time, as occasion may require, to appoint so many and such clerks and other ministerial officers as shall be found necessary for the administration of justice.	None
The power of removal or of taking other disciplinary action as regards such appointees was not in terms granted.	None
But there is historical evidence to show that the power of appointment conferred under the Character was always understood as comprising the above powers.	None
Sri Charles Wood, the then Secretary of State for India in para 10 of his dispatch to the GovernorGeneral dated the 1751862, (on the formation of the new High Courts) stated as follows The Supreme Court exercises an authority entirely independent of the Government in respect of its ministerial officers.	None
It is this power and authority along with other judicial power and authority that was succeeded to by the High Courts (on their formation in supersession of the Supreme and Sadar Courts) by virtue of S.9.	None
Indian High Courts Act, in the following terms.	None
Each of the High Court to be established under the Act shall have and exercise all jurisdiction and every power and authority whatsoever in any manner vested in any of the Courts abolished under this ActThus it is clear that both under the Charter of the Supreme Court as well as under the Letters Patent of the High Court, the power of appointment was throughout understood as vesting in the High Court or the Chief Justice, the complete administrative and disciplinary control over its staff, including the power of dismissal.6.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that this position continued at least until the Government of India Act, 1915.	None
Now, S. 106, Government of India Act, 1915, in terms continued the above by providing that the jurisdiction of the High Court would include all such powers and authority over and in relation to the administration of justice including power to appoint clerks and other ministerial officers of the Court as are vested in them by Letters Patent.	Reasoning
It follows that the position continued to be the same even under the Government of India Act, 1915, at any rate up to 1930, when the Civil Services Rules came into operation.	Reasoning
All the powers under the Letters Patent were, however, subject to alteration by competent legislative authority by virtue of Cl. 44, Letters Patent.	Reasoning
Clause 8 of the Letters Patent itself provided that the power of appointment of the Chief Justice was to be subject to rules and restrictions which may be prescribed by the GovernorGeneral in Council.	Reasoning
Now, the Civil Services Rules were made by the Secretary of State in Council under S. 96B, Government of India Act, 1915.It is the case of the appellant that though the Civil Services Rules framed by virtue of delegated power under the Act could not override the specific power of appointment vested in the Chief Justice by virtue of S. 106, thereof, they would override the alleged implications of that power such as the power of dismissal and power to frame rules relating to conditions of service in so far as they are specifically provided for under the Civil Services Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further urged that the said situation continues up to date by virtue of S. 276 Government of India Act, 1935 and Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
313 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now, the appellant is a person who was appointed in 1948 and dismissed in 1951.	None
It is, therefore, desirable in the first instance to examine the situation under the Government of India Act, 1935 and under the Constitution of 1950 on the assumption that the Civil Services Rules made a change in the prior situation so far as the High Court staff is concerned and applied thereto between 1930 and 1935.7.	None
Under the Government of India Act, 1935, the position relating to the Civil Services of the Crown in India is contained in a number of general provisions in Chap II of Part X thereof.	None
Section 240 (1) reiterates what was first statutorily declared by S. 96B of the 1915 Act, viz., that except as expressly provided by the Act every person who is a member of a civil service of the Crown in India, or holds any civil post under the Crown in India, holds office during His Majestys pleasure.	None
Section 241 provides for the recruitment and conditions of service of such persons and prescribes the various authorities who can make the appointments and frame the rules relating to conditions of service.	None
Section 242 (4), in so far as it is relevant for the present purpose, provides that section 241 in its application to appointments to and to persons serving on the staff attached to a High Court shall have effect as if, in the case of a High Court, for any reference to the Governor in para (b) of subs.	None
(1), in para (a) of subsection (2) and in subsection (5) there was substituted a reference to the Chief Justice of the Court.	None
Making the necessary substitutions as prescribed above the statutory provisions in the Government of India Act, 1935, relating to recruitment and conditions of service of the staff of the High Court may be read as follows (1) Appointments to the Civil Services and civil posts under the Crown in India in relation to the staff attached to the High Court shall be made by the Chief Justice or such person as he may direct.(2)	None
The conditions of service of persons serving His Majesty in relation to the staff attached to the High Court shall be made by the Chief Justice of the High Court or by some person or persons authorised by him to make the rules for the purposes.	None
Provided that (a) the Governor may in his discretion require that in such cases as he may in his discretion direct no person not already attached to the court shall be appointed to any office connected with the Court save after consultation with the Provincial Public Service Commission(b) rules made under subs.	None
(2) by a Chief Justice shall, so far as they relate to salaries, allowances, leave or pensions, require the approval of the Governor.	None
These sections, while keeping intact the power of appointment of the members of the staff of the High Court with the Chief Justice as contained in the Letters Patent, provide, statutorily for the first time and in express terms what was implicit in Cl. 8 of the Letters Patent, viz., that the power to regulate and frame rules relating to conditions of service governing such staff is also vested in the Chief Justice subject however to two limitations indicated by the provisos mentioned above.	None
The corresponding provisions in the present Constitution relating to the powers of the Chief Justice in relation to the recruitment and service conditions of the staff of the High Court are almost identical and are contained in Art. 229.	None
They are as follows 229.	None
(1) Appointments of officers and servants of a High Court shall be made by the Chief Justice of the Court or such other Judge or officer of the Court as he may direct Provided that the Governor of the State in which the High Court has its principal seat may by rule require that in such cases as may be specified in the rule no person not already attached to the Court shall be appointed to any office connected with the Court save after consultation with the State Public Service Commission.(2)	None
Subject to the provisions of any law made by the Legislature of the State, the conditions of service of officers and servants of a High Court shall be such as may be prescribed by rules made by the Chief Justice of the Court or by some other Judge or officer of the Court authorised by the Court Justice to make rules for the purpose Provided that the rules made under this clause, shall so far as they relate to salaries allowances leave or pensions, require the approval of the Governor of the State in which the Court has its principal seat.	None
It does not appear from the record that any rules have been made by the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, at any rate, in so far as they may be applicable to the Registrar of the Original Side of the High Court.	None
On the assumption, therefore, that the Civil Services Rules applied to the case of a person in his position between 1930 and 1935, it has got to be seen whether they continue to be so applicable.	None
The relevant provisions in this behalf are S. 276, Government of India Act, 1935, and Art.	None
313 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are as follows Section 276 Until other provision is made under the appropriate provisions of this Part of this Act, any rules made under the Govt.	None
of India Act relating to the Civil Services of, or civil posts	None
under, the Crown in India which were in force immediately before the commencement of Part III of this Act, shall, notwithstanding the repeal of that Act, continue in force so far as consistent with this Act, and shall be deemed to be rules made under the appropriate provisions of this Act.	None
Article 313 Until other provision is made in this behalf under this Constitution, all the laws in force immediately before the commencement of this Constitution and applicable to any public service or any post which continues to exist after the commencement of this Constitution, as an all India service or as service or post under the Union or a State shall continue in force so far as consistent with the provisions of this Constitution.8.	None
Now, it has to be observed that the continuance, under S. 276, Government of India Act, 1935, of the Civil Services Rules, could only be in so far as such continuance may be consistent with the new Act.	None
Further in their application to the High Court staff, the rules are to be deemed to be rules made under the appropriate provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
The rules, therefore, must be deemed to be rules made by the Chief Justice consistently with the scheme and provisions of the Act relating to the High Court staff which specifically vest in him the powers of appointment and of the regulation of conditions of service including the power of dismissal.	Reasoning
Such continuance, therefore, can only operate by a process or adaptation implicitly authorised by the very terms of S. 276.	Reasoning
It would follow that, in their continued application to the High Court staff, the word Governor has to be read as substituted by the word Chief Justice wherever necessary in the same way as S. 242 (4) of the Act requires the provisions of S. 241 to be read as though any reference to the Governor therein is substituted by a reference to the Chief Justice of the High Court.	Reasoning
The continued application of the Civil Services Rules without such adaptation would result in the anomalous position, that although the 1935 Act specifically vests in the Chief Justice the power of appointment and of framing rules regulating conditions of service including the power of dismissal and hence thereby indicates the Chief Justice as the authority having the power to exercise disciplinary control, he has no such disciplinary control merely because he did not choose to make any fresh rules and was content with the continued application of the old rules.	Reasoning
Now, the relevant provision in the Civil Services Rules which deals with disciplinary action including dismissal is R. 52 thereof.	None
That rules shows thatthe GovernorGeneral in Council or Local Government of Governors Province may impose any of the penalties specified in R. 49 (which includes dismissal) on any person included in any of the classes 1 to 5 specified in R. 14 who is serving under the administrative control of the GovernorGeneral in Council or the Local Government, as the case may be.	None
This rule if it originally applied to the High Court staff, must after 1935 be read by substituting Chief Justice in the place of the Local Government wherever it occurs therein and making other consequential alterations.	None
Thus read, there can be no doubt that as from the commencement of the Government of India Act, 1935, the power of dismissal of a member of the High Court staff including, a person in the position of the appellant, would vest in the Chief Justice.	Reasoning
This would be so even apart from the normal implication of the power of appointment specifically recognised under the Act.	None
If follows that even on the assumption that Civil Services Rules applied between 1930 and 1935 to the High Court staff their continuance after 1935 makes a change in the dismissing authority and the power of dismissal is vested in the Chief Justice.	Reasoning
That being the correct position prior to 1950, the Constitution has made no change in this respect and Art.	Reasoning
313 would also continue R. 52 of the Civil Services Rules as above adapted.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, follow that, at any rate, from the time of passing of the Government of India Act, 1935, as also under the Constitution, the power of dismissal vests in the Chief Justice notwithstanding that no specific rules have been made in this behalf by the Chief Justice.9.	Reasoning
It must be mentioned, at this stage, that so far as the power of dismissal is concerned, the position under the Constitution of 1950 is not open to any argument or doubt.	None
Article 229 (1) which in terms vests the power of appointment in the Chief Justice is equally effective to vest in him the power of dismissal.	None
This results from S. 16, General Clauses Act which the virtue of Article 367(1) of the Constitution applies of the construction of the word appointment in Art.	None
229(1).	None
Section 16(1), General Clauses Act clearly provides that the power of appointment includes the power to suspend or dismiss.10.	None
In view of the clear conclusion we have arrived at as above, we do not consider it necessary to deal with the arguments addressed to us on both sides as to the applicability or otherwise of the Civil Services Rules to the High Court staff, including a person in the position of the appellant, and we express no opinion thereon.	Reasoning
The main contention, therefore, of the appellant as to the competency of the Chief Justice to pass the order of dismissal against him fails.11.	None
The further subordinate objections that have been raised remain to be considered.	None
The first objection that has been urged is that even if the Chief Justice had the power to dismiss, he was not, in exercise of that power, competent to delegate to another Judge the enquiry into the charges but should have made the enquiry himself.	None
This contention proceeds on a misapprehension of the nature of the power.	None
As pointed out in Barnard v. National Dock Labour Board, 19532 QB 18 at p. 40 (B), it is true that no judicial tribunal can delegate its functions unless it is enabled to do so expressly or by necessary implication.	None
But the exercise of the power to appoint or dismiss an officer is the exercise not of a judicial power but of an administrative power.	None
It is nonetheless so, by reason of the fact that an opportunity to show cause and an enquiry simulating judicial standards have to precede the exercise thereof.	None
It is wellrecognized that a statutory functionary exercising such a power cannot be said to have delegated his functions merely by deputing a responsible and competent official to enquire and report.	None
That is the ordinary mode of exercise of any administrative power.	Reasoning
What cannot be delegated except where the law specifically so provides  is the ultimated responsibility for the exercise of such power.	None
As pointed out by the House of Lords in Board of Education v. Rice, 1911 AC 179 at p. 182 (C), a functionary who has to decide an administrative matter, of the nature involved in this case, can obtain the material on which he is to act in such manner as may be feasible and convenient, provided only the affected party has a fair opportunity to correct or contradict any relevant and prejudicial material.	None
The following passage from the speech of Lord Chancellor in Local Government Board v. Arlidge, 1915 AC 120 at p. 133 (D) is apposite and instructive.	None
My Lords, I concur in this view of the position of an administrative body to which the decision of a question in dispute between parties has been entrusted.	None
The result of its inquiry must, as I have said, be taken, in the absence of directions in the statute to the contrary, to be intended to be reached by its ordinary procedure.	None
In the case of the Local Government Board it is not doubtful what this procedure is.	None
The Minister at the head of the Board is directly responsible to Parliament like other Ministers.	None
He is responsible not only for what he himself does but for all that is done in his department.	None
The volume of work entrusted to him is very great and he cannot do the great bulk of it himself.	None
He is expected to obtain his materials vicariously through his officials, and he has discharged his duty if he sees that they obtain these materials for him properly.	None
To try to extend his duty beyond this and to insist that he and other members of the Board should do everything personally would be to impair his efficiency.	None
Unlike a Judge in a Court he is not only at liberty but is compelled to rely on the assistance of his staff.	None
In view of the above clear statement of the law the objection to the validity of the dismissal on the ground that the delegation of the enquiry amounts to the delegation of the power itself is without any substance and must be rejected.12.	Reasoning
The second objection that has been taken is that even if the power of dismissal is vested in the Chief Justice, the appellant was entitled to the protection of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
320(3)(c) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged, that the dismissal in the absence of consultation with the Public Service Commission of the state was invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
There can be no doubt that members of the staff in other Government departments of the Union or the State or normally entitled to the protection of the three constitutional safeguards provided in Arts.	None
311(1), 311(2) and 320(3)(c).	None
Article 320(3)(c) so far as it is relevant for the present purpose, runs as follows The Union Public Service Commission or the State Public Service Commission, as the case may be, shall be consulted on all disciplinary matters affecting a person serving under the Government of India or the Government of a State in a civil capacity, including memorials or petitions relating to such matters.	None
The phrase all disciplinary matters, affecting a person is sufficiently comprehensive to include and kind of disciplinary action proposed to be taken in respect of a particular persons.	None
The question for consideration, therefore, is whether a person belonging to the staff of a High Court is within the scope of the phrase a person serving under the Government of India or the Government of State in a civil capacity.	Issue
The learned Judges of the High Court were of the opinion that Art.	None
320(3) have no application to the present case.	Reasoning
In their view the provisions of Art. 320 (3) would be inconsistent with the power vested in the Chief Justice of a High Court under Art. 229, as regards the appointment of officers and servants of a High Court and hence also of dismissal or removal and as regards the framing of rules prescribing conditions of service of such officers or servants.	Reasoning
They also point out that the proviso to Art.	Reasoning
229(1) indicates the requirement that the State Public Service Commission should be consulted only in respect of the specific cases of future appointments and that too if the Governor of the State so requires by rule.	Reasoning
They take this and the fact that under the Constitution the provisions relating to High Court staff are taken out of Part XIV relating to the services, as implying, that in the exercise of the powers vested in the Chief Justice under Art. 229, consultation with the State Public Service Commission in respect of any other matter must be taken to have been excluded.	Reasoning
This reasoning is not without force.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly there is must to be said for the view that Art.	Reasoning
320(3) taken as a whole is inconsistent with Art. 229.	None
But it is possible to treat the requirement of prior consultation under Art.	None
320(3)(c) which relates to disciplinary action against individual Government employees and which is in the nature of an important constitutional safeguard for individual government employees as standing on a somewhat different footing from that under Art.	None
320(3)(a) or (b) which relate to general matters relating to recruitments, appointments, etc.	None
Prior consultation in respect of individual cases may not be considered necessarily inconsistent with the actual exercise of the overriding power of the Chief Justice in such cases.	None
While, therefore, recognising the force of the view taken by the High Court, it appears desirable to consider the requirement under Art.	Reasoning
320(3)(c) taken by itself with reference to the actual terms thereof, in view of the importance of this provision as a constitutional safeguard in cases to which it applies.13.	Reasoning
A scrutiny of the provisions in Chap.	None
I of Part XIV of the Constitution relating to the services shows that the various Articles in this Chapter designate the services to which the articles relate by a variety of terminology.	None
Under Art.	None
309, the appropriate Legislature is vested with the power to regulate recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed of public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union of any State.	None
Under Art.	None
310 every person who is a member of a civil service of the Union or holds and civil post under a State holds office during the pleasure of the President or, as the case may be, of the Governor or of the Rajpramukh of the State.	None
Under Art.	None
311 the two constitutional safeguards, viz., (1) of not being liable to be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank until he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him, and (2) of not being liable to be dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed, are available to a person who is a member of a civil service of the Union or of a civil service of a State, or holds a civil post under the Union or a State.	None
Under Art.	None
320(3)(c) however, the requirement of consultation with the appropriate Public Service Commission on disciplinary matters is available to a person serving under the Government of India or the Government of a State in a civil capacity.	None
A close scrutiny of the terminology so used shows a marked departure in the language of Art. 320(3)(c) from that in Arts. 310 and 311.Officers and members of the staff attached to a High Court clearly fall within the scope of the phrase persons appointed to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State and also of the phrase a person who is a member of a civil service of a State as used in Arts.	None
310 and 311.The salaries of these persons are paid out of the State funds as appears from Art.	None
229(3) which provides that the administrative expenses of a High Court including all salaries, allowances and pensions payable to or in respect of officers and servants of the High Court, are chargeable upon the Consolidated Fund of a State.	None
The item relating to such administrative expenses has to form part of the an nual financial statement to be presented to the State Legislative Assembly under Art.	None
202	None
and estimates thereof can form the subject matter of the discussion in the Legislature under Art. 203(1).	None
They must, therefore, be taken to hold posts in connection with the affairs of the State and to be members of the civil services of the State.	None
But can it be said that members of the High Court staff are persons serving under the Government of a State in a civil capacity which is the phrase used in Art.	None
320(3)(c)?The use of different terminology in the various articles was not likely to have been accidental.	None
It is to be noticed that even Art. 320 in its various clauses uses different phrases.	Reasoning
Article 320(1) refers to appointments to the services of the Union and the services of the State and the proviso to Art.	Reasoning
320(3) refers to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union and to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State.	Reasoning
It appears, therefore, not unlikely that in using somewhat different phraseology, the intention was to demarcate the staff of the High Courts from the other civil services of the Union or the State.	Reasoning
The phrase persons serving under the Government of India or the Government of a State seems to have reference to such persons is respect of whom the administrative control is vested in the respective executive Governments functioning in the name of the President or of the Governor or of a Rajpramukh.	Reasoning
The officers and staff of the High Court cannot be said to fall within the scope of the above phrase because in respect of them the administrative control is clearly vested in the Chief Justice, who under the Constitution, has the power of appointment and removal and of making rules for the conditions of services.	Reasoning
Articles 53, 77, 154 and 166 of the Constitution show that while the executive power of the Union or the State is vested, respectively, in the President or the Governor and that executive action is to be taken in their respective names, such action is the action of the Government of India or the Government of a State.	Reasoning
But the administrative action of the Chief Justice is outside the scope of these Articles.	Reasoning
It appears therefore that in using the phrase Government of India and Government of a State in Art.	Reasoning
320(3)(c)	Reasoning
, the Constitution had in view the above mentioned demarcation.	Reasoning
A close comparison of the terminology used in the corresponding provisions of the Government of India Act of 1935 also seems to confirm this demarcation.	Reasoning
Section 290(1) of the said Act refers to every person who is a member of a civil service of the Crown in India or holds any civil post under the Crown in India while S. 266(3)(c) relates to a person serving His Majesty in a civil capacity in India.	Reasoning
A perusal of the main paragraph of subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 266 clearly shows that it has reference to three categories of services (1) Secretary of States services, (2) Federal services under the GovernorGeneral and (3) Provincial Services, under the Governor.	Reasoning
In the context of this section, the comprehensive phrase serving His Majesty seems to have been used as comprising only the above three services and should be exclusive of the staff of the High Court.	Reasoning
The fact that different phrases have been used in the relevant sections of the Government of India Act and the Constitution, relating to the constitutional safeguards in this behalf appears to be meant to emphasise the differentiation of the services of the High Court from other services, and to place the matters beyond any doubt as regards the nonapplicability thereto of this constitutional protection.	Reasoning
It may be noticed that while the constitutional safeguards under Art.	Reasoning
311 are available to every person in the civil service, the safeguard in Art. 320 (3)(c) is one capable of being taken away by regulations to be made by the President or Governor.	Reasoning
The Constitution itself appears, therefore, to have classed this safeguard on a different footing.	Reasoning
This may well have been intended not to apply to the High Courts.	Reasoning
Therefore, both on the ground that Art.	Reasoning
320(3)(c) would be contrary to the implication of Art.	Reasoning
229	Reasoning
and on the ground that Art.	Reasoning
320(3)(c) would be contrary to the implication of Art.	Reasoning
229	Reasoning
and on the ground that the language thereof is not applicable to the High Court staff, we are of the opinion that for the dismissal of the appellant by the Chief Justice prior consultation with the Public Service Commission was not necessary.	Reasoning
We accordingly hold that the appellant was not entitled to the protection under Art. 320(3)(c).	Reasoning
It follows that none of the three contentions raised on behalf of the appellant i.e. (1) as to the power of the Chief Justice to dismiss him, (2) as to his competence to delegate the enquiry to Das Gupta, J. and (3) as to his obligation to consult the State Public Service Commission, have been substantiated.	Reasoning
This application must accordingly fail on the merits.14.	None
This would be enough to dispose of the case against the appellant.	None
The learned Judges of the High Court have also dealt at some length with the question as to the maintainability of an application for a writ in a case of this kind and of the availability of any remedy by way of a writ against the action of the Chief Justice, whether administrative or judicial.15.	None
Arguments in this behalf have also been strongly urged before us by the leaned AdvocateGeneral of West Bengal.	None
In the view, however that we have taken as to the contentions raised before us regarding the validity of the order of dismissal, we do not feel called upon enter into the discussion relating to the availability of the writ.	None
We express no opinion on the questions so raised.16.	None
We consider it, however, desirable to say that our view that the exercise of power of dismissal of a civil servant is the exercise of administrative power may not necessarily preclude the availability of remedy under Art.	Reasoning
226 of the Constitution in an appropriate case.	Reasoning
That is a question on which we express no opinion one way or the other in this case.17.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal must be dismissed with costs.18.	Decision
Along with this appeal, the appellant filed an application to this Court for leave under Art. 136 to appeal against the orders dated 391951, and 1691952, dismissing him from service and declining to review it.	Decision
In view of our judgment just delivered, that application must also be rejected.19.	None
Appeal and application dismissed.	None
