 N. Khare, J. The appellant herein is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act and has its head office and factory outside the State of Bihar.	Facts
The company manufactures fruit drinks and markets it under the brand name of Frooti and Appy in the State of Bihar through its agents.	Facts
The Bihar Legislature has enacted an Act known as Bihar Agricultural Produce Market Act, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The object of the Act is to provide better regulation of buying and selling of agricultural produce and the arrangement of market for agricultural produce in the State of Bihar.	Facts
Under Section 27 of the Act, the Market Committee set up under the Act has power to levy and collect market fee on the agricultural produce, which are specified in the Schedule and are bought or sold in the market area.	Facts
It is not disputed that the entire district of Patna is declared as a market area.	Facts
Section 2(1)(a) of the Act defines agricultural produce which runs as under Agricultural produce means all produce whether processed or nonprocessed, manufactured or not, of Agriculture, Horticulture, Plantation, animal Husbandry, Forest, Sericulture, Pisciculture, and includes livestock or poultry as specified in the Schedule.	Facts
Under Section 39 of the Act, the State Government by a notification is empowered to add, amend, or cancel any of the items of the agricultural produce in the Schedule as required by Section 2(1)(a) of the Act.	Facts
In the Schedule, as contemplated under Section 2(1)(a), mango and apple are specified under the caption fruits as items No. 1 and 13 respectively.	Facts
The respondents treating Frooti and Appy as mango and apple products, issued a notice dated 28.3.89, requiring the appellant to pay market fee on the products marketed under the brand name Frooti and Appy, failing which action under the Act would be taken.	Facts
Under such circumstances, the appellant challenged the aforesaid demand by means of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Facts
However, the said writ petition was dismissed and Letters Patent Appeal filed against the judgment of the learned Single Judge was also dismissed.	Facts
It is in this way the appellant is in appeal before us.	Facts
The short question that arises for consideration in this case is, whether the products which are ready to serve beverages under the brand name Frooti and Appy fall under the description of mango and apple, specified in the Schedule.	Issue
The contention of the learned counsel for the appellant is that, both the fruit drinks are not covered by the Schedule, whereas the contention of the respondents counsel is that the products being the mango and apple juices are covered under the item mango and apple, as specified in the Schedule.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant has described the manufacturing process of beverages Frooti and Appy as under Frooti and Appy are fruit drinks and manufacturing process of both are cumbersome.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is alleged that one of the ingredients of Frooti is mango pulp and not mango which is procured by the appellant company as raw material from outside agencies.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly, on the ingredients of Appy is apple concentrate and not apple.	Arguments of Petitioner
The pulp is first passed through a filter and stored in beverage tank.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly sugar in proportionate quantity is processed in the form of syrup after heating it to a certain temperature and then cooling it.	Arguments of Petitioner
Demineralised water is then added to the sugar syrup to the extent that it attains a certain brix content.	Arguments of Petitioner
Meanwhile in the beverage tank requisite amount of citric acid, non alcoholic beverage base (NABB), other permitted additives, sodium citrate, vitamin C are added.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, the sugar syrup and the mixture in the beverage tank are mixed in proportionate quantity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter the said mixture is passed through homogeniser and crushed at a very high pressure to disintegrate all the fibers, which are present in the beverage mixture.	Arguments of Petitioner
After homogenisation, the mixture is then required to be passed through pasteuriser where it is hated to a temperature between 95 to 100 degrees centigrade for killing all the bacteria and micro organism, if there be any.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsequently, the said mixture is passed through a cooling channel for cooling down to the room temperature and passed through pipe lines into the steriliser of the tetra brik aseptic packaging machine for packing the beverage in tetra brik packs of 200ml size which requires high technical expertise.	Arguments of Petitioner
The paper which is used for the packaging, consists of seven layers of materials which include aluminum foil, laminated polythene etc. for taking care of asepticity ensuring high safety and required life for the produce.	Arguments of Petitioner
The 200 ml pack is then packed in the packaging machine and which passes through the conveyor system on way to the tray packing machine, where it is accumulated in trays.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said tray containing the fruit drink pack is then shrink wrapped by means of the shrink wrapper machine.	Arguments of Petitioner
After everything is completed, the fruit drink packs are kept under incubation for a period of seven days for detection of growth of any microorganism, organoliptic test is also conducted for testing the colour and taste of the beverage.	Arguments of Petitioner
After all that the Frooti and Appy are ready for being delivered in the market.	Arguments of Petitioner
A perusal of Section 2(1)(a) unambiguously shows that the agricultural produce which are to be covered by the sweep of the Act necessarily has to be specified in the Schedule.	Reasoning
If any agricultural produce is not specified in the Schedule, it goes beyond the purview of the Act and respondent has no power to levy fee on such produce.	Reasoning
In the Schedule under caption fruits mango and apple have been specified as agricultural produce.	Reasoning
We further find in the Schedule that under caption cereals wheat is specified at item No. 3, whereas wheat atta sujji and maida which are the products of wheat are separately specified at item Nos. 14, 15 and 16, respectively.	Reasoning
This shows that the agricultural produce wheat has been treated as a separate agricultural produce as compared to its own product manufactured out of wheat namely, atta, sujji and maida.	Reasoning
Atta, sujji and maida are basically the agricultural products of wheat.	Reasoning
Similarly, the Schedule shows that under the caption Animal Husbandary Product, milk excluding liquid milk is specified at item No. 10 whereas butter, ghee, cream, and khoya which are manufactured out of milk are separately specified at item Nos. 7, 8, 16, 17 19 respectively.	Reasoning
Under caption miscellaneous, mango pickles is specified at items No. 18	Reasoning
Mango pickles is a product of mango, which is a fruit and specified in Schedule but mango pickles have been specified separately.	Reasoning
The shows basic ingredients may be the same but the end product which is known differently is treated as a separate item.	Reasoning
It is true Frooti and Appy are manufactured out of mango pulp and apple concentrate, but after the mango pulps and apple concentrate are processed and beverages are manufactured, the products become entirely different items and the fruits mango and apply loose their identity.	Reasoning
In common parlance, these beverages are no longer known as mango and apple as fruits.	Reasoning
In other words, after processing manago pulp and apple concentrate, although the basic character of the mango pulp and apple concentrate may be present in beverages, but the end products are not fruits i.e. mango and apple which are specified in the Schedule.	Reasoning
Our views also find support from a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Belsund Sugar Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar Ors., 1999(9) SCC, 620 wherein it was held that Lactodex and Raptakos which are baby foods do fall under the description milk, specified in the Schedule of the Act.	Reasoning
Under such circumstances, we find that the products like Frooti and Appy which are ready to serve beverages not being specified in the Schedule are not covered by the term agricultural produce, as defined in Section 2(1)(a) of the Act.	Reasoning
Learned Additional Solicitor General then cited a decision of this Court in the case of Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti and another v. Ms Shankar Industries and others, 1993 Supp.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) SCc 361(II) for the proposition that the meaning of agriculture produce in the definition is not restricted to any products of agriculture specified in the Schedule, but also include such items which come into being in the processed form, and has strongly relied para 12 of the said decision, which reads as under We have considered the arguments advanced on behalf of the parties and have perused the record.	Arguments of Respondent
A perusal of the definition of agriculture produce under Section 2(a) of the Act shows that apart from items of produce of agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, piculture, sericulture, pisciculture, animal husbandry or forest as are specified in the Schedule, the definition further includes admixture of two or more such items and thereafter it further includes taking any such item in processed form and again for the third time the words used are and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery.	Arguments of Respondent
It is a well settled rule of interpretation that where the legislature uses the words means and includes such definition is to be given a wider meaning and is not exhaustive or restricted to the items contained or included in such definition.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus the meaning of agricultural produce in the above definition is not restricted to any products of agriculture as specified in the Schedule but also includes such items which come into being in processed form and further includes such items which are called as gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of the view that the said decision is wholly inapplicable to the present controversy.	None
In the Uttar Pradesh Act, the agricultural produce is defined as under Section 2(a) agricultural produce means such items of produce of agriculture, horticulture, viticulture, apiculture, sericulture, pisciculture, animal husbandary or forest as are specified in the Schedule, and includes admixture of two or more of such items, and also includes any such item in processed form, and further includes gur, rab, shakkar, khandsari and jaggery.	Arguments of Respondent
The controversy in the case of Krishi Utpadan Samiti (supra), was whether gurlauta and raskat and rabgolawat and salawat, which are products of molasses, are agricultural produce.	Reasoning
This Court while interpreting word means and includes used in the definition, was of the view that these words have to be given wider meaning and processed item of a good specified in Schedule would be agricultural produce.	Reasoning
In U.P. Act, the definition of agricultural produce provided that any processed item of a specified good is an agricultural produce.	Reasoning
Such is not the definition of agricultural produce in the Bihar Act with which we are concerned in the present case.8.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforestated, we are of the view that the product Frooti and Appy not being specified in the Schedule, the respondent had no authority to demand any fee from the appellant on marketing the said products.	Decision
Consequently, the order and judgment of the High Court is set aside and the appeal is allowed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
