 Hidayatullah, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave from the Award of the National Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) Bombay, in a dispute between the Reserve Bank of India and its workmen, delivered on September 8, 1962 and published in the Gazette of India (Extraordinary) of September 29, 1962.	Issue
The appellants are the All Indian Reserve Bank Employees Association, Bombay (Shortly the Association) representing Class II and Class III staff and the All India Reserve Bank D Class Employees Union, Kanpur (shortly the Union) representing Class IV staff, of the Reserve Bank.2.	Facts
By notification No. S. O. 704, dated the 21st March 1960, the Central Government, in exercise of its powers under S. 7B of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, constituted a National Industrial Tribunal with Mr. Justice K. T. Desai (later Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court) as the Presiding Officer.	Facts
By an order notified under No. S.O. 707 of the same date, Central Government, in the exercise of the powers conferred by subs.	Facts
(1A) of S. 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, referred an industrial dispute, which , in its opinion, existed between the Reserve Bank and its workmen of the three classes abovementioned.	Facts
The order of Reference specified the heads of dispute in two schedules, the first in respect of Class II and Class III staff and the second in respect of Class IV staff.	Facts
The first Schedule consisted of 22 items and the second of 23 items.	Facts
These items (a considerable number of which are common to the two schedules) bear upon the scales of pay and dearness and other allowances and sundry matters connected with the conditions of service of the three classes.	Facts
The reference was registered as Reference No. 2 of 1960.	Facts
During the trial of the Reference the Association and the Union severally made applications for interim relief asking for 25 per cent of the total emoluments to Class IV employees with a minimum of Rs. 25 and for 25 per cent of the basic pay to the employees of the two higher classes, with effect from July 1959, but this was refused by an interim Award, dated December 29, 1960.	Facts
The final Award was delivered on September 8, 1962 because in the meantime the Tribunal dealt with another reference registered as Reference No. 1 of 1960 in a dispute involving 84 banking companies and Corporations and their workmen in respect of creation of categories of banks and areas for purposes of adjudication and of scales of pay, diverse allowances and other conditions of service.	Facts
The Award in that Reference was delivered on June 7,1962.	Facts
The Tribunal was next occupied with the resolution of yet another dispute over bonus between 73 banking companies and their workmen which was registered as Reference No .3 of 1960 and which was concluded by an award on July 21, 1962.	Facts
We shall have occasion to refer to these awards later.	Facts
We may now give the facts of the dispute in the Reference from which this appeal arises.3.	Facts
The Reserve Bank was established on April 1, 1935 as shareholders Bank with a capital of Rs. 5 crores which was mainly subscribed by the public.	Facts
It was taken over in 1948 by the Government of India, when, under the Reserve Bank (Transfer to Public Ownership) Act, 1948, the shares were compulsorily acquired by Government at a premium of Rs. 18.62 over and above the face value of the share of 100.	Facts
Thereafter the Reserve Bank is administered by a Central Board of Directors nominated by the Central Government from the civil services and public men.	Facts
There are four local Boards to advise the Central Board and to function as its delegates.	Facts
The Head Office of the Reserve Bank is situated at Bombay with branches at Calcutta, New Delhi, Kanpur, Madras, Bangalore, Nagpur, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Gauhati, Trivandrum, Patna, Ahmedabad, Ludhiana, Jaipur and Indore.	Facts
The Reserve Bank acts as Bank to the Central and State Governments and Commercial Banks and controls the issue and circulation of currency.	Facts
It has special duties to perform under the Banking Companies Act, 1949 and supervises and controls the banking industry in India.	Facts
It regulates and controls foreign exchange and exchange of currency and remittances to and from India.	Facts
It is hardly necessary to refer to its multifarious duties and functions as the Central Bank and as the bankers bank.4.	Facts
The Reserve Bank employs four classes of employees of which the three lower classes are before this Court, the first class being of officers.	Facts
At the material time the total number of employees of all description was about 9,500 of which 3,300 were in the Head Office 1,800, 1,100 and 1,100, respectively, at Calcutta, New Delhi and Madras and the rest were distributed in varying numbers among the remaining twelve branches.	Facts
The present dispute has a long history into the details of which it is hardly necessary to go but as both sides have made reference to it, some of the leading events connected with bank disputes in general and the present dispute respecting the Reserve Bank, in particular, may be mentioned.5.	Facts
As is well known there has been a rise in the prices of commodities since 1939 and workmen earning wages and persons in the fixed income groups are specially affected.	Facts
Between the years 1946 and 1949 there were set up numerous Commissions and Tribunals to deal with disputes between the commercial banks and their employees.	Facts
In 1946 strike notices were served on many banks in Bombay, Bengal and the United Provinces.	Facts
In Bombay Mr. H. V. Divatia dealt with a dispute between the Bank of India and its employees, happily settled by consent (August 15, 1946) and again with a dispute between 30 named Banks in Bombay and their employees.	Facts
The Award was given on April 9, 1947.	Facts
That award was extended to Ahmedabad Bank employees by another award published on April 22, 1948.	Facts
Conciliation proceedings were conducted by Mr. R. Gupta, between the Imperial Bank of India and its employees in Bengal which concluded on August 4, 1947.	Facts
Other awards and adjudications were made by Mr. S. C. Chakravarti and Mr. S. K. Sen. In the United Provinces	Facts
first Mr. B. B. Singh, Labour Commissioner, began arbitration in disputes between as many as 40 banks and their employees, which later went before Conciliation Boards headed first by Mr. Nimbkar, and on his death, by Mr. Bind Basni Prasad and the recommendations were made effective by a Government order.	Facts
On the representation of the Banks an Ordinance was promulgated (followed by an Act) and the Central Government took over the resolution of disputes between banks and their employees in all cases where the banks had offices in more than one province.	Facts
On June 13, 1949 the Central Government appointed an All India Industrial Tribunal (Bank Disputes) with Mr. K. C. Sen, and 2 members to codify the terms and conditions of service of bank employees.	Facts
The Sen Award (as it is known) was published on August 12, 1950 but on appeal this Court on April 9, 1951 declared it to be void as there was a flaw in the composition of the Tribunal.	Facts
As a result of this contingency a standstill Act was passed and another Tribunal with Mr. H. V. Davatia and 2 members was erected.	None
This Tribunal did not conclude the work and resigned and in 1952 another Tribunal presided over by Mr. S. Panchapagesa Sastry was appointed which published its award in April 1953.	Facts
That Award was subjected to an appeal before the Labour Appellate Tribunal and it was much modified.	Facts
Some banks represented to Government their inability to implement the modified award and the Central Government intervened and modified the award of the Labour Appellate Tribunal by an order dated August 24, 1954.	Facts
We may leave this general narration at this stage to view the disputes between the Reserve Bank of India and its employees during the same period.6.	Facts
In 1946 the Association delivered a charter of demands for revision of pay scales and allowances of the employees of the Reserve Bank from April 1, 1946 and after negotiations some revision in wages and dearness allowances was effected.	Facts
During the interval between this revision and the appointment of the Sastry Tribunal other revisions took place.	Facts
When the Sastry Tribunal gave its award in March 1953, the Association in May of the same year delivered a revised charter of demands to the Reserve Bank but owing to the pendency of the Appeal before the Labour Appellate Tribunal, the demand could not be considered.	Facts
The Reserve Bank, however, assured its employees that after the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal was known, the entire question would be reviewed.	Facts
Then the Labour Appellate Tribunal gave its decision in April 1954, the Association served a fresh charter of demands on May 18, 1954 but the decision of the Appellate Tribunal was modified by Government and on September17, 1954 a commission presided over by Mr. Justice Rajadhykshya and later by Mr. Justice Gajendragadkar (as he then was) was constituted to consider whether the Appellate Tribunals decision should be restored or continued with modifications and to suggest further modifications having due regard to the overall condition of banks in general and individual banks in particular.	Facts
In October 1954 the Association, realising that delay was inevitable, agreed to accept the scales of pay on the basis of the modified Labour Appellate Tribunals decision though the employees obtained by the agreement something more than their counterparts in the higher class commercial banks under the order of Government which modified the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
The advantage to the Reserve Bank employees was neutralized when the Bank Award Commission restored the decision of Labour Appellate Tribunal in respect of the Commercial Banks.	Facts
The agreement lasted till October 31, 1957 and the Reserve Bank employees honoured it.7.	Facts
On July 11, 1959 the Association submitted a fresh charter of demands asking for a complete revision of the pay structure and invoked the norms settled at the Fifteenth Indian Labour Conference and asked for improvement generally in the conditions of service.	Facts
As the Reserve Bank was not agreeable to negotiate, the Association called upon the Reserve Bank to ratify the Code of Conduct evolved at the Sixteenth Indian Labour Conference and to proceed to arbitration but the Reserve Bank declined.	Facts
The Association served a notice of strike and threatened cessation of work from March 25, 1960.	Facts
Before this happened the All India State Bank of India Staff Federation had given a notice and there was a strike from March 4, 1960 and on March 19 all bank employees struck work in support and the several references to which we have referred followed.8.	Facts
The Reserve Bank during the years between 1946 and 1960 undertook from time to time revision of salaries and allowances.	Facts
In 1947 and 1948 dearness allowances were revised and in 1948 there was a general revision of scales of pay as from April 1, 1948.	Facts
These revisions were made at the demand of the Association.	Facts
In 1951 ad hoc increases in dearness allowances were made and compensatory allowances were introduced and from 1951 local allowances were paid to certain classes of employees serving at some the important offices of the Reserve Bank and subsequently the scheme of local allowances was extended to a few other branches.	Facts
In 1954 local allowances were converted into local pay and 25 per cent of the dearness allowances was treated as pay for calculation of retiring benefits, etc.	Facts
In 1957 family allowances to class IV employees were raised and in 1958 and 1959 dearness allowances were again slightly raised.	Facts
These increases, though welcome to them, hardly satisfied the demands of the employees.	Facts
There were many conciliation conferences but none was successful.	Facts
The cost of living index with base year 1949100 had increased by 26 points in February 1960 and the principles of minimum and fair wages were deliberated upon and adverted to in the Report of the 15th Indian Labour Conference.	Facts
These principles, to which detailed reference will be made presently, were desired by the employees of the Reserve Bank to be put into operation.	Facts
As a result the gap between the demands of the employees and the offers of the Reserve Bank, which was wide already, became wider still and conciliation which had always succeeded in the past, was not possible.	Facts
The Association suggested arbitration but the Reserve Bank by its letter, dated February 11, 1960 did not agree.	Facts
The Reserve Bank stated that it did not wish to get seriously out of step with Government or the Commercial Banks.	Facts
The Reserve Bank referred to the Pay Commission Report and pointed out that the demands of the employees took no notice of the state of Indian economy.	Facts
The Association, through its Secretary, in reply (February 22, 1960) observedYour criticism, that the Associations Charter of Demands has been pitched so high as to exclude all scope for satisfactory solution through negotiations we may point out, is baseless and incorrect, as the Charter has been based on the norms set up by the 15th Tripartite Labour Conference at Nainital where the needbased wage formula for Indian worker was evolved, and the coefficient for conversion to arrive at the minimum wage for a middle class salaried employee has been accepted from the Rajadhyaksha ReportThe Association also pointed out that it has been conceded by the Governors of the Reserve Bank in the past that the emoluments of the Reserve Bank employees ought to be higher than those of other Bank employees and, therefore, the recommendations of Pay Commission were irrelevant.	Facts
In this appeal one of the fundamental points argued is whether the National Tribunal was right in rejecting the demand for the inauguration of the needbase formula.	None
It was, however, in this background that the National Industrial Tribunal was constituted and the whole of the dispute was referred to it.9.	Facts
This Reference embraced as many as 22 items in respect of Class II and Class III employees and 23 items in respect of Class IV employees.	None
Some of these were decided in favour and some against the employees.	None
Not much purpose would be served if we mentioned the many points of controversy or the decision on them, for in this appeal, the employees have stated their case with commendable restrain and Mr. Chari, though he argued it with his customary earnestness and ability, did so appreciating the realities of our national economy.	None
He paid (it may be noted) sincere tributes to the Reserve Bank for its helpful attitude at all times, and expressed regret that there was no conciliation as on previous occasions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Palkhivala too, on behalf of the Reserve Bank, showed an awareness of the point of view of the employees and on some of the less important points, as we shall show later, agreed to consider the matter favourably.10.	Arguments of Respondent
The dispute now centres round two fundamental or major points and a few others not so fundamental.	None
We shall deal with the main points first and then deal with the others.	None
The first major point concerns employees of class II.	None
This class of employees was in the scales of pay which were settled by the agreement of November 2, 1954.	None
These were1.	None
Research SuperintendentsRs. 30025400E.B.256502.	None
Superintendents and SubAccountants Rs. 27525375E.B.2550025650.3.	None
Deputy Treasurers (Bombay and Calcutta)Rs.	None
45025650.4.	None
Deputy Treasurer (Gauhati)Rs.	None
37525550.5.	None
Assistant TreasurersRs.30025450.6.	None
Personal Assistant to the GovernorRs.	None
32030650.7.	None
Personal AssistantRs.	None
32525550.8.	None
Caretakers, Grade I (Bombay and Calcutta)Rs.	None
27510325E.B.12 1/2400.9.	None
Staff AssistantsRs.	None
25025450E.B.25650.10.	None
Supervisor, Premises SectionRs. 25015310E.B. 20650.11.	None
Deputy Treasurer (Hyderabad)Rs.	None
35025500.There was in addition local pay for these employees equal to 10 per cent of pay, at Bombay, Calcutta, Ahmedabad, New Delhi, Madras and Kanpur.	None
There was also a family allowance of Rs. 10 per child subject to a maximum of Rs. 30 for employees drawing less than Rs. 550 per month with a completed service of 5 years.11.	None
The National Tribunal in considering the demands of Class II staff of the Reserve Bank came to the conclusion that it could not give any award regarding these employees who were employed in a supervisory capacity.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection the Reserve Bank had pleaded that the Reference concerned only those employees who came within the definition of workman in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as amended by the amending Act of 1956, and the Reserve Bank had contended that it was futile to fix a time scale for Class II staff because every incumbent in it was employed in a supervisory capacity and under the existing scales of pay every incumbent at a local pay centre would draw wages in excess of Rs. 500 after three years service and every other incumbent at the end of 5 years service and that most of the employees in that class had entered it by promotion and even at their entry were drawing wages in excess of Rs. 500.	Arguments of Respondent
The Reserve Bank had further contended that a dispute could only be raised before the National Tribunal provided a workman continued to be a workman as defined.	Arguments of Respondent
If the National Tribunal was asked to provide a scale of payment which would make the workman cease to be workman by reason of the award, the Reserve Bank contended, the National Tribunal had no jurisdiction to make such an award and the Reference itself would became incompetent.	Arguments of Respondent
The relationship of employer and workman, so it was contended, must exist (a) at the time of the dispute, (b) at the time of the award, and (c) during the currency of the award, otherwise the Reference and the consequent award would be without jurisdiction.12.	Arguments of Respondent
The Association had contended in reply (as it does on this appeal) that the duties performed by these employees were not of a supervisory nature and further that they were doing supervisory work and were not employed in a supervisory capacity.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Reference No. 1 of 1960, Mr. Sule, on behalf of the employees, had contended (a) that workmen could raise an industrial dispute for themselves and for a section of them at any level, (b) that persons who were workmen could raise an industrial dispute regarding their conditions of service not only at stages when they would be workmen but also at stages when they would cease to be workmen under the same employer, and (c) that workmen could raise a dispute on behalf of nonworkmen in the same establishment provided they had a direct and substantial interest in the dispute and had a community of interest with such nonworkmen.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
The National Tribunal in the present award adopted its discussion of the question in paragraphs 5,206 to 5,219 of the award in Reference No. 1 of 1960.	None
It pointed out that the demand by Class II Supervisory Staff envisaged a scale commencing at Rs. 500 and that if the demand were considered favourably everyone in that class would cease to be a workman and such an award was beyond its jurisdiction to make.	None
The National Tribunal held that even though by reason of community of interest other workmen might be entitled having regard to the definition of industrial dispute, to raise a dispute on behalf of others they could not raise a dispute either for themselves or on behalf of others when the dispute would involve consideration of matters in relation to nonworkmen.	None
The National Tribunal also held that it would even be beyond the jurisdiction of Central Government to refer such a dispute under the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
The National Tribunal, therefore held that the expression scales of pay and method of adjustment in the scales of pay in Schedule I of the present Reference could not cover nonworkmen such as supervisory staff in Class II.	None
Those employed in supervisory capacity and drawing more that Rs. 500 p.m. were treated as not present before the National Tribunal and as they could not be heard the National Tribunal found it inexpedient to fix scales of salary affecting them.	None
As regards those employed in the same capacity but drawing less than Rs. 500 per month but on scales carrying them beyond that mark, the National Tribunal thought that if all that it could do was to fix a scale up to Rs. 500, it would be unfair to lower the scale already fixed.	None
The National Tribunal thus made no award in regard to supervisory staff in Class II.14.	None
Before we consider the case of the appellants an event which happened later may be mentioned.	Reasoning
The Reserve Bank by a Resolution (No. 8) passed at their 1456th weekly meeting held on April 24, 1963, in creased the scale of pay, dearness allowances, house rent allowances, etc., for Class II staff with effect from January 1, 1962, that is to say, the date from which the impugned award came into force.	Reasoning
Under the Resolution scales of pay, which were acknowledged by Mr. Chari, to be as generous as the present circumstances of our country permit, have been awarded.	Reasoning
But more than this the minimum total emoluments as envisaged by the definition of wages, even at the commencement of service of each and every member of Class II staff on January 1, 1962 now exceed Rs. 500 per month.	Reasoning
This, of course, was done with a view to withdrawing the whole class from the ambit of the Reference, because, it is supposed, no member of the class can now come within the definition of workman.	Reasoning
We, shall, of course, decide the question whether the Resolution has that effect.	Reasoning
If it does, it certainly relieves us of the task of considering scales of pay for these employees for no remit is now possible as no National Tribunal is sitting.	Reasoning
The scales having been accepted as generous, the dispute regarding scales of pay for Class II employees under the Reference, really ceases to be a live issue.15.	Reasoning
However, in view of the importance of the subject and the possibility of a recurrence of such question in other spheres, and the remarks of the National Tribunal as to jurisdiction of the Central Government and itself we have considered it necessary to go into some of the points mooted before us.	None
Before we deal with them we shall read some of the pertinent definitions from the Industrial Disputes Act, 19472.	None
In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, (k) industrial dispute means any dispute or difference between employers and employers, or between employers and workmen, or between workmen and workmen, which is connected with the employment or nonemployment or the terms of employment or with the condition of labour, of any person (rr) wages means all remuneration capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of employment, expressed or implied, were fulfilled, be payable to a workman in respect of his employment or of work done in such employment, and includes(i) such allowances (including dearness allowance) as the workman is for the time being entitled to(ii) the value of any house accommodation, or of supply of light, water, medical attendance or other amenity or of any service or of any concessional supply of foodgrains or other articles(iii) any travelling concession but does not include(a) any bonus(b) any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the workman under any law for the time being in force(c) any gratuity payable on the termination of his service.(s) workman means any person (including an apprentice) employed in any industry to do any skilled or unskilled manual, supervisory, technical or clerical work for hire or reward, whether the terms of employment be expressed or implied, and for the purposes of any proceeding under this Act in relation to an industrial dispute, includes any such person who has been dismissed, discharged or retrenched in connection with, or as a consequence of, that dispute, or whose dismissal, discharge or retrenchment has led to that dispute, but does not include any such person(i) who is subject to the Army Act, 1950, or the Air Force Act, 1950, or the Navy (Discipline) Act, 1934, or(ii) who is employed in the police service or as an officer or other employee of a prison or(iii) who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or(iv) who, being employed in a supervisory capacity, draws wages exceeding five hundred rupees per mensem or exercises, either by the nature of the duties attached to the office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature.16.	None
Mr. Chari contends that the exclusion of Class II staff is based on a wrong construction of the above definitions particularly the definition of workman, and a misunderstanding of the duties of Class II employees who have been wrongly classed as supervisors.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends alternatively that as Class II is filled by promotion from Class III, the question could and should have been gone into in view of the principle enunciated in the Workmen of Dimakuchi Tea Estate v. Dimakuchi Tea Estate, 19581 Lab LJ 500 (AIR 1958 SC 353 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Chari in support of his first argument points to the opening part of S. 2 (s) where it speaks of any skilled or unskilled manual, supervisory, technical or clerical work and contrasts it with the words of Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iv) being employed in a supervisory capacity and submits that the difference in language is deliberate and is intended to distinguish supervisory work from plain supervision.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him supervisory work denotes that the person works and supervises at the same time, whereas supervisory capacity denotes supervision but not work.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Chari divides supervision into two kinds (a) supervision which is a part of labour, and (b) supervision which is akin to managerial functions though it is not actually so.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that this division is clearly brought out in the definition of workman by the use of different expressions such as work and capacity for that a supervisor doing work enjoys the status of labour and a supervisor acting only in supervisory capacity enjoys the status of employers agent at the lowest level.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention Mr. Chari has referred to the amendment of the National Labour Relations Act of the United States of America (commonly known as the Wagner Act) 193549	Arguments of Petitioner
Stat 449, by the Labour Management Relations Act, 1947 (commonly known as the TaftHartley Act) 194761 Stat 136, and the case of the Packard Motor Car Co. v. National Labour Relations Board, (1946) 91 Law Ed 1040, which preceded the amendment.	None
The Packard Motor Car Co. case, (1946) 91 Law Ed 1040, arose under the Wagner Act and the question was whether foremen were entitled as a class to the rights of selforganisation and collective bargaining under it.	None
The benefits of the Wagner Act were conferred on employees which by S. 2 (3) included any employee.	None
The company, however, sought to limit this wide definition which made foremen employees both at common law and in common acceptance, with the aid of the definition of employer in S. 2 (2) which said that the word included any person acting in the interest of an employer directly or indirectly The Supreme Court of the United States in holding that foremen were entitled to the protection of the Wagner Act held by majority that even those who acted for the employer in some matters including standing between the management and manual labour could have interests of their own when it came to fixation of wages, hours, seniority rights or working conditions.	None
Mr. Chari suggests that the definition in the Industrial Disputes Act serves the same purpose when it makes a distinction between work and capacity.18.	None
This ruling, of course, cannot be used in this context though as we shall presently see it probably furnishes the historical background for the amendment in the United States and leads to the next limb of Mr. Charis argument.	Reasoning
The minority speaking through Mr. Justice Douglas, made the following observation which puts the Packard Motor Car Co. case (1946) 91 Law Ed 1040, out of considerationIndeed, the problems of those in the supervisory categories of management did not seem to have been in the consciousness of the Congress There is no phrase in the entire Act which is description of those doing supervisory work.	None
In this state of affairs it is futile to refer to this ruling any further for to derive assistance from any of the two opinions savours of a priori deduction.19.	None
The Packard Motor Car Co. case (1946) 91 Law Ed 1040, was decided in March 1947 and in the same year the Taft Hartley Act was passed.	None
Section 2 of the latter Act defined employer to include any person acting as agent of an employer directly or indirectly and the term employee was defined to exclude any individual employed as a supervisor.	None
The term supervisor was defined to mean an individual having authority, in the interest of the employer to hire, transfer, suspend, lay off, recall, promote, discharge, assign, reward, or discipline other employees or responsible to direct them, or to adjust their grievances or effectively to recommend such action, if in connection with the foregoing the exercise of such authority is not of a merely routine or clerical nature, but requires the use of independent judgment.	None
Mr. Chari suggests that the Industrial Disputes Act recognising the same difficulty, may be said to have adopted the same tests by making a distinction between work and capacity.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, these tests provide for that twilight area where the operatives (to use a neutral term) seem to enjoy a dual capacity.20.	None
The argument is extremely ingenious and the simile interesting but it misses the realities of the amendment of the Industrial Disputes Act in 1956.	None
The definition of workman as it originally stood before the amendment in 1956 was as follows2 (s) workman means any person employed (including an apprentice) in any industry to do any skilled or unskilled manual or clerical work for hire or reward and includes, for the purposes of any proceedings under this Act in relation to an industrial dispute, a workman discharged during that dispute, but does not include any person employed in naval, military or air service of the Government.	None
The amending Act of 1956 introduces among the categories of persons already mentioned persons employed to do supervisory and technical work.	None
So far the language of the earlier enactment was used.	None
When, however, exception were engrafted, that language was departed from in Cl.	None
(iv) partly because the draftsman followed the language of Cl.	None
(iii) and partly because from persons employed on supervision work some are to be excluded because they draw wages exceeding Rs. 500 per month and some because they function mainly in a managerial capacity or have duties of the same character.	None
But the unity between the opening part of the definition and Cl.	None
(iv) was expressly preserved by using the word such twice in the opening part.	None
The words, which bind the two parts, are notbut does not include any person.	None
They arebut does not include any such person showing clearly that what is being excluded is a person who answers the description employed to do supervisory work and he is to be excluded because being employed in a supervisory capacity he draws wages exceeding Rs. 500 per month or exercises functions of a particular character.21.	None
The scheme of our Act is much simpler than that of the American statutes.	None
No doubt like the TaftHartley Act the Amending Act of 1956 in our country was passed to equalise bargaining power and also to give the power of bargaining and invoking the Industrial Disputes Act to supervisory workmen, but it gave it only to some of the workmen employed on supervisory work.	None
Workman here includes an employee employed as supervisor.	None
There are only two circumstances in which such a person ceases to be a workman.	None
Such a person is not a workman if he draws wages in excess of Rs. 500 per month or if he performs managerial functions by reason of a power vested in him or by the nature of duties attached to his office.	None
The person who ceases to be a workman is not a person who does not answer the description employed to do supervisory work but one who does answer that description.	None
He goes out of the category of workmen on proof of the circumstances excluding him from the category.22.	None
By the revision of salaries in such a way that the minimum emoluments equal to wages (as defined in the Act) of Class II staff now exceed Rs. 500 per month, the Reserve Bank intends to exclude them from the category of workmen and to render the Industrial Disputes Act inapplicable to them.	None
Mr. Palkhivala frankly admitted that this step was taken so that this group might be taken away from the vortex of industrial disputes.	Arguments of Respondent
But this position obviously did not exist when the scale was such that some at least of Class II employees would have drawn wages below the mark.	Arguments of Respondent
The reference in those circumstances was a valid reference and the National Tribunal was not right in ignoring that class altogether.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the National Tribunal was not justified in holding that if at a future time an incumbent would draw wage in the time scale in excess of Rs. 500, the matter must be taken to be withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the Central Government to make a reference in respect of him and the National Tribunal to be ousted of the jurisdiction to decide the dispute if referred.	Arguments of Respondent
Supervisory staff drawing less than Rs. 500 per month cannot be debarred from claiming that they should draw more than Rs. 500 presently or at some future stage in their service.	Arguments of Respondent
They can only be deprived of the benefits if they are nonworkmen at the time they seek the protection of the Industrial Disputes Act.23.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Chari next contends that considering the duties of Class II employees, it cannot be said that they are employed in a supervisory capacity at all and in elucidation of the meaning to be given to the words supervisory and capacity he has cited numerous dictionaries, Corpus Juris, etc., as to the meaning of the words supervise, supervisor, supervising, supervision, etc. etc.	Arguments of Respondent
The word supervise and its derivatives are not words of precise import and must often be construed in the light of the context, for unless controlled, they cover an easily simple oversight and direction as manual work coupled with a power of inspection and superintendence of the manual work of others.	None
It is, therefore, necessary to see the full context in which the words occur and the words of our own Act are the surest guide.	Reasoning
Viewed in this manner we cannot overlook the import of the word such which expressly links the exception to the main part.	Reasoning
Unless this was done it would have been possible to argue that Cl.	Reasoning
(iv) indicated something, which, though not included in the main part, ought not by construction to be so included.	Reasoning
By keeping the link it is clear to see that what is excluded is something which is already a part of the main provision.24.	Reasoning
In view of what we have held above it is hardly necessary to advert to the next argument that under the principle of the Dimakuchi Tea Estate case, 19581 Lab LJ 500 (AIR 1958 SC 353 ), workmen proper belonging to Class II and III in this Reference are entitled to raise a dispute in respect of employees in Class II who by reason of Cl.	None
(iv) test have ceased to be workmen.	None
The ruling of this Court in the above case lays down that when the workmen raise an industrial dispute against an employer, the person regarding whom the dispute is raised need not strictly be a workman but may be one in whose terms of employment or conditions of labour the workmen raising the dispute have a direct and substantial interest.	None
The definition of industrial dispute in Section 2 (k), which we have set out before, contemplates a dispute between(a) employers and employers or(b) employers and workmen or(c) workmen and workmenbut it must be a dispute which is connected with the employment or nonemployment or the terms of employment or with the conditions of labour of any person.	None
The word person has not been limited to workman as such and must, therefore, receive a more general meaning.	None
But it does not mean any person unconnected with the disputants in relation to whom the dispute is not of the kind described.	None
It could not have been intended that though the dispute does not concern them in the least, workmen are entitled to fight it out on behalf of nonworkmen.	None
The National Tribunal extended this principle to the supervisors as a class relying on the following observations from the case of this CourtCan it be said that workmen as a class are directly or substantially interested in the employment, nonemployment, terms of employment or conditions of labour of persons who belong to the supervisory staff and are, under provisions of the Act, nonworkmen on whom the Act has conferred no benefit, who cannot by themselves be parties to an industrial dispute and for whose representation the Act makes no particular provision?	None
We venture to think that the answer must be in the negative.	None
It may, however, be said that if the dispute is regarding employment, nonemployment, terms of employment or conditions of labour of nonworkmen in which workmen are themselves vitally interested, the workmen may be able to raise an industrial dispute.	None
Workmen can, for, example raise a dispute that a class of employees not within the definition of workman should be recruited by promotion from workmen.	None
When they do so the workmen raise a dispute about the terms of their own employment though incidentally the terms of employment of those who are not workmen is involved.	None
But workmen cannot take up a dispute in respect of a class of employees who are not workmen and in whose terms of employment those workmen have no direct interest of their own.	None
What direct interest suffices is a question of fact but it must be a real and positive interest and not fanciful or remote.	None
It follows, therefore, that the National Tribunal was in error in not considering the claims of Class II employees whether at the instance of members drawing less than Rs. 500 as wages or at the instance of those lower down in the scale of employment.	Reasoning
The National Tribunal was also in error in thinking that scales of wages in excess of Rs. 500 per month at any stage were not within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal or that Government could not make a reference in such a contingency.	Reasoning
We would have been required to consider the scales applicable to those in Class II but for the fact that the Reserve Bank has fixed scales which are admitted to be quite generous.25.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned here that Mr. Chari attempted to save the employees in Class II from the operation of the exceptions in Cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(iv) by referring to their duties which he said were in no sense supervisory but only clerical or of checkers.	Arguments of Respondent
He also cited a number of cases, illustrative of this point of view.	Arguments of Respondent
Those are cases dealing with foremen, technologists, engineers, chemists, shift engineers, Asstt.	None
Superintendents, Depot Superintendents, godownkeepers etc.	None
We have looked into all of them but do not find it necessary to refer to any except one.	None
In Ford Motor Co. of India Ltd. v. Ford Motors Staff Union, 19532 Lab LJ 444 (LATIBom), the Labour Appellate Tribunal correctly pointed out that the question whether a particular workman is a supervisor within or without definition of workman is ultimately a question of fact, at best one of mixed fact and lawand will really depend upon the nature of the industry, the type of work in which he is engaged, the organisational set up of the particular unit of industry and like factor.	None
The Labour Appellate Tribunal pertinently gave the example that the nature of the work in the banking industry is in many respects obviously different from the nature and type of work in a workshop department of an engineering or automobile concern.	None
We agree that we cannot use analogies to find out whether Class II workers here were supervisors or doing mere clerical work.	Reasoning
No doubt, as Mr. Chari stated the work in a Bank involves layer upon layer of checkers and checking is hardly supervision but where there is a power of assigning duties and distribution of work there is supervision.	Reasoning
In Llyods Bank Ltd. v. Pannalal Gupta, 19611 Lab LJ 18 (SC), the finding of the Labour Appellate Tribunal was reversed because the legal inference from proved facts were wrongly drawn.	None
It is pointed out there that before a clerk can claim a special allowance under para 164(b) of the Sastry Award open to Supervisors, he must prove that he supervises the work of some others who are in a sense below him.	None
It is pointed out that mere checking of the work of others is not enough because this checking is a part of accounting and not of supervision and the work done in the audit department of a bank is not supervision.26.	None
The Reserve Bank has placed on record extracts from the manuals, orders, etc. relative to all Class II employees and on looking closely into these duties we cannot say that they are not of a supervisory character and are merely clerical or checking.	Reasoning
These employees distribute work, detect faults, report for penalty, make arrangements for filling vacancies, to mention only a few of the duties which are supervisory and not merely clerical.	Reasoning
Without discussing the matter too elaborately we may say that we are satisfied that employees in Class II except the Personal Assistants, were rightly classed by the National Tribunal as employed on supervisory and not on clerical or checking duties.	Reasoning
In view of the fact that all of them now receive even at the start wages in excess of Rs. 500 per month, there is really no issue left concerning them, once we have held that they are working in a supervisory capacity.27.	None
The next fundamental point requires narration of a little history before it can be stated.	None
In December 1947 there was an Industries Conference with representatives of the Government of India and the Governments of the States, businessman, industrialists and labour leaders.	None
An Industrial Truce Resolution was passed unanimously which stated inter alia that increase in production was not possible unless there was just remuneration to capital (fair return), just remuneration to labour (fair wages) and fair prices for the consumer.	None
The Resolution was accepted by the Central Government.	None
In 1947 a Central Advisory Council was appointed which in its turn set up a Committee to deliberate and report on fair wages for workmen.	None
The Report of that Committee has been cited over and over again.	None
In the Standard Vaccum Refg.	None
Co. v. Its Workmen, 19611 Lab LJ 227 (AIR 1961 SC 895 )	None
, this Court elaborately analysed the concept of wages as stated by the Committee.	None
The Committee divided wages into three kinds Living wage, fair wage and minimum wage.	None
Minimum wage, as the name itself implies represents the level below which wage cannot be allowed to drop.	None
It was universally recognised that a minimum wage must be prescribed to prevent the evil of sweating and for the benefit of workmen who were not in a position to bargain with their employers.	None
This received immediate attention in India, though there was an International Convention as far as back as 1928 and the demand for fixation of minimum wages extended even to nonsweated industries.	None
The result was the Minimum Wages Act of 1948.	None
The Fair Wages Committee understood the term minimum wage as the lowest wage in the scale below which the efficiency of the worker was likely to be impaired.	None
It was described as the wage floor allowing living at a standard considered socially, medically and ethically to be the acceptable minimum.	None
Fair wages by comparison were more generous and represented a wage which lay between the minimum wage and the living wage.	None
The United Provinces Labour Enquiry Committee classified the levels of living as(i) poverty level(ii) minimum subsistence level(iii) subsistence plus level, and(iv) comfort level.	None
The concept of fair wages involves a rate sufficiently high to enable the worker to provide a standard family with food, shelter, clothing, medical care and education of children appropriate to his status in life but not at a rate exceeding the wage earning capacity of the class of establishment concerned.	None
A fair wage thus is related to a fair workload and the earning capacity.	None
The living wage concept is one or more steps higher than fair wage.	None
It is customary to quote Mr. Justice Higgins of Australia who defined it as one appropriate for the normal needs of average employee, regarded as a human being living in a civilized community.	None
He explained himself by saying that the living wage must provide not merely for absolute essentials such as food, shelter and clothing but for a condition of frugal comfort estimated by current human standards including provision for evil days etc. with due regard for the special skill of the workman.	None
It has now been generally accepted that living wage means that every male earner should be able to provide for his family not only the essentials but a fair measure of frugal comfort and an ability to provide for old age or evil days.	None
Fair wage lies between the concept of minimum wage and the concept of living wage.28.	None
During the years wage determination has been done on industrycumregionbasis and by comparing, where possible, the wage scales prevailing in other comparable concerns.	None
The Constitution by Art. 43 has laid down a directive principleThe State shall endavour to secure, by suitable legislation or economic organisation or in any other way, to all workers, agricultural, industrial or otherwise work, a living wage, conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life and full enjoyment of leisure and social and cultural opportunityIt may thus be taken that our political aim is living wage though in actual practice living wage has been an ideal which has eluded our efforts like an everreceding horizon and will so remain for some time to come.	None
Our general wage structure has at best reached the lower levels of fair wage though some employers are paying much higher wages than the general average.29.	None
In July 1957 the Fifteenth Indian Labour Conference met as a Tripartite Conference and one of the Resolutions adopted wasThe recommendations of the Committee as adopted with certain modifications, are given below(1)	None
(2) With regard to the minimum wage fixation it was agreed that the minimum wage was needbased and should ensure the minimum human needs of the industrial worker, irrespective of any other considerations.	None
To calculate the minimum wage, the Committee accepted the following norms and recommended that they should guide all wage fixing authorities, including minimum wage committees, wage boards, adjudicators, etc.(i) In calculating the minimum wage, the standard working class family should be taken to consist of 3 consumption units for one earner, the earnings of women, children and adolescents should be disregarded.(ii)	None
Minimum food requirements should be calculated on the basis of a net intake of 2,700 calories, as recommended by Dr. Aykryod for an average Indian adult of moderate activity.(iii)	None
Clothing requirements should be estimated at a per capita consumption of 18 yards per annum which would give for the average workers family of four, a total of 72 yards.(iv)	None
In respect of housing the norm should be the minimum rent charged by Government in any area for houses provided under the Subsidised Industrial Housing Scheme for low income groups.(v)	None
Fuel, lighting and other miscellaneous items of expenditure should constitute 20 per cent of the total minimum wage.(3) While agreeing to these guidelines for fixation of the minimum wage for industrial workers throughout the country, the Committee recognised the existence of instances where difficulties might be experienced in implementing these recommendations.	None
Wherever the minimum wage fixed went below the recommendations, it would be incumbent on the authorities concerned to justify the circumstances which prevented them from the adherence to the norms laid down.	None
30.	None
The Association and the Union desire that the wagefloor should be need based minimum determined at the Tripartite Conference in the above Resolution and that the emoluments of the middle class staff should be determined with a proper coefficient.	None
They suggest a coefficient of 120 per cent in place of the 80 per cent applied by the National Tribunal, to determine the wages of the middle class staff in relation to the wages of the working classes.	None
In support of their case the employees first point to the Directive Principle abovequoted and add that the First Five Year Plan envisaged the restoration of prewar real wage as a first step towards the living wage through rationalisation and modernisation and recommended that the claims of labour should be dealt with liberally in proportion to the distance which the wages of different categories of workers have to cover before attaining the wage standard.	None
The employees next refer to the Second Five Year Plan where it is stated21.	None
WagesA wage policy which aims at a structure with rising real wages requires to be evolved.	None
Workers right to a fair wage has been recognised but in practice it has been found difficult to quantify it.	None
In spite of their best efforts, industrial tribunals have been unable to evolve a consistent formula. . . . . . . . . . . . . .	None
(p. 578 para 21).The establishment of Wage Boards, the taking of a wage census and the improvement of marginal industries which operate as a drag on better industries was suggested in that Plan.	None
Finally, it is submitted that the Third Five Year Plan has summed up the position thus in paras.	None
20 and 21 at p. 25620.	None
The Government has assumed responsibility for securing a minimum wage for certain sections of workers, in industry and agriculture, who are commercially weak and stand in need of protection.	None
Towards this end the Minimum Wages Act provides for the fixation and revision of wage rates in these occupations.	None
These measures have not proved effective in many cases.	None
For better implementation of the law, the machinery for inspection has to be strengthened . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	None
.	Facts
21.	None
Some broad principles of wage determination have been laid down in the Report of the Fair Wages Committee.	None
On the basis of agreement between the parties, the Indian Labour Conference had indicated the content of the needbased minimum wage for guidance in the settlement of wage disputes.	None
This has been reviewed and it has been agreed that the nutritional requirements of a working class family may be reexamined in the light of the most authoritative scientific data on the subject . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	None
31.	None
The Association and the Union contend that the National Tribunal ought to have accepted the Tripartite Resolution and determined the basic wage in accordance therewith.32.	None
The National Tribunal in adjudicating on this part of the case referred to the Crown Aluminium Works v. Workmen, 19581 Lab LJ 1 (AIR 1958 SC 30 ), where at page 6 this Court observesThough social and economic justice is the ultimate ideal of industrial adjudication, its immediate objective in an industrial dispute as to the wage structure is to settle the dispute by constituting such a wage structure as would do justice to the interests of both labour and capital, would establish harmony between them and lead to their genuine and wholehearted cooperation in the task of production In achieving this immediate objective, industrial adjudication takes into account several principles such as, for instance, the principle of comparable wages, productivity of the trade or industry, cost of living and ability of the industry to pay In deciding industrial disputes in regard to wage structure, one of the primary objectives is and has to be the restoration of peace and goodwill in the industry itself on a fair and just basis to be determined in the light of all relevant considerations The National Tribunal pointed out that the Planning Commission had set up an official group for study and as a result of the deliberations, the group decided to prepare notes on different aspects of wage so that they could be sent to wage fixing bodies.	None
Four such notes were drawn up and were circulated to the 15th Indian Labour Conference and the 15th Indian Labour Conference deliberated on them and the Resolution on which reliance is placed by the employees was the result.	None
The National Tribunal, while appreciating the importance of the Resolution, was not prepared to act on it pointing out that it was not binding but recommendatory, that Government did not accept it and that the Reserve Bank not being a party was not bound by it.	None
There is no doubt that Government in answer to a query from the Pay Commission answered. . . . . . . . . . .	None
.The	None
Government desire me to make it clear that the recommendations of the Labour Conference should not be regarded as decisions of Government and have not been formally ratified by the Central Government.	None
They should be regarded as what they are, namely, the recommendations of the Indian Labour Conference which is tripartite in character.	None
Government have, at no time, committed themselves to taking executive action to enforce the recommendations.	None
The National Tribunal, therefore, did not consider itself bound in any way by what the Resolution said.33.	None
The National Tribunal then considered the Resolution on merits as applicable to the case in hand observingFor the first time in India, norms have been crystallised for the purpose of fixation of a need based minimum wage in a Conference where the participants were drawn from the ranks of Government, industry and labour.	None
These recommendations represent a landmark in the struggle of labour for fixation of a minimum wage in accordance with the needs, for the workmen.	None
The resolution lays down what a minimum wage should be.	None
It recognises that the minimum wage was needbased.	None
The National Tribunal, however, could not accept the Resolution because the Resolution standardised norms applicable to all industrial workers whatever their age or the number of years of service or the nature of their employment.	None
It felt that there was difficulty in accepting the basis of three consumption units at all stages of service or the net intake of 2,700 calories at all ages pointing out that this much food was what Dr. Aykroyd thought as proper to be consumed.	Reasoning
The National Tribunal did not see the need for changing the coefficient of 80 per cent.	Reasoning
The National Tribunal held that in the economy of our country the needbased minimum suggested by the Resolution was merely an ideal to be achieved by slow stages but was impossible of achievement instantly.34.	Reasoning
We have been addressed able and very moving arguments on behalf of the employees by Mr. Chari.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that in our march towards a truly fair wage in the first instance and ultimately the living wage we must first achieve the needbased minimum.	Reasoning
There is no doubt also that 3 consumption units formula is, if anything, on the low side.	Reasoning
In determining family budgets so as to discover the workers normal needs which the minimum wage regulations ought to satisfy, the size of the standard family is very necessary to fix.	Reasoning
One method is to take simple statistical average of the family size and another is to take into account some other factors, such as,(i) the frequency of variations in family sizes in certain regions and employments(ii) the number of wage earners available at different stages(iii) the increase or decrease in consumption at different stages in employment, that is the age structure and its bearing on consumption.	None
The plain averages laid down in the Resolution may have to be weighed in different regions and in different industries and reduced in others.	None
It is from this point of view that the Reserve Bank has pointed out that though the consumption units are taken to be 2.25, the earning capacity after 8 years service is sufficient to provide for 3 consumption units required by the need base formula.	Reasoning
The question thus is whether the National Tribunal is in error in accepting 2.25 consumption units instead of 3 as suggested in the Resolution.35.	Issue
In our judgment, the Tribunal was not wrong in accepting 2.25 consumption units.	Reasoning
But it seems to us that if at the start the family is assumed to be 2.25, it is somewhat difficult to appreciate that the family would take 8 years to grow to 3 consumption units.	Reasoning
We are aware that the Sastry Tribunal thought of 3 consumption units at the 10th year and the Sen Tribunal at the 8th year but we think these miss the realities of our national life.	Reasoning
In our country it would not be wrong to assume that on an average 3 consumption units must be provided for by the end of 5 years service.	Reasoning
The consumption units in the first five years should be graduated.	Reasoning
As things stand today, it is reasonable to think that 3 consumption units must be provided for by the end of five years service, if not earlier.36.	Reasoning
The difficulty in this case in accepting the needformula is very real.	None
The Reserve Bank is quite right in pointing out that the minimum wage so fixed would be above per capita income in our country and that it is not possible to arrive at a constant figure in terms of money.	Reasoning
According to the Association and the Union, the working class family wage works out to Rs. 165.9 (though the demand is reduced to Rs. 145 by the Association and Rs. 140 by the Union) while according to the Reserve Bank to Rs. 107.75.	Reasoning
The middle class wage, according to the Association, will be Rs. 332.75 while, according to the Bank, Rs. 202.	Reasoning
This is because emphasis is placed on different dietary components in the first case and the increased differential in the second case.	Reasoning
Further the food requirement of 2,700 calories was considered by the Pay Commission to be too high and by the Planning Commission (Third Plan) to be a matter for reexamination.	Reasoning
It will have to be examined what type of food should make up the necessary calories and how many calories are the minimum.	None
Further the amount of minimum wage calculated on the needbased formula was said by the Pay Commission to be extraordinarily high.	Reasoning
This was also the view of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in East Asiatic Co. v. Workmen, 19621 Lab LJ 610 (sic).	Reasoning
Both these documents contain valuable calculations and they show the enormous increase per saltum which would certainly cause enormous unrest among workmen in general in the country.	Reasoning
It is also to be noticed that the Reserve Bank, which Mr. Chari claims is the best employer, to apply the formula, is not really the right place for the experiment.	Reasoning
If the experiment has to be performed it must have a beginning in a commercial concern after thorough examination and a very careful appraisal of the effect on the resources of the employer and on production.	Reasoning
The Reserve Bank is not a profit making commercial undertaking.	Reasoning
Its surplus income is handed over to Government and becomes national income.	Reasoning
Its main sources of income are discounting Treasury Bills and interest on sterling securities and rupee securities held against the note issue.	Reasoning
Income from exchange on remittances, commission on the management of Public Debt and interest on loans and advances to Banks and Governments is small.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, appear that the Reserve Bank is not a proper place to determine what the needbased minimum wage should be and for initiating it.	Reasoning
It cannot also be overlooked that even without the formula it pays better wages than elsewhere.37.	Reasoning
There is, however, much justification for the argument of Mr. Chari.	Reasoning
The Tripartite Conference was a very representative body and the Resolution was passed in the presence of representatives of Government and employers.	Reasoning
There must be attached proper value to the Resolution.	Reasoning
The Resolution itself is not difficult to appreciate.	Reasoning
It was passed as indicating the first step towards achieving the living wage.	Reasoning
Unfortunately we are constantly finding that basic wage instead of moving to subsistence plus level tends to sag to poverty level when there is a rise in prices.	Reasoning
To overcome this tendency our wage structure has for a long time been composed of two items (a) the basic wage and (b) a dearness allowance which is altered to neutralise, if not entirely, at least the greater part of the increased cost of living.	Reasoning
This does not solve the problem of real wage.	Reasoning
At the same time, we have to beware that too sharp an upward movement of basic wage is likely to affect the cost of production and lead to fall in our exports and to the raising of prices all round.	Reasoning
There is a vicious circle which can be broken by increased production and not by increasing wages.	Reasoning
What we need is the introduction of production bonus, increased fringe benefits, free medical, educational and insurance facilities.	Reasoning
As a counterpart to this capital must also be prepared to forgo a part of its return.	Reasoning
There is much to be said for considering the needbase formula in all its implications for it is bound to be our first step towards living wage.	None
As in many other matters relating to industrial disputes the problem may, perhaps, be best tackled by agreement between Capital and Labour in an establishment where a beginning can be safely made in this direction.38.	Reasoning
The next objection to the Award is in respect of the coefficient chosen by the Tribunal.	None
The difference in the cost of living between the members of the clerical staff and the subordinate staff has been held to be an increase of 80 per cent over the remuneration of the latter.	None
This was laid down by the late Mr. Justice Rajadhyaksha in a dispute between the Post and Telegraphs Department and its nongazetted employees.	None
Mr. Justice Rajadhyakshas calculation was made thusIn 192224 there was a middle class family budget enquiry in Bombay and it was found that a family consisting of 4.58 persons spends Rs. 13850 per month.	None
But the average expenditure of the middle class family in the lowest income group (having incomes between Rs. 75 and 125) per month was Rs. 10340.	None
In 1923 the cost of living Index figure was 155 whereas in 193839 it was 104.	None
According to these index numbers the cost of living of the same family wouldbe 103 x 104 Rs. 69 in 193839.	None
The lowest155income group in the middle class budget enquiry consisted of 3.29 consumption units.	None
Therefore, for an average family of 3 consumption units, the expenditure required in 193839 would have been69 x 3 Rs.	None
63329According to the findings of the Rau Court of Enquiry a working class family consisting of 3 consumption units required Rs. 35 for minimum subsistence.	None
It follows, therefore, that the proportion of the relative cost of living of a working class family to that of a middle class family of 3 consumption units is 3563, i.e., the cost of living of a middle class family is about 80 per cent higher than that of a working class family.	None
The family budget enquiry and the Rau Court of Inquiry were in 1922 and 1940, respectively.	None
The Sen Award was in favour of reducing the coefficient because the income of the working classes had increased remarkably in most cities after 1939.	None
The Shastry Tribunal actually reduced it.	None
The Central Pay Commission fixed the minimum pay of middle class employee as Rs. 90 as against the minimum pay of the subordinate staff of Rs. 55, thus making the coefficient 64 per cent.	None
The Labour Appellate Tribunal restored the coefficient to 80 per cent.	None
The Association asked for a coefficient of 120 per cent but the Tribunal in its award in Reference No. 1 gave reasons for not accepting it.	None
The National Tribunal was in the advantageous position of knowing the views of employees of commercial Banks and comparing them with the coefficient demanded here.	None
Other Unions and Federations did not ask for such a high coefficient.	None
The National Tribunal not having any data felt helpless in the matter and preserved the coefficient at 80 per cent.	None
It observed as followsIn the year of grace 1962 this Tribunal is in no better position than the earlier Tribunals who have dealt with the matter.	None
The inherent infirmities in this coefficient have been pointedly referred to before me.	None
I am not at all certain whether I would be very much wiser by an enquiry which may be conducted at present.	None
Expenditure is conditioned by the income received by the class of persons whose expenditure is being considered.	None
By and large, over a period of time expenditure cannot exceed the income.	None
The only pattern which such inquiry may reveal may be a pattern based on the income of the class of persons whose case is being considered.	None
This Court is in no better position than the National Tribunal to say what other coefficient should be adopted.	None
When fresh and comprehensive enquiries are conducted, the results would show whether the coefficient should go up or down.	Reasoning
With the rise of wages to higher levels among the working class the differential is bound to be lower and this is a matter for inquiry.	Reasoning
Till then there is no alternative but to adhere to the coefficient already established.39.	None
We shall now take up for consideration some minor points which were argued by Mr. Nargolkar.	None
The first is a demand by the Association for a combined seniority list so that promotion may be based on that list and not upon the reports about the work of the employee.	None
The National Tribunal dealt with it in Chapter XVII of its award.	None
Regulations 28 and 29 of the Reserve Bank of India (Staff) Regulations, 1948 deal with seniority and promotion and provide28.	None
An employee confirmed in the Banks service shall ordinarily rank for seniority in his grade according to his date of confirmation in the grade and an employee on probation according to the length of his probationary service.29.	None
All appointments and promotions shall be made at the discretion of the bank and notwithstanding his seniority in a grade no employee shall have a right to be appointed or promoted to any particular post or grade.	None
Promotion, it will, therefore, appear, is a matter of some discretion and seniority plays only a small part in it.	None
This dispute is concerned with the internal management of the Bank and the National Tribunal was right in thinking that the item of the reference under which it arose gave little scope for giving directions to the Bank to change its Regulations.	None
The National Tribunal, however, considered the question and made an observation which we reproduce here because we agree with it. . . .	None
I can only generally observe that it is desirable that wherever it is possible, without detriment to the interest of the Bank and without affecting efficiency, to group employees in a particular category serving in different departments at one centre together for the purpose of being considered for promotion, a common seniority list of such employees should be maintained.	None
The same would result in opening up equal avenues of promotion for a large number of employees and there would be lesser sense of frustration and greater peace of mind among the employees.	None
Seniority and merit should ordinarily both have a part in promotion to higher ranks and seniority and merit should temper each other.	Reasoning
We do not think that seniority is likely to be completely lost sight of under the Regulations and Mr. Palkhivala assured us that this is not the case.40.	Reasoning
Mr. Hathi next raised the question of seniority between clerks and typists but we did not allow him to argue this point as no question of principle of a general nature was involved.	Reasoning
The duties of clerks and typists have been considered by the National Tribunal and its decision must be taken as final.41.	Reasoning
The next point urged was about gratuity.	Reasoning
In the statement of the case the Association and the Union had made numerous demands in regard to gratuity but it appears from paragraph 7.10 of the Award that the dispute was confined to the power to withhold payment of gratuity on dismissal.	Reasoning
Rule 5 (1) of the Reserve Bank of India (Payment of Gratuity to Employees) Rules, 1947 provides as follows5 (1)	None
No gratuity will be granted to or in the case of an employee(a) if he has not completed service in the Bank for a minimum period of 10 years, or(b) if he is or has been dismissed from service in the Bank for any misconduct.	None
The Association and the Union demanded modification of subrule (b) quoted above.	None
The Sastry Tribunal had recommended that there should be no forfeiture of gratuity on dismissal except to the extent to which the misconduct of the worker had caused loss to the establishment.	None
The Labour Appellate Tribunal modified the Sastry Award and decided in favour of full forfeiture of gratuity on dismissal.	None
The Reserve Bank relied on the Express Newspaper (Private) Ltd. v. Union of India, 19611 Lab LJ 339 (AIR 1958 SC 578 ), in support of the subrule and also contended that there was no jurisdiction in the National Tribunal to consider this subject under item 20 of the Schedule I or item 21 of Schedule II.	None
The Reserve Bank relied upon item 7 of Schedule I and item 6 of Schedule II.	None
The demand of the Association and the Union was rejected by the National Tribunal.	None
It had earlier rejected a similar demand in connection with the commercial banks.	None
The Reserve Bank did not, however, pursue the argument before us perhaps in view of the later decisions of this Court reported in the Garment Cleaning Works v. Its Workmen, 1962 1 SCR 711 (AIR 1962 SC 673 ), Greaves Cotton Co. Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 19641 Lab LJ 342 (AIR 1964 SC 689 ) and Burhanpur Tapti Mills Ltd. v. Burhanpur Tapti Mills Mazdoor Sangh, C. A. No.1093 of 1963, dated 5111964 (AIR 1965 SC 839 )	None
.In	None
these cases it was held by this Court that gratuity is not a gift but is earned and forfeiture except to recoup a loss occasioned to the establishment, is not justified.	None
Mr. Palkivala undertook to get the rules brought in line with the decisions of this Court.42.	None
The next demand was with regard to pensions.	None
In the Reserve Bank there are only two retiring benefits, namely, provident fund and gratuity.	None
There is no scheme for pensions.	None
It appears, however, that a few employees from the former Imperial Bank who are employed with the State Bank, enjoy all the three benefits.	None
The demand, therefore, was that the Reserve Bank should provide for all three benefits, namely, provident fund, gratuity and pension.	None
The Reserve Bank contended that the National Tribunal had no jurisdiction under the Reference to create a scheme of pensions for the employees.	None
The National Tribunal did not consider the question of jurisdiction because it rejected the demand itself.	None
In the statement of the case filed by the Association this decision is challenged on numerous grounds.	None
The ground urged before us is that the National Tribunal failed to exercise jurisdiction in respect of this demand and indirectly declined jurisdiction by rejecting the demand itself.	Reasoning
The National Tribunal came to the conclusion that two retirement benefits were sufficient and it is difficult for us to consider this without reopening the question on merits of the demand and reexamining the viewpoint of the Reserve Bank.	Reasoning
We stated, therefore, at the hearing that we were not inclined to enter into such a large question not of principle but of facts.43.	Reasoning
The next demand was with regard to the confirmation of temporary employees.	None
The Association had filed a number of Exhibits (Nos. S 71, S 72, S 109 to S 112) and the Union (R. 45 to R. 47) to show that a very large proportion of employees were borne as temporary employees and that it took a very long time for confirmation of temporary servants.	None
The Bank in reply filed Schedules (T. 67 to T. 69 and T. 112 to T. 125).	None
The question of confirmation and the period of probation are matters of internal management and no hard and fast rules can be laid down.	None
It is easy to see from the rival schedules that probationary periods are both short and long.	Reasoning
As no question of principle is involved we decline to interfere	Reasoning
and we think that the National Tribunal was also justified in not giving an Award of a general nature of this point.44.	Reasoning
The next point is about the extra payment which the graduates were receiving and the fitment of persons in receipt of such extra amounts in the new scale provided.	Reasoning
In the year 1946 the Bank accepted the principle of giving an allowance to employees who acquired degrees while in employment.	Reasoning
At the time of the present dispute graduates were in receipt of Rs. 10/ as special pay.	Reasoning
The question was whether in making fitment in the new time scales these amounts should have been treated as advance increments.	Reasoning
It appears that the National Tribunal reached different conclusions in the two awards arising from Reference No. 1 and the present Reference.	Reasoning
In the case of Commercial Banks the fitment was on a different principle and Mr. Palkhivala agreed to make fitment in the new scale taking into account this special ad hoc pay as advance increment.45.	Reasoning
The next demand made by both the Association and the Union was that they should be allowed to participate and represent workers in disputes between an individual workman and the Reserve Bank.	Reasoning
The Tribunal did not accept this contention for the very good reason that if Unions intervene in every industrial dispute between an individual workman and the establishment the internal administration would become impossible.	Reasoning
In our judgment, the demand cannot be allowed.46.	None
The last contention is with regard to the time from which the award should operate.	Arguments of Respondent
The standstill agreement reached in 1954 expired in October 1957 and the demand was that the Award should come into force from November 1, 1957 or at least from March 21, 1960, the date of the reference.	None
The National Tribunal has made its award to operate from January 1, 1962.	Arguments of Respondent
The Reserve Bank strongly opposes this demand.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Reserve Bank the Tribunal acted more than generously and gave more to the employees than they deserved.	Arguments of Respondent
The Reserve Bank submits that the employees had made exorbitant demands and wasted time over interim award and, therefore, they cannot claim to have the award operate from the date of the reference much less from November 1, 1957.	Arguments of Respondent
The Reserve Bank relies upon the Lipton Ltd. v. Their Employees, 19591 Lab LJ 431 (AIR 1959 SC 676 ), and also contends that the Tribunals decision is discretionary and this Court should not interfere with such a decision.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance is placed in this connection on Remington Rand of India v. Its Workmen, 19621 Lab LJ 287 (SC), Rajkamal Kalamandir (Private) Ltd. v. Indian Motion Pictures Employees Union, 19631 Lab LJ 318 (SC) and Western India Match Company Ltd. v. Their Workmen, 19632 Lab LJ 459 (SC).	Arguments of Respondent
In reply the Association contends that the demand was not at all extravagant or exorbitant because it was based upon the Resolution of the 15th Indian Labour Conference and the Reserve Bank itself was guilty of delay after 1957 inasmuch as it asked that the report of the Pay Commission should be awaited.47.	None
The solution of this dispute depends upon the provisions of S. 17A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	None
That section reads as follows17A. Commencement of the award.(1)	None
An award (including an arbitration award) shall become enforceable on the expiry of thirty days from the date of its publication under section 17Provided that(a) (b) if the Central Government is of opinion, in any case where the award has been given by a National Tribunal, that it will be expedient on public grounds affecting national economy or social justice to give effect to the whole or any part of the award, the appropriate Government, or as the case may be, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that the award shall not become enforceable on the expiry of the said period of thirty days.(2) Where any declaration bas been made in relation to an award under the proviso to subs.	None
(1), the appropriate Government or the Central Government may, within ninety days from the date of publication of the award under S. 17, make an order rejecting or modifying the award, and shall, on the first available opportunity, lay the award together with a copy of the order before the Legislature of the State, if the order has been made by a State Government, or before Parliament, if the order has been made by the Central Government.(3) Where any award as rejected or modified by an order made under subs.	None
(2) is laid before the Legislature of a State or before Parliament, such award shall become enforceable on the expiry of fifteen days from the date on which it is so laid and where no order under subs.	None
(2) is made in pursuance of a declaration under the proviso to subs.	None
(1), the award shall become enforceable on the expiry of the period of ninety days referred to in subs.	None
(2).(4) Subject to the provisions of subs.	None
(1) and subs.	None
(3) regarding the enforceability of an award, the award shall come into operation with effect from such date as may be specified therein, but where no date is so specified, it shall come into operation on the date when the award becomes enforceable under subs.	None
(1) or subs.	None
(3), as the case may be.	None
Ordinarily, an award comes into operation from the time stated in subs.	None
(1).	None
The Tribunal, however, is given the power to order that its award shall be applicable from another date.	None
The Tribunal stated that the date from which the award should come into operation was not a term of reference and the Reserve Bank had also contended that there was no specific demand for retrospective operation of the award.	None
In Wenger and Co. v. Their Workmen, 19632 Lab LJ 403 (AIR 1964 SC 864 ), it was explained that retrospective operation implies the operation of the award from a date prior to the reference and the word retrospective cannot apply to the period between the date of the reference and the award.	None
There was no claim as such that the award should operate from November 1, 1957 and the demand cannot be considered in the absence of a reference to the National Tribunal.	None
The question, however, is whether a date earlier than January 1, 1962 but not earlier than March 21, 1960 should be chosen.	None
Subsection (4) quoted above gives a discretion to the Tribunal and this Court in dealing with that discretion observed in the Hindustan Times Ltd. v. Their Workmen, (AIR 1963 SC 1332 ), that no general principle was either possible or desirable to be stated in relation to the fixation of the date from which the award should operate.	None
The Tribunal in fixing a date earlier than the envisaged by the first subsection justified itself by stating that much of its time in the beginning was occupied by Reference No. 1 and a significant amount thereafter was occupied by Reference No. 3 and there was justification in making the award operate from January 1, 1962.	None
From the way in which the Tribunal expressed itself in this award and in the award in Reference No. 1 it appears that but for the delay that took place the Tribunal would have made the award to operate as laid down in subs.	None
(I).	None
It has been ruled in the three cases Ramington Rands case, 19621 Lab 287 (SC), Rajkamals case, 19631 Lab LJ 318 (SC) and Western India Match Companys case, 19632 Lab LJ 459  that a discretion exercised on judicial principles by the Tribunal about the commencement of the award should not be interfered with.	None
Nothing was shown to us why the award should be made to commence earlier.	None
Both sides were to blame in regard to the time taken up and the Tribunal perhaps found it difficult to reach a conclusion earlier in view of the number of the references before it.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, it cannot be said that the selection of January 1, 1962, when the inquiry in the present reference was completed, except the preparation of the Award, was bad.	Reasoning
In any event, this was a matter of discretion and it cannot be said that the discretion has not been exercised on judicial principles.	Reasoning
We decline to interfere.48.	None
In the result the appeal fails and it will be dismissed.	Decision
It may, however, be said that the appeal would have partly succeeded but for the creation of new scales of pay for Class II employees and acceptance of some of the minor points by the Reserve Bank.	Decision
In this view of the matter we make no order about costs.49.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
