 Venkatarama Aiyar, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment and order of the High Court of Punjab in an application under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution setting aside an order dated September 16, 1954, dismissing the respondent herein, from Government service on the ground that it was in contravention of Art.	None
311 (2) of the Constitution.2.	None
The respondent was, at the material dates, an Assistant Controller in the Commerce Department of the Union Government.	Facts
Sometime in the middle of March, 1953, one Shri Bhan, a representative of a Calcutta firm styled Messrs. Gattulal Chhaganlal Joshi came to Delhi with a view to get the name of the firm removed from black list in which it had been placed, and for that purpose, he was contacting the officers in the Department.	Facts
Information was given to Sri Tawakley an assistant in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Complaints Branch), that Sri Bhan was offering to give bribe for getting an order in his favour.	None
He immediately reported the matter to the special Police Establishment and they decided to lay a trap for him.	Facts
Sri Bhan, however, was willing to pay the bribe only after order in his favour had been made and communicated, but he offered that he would get the respondent to stand as surety for payment by him.	None
The police thereafter decided to set a trap for the respondent and it was accordingly arranged that Sri Tawakley should meet, by appointment, Sri Bhan and the respondent in the Kwality Restaurant in the evening on March 24, 1953.	None
The meeting took place as arranged, and three members of the Special Police Establishment were present there incognito.	None
Then, there was a talk between Sri Tawakley, Sri Bhan and the respondent and it is the case of the appellant that during that talk, an assurance was given by the respondent to Sri Tawakley that the amount would be paid by Sri Bhan.	Facts
After the conversation was over, when the respondent was about to depart, one of the officers, the Superintendent of Police disclosed his identity, got from the respondent his identity card and initialled it, and Sri Bhan also initialled it.3.	Facts
On March 26, 1953 the respondent received a notice from the Secretary to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry charging him with aiding and abetting Sri Bhan in offering illegal gratification to Sri Tawakley and attempting to induce Sri Tawakley to accept the gratification offered by Sri Bhan, and in support of the charges, there were detailed allegations relating to meetings between the respondent and Sri Tawakley on March 17, 1958.	Facts
On March 21, 1953, a telephonic conversation with reference to the same matter later on that day, and the meeting in the Kwality Restaurant already mentioned.	None
The respondent was called upon to give his explanation to the charges, and he was directed to state whether he wished to lead oral or documentary evidence in defence.	None
The enquiry was delegated to Mr. J. Byrne, Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.	Facts
On April 10, 1953, the respondent submitted a detail explanation denying that he met Sri Tawakley either on the 17th or on the 21st March, or that there was any telephonic conversation that day with him, and stating that the conversation which he had in the Kwality Restaurant on the 24th related to an insurance policy of his and had nothing to do with any bribe proposed to be offered by Sri Bhan.	Facts
The respondent also asked for an oral enquiry and desired to examine Sri Bhan, Sri Feteh Singh and Sri Jai Narayan in support of his version.	None
On April 17, 1953 Mr. Byrne gave notice to the respondent that there would be an oral enquiry, and pursuant thereto witnesses were examined on April 20, 1953, and the following days, and the hearing was concluded on April 27, 1953.4.	Facts
On July 28 1953, Mr. Byrne submitted his report, and therein, he found that the charges against the respondent had been clearly established.	None
On this, a communication was issued to the respondent on August 29, 1953, wherein he was informed that it was provisionally decided that he should be dismissed, and asked to show cause against the proposed action.	Facts
Along with the notice the whole of the report of Mr. Byrne omitting his recommendations, was sent.	None
On September 11, 1953 the respondent sent his explanation, therein, he again discussed at great length the evidence that had been adduced, and submitted that the finding of guilt was not proper, and that no action should be taken against him.	None
He also complained in this explanation that the enquiry was vitiated by the fact that he had not been permitted to crossexamine the witnesses, who gave evidence against him.	None
The papers were then submitted to the Union Public Service Commission in accordance with Art. 320, and it sent its report on September 6, 1954, that the charges were made out that there was no substance in the complaint of the respondent that he was not allowed to cross examine the witnesses, and that he should be dismissed.	Facts
The President accepting the finding of the Enquiring Officer and the recommendation of the Union Public Service Commission made an order on September 16, 1954 that the respondent should be dismissed from Government service.5.	Facts
The respondent then filed the application out of which the present appeal arises, in the High Court of Punjab for an appropriate writ to quash the order of dismissal dated September 16, 1954, for the reason that there was no proper enquiry.	Facts
As many as seven grounds were set forth in support of the petition, and of these, the learned Judges held that three had been established.	None
They held that the respondent had been denied an opportunity to crossexamine witnesses, who gave evidence in support of the charge, that further he was not allowed to make his own statement, but was merely crossexamined by the Enquiring Officer, and that likewise, his witnesses were merely crossexamined by the Officer without the respondent himself being allowed to examine them.	Reasoning
These defects, they observed, amounted to a denial of reasonable opportunity to be respondent to show cause against his dismissal and that the order dated September 16, 1954, which followed on such enquiry, was bad as being in contravention of Art.	None
311 (2).	Arguments of Petitioner
In the result, they set aside the order, and directed him to be reinstated.	Facts
The correctness of this order is challenged by the SolicitorGeneral on two grounds(1) that the finding that the respondent had no reasonable opportunity afforded to him at the enquiry is not supported by the evidence and (2) that even if there was a defect in the enquiry, that was a matter that could be set right in the stage following the show causenotice, and as the respondent did not ask for an opportunity to cross examine the witnesses, he could not be heard to urge that the order dated September 16, 1954, was bad as contravening Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
311 (2).6.	Facts
At the very outset, we have to observe that a writ petition under Art.	None
226 is not the appropriate proceeding for adjudication of disputes like the present.	None
Under the law, a person whose service have been wrongfully terminated is entitled to institute an action to vindicate his rights, and in such an action, the Court will be competent to award all the reliefs to which he may be entitled, including some which would not be admissible in a writ petition.	None
It is wellsettled that when an alternative and equally efficacious remedy is open to a litigant, he should be required to pursue that remedy and not invoke the special jurisdiction of the High Court to issue a prerogative writ.	Reasoning
It is true that the existence of another remedy does not affect the jurisdiction of the Court to issue a writ but, as observed by this Court in Rashid Ahmed v. Municipal Board, Kairana, 1950 SCR 566 (AIR 1950 SC 163 ) (A) the existence of an adequate legal remedy is a thing to be taken into consideration in the matter of granting writs Vide also K. S. Rashid and Son v. The Incometax Investigation Commission, 1954 SCR 738 at p. 747 (AIR 1954 SC 207 at p. 210) (B).	Reasoning
And where such remedy exists, it will be a sound exercise of discretion to refuse to interfere in a petition under Art.	Reasoning
226, unless there are good grounds therefor.	Reasoning
None such appears in the present case.	None
On the other hand, the point for determination in this petition whether the respondent was denied a reasonable opportunity to present his case, turns mainly on the question whether he was prevented from cross examining the witnesses, who gave evidence in support of the charge.	Issue
That is a question on which there is a serious dispute, which cannot be satisfactorily decided without taking evidence.	None
It is not the practice of Courts to decide questions of that character in a writ petition, and it would have been a proper exercise of discretion in the present case if the learned Judges had referred the respondent to a suit.	None
In this appeal, we should have ourselves adopted that course, and passed the order which the learned Judge should have passed.	None
But we feel pressed by the fact that the order dismissing the respondent having been made on September 16, 1954, an action to set it aside would now be timebarred.	None
As the High Court has gone into the matter on the merits, we propose to dispose of this appeal on a consideration of the merits.7.	None
The main ground on which the respondent attacked the order dated September 16 1954, was that at the enquiry held by Mr. Byrne, he was not given an opportunity to crossexamine the witnesses, who deposed against him, and that the findings reached at such enquiry could not be accepted.	None
But the question is whether that allegation have been made out.	None
In para 7 of his petition, the respondent stated Despite repeated verbal requests of the petitioner, the Inquiry Officer did not permit him to crossexamine any witness, who deposed against him.	None
But this was contradicted by Mr. Byrne, who filed a counter affidavit, in which he stated (4) That it is incorrect that no opportunity was given to the petitioner at the time of the oral enquiry to crossexamine the witnesses who had deposed against the petitioner.(5)	None
That all witnesses were examined in petitioners presence and he was asked by me at the end of each examination whether he had any questions to put.(6) That the petitioner only put questions to one witness Shri P. Govindan Nair, and to others he did not.	None
On this affidavit, Mr. Byrne was examined in Court, and he repeated these allegations and addedI have distinct recollection that I asked Shri T. R. Varma to put questions in crossexamination to witnesses.	None
It was elicited in the course of his further examination that he did not make any note that he asked Shri T.R. Varma to put questions in cross examination to witnesses and that that might have been due to a slip on his part.8.	None
We have thus before us two statements, one by Mr. Byrne and the other by the respondent, and they are in flat contradiction of each other.	None
The question is which of them is to be accepted.	Reasoning
When there is a dispute as to what happened before a court or tribunal, the statement of the Presiding Officer in regard to it is generally taken to be correct, and there is no reason why the statement of Mr. Byrne should not be accepted as true.	Reasoning
He was admittedly an officer holding a high position, and it is not suggested that there was any motive for him to give false evidence.	None
There are moreover, features in the record, which clearly show that the statement of Mr. Byrne must be correct.	Reasoning
The examination of witnesses were examined on that date, among them being Sri C. B. Tawakley.	None
If, as stated by the respondent, he asked for permission to crossexamine witnesses, and that was refused, it is surprising that he should not have put the complaint in writing on the subsequent dates on which the enquiry was continued.	None
To one of the witnesses, Sri P. Govindan Nair, he did actually put a question in crossexamination, and it is difficult to reconcile this with his statement that permission had been refused to cross examine the previous witnesses.	Reasoning
A reading of the deposition of the witnesses shows that the Enquiring Officer himself had put searching questions, and elicited all relevant facts.	None
It is not suggested that there was any specific matter in respect of which crossexamination could have been but was not directed.	Reasoning
We think it likely that the respondent did not crossexamine the witnesses because there was nothing left for him to crossexamine.	None
The learned Judges gave two reasons for accepting the statement of the respondent in preference to that of Mr. Byrne.	None
One is that there was no record made in the depositions of the witnesses that there was no crossexamination.	Reasoning
But what follows from this?	Reasoning
That, in fact, there was no crossexamination, which is a fact not that the request of the respondent to crossexamine was disallowed.	None
Then again, the learned Judges say that the respondent was present at the hearing of the writ petition before them that they put questions to him, and formed the opinion that he was sufficiently intelligent, and that it was difficult to believe that he would not have crossexamined the witnesses.	None
We are of opinion that this was a consideration which ought not to have been taken into account in a judicial determination of the question, and that it should have been wholly excluded.	None
On a consideration of the record and of the probabilities, we accept the statement of Mr. Byrne as true, and hold that the respondent was not refused permission to crossexamine the witnesses, and that the charge that the enquiry was defective for this reason cannot be sustained.9.	Reasoning
The respondent attached the enquiry on two other grounds which were stated by him in his petition in the following terms(C) That the petitioner was crossexamined and was not enabled to make an oral statement on his own behalf.(D) That the defence witnesses were not given an opportunity to tell their own version or to be examined by the petitioner as their depositions were confined to answers in reply to questions put by the Inquiry Officer.10.	Arguments of Respondent
In substance, the charge is that the respondent and his witnesses should have been allowed to give their evidence by way of examinationinchief, and that only thereafter, the officer should have crossexamined them, but that he took upon himself to crossexamine them from the very start and had thereby violated well recognised rules of procedure.	None
There is also a complaint that the respondent was not allowed to put questions to them.11.	Reasoning
Now, it is no doubt true that the evidence of the respondent and his witnesses was not taken in the mode prescribed in the Evidence Act but that Act has no application to enquiries conducted by tribunals, even though they may be judicial in character.	Reasoning
The law requires that such tribunals should observe rules of natural justice in the conduct of the enquiry and if they do so, their decision is not liable to be impeached on the ground that the procedure followed was not in accordance with that, which obtains in a Court of Law.	Reasoning
Stating it broadly and without intending it to be exhaustive, it may be observed that rules of natural justice require that a party should have the opportunity of adducing all relevant evidence on which he relies, that the evidence of the opponent should be taken in his presence, and that he should be given the opportunity of crossexamining the witnesses examined by that party, and that no materials should be relied on against him without his being given an opportunity of explaining them.	None
If these rules are satisfied, the enquiry is not open to attack on the ground that the procedure laid down in the Evidence Act for taking evidence was not strictly followed.	None
Vide the recent decision of this Court in New Prakash Transport Co. v. New Suwarna Transport Co., 1957 SCR 98 ((S) AIR 1957 SC 232 ) (C) where this question is discussed.12.	Reasoning
We have examined the record in the light of the above principles and find that there has been no violation of the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
The witnesses have been examined at great length, and have spoken to all relevant facts bearing on the question, and it is not suggested that there is any other matter, on which they could have spoken.	Reasoning
We do not accept the version of the respondent that he was not allowed to put any questions to the witnesses.	None
Indeed, the evidence of Sri Jai Narayan at p. 188 of the Paper Book shows that the only question on which the respondent wished this witness to testify was put to him by Mr. Byrne.	None
The evidence of Sri Bhan and Sri Fateh Singh was, it should be noted, wholly in support of the respondent.	None
The findings of Mr. Byrne are based entirely on an appreciation of the oral evidence taken in the presence of the respondent.	None
It should also be mentioned that the respondent did not put forward these grounds of complaint in his explanation dated September 11, 1953, and we are satisfied that they are wholly without substance, and are an afterthought.	None
We accordingly hold, differing from the learned Judges of the Court below, that the enquiry before Mr. Byrne was not defective, that the respondent had full opportunity of placing his evidence before him, and that he did avail himself of the same.	Reasoning
In this view, it becomes unnecessary necessary to express any opinion on the second question which was raised by the learned SolicitorGeneral.13.	Reasoning
In the result, we allow the appeal, set aside the order of the Court below, and dismiss the writ application.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.14.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
