 M Ahmadi, C.J	None
I have had the benefit of studying the judgments of my learned brothers Reddy, Sen and Paripoornan, JJ.	None
Pursuant to the discussions that I have had with them and with all my other learned brothers on this Bench, I find myself to be broadly in agreement with the conclusions recorded by Reddy, J., subject to the two aspects on which I have recorded my views hereunder The first of these is the issue regarding the extent to which the jurisdiction of ordinary courts is ousted in respect of claims for refund of taxes illegally levied and collected.	None
In my view, it would be incorrect to hold, as Reddy, J. has done, that every claim for refund of illegal or unauthorised levy of tax is necessarily required to be made in accordance with the provisions of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (hereinafter called the Excise Act).	None
The leading authority governing this issue is the decision of this Court in Dhulabhai v. State of M.P AIR 1969 SC 78 In this case, after analysing the leading decisions in the field, this Court laid down the following propositions with a view to determining the extent to which the jurisdiction of civil courts can be ousted Where the statute gives a finality to the orders of the special tribunals the Civil Courts jurisdiction must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the Civil Courts would normally do in a suit.	None
Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.	None
Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.	Reasoning
Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to find out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive.	Reasoning
In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are prescribed by the said statute or not.	None
Challenge to the provisions of the particular Act as ultra vires cannot be brought before Tribunals constituted under that Act.	None
Even the High Court cannot go into that question on a revision or reference from the decision of the Tribunals.	None
When a provision is already declared unconstitutional or the constitutionality of any provision is to be challenged, a suit is open.	None
A writ of certiorari may include a direction for refund if the claim is clearly within the time prescribed by the Limitation Act but it is not a compulsory remedy to replace a suit.	None
Where the particular Act contains no machinery for refund of tax collected in excess of constitutional limits or illegally collected a suit lies.	None
Questions of the correctness of the assessment apart from its constitutionality are for the decision of the authorities and a civil suit does not lie if the orders of the authorities are declared to be final or there is an express prohibition in the particular Act.	None
In either case the scheme of the particular Act must be examined because it is a relevant enquiry.	Reasoning
An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not readily to be inferred unless the conditions above set down apply.	Reasoning
In view of these propositions, which have been reiterated by this Court on several occasions and thus constitute sound law, it is clear that actions by way of suits or petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution cannot be completely eliminated.	None
The claims for refund can arise under three broad classes and the issue of ouster of jurisdiction of civil courts can be understood by focussing on the parameters of these classes which are as follows Class I Unconstitutional levy  where claims for refund are founded on the ground that the provision of the excise act under which the tax was levied is unconstitutional.	None
Cases falling within this class are clearly outside the ambit of the Excise Act.	None
In such cases assessees can either file a suit under Section 72 of the Contract Act, 1872 (hereinafter called Contract Act) or invoke the writ jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution.	None
Class II Illegal levy  where claims for refund are founded on the ground that there is misinterpretation misapplication erroneous interpretation of the excise act and the rules framed thereunder.	None
Ordinarily, all such claims must be preferred under the provisions of the Excise Act and the Rules framed thereunder by strictly adhering to the stipulated procedure.	None
However, in cases where the authorities under the Excise Act arrogate to themselves jurisdiction even in cases where there is clear want of jurisdiction, the situation poses some difficulty.	None
Reddy, J. has held that in all cases, except where unconstitutionality is alleged, the remedy is to be pursued within the framework of the Excise Act.	None
This is a dangerous proposition for it will not cater to situations where the authorities under the Excise Act assume authority in cases where there is an inherent lack of jurisdiction.	None
This is because, if one were to follow Reddy, J.s reasoning, the authorities under the Act will have the final say over situations in which they totally lack inherent jurisdiction.	None
In such a situation, there is nothing to prevent the authorities from exercising jurisdiction in cases which are ultra vires the Excise Act but intra vires the Constitution.	None
To that extent, I would hold that in cases where the authorities under the Excise Act initiate action though lacking in inherent jurisdiction, the remedy by way of a suit under Section 72 of the Contract Act or a writ under Article 226 of the Constitution, will lie.	None
Such a conclusion will not frustrate the exclusion of jurisdiction of civil courts by the Excise Act because the areas where an authority acting under a statute is said to lack inherent jurisdiction have been clearly demarcated by several decisions of this Court.	None
Class III Mistake of Lawwhere claims for refund are initiated on the basis of a decision rendered in favour of another assessee holding the levy to be (1) unconstitutional or (2) without inherent jurisdiction.	None
Ordinarily, no assessee can be allowed to reopen proceedings that have been finally concluded against him on the basis of a favourable decision in the case of another assessee.	None
This is because an order which has become final in the case of an assessee will continue to stand until it is specifically recalled or set aside in his own case.	None
In cases where the levy of a tax has been held to be (1) unconstitutional or (2) void for want of inherent jurisdiction (as explained in Class II), it is open for the assessees to take advantage of the declaration of the law so made and claim refunds on the ground that they paid the tax under a mistake of law.	None
This is because such claims are outside the ambit of the Excise Act.	None
In such cases, the limitation period applicable will be that specified in Section 17(1)(c) of the Limitation Act.	None
Reddy, J. has moulded an exception to the abovestated principle.	None
He has held that where a person approaches the High Court or the Supreme Court challenging the constitutional validity of a provision but fails, he cannot take advantage of the declaration of unconstitutionality obtained by another person on another ground this is for the reason that so far as he is concerned, the decision has become final and cannot be ignored or put aside as if it did not exist on the basis of the decision in another persons case.	None
However, in my opinion, since the levy of tax has been held to be unconstitutional (which would lead to the conclusion that it should never have been levied in the first place) such an interpretation would be unfair to an assessee who had the foresight to discern the unconstitutionality of the provision (albeit on a different ground) but was unfortunate in not being able to convince the court concerned of the unconstitutionality of the provision.	None
Considering the gravity of the case, in my opinion, it should be left open to such an assessee to use such legal remedy as may be available to him to have the earlier order reviewed or recalled on the basis of the order made in the subsequent case.	None
If he succeeds, well and good if he fails, he must take the consequence of an adverse order against him.	None
On the issue of the retrospective application of the amended provisions of the excise act, I wish to emphasise one practical difficulty that may arise.	None
Reddy, J. has held that in respect of proceedings that have been finally culminated, there is no question of reopening proceedings, and retrospectively applying the amended Section	None
11B.	Decision
However, in respect of decrees and orders that have become final but have not been executed, the non obstante clause, Section 11B(3), provides as follows 11B. (3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any Court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	None
(emphasis added)	None
It is, therefore, clear that in respect of such decrees and orders, the procedure and conditions prescribed in Section 11B will have to be complied with.	None
However, under the scheme of the amended Excise Act, the application for refund which is a prerequisite for invoking Section 11B(2), is required to be made within six months from the payment of duty.	None
It is obvious that this requirement cannot be complied with in respect of pending decrees and orders.	None
But it must at the same time be realised that in such a case, the assessee was protesting against the recovery of the excise duty from him for which he had even initiated legal proceedings.	None
It would therefore be in order to assume that he had paid the duty even though he was protesting its recovery.	None
To ensure that such orders and decrees are not frustrated, it must be deemed that the duties of excise in such cases were paid under protest within the meaning of the second proviso to clause (1) of Section	None
11B.	Decision
This would enable the assessees in such cases to file fresh applications under Section 11B(2), thereby complying with the scheme of the amended Excise Act.	None
Subject to the above, I agree with the rest of the conclusions reached by Reddy, J. P Jeevan Reddy (for J.S Verma, S.C Agrawal, himself and A.S Anand and B.N Kirpal, JJ.).	None
Significant questions concerning the refund of excise and customs duties collected contrary to law  in all its shades  arise for consideration in these appeals and writ petitions.	Issue
They involve the correctness of certain earlier decisions of this Court, concept of unjust enrichment, interpretation of Article 265 of the Constitution of India and of the provisions of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 and the Customs Act et al.	Issue
As far back as 1481984, Civil Appeal No. 1794 of 1984 and the connected special leave petitions were referred to a Bench of seven Judges by a Bench of two learned Judges, since the referring Bench doubted the correctness of the fiveJudge Bench decision in STO v. Kanhaiya Lal Mukundlal Saraf 1959 SCR 1350.	Issue
When the matter came up before a sevenJudge Bench, it was brought to our notice that a sevenJudge Bench has followed the decision in Kanhaiya Lal in State Of Kerala v. Aluminium Industries Ltd., Kundara, Quilon.	Issue
1965 16	Issue
STC 689 Accordingly, the matters were directed to be posted before a nineJudge Bench.	Issue
Meanwhile, several matters raising identical or connected issues got tagged on.	None
Leave granted in special leave petitions.	Decision
In the year 1991, Parliament enacted the Central Excises and Customs Law (Amendment) Act, 1991 (being Act 40 of 1991) substantially amending the provisions relating to refund in both the Central Excises and Salt Act and the Customs Act, besides introducing several new provisions therein.	Issue
Writ petitions challenging the validity of the said amendment are also posted before us.	Issue
Apart from the validity, the meaning and purport of the amended provisions also falls for consideration.	Issue
For the sake of convenience, we would refer to the relevant provisions in the Central Excises and Salt Act inasmuch as the relevant provisions in both the enactments are identical.	None
The Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (the Act) was enacted with a view to consolidate and amend the law relating to Central Duties of Excise and Salt.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons (vide Gazette of India, 1943, Part V, p. 243) stated inter alia	None
The administration of internal commodity taxation in British India has grown up piecemeal over many years and has been considerably expanded during the last decade.	None
Hitherto the introduction of a new Central duty of excise has required the enactment of selfcontained law and the preparation of a separate set of statutory rules.	None
There are no less than 10 separate Excise Acts and 11 sets of statutory rules and there are also 5 Acts relating to salt.	None
This agglomeration of statutes and regulations dealing with similar matters is neither convenient for the public nor conducive to wellorganized administration.	None
It is accordingly proposed to consolidate in a single enactment all the laws relating to Central duties of excise and to the tax on salt and to embody therein a Schedule, similar to that in the Indian Tariff Act, 1934, setting forth the rates of duty leviable on each class of goods.	None
At the same time, the statutory rules will be similarly amalgamated and disembarrassed of their unnecessary details.	None
The Act and the consolidated statutory rules, together with as many manuals of departmental instructions as may be necessary, will then form a complete Central Excise Code, which will simplify the administration of this branch of the revenue system and aid such further development as may be necessary.	None
(emphasis added) Section 2 defines the several expressions occurring in the Act.	None
Section 3 is the charging section while Section 4 deals with valuation of excisable goods for the purposes of charging of duties of excise.	None
Section 5 provides for remission of duties on goods found deficient in quantity.	None
Section 5A empowers the Central Government to grant exemption from duty of excise in public interest.	None
Section 9 provides for punishment for violation of the provisions of the Act and the Rules.	None
Section 11 provides for recovery of sums due to Government as arrears of land revenue.	None
Section 11A, which was introduced with effect from 17111980, provides for recovery of duties not levied or not paid or shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded.	None
Section 11B, which too was introduced with effect from the same date and by the same Amendment Act (Act 25 of 1978), provides for refund of duties.	None
Chapter III deals with powers and duties of officers and landholders while Chapter IV deals with transport by sea.	None
Chapter V contains special provisions relating to salt.	None
Chapter VI deals with adjudication of confiscations and penalties while Chapter VIA introduced by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1980 (with effect from 11101982) provides for appeals against the orders of the original and appellate authorities.	None
In certain matters, a reference is provided to the High Court concerned and in other cases, a direct appeal to this Court is provided from the orders of the Tribunal.	None
Chapter VII contains supplementary provisions.	None
Section 37 confers upon the Central Government the power to make rules to carry into effect the purposes of the Act and in respect of several matters mentioned therein.	None
Rules have been made by the Central Government in exercise of power conferred upon them by Section 37.	None
The Rules are very elaborate and provide for various matters and situations, to all of which it is not necessary to refer for the purposes of this case.	None
Suffice it to mention that, broadly speaking, there are two methods of removal of excisable goods.	None
One is, what may be called, general method where the goods are cleared on payment of duty and the other is what is called the selfremoval procedure.	None
The Rules provide for approval of classification list and price list.	None
In case of dispute regarding classification of excisable goods or valuation (approval of the price list), there are provisions under which provisional orders can be made which would be operative pending the dispute and shall be subject to final decision in the matter.	None
The Rules also provide for selfdetermination of duty in certain cases.	None
In short, the Rules provide for all possible situations that may arise under the Act.	None
The particular provisions in the act and the rules relevant to the controversy herein may now be noticed a little more closely.	None
sections 11a and 11b are complementary to each other.	Reasoning
While Section 11A provides for recovery of duties not collected or shortcollected by Revenue, Section 11B provides for refund of taxes collected in excess of what is legitimately due under the Act.	Reasoning
Section 11A has remained untouched by the Amendment Act 40 of 1991 though it has been amended in certain minor respects by subsequent enactments.	Reasoning
Omitting portions not necessary to the present controversy, Section 11A, as it stands today, reads as follows 11A. Recovery of duties not levied or not paid or shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded.(1) When any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded, a Central Excise Officer may, within six months from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty which has not been levied or paid or which has been shortlevied or shortpaid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice Provided that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded by reason of fraud, collusion or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with an intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent, the provisions of this subsection shall have effect, as if, for the words six months, the words five years were substituted.	None
Explanation.	None
(1)(2) (3)(i) relevant date means, (a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid (c) in any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act or the rules made thereunder Coming to Section 11B, before it was amended by act 40 of 1991, it read as follows (again omitting portions not necessary for the present purposes)	None
11B. Claim for refund of duty.(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the relevant date Provided that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
If on receipt of any such application, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant should be refunded to him, he may make an order accordingly.	None
Where as a result of any order passed in appeal or revision under this Act refund of any duty of excise becomes due to any person, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf.	None
Save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, no claim for refund of any duty of excise shall be entertained.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the provisions of this section shall also apply to a claim for refund of any amount collected as duty of excise made on the ground that the goods in respect of which such amount was collected were not excisable or were entitled to exemption from duty and no court shall have any jurisdiction in respect of such claim.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purpose of this section.	None
(B) relevant date means, (f) in any other case, the date of payment of duty.	None
Section 11B along with Section 11A was introduced by Customs, Central Excises and Salt and Central Board of Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1978 with effect from 17111980, a fact mentioned hereinbefore.	None
Until the enactment and enforcement of sections 11a and 11b, the recovery and refund of excise duties was governed by the Rules.	None
Rule 11 which dealt with claims for refund of duty, as in force prior to 681977 read as follows No refund of duties or charges erroneously paid, unless claimed within three months.	Reasoning
No duties or charges which have been paid or have been adjusted in an account current maintained with the Collector under Rule 9, and of which repayment wholly or in part is claimed in consequence of the same having been paid through inadvertence, error or misconstruction, shall be refunded unless the claimant makes an application for such refund under his signature and lodges it with the proper officer within three months from the date of such payment or adjustment, as the case may be.	None
Rule 11 was amended with effect from 681977 and it remained in force till the coming into force of Section 11B. Rule 11, as it obtained during the said period, read as follows Claim for refund of duty.(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty paid by him may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the date of payment of duty Provided that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
Explanation.	None
Where any duty is paid provisionally under these rules on the basis of the value or the rate of duty, the period of six months shall be computed from the date on which the duty is adjusted after final determination of the value or the rate of duty, as the case may be.	None
If on receipt of any such application the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty paid by the applicant should be refunded to him, he may make an order accordingly.	None
Where as a result of any order passed in appeal or revision under the Act, refund of any duty becomes due to any person, the proper officer may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf.	None
Save as otherwise provided by or under these rules no claim for refund of any duty shall be entertained.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this rule, refund includes rebate referred to in Rules 12 and 12A. We may now set out Section 11B, as amended by Act 40 of 1991.	None
(Even subsequent to 1991, there have been certain minor amendments to the said section.)	None
As it stands today, Section 11B reads as follows (portions not necessary for the purposes of the present controversy omitted)	None
11B. Claim for refund of duty.(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the relevant date in such form and manner as may be prescribed and the application shall be accompanied by such documentary or other evidence including the documents referred to in Section 12A as the applicant may furnish to establish that the amount of duty of excise in relation to which such refund is claimed was collected from, or paid by, him and the incidence of such duty had not been passed on by him to any other person Provided that where an application for refund has been made before the commencement of the Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991, such application shall be deemed to have been made under this subsection as amended by the said Act and the same shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2) substituted by that Act Provided further that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
If, on receipt of any such application, the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant is refundable, he may make an order accordingly and the amount so determined shall be credited to the Fund Provided that the amount of duty of excise as determined by the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise under the foregoing provisions of this subsection shall, instead of being credited to the Fund, be paid to the applicant, if such amount is relatable to (a) rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported out of India (b) unspent advance deposits lying in balance in the applicants account current maintained with the Commissioner of Central Excise (c) refund of credit of duty paid on excisable goods used as inputs in accordance with the rules made, or any notification issued, under this Act (d) the duty of excise paid by the manufacturer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person (e) the duty of excise borne by the buyer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person (f) the duty of excise borne by any other such class of applicants as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify Provided further that no notification under clause (f) of the first proviso shall be issued unless in the opinion of the Central Government the incidence of duty has not been passed on by the persons concerned to any other person.	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any Court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section,.	None
(B) relevant date means (f) in any other case, the date of payment of duty.	None
The said Amendment Act also amended Section 11C, besides introducing Section 11D and an entire new chapter, Chapter IIA.	None
Since Section 11C does not fall for our consideration, we need not refer to it.	None
Section 11D reads as follows 11D. Duties of excise collected from the buyer to be deposited with the Central Government.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any Court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder, every person who has collected any amount from the buyer of any goods in any manner as representing duty of excise, shall forthwith pay the amount so collected to the credit of the Central Government.	None
The amount paid to the credit of the Central Government under subsection (1) shall be adjusted against the duty of excise payable by the person on finalisation of assessment and where any surplus is left after such adjustment, the amount of such surplus shall either be credited to the Fund or, as the case may be, refunded to the person who has borne the incidence of such amount, in accordance with the provisions of Section 11B and the relevant date for making an application under that section in such cases shall be the date of the public notice to be issued by the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise.	None
Chapter IIA comprises of four sections, Sections 12A to 12D.	None
They read thus 12A. Price of goods to indicate the amount of duty paid thereon.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, every person who is liable to pay duty of excise on any goods shall, at the time of clearance of the goods, prominently indicate in all the documents relating to assessment, sales invoice, and other like documents, the amount of such duty which will form part of the price at which such goods are to be sold.	None
12B. Presumption that incidence of duty has been passed on to the buyer.	None
Every person who has paid the duty of excise on any goods under this Act shall, unless the contrary is proved by him, be deemed to have passed on the full incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.	None
12C. Consumer Welfare Fund.(1)	None
There shall be established by the Central Government a Fund, to be called the Consumer Welfare Fund.	None
There shall be credited to the Fund, in such manner as may be prescribed, (a) the amount of duty of excise referred to in subsection (2) of Section 11B or subsection (2) of Section 11C or subsection (2) of Section 11D (b) the amount of duty of customs referred to in subsection (2) of Section 27 or subsection (2) of Section 28A, or subsection (2) of Section 28B of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) (c) any income from investment of the amount credited to the Fund and any other monies received by the Central Government for the purposes of this Fund.	None
12D. Utilisation of the Fund.(1)	None
Any money credited to the Fund shall be utilised by the Central Government for the welfare of the consumers in accordance with such rules as that Government may make in this behalf.	None
The Central Government shall maintain or, if it thinks fit, specify the authority which shall maintain, proper and separate account and other relevant records in relation to the Fund in such form as may be prescribed in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.	None
The refund of excise duties  which is the main topic of the controversy herein  was thus governed by different provisions over the years.	None
To wit up to 681977, the refund of duties was governed by Rule 11, as it stood up to that date between 681977 and 16111980, refund of duties was governed by Rule 11, as it obtained during the said period From 16111980 up to 1991991 date of coming into force of 1991 (Amendment) Act, the refund of duties was governed by Section 11B, as it stood during the said period with effect from 1991991, the refund of duties is governed by Section 11B, as amended by Act 40 of 1991 and the allied provisions.	None
Though different provisions governed the subject of refund during different times, there is one feature uniformly common to them all, viz., they purport to be exhaustive on the subject of refund and they provide a period of limitation for making such claims.	Reasoning
Rule 11, as it stood prior to 681977, not only carried the title No refund of duties or charges erroneously paid unless claimed within three months, it provided specifically that no duties charges shall be refunded unless the claimant makes an application for such refund under his signature and lodges it to the proper officer within three months from the date of such payment or adjustment, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Similarly, Rule 11, as it obtained between 681977 and 16111980, provided that claims for refund shall be made before the expiry of six months from the date of payment of duty.	Reasoning
(Of course, this period of limitation did not apply where the duty was paid under protest.)	Reasoning
subrule (4) of Rule 11 provided in express terms that save as otherwise provided by or under these rules, no claim for refund of any duty shall be entertained.	Reasoning
The situation obtaining under Section 11B, as it stood during the period 16111980 to 1991991, was no different.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) provided that a claim for refund shall have to be filed before the expiry of six months from the relevant date and subsection (4) provided in specific terms that save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, no claim for refund of any duty of excise shall be entertained.	Reasoning
Section 11B, as amended by 1991 (Amendment) Act, is similarly worded.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) now provides that a claim for refund has to be filed before the expiry of six months from the relevant date and subsection (3) declares in emphatic terms that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any court or any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	Reasoning
Subsection (2), it may be mentioned, provides the circumstances in which and the grounds on which a refund shall be made, or shall be denied, as the case may be.	Reasoning
It is necessary to emphasise that the exclusivity of these provisions relating to refund  and conversely the bar to other proceedings created by them  is specific to the subject of refund and is apart from and in addition to the general bar implicit in the Act or expressed in some of its other provisions, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Because the Act creates new rights and liabilities and also provides the machinery for assessment and adjudication of those rights and liabilities, a bar to the jurisdiction to civil court arises by necessary implication  an aspect dealt with at some length later.	Reasoning
Also see Principle No. 3 enunciated in Kamala Mills Ltd. v. State Of Bombay 1966 1 SCR 64 AIR 1965 SC 1942 (dealt with in SCR paras 30 to 33).	Reasoning
The point to be stressed is that the exclusive nature of the refund provisions expressly declared in Rule 11 and Section 11B, at all points of time, is an express and specific one contained in a special statute.	Reasoning
It is not the usual finality clause found in several statutes it is much more.	Reasoning
The validity of the aforesaid provisions (providing a period of limitation for making claims of refund and declaring that no refund claim shall be entertained except under and in accordance with the said provisions) has never been challenged seriously.	None
Though in certain writ petitions now before us, validity of Section 11B (as amended in 1991) is challenged  which challenge is dealt with hereinafter and rejected  the main submission of Shri F.S Nariman, leading the arguments on behalf of the appellantspetitioners has been that these provisions do not preclude the filing of a suit or the filing of a writ petition claiming refund where the tax has been collected contrary to law by virtue of Article 265 of the Constitution and that the question of passing on the burden of duty is totally irrelevant in the matter of refund.	Arguments of Petitioner
Once the provisions of the Act including the aforesaid provisions, viz., Rule 11 and Section 11B, as they stood from time to time, are taken as valid and effective, they constitute law within the meaning of Article 265.	Reasoning
It may be remembered that the aforesaid provisions relating to refund have always been accompanied by and are complementary to the provisions relating to recovery of duties legitimately due under law, but not collected.	Reasoning
The recovery provisions also contained and do contain a corresponding period of limitation, i.e, three months or six months, as the case may be.	Reasoning
This period of six months can be extended up to a maximum period of five years in cases where nonpayment of duty was on account of fraud, collusion, wilful misstatement or suppression of fact or contravention of the provisions of the Act and the Rules indulged in with the intent to evade payment of duty.	Reasoning
Article 265 of the Constitution is declaratory in nature.	Reasoning
It says that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	Reasoning
This no doubt means that taxes collected contrary to law have to be refunded.	Reasoning
But where a taxing enactment contains provisions providing for and governing the refund of taxes collected without the authority of law, the validity of such provisions, if and when questioned, has to be examined with reference to other provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Article 265 does not itself lay down any criteria for testing the validity of a statute.	Reasoning
When it speaks of law, it no doubt refers to a valid law but the validity of a law has to be determined with reference to other provisions in the Constitution.	Reasoning
We must, however, pause here and explain the various situations in which claims for refund may arise.	Reasoning
They may arise in more than one situation.	Reasoning
One is where a provision of the Act under which tax is levied is struck down as unconstitutional for transgressing the constitutional limitations.	Reasoning
This class of cases, we may call, for the sake of convenience, as cases of unconstitutional levy.	Reasoning
In this class of cases, the claim for refund arises outside the provisions of the Act, for this is not a situation contemplated by the Act.	Reasoning
Second situation is where the tax is collected by the authorities under the Act by misconstruction or wrong interpretation of the provisions of the Act, Rules and Notifications or by an erroneous determination of the relevant facts, i.e, an erroneous finding of fact.	Reasoning
This class of cases may be called, for the sake of convenience, as illegal levy.	Reasoning
In this class of cases, the claim for refund arises under the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
In other words, these are situations contemplated by and provided for by the Act and the Rules.	Reasoning
The above distinction is not only accepted in all jurisdictions but is also not disputed before us.	Reasoning
So far as the first category (unconstitutional levy) is concerned, there is no dispute before us that it is open to the person claiming refund to either file a suit for recovery of the tax collected from him or to file a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution for an appropriate direction of refund.	Reasoning
The only controversy on this score is whether the manufacturer payer is entitled to such refund where he has already passed on the burden of duty to others.	Reasoning
With respect to the second category of cases, there is a good amount of controversy.	Issue
While the Union of India says that such claims of refund should be put forward and determined only under and in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules, the contention of the appellantspetitioners is that even in such cases a suit or writ is maintainable on the ground that the tax has been collected without the authority of law, i.e, contrary to Article 265 of the Constitution.	Issue
In other words, while according to the Union of India, such claims of refund should be filed within the time prescribed by the Act and the Rules and should and can be dealt with only under the provisions of the Act and the Rules, the appellantspetitioners say that such claims can be made in suits and writ petitions as well and that too without reference to the period of limitation prescribed in Rule 11 or Section 11B, as the case may be.	None
31.	None
There is as yet a third and an equally important category.	Reasoning
It is this a manufacturer (let us call him X) pays duty either without protest or after registering his protest.	Reasoning
It may also be a case where he disputes the levy and fights it out up to first appellate or second appellate revisional level and gives up the fight, being unsuccessful therein.	Reasoning
It may also be a case where he approaches the High Court too, remains unsuccessful and gives up the fight.	Reasoning
He pays the duty demanded or it is recovered from him, as the case may be.	Reasoning
In other words, so far as X is concerned, the levy of duty becomes final and his claim that the duty is not leviable is finally rejected.	Reasoning
But it so happens that sometime later  may be one year, five years, ten years, twenty years or even fifty years  the Supreme Court holds, in the case of some other manufacturer that the levy of that kind is not exigible in law.	Reasoning
(We must reiterate  we are not speaking of a case where a provision of the Act whereunder the duty is struck down as unconstitutional.	Reasoning
We are speaking of a case involving interpretation of the provisions of the Act, Rules and Notifications.)	Reasoning
The question is whether X can claim refund of the duty paid by him on the ground that he has discovered the mistake of law when the Supreme Court has declared the law in the case of another manufacturer and whether he can say that he will be entitled to file a suit or a writ petition for refund of the duty paid by him within three years of such discovery of mistake?	Issue
Instances of this nature can be multiplied.	None
It may not be a decision of the Supreme Court that leads X to discover his mistake it may be a decision of the High Court.	Reasoning
It may also be a case where X fights up to first appellate or second appellate stage, gives up the fight, pays the tax and then pleads that he has discovered the mistake of law when the High Court has declared the law.	Reasoning
The fact is that such claims have been entertained both in writ petitions and suits until now, purporting to follow the law declared in Kanhaiya Lal, and are being allowed and decreed, sometimes even with interest.	Reasoning
The Union of India says that this can never be.	None
It says, a manufacturer must fight his own battle and only if he succeeds therein, can he claim refund.	Arguments of Respondent
He cannot take advantage of success of another manufacturer and that no suit or writ is maintainable by him for refund on the ground of alleged discovery of mistake of law on the declaration of law by this Court or a High Court (or a Tribunal or any other authority under the Act) in the case of another person.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India denies that such a person can plead payment of duty under a mistake of law within the meaning of Section 72 of the Contract Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It also denies that such a writ petition or a suit can be filed within three years of such discovery of mistake of law.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union of India submits that Kanhaiya Lal has been wrongly decided.	Arguments of Respondent
They submit that no suit or a writ petition lies for refund of duty except in the case of unconstitutional levy as specified hereinabove and even here, they say, such claim is subject to the proof that burden of the duty has not been passed on to the purchaser.	Arguments of Respondent
In all other cases, they say, claims of refund can be made, and must be made, only under and in accordance with the provisions of the Act Rules aforesaid, governing the subject of refund  and in no other manner and in no other forum.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also suggested that, in any event, since Kanhaiya Lal does not deal with the effect of passing on the duty to a third party  it was neither raised nor considered therein  it is no authority for the proposition that the manufacturer payer can recover the duty paid in any of the above three categories of cases even if he has passed on the burden to others.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitionersappellants, on the other hand, support the reasoning of, and the law declared in, Kanhaiya Lal and say that it has been the law over the last thirtyseven years and has been followed consistently, without a demur, by larger and smaller benches of this Court and that there are no good or compelling reasons to depart from or overrule the said decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
The facts of and the principles enunciated in Kanhaiya Lal	None
The respondent, Kanhaiya Lal Mukundlal Saraf, was a partnership firm.	Reasoning
It had entered into certain forward contracts in silver bullion at Banaras.	Reasoning
For the Assessment Years 194849, 194950 and 195051, the forward transactions were brought to tax under assessment orders dated 3151949, 30101950 and 2281951 respectively.	Reasoning
On 2721952, the Allahabad High Court held in Budh Prakash Jai Prakash v. STO 1952 All LJ 332, that the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act taxing forward contracts were ultra vires the Uttar Pradesh Legislature.	Reasoning
The respondent applied for refund of tax paid by it basing its claim on Budh Prakash Jai Prakash.	Reasoning
It was declined by the Commissioner of Sales Tax.	Reasoning
Thereupon, the respondent filed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court seeking the quashing of the aforesaid three assessment orders and for a direction to refund the tax collected.	Reasoning
Meanwhile, the judgment of the Allahabad High Court in Budh Prakash Jai Prakash was affirmed by this Court on 351954.	Reasoning
The writ petition filed by the respondent came up for hearing before a learned Single Judge on 30111956 and was allowed, as prayed for.	Reasoning
In the special appeal filed by the Department, it was contended that the said amount having been paid under a mistake of law was not recoverable.	Reasoning
The Department, however, raised no objection to the maintainability of the writ petition.	Reasoning
Indeed, it expressly gave it up.	Reasoning
The Division Bench applied Section 72 of the Contract Act and affirmed the judgment of the learned Single Judge.	Reasoning
The matter was then brought to this Court.	Reasoning
In this Court, it was sought to be contended that the only course open to the respondent was to follow the procedure prescribed by the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act and that since that was not done, the assessee could not approach the civil courts.	Reasoning
It was also contended that a writ petition would not lie for refund of money.	Reasoning
These two contentions were not allowed to be raised by this Court (N.H Bhagwati, J. speaking for the Constitution Bench) in view of the categorical statement made on behalf of the Department before the Special Bench of the High Court.	Reasoning
The Court then referred to Section 72 of the Contract Act and observed that it does not make any distinction between a mistake of law and a mistake of fact and that it takes in both kinds of mistakes.	Reasoning
The Court referred to the legal position obtaining in England, United States of America and Australia that money paid under a mistake of law is not recoverable but observed that so far as India is concerned, Section 72 governs the situation and since the language of the said section is plain and unambiguous, it is not permissible to rely upon the position of law obtaining in England or other countries.	Reasoning
The Court then referred to the decisions of High Courts in India on the meaning and interpretation of Section 72, viz., the decisions of the Bombay and Madras High Courts in Wolf Sons v. Dadyba Khimji Co. ILR 1920	Reasoning
44	Reasoning
Bom 631 and A.M Appavoo Chettiar v. S.I Rly. Co.	Reasoning
AIR 1929 Mad 177 holding that money paid under a mistake of law is not recoverable and to the contrary decision of the Calcutta High Court in Jagadish Prosad Pannalal v. Produce Exchange Corpn.	Reasoning
Ltd. AIR 1946 Cal 245	Reasoning
The Court observed that the said conflict has since been resolved by the Privy Council in Sri Shiba Prasad Singh v. Srish Chandra Nandi 1949 76 IA 244, expressly approving and affirming the view taken by the Calcutta High Court and holding further that the expression mistake in Section 72 should be given its due and natural meaning which means that it takes in both mistakes of fact and law.	Reasoning
The Privy Council observed (IA p. 302, para 17)	None
It may be well to add that their Lordships judgment does not imply that every sum paid under mistake is recoverable no matter what the circumstances may be.	None
There may in a particular case be circumstances which disentitle a plaintiff by estoppel or otherwise.	Reasoning
This Court expressed its approval of the view taken by the Privy Council and proceeded to deal with the contention urged on behalf of the appellant (Revenue) that having regard to the fact that the payment of tax by the respondent was voluntary and also because the monies so received by the State have been spent away by it, the respondent was not entitled to recover the said amounts.	Reasoning
(The appellantRevenue sought to bring its case within the observations of the Privy Council, quoted hereinabove, which speak of the plaintiff being disentitled to relief on grounds of estoppel or otherwise.)	Reasoning
Both the objections were rejected by this Court.	Reasoning
With respect to the objection that the payments were voluntary and, therefore, not recoverable, this Court observed that If the State of U.P was not entitled to receive the sales tax on these transactions, the provision in that behalf being ultra vires, that could not avail the State and the amounts were paid by the respondent even though they were not due by contract or otherwise.	Reasoning
The respondent committed the mistake in thinking that the monies paid were due when in fact they were not due and that mistake on being established entitled it to recover the same back from the State under Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act.	Reasoning
The Court then dealt with the argument that under Section 72, monies paid by way of tax could not be recovered and rejected it.	Reasoning
It held No distinction can therefore, be made in respect of a tax liability and any other liability on a plain reading of the terms of Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act, even though such a distinction has been made in America.	None
To hold that tax paid by mistake of law cannot be recovered under Section 72 will be not to interpret the law but to make a law by adding some such words as otherwise than by way of taxes after the word paid.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
The Court accordingly observed that both the parties were labouring under a mistake of law since they were not aware of the true position which they came to know only when the Allahabad High Court delivered its judgment in Budh Prakash Jai Prakash and when it was affirmed by this Court in appeal.	None
The Court proceeded to observe that The state of mind of the respondent would be the only thing relevant to consider in this context and once the respondent established that the payments were made by it under a mistake of law it was entitled to recover back the said amounts and the State of U.P was bound to repay or return the same to the respondent irrespective of any other consideration.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The Court also observed that there was nothing in the circumstances of that case to support a plea of estoppel against the respondent and reiterated its understanding of the legal position thus On a true interpretation of Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act the only two circumstances there indicated as entitling the party to recover the money back are that the monies must have been paid by mistake or under coercion.	Reasoning
If a mistake either of law or of fact is established, he is entitled to recover the monies and the party receiving the same is bound to repay or return them irrespective of any consideration whether the monies had been paid voluntarily, subject however to questions of estoppel, waiver, limitation or the like.	None
(emphasis supplied) With respect to the plea of estoppel put forward by the appellantRevenue, the Court held that there was no question of estoppel in that case because both the parties were labouring under a mistake of law.	Reasoning
The Court went further and observed equitable considerations could scarcely be imported when there is a clear and unambiguous provision of law which entitles the plaintiff to the relief claimed by him.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The Court also observed that the fact that the State of Uttar Pradesh had not retained the monies paid by the respondent but had spent them away in the ordinary course of the State business would not make any difference to the position and that the respondent was entitled to recover back the monies paid by it under a mistake of law under the plain terms of Section 72.	Reasoning
It is well to remember that (a) this was a case where the relevant provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act were held to be ultra vires the Uttar Pradesh Legislature, i.e, beyond the legislative competence of the State Legislature and (b) it was a case where the assessee filed a writ petition in the High Court seeking the quashing of relevant assessment orders and for a consequential order of refund, basing its claim upon the judgment of the High Court in another assessees case.	Reasoning
In other words, orders in the assessees own case had become final.	Reasoning
He sought to reopen them, by way of a writ petition, in view of the invalidation of the relevant provisions of the Act by the High Court and this Court in the case of another assessee.	Reasoning
Yet another circumstance to be noticed is that though the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act contained a provision providing for refund, it was neither referred to nor discussed.	Reasoning
Now, what are the propositions emerging from this decision?	Reasoning
They are (1) Section 72 of the Contract Act does not make any distinction between a mistake of law and the mistake of fact it takes in both kinds of mistakes.	Reasoning
(2) The rule then obtaining in England and certain other countries that taxes paid under a mistake of law are not recoverable has no relevance to this country.	Reasoning
Here, the matter is governed by Section 72 of the Contract Act.	Reasoning
(3) Where the taxes are paid under a mistake of law, the person paying is entitled to recover the same from the State on establishing the mistake.	Reasoning
This consequence flows from Section 72 of the Contract Act.	Reasoning
On such mistake being established, the State is bound to repay or return the amounts irrespective of any other consideration.	Reasoning
(4) The right to recover or the obligation to refund mentioned in (3) above is subject, however, to questions of estoppel, waiver, limitation or the like.	Reasoning
(5) There is no question of estoppel where both parties were labouring under a mistake of law.	Reasoning
(6) Equitable considerations cannot be imported when there is a clear and unambiguous provision of law which entitles the plaintiff to the relief claimed by him.	Reasoning
(7) The fact that the State has spent away the taxes for the purposes of State is no defence to a claim for refund of taxes paid under a mistake of law, in view of the plain terms of Section 72.	Reasoning
Subsequent decisions of this Court on the question of refund Before we deal with the correctness of the propositions in Kanhaiya Lal, it would be appropriate to refer to the subsequent decisions of this Court on the subject of refund of taxes collected without the authority of law and see how Kanhaiya Lal has been followed, understood or distinguished, as the case may be.	None
The first decision to be referred in this behalf is the decision of a sevenJudge Bench in State Of Kerala v. Aluminium Industries Ltd., Kundara, Quilon.	None
The respondent was a dealer registered under the Kerala Sales Tax Act.	None
During the year 195051, it paid certain amounts by way of sales tax.	None
Subsequently, it filed a writ petition claiming refund of Rs 80,048136 on the ground that sales on which tax has been levied were exempt from tax under Article 286(1)(a) of the Constitution, as it then stood.	None
The High Court allowed the writ petition partly directing refund of Rs 54,37550.	None
Only the State of Kerala appealed.	None
The respondentassessees case was that when it paid the tax, it did not know that the said transactions were not exigible to tax.	None
It claimed that it discovered its mistake only after the payment.	None
The claim for refund was resisted by the State of Kerala contending inter alia that inasmuch as the tax was paid voluntarily, it was not recoverable in law.	None
The High Court had rejected the States plea relying upon the decision of this Court in Kanhaiya Lal.	None
The appeal was heard by a sevenJudge Bench of this Court which observed that in the light of the decision in Kanhaiya Lal, money paid under a mistake of law is recoverable under Section 72 of the Contract Act and that there can be no question of estoppel when the mistake of law is common to both the parties.	None
The Bench further observed, in such a case where tax is levied by mistake of law it is ordinarily the duty of State subject to any provision in the law relating to sales tax (and no such provision has been brought to our notice) to refund the tax.	None
If refund is not made, remedy through court is open subject to the same restrictions and also to the period of limitation (see Article 96 of the Limitation Act, 1908), namely, three years from the date when the mistake becomes known to the person who has made the payment by mistake (see State of M.P v. Bhailal Bhai 1964 6 SCR 261 ).	None
The Court held that it was the duty of the State to investigate the facts when the mistake was brought to its notice and to make a refund if mistake was proved and the claim was made within the period of limitation.	None
It is clear from a reading of the judgment that neither party questioned the correctness of the decision in Kanhaiya Lal and accordingly it was followed implicitly.	None
This decision, though rendered by a larger Bench, does not itself lay down any principle.	None
In State of M.P v. Bhailal Bhai the tax imposed upon the tobacco imported by the respondents was held to be unconstitutional on the ground that it was violative of Article 301 of the Constitution and not saved by Article 304(a).	None
The claim for refund of such taxes was also upheld on the ground that it was a case of a tax paid under a mistake within the meaning of Section 72 of the Contract Act.	None
Kanhaiya Lal was followed.	None
It was also observed that though there is no limitation prescribed for filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, the maximum period fixed by the Legislature as the time within which a suit for similar relief has to be filed can be taken as the reasonable period for approaching the High Court.	None
Kamala Mills Ltd. v. State Of Bombay, decided by a Special Bench of seven learned Judges, lays down several propositions which are of crucial relevance to the issues arising herein.	None
The appellant was a dealer registered under the Bombay Sales Tax Act.	None
During the year 195051, it was assessed to sales tax on certain sales treating them as inside sales.	None
However, according to the ratio of the decision of this Court in Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar 1955 2 SCR 603 delivered on 691955, the said sales were in truth outside sales, not taxable under the Bombay Act.	None
Since the time for adopting the remedies provided by the Bombay Act had become barred meanwhile, the appellant filed a suit for recovery of the sales tax illegally collected from it in respect of outside sales.	None
The respondentState contended inter alia that the suit was barred by virtue of Section 20 of the Bombay Act.	None
The plea was upheld by the trial court and the suit dismissed.	None
On appeal, the High Court affirmed.	None
The matter was then brought to this Court.	Reasoning
Three questions were raised for consideration before this Court, viz., (1) whether an assessment in violation of a statutory provision could claim the status of an assessment made under the Act within the meaning of Section 20 (2) whether the decision by the appropriate authority as to the nature of the transaction was a decision on a collateral fact, the finding on which alone conferred jurisdiction on the authority to levy the tax, or was it a decision on a question of fact which had to be determined by the authority before itself as one of the issues before it and (3) whether Section 20 was valid if construed as being a complete bar to a suit such as filed by the appellant.	None
Section 20 of the Bombay Act read as follows Save as is provided in Section 23, no assessment made and no order passed under this Act or the rules made thereunder by the Commissioner or any person appointed under Section 3 to assist him shall be called into question in any civil court, and save as it provided in Sections 21 and 22, no appeal or application for revision shall lie against any such assessment or order.	None
The answers given by the sevenJudge Bench are to the following effect As held by this Court in Firm Illuri Subbayya Chetty Sons v. State of A.P AIR 1964 SC 322 the words any assessments made under this Act were wide enough to cover all assessments made by the appropriate authorities under the Act whether the assessments were correct or not.	None
The words an assessment made cannot mean an assessment properly and correctly made.	None
Since the appellant was calling in question the orders of assessment made against it, its challenge in the suit was plainly prohibited by Section 20.	None
The provisions of the Bombay Act make it clear that all questions pertaining to the liability of the dealers to pay assessment in respect of their transactions are expressly left to be decided by the appropriate authorities under the Act as matters falling within their jurisdiction.	Reasoning
Whether or not a return is correct and whether a transaction is exigible to tax, or not, are all matters to be determined by the authorities under the Act.	Reasoning
It is impossible to accept the argument of the appellant that the finding of the appropriate authority that a particular transaction is taxable under the provisions of the Act is a finding on a collateral fact and, therefore, the resort to civil court is open.	None
On the contrary, the whole activity of assessment beginning with the filing of the return and ending with the order of assessment falls within the jurisdiction of the appropriate authority and no part of it can be said to constitute a collateral activity not specifically and expressly included in the jurisdiction of the appropriate authority as such.	None
Even if the appropriate authority, holds erroneously, while exercising its jurisdiction and powers under the Act that a transaction which is an outside sale is not an outside sale and proceeds to levy sales tax on it, it cannot be said that the decision of the appropriate authority is without jurisdiction.	None
Where a statute creates a special right or a liability and also provides the procedure for the determination of the right or liability by the Tribunals constituted in that behalf and provides further that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the Tribunals so constituted, it becomes pertinent to enquire whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are provided by the statutes or not.	None
In other words, if the court comes to the conclusion that the Act does not provide any remedy to make a claim for recovery of illegally collected tax and yet Section 20 prohibits such a claim being made before an ordinary civil court, the court might hesitate to construe Section 20 as creating an absolute bar.	None
If for any reason, Section 20 is construed strictly as constituting an absolute bar, the questions may arise with respect to its constitutionality.	None
Looked at from the above angle, it cannot be said that the Bombay Act does not provide an alternative remedy for the claim which the appellant put forward in the suit.	None
Section 22B empowered the appellate revisional authority under the Act to extend the period of limitation if they are satisfied that party applying for such extension had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal and revision during the prescribed period.	Reasoning
Section 23A further provided for rectification of mistakes.	None
In this view of the matter, it cannot be said that the claim of the appellant could not have been agitated under and in accordance with the provisions of the Bombay Act.	None
Section 20 was constitutionally valid on the same reasoning on which Section 18A of the Madras General Sales Tax Act was held to be valid in Firm Illuri Subbayya Chetty Sons.	None
Insofar as the challenge to the constitutionality of Section 20 of the Bombay Act is concerned, the suit cannot be said to be barred.	None
Section 20 does not take in the challenge to the validity of the section itself.	None
But inasmuch as Section 20 is found to be constitutional, the plaintiff cannot get any relief.	None
Shri F.S Nariman strongly emphasised the provision in Section 22B of the Bombay Act and the absence of a similar provision in the Central Excise Act Customs Act.	Reasoning
With respect, we are not able to appreciate this argument.	Reasoning
Section 22B merely empowered the appellate revisional authorities to extend the time prescribed for filing an appeal or revision, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Section 22B did not provide for extension of the time prescribed for making an application for refund under Section 13 of the Act.	Reasoning
Even in the Central Excise and Customs Acts, there are provisions empowering the appellate authorities to extend the time prescribed for filing the appeal.	Reasoning
(There is no provision for revision now.)	Reasoning
Of course, there is no provision for extending the timelimit prescribed in Section 11B.	Reasoning
But there was no such provision in the Bombay Act either.	Reasoning
If so, we are unable to see any distinction between the Bombay Act and the enactments concerned herein in this behalf.	Reasoning
We must say that we are in respectful agreement with the propositions enunciated in this decision and propose to apply them to the provisions concerned in these matters.	Reasoning
K.S Venkataraman Co. v. State of Madras 1966 2 SCR 229 is significant for the reason it differs from the decision of the Privy Council in Raleigh Investment Co. Ltd. v. Governor General in Council AIR 1947 PC 78 .	Reasoning
The appellant was assessed to sales tax in respect of certain works contracts executed by them during the years 194849 to 195253.	Reasoning
On 541954, the Madras High Court declared that the relevant provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 empowering the State to assess indivisible building contracts were beyond the competence of the State Legislature.	Reasoning
On 2331955, the appellant instituted a suit for recovery of the amount paid by it on building works contracts.	Reasoning
Both the trial court and the High Court dismissed the suit relying upon the decision of the Privy Council in Raleigh Investment Co. Ltd., and observing that the only remedy of the appellant was to pursue the machinery provided by the statute.	Reasoning
This Court by a majority (Subba Rao, Wanchoo and Sikri, JJ.  	Reasoning
Shah and Ramaswami, JJ.	Reasoning
dissenting) did not agree with the proposition in Raleigh Investment Co. Ltd. that a contention relating to the validity of the Act can be raised before the authorities under the Act.	Reasoning
The Court held that an authority created by a statute cannot question the vires of the statute or any of its provisions and that the authorities must act under the Act and not outside it.	Reasoning
The Court further held that if the authorities act under a provision which is invalid being beyond the competence of the legislature enacting it, it cannot be said that the authorities are acting under the Act.	Reasoning
The question relating to the validity of the Act, the Court held, cannot also be gone into by the High Court acting in its special advisory jurisdiction provided by Section 66 of the Madras Act.	Reasoning
Accordingly, it was held that the suit for refund was maintainable and that the period of limitation is three years from the date on which the mistake became known to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
This again was a case where the provisions, under which the disputed tax was levied, were declared unconstitutional on the ground of lack of legislative competence.	Reasoning
In Dhulabhai v. State of M.P a Constitution Bench of this Court discussed at length the question when does a suit lie for recovery of taxes imposed and collected under a taxing enactment, to wit, the Madhya Bharat Sales Tax Act, 1950 and enunciated seven propositions.	Reasoning
Suits were filed by the appellants for recovery of certain taxes on the ground that the same were collected from them against the constitutional prohibition contained in Article 301.	Reasoning
Hidayatullah, C.J, speaking for the Constitution Bench, summarised the position emerging from the decisions of this Court on the subject in the following words Where the statute gives a finality to the orders of the special tribunals the civil courts jurisdiction must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the civil courts would normally do in a suit.	Reasoning
Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.	None
Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.	Reasoning
Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to find out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry may be decisive.	Reasoning
In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are prescribed by the said statute or not.	None
Challenge to the provisions of the particular Act as ultra vires cannot be brought before Tribunals constituted under that Act.	None
Even the High Court cannot go into that question on a revision or reference from the decision of the Tribunals.	None
When a provision is already unconstitutional or the constitutionality of any provision is to be challenged, a suit is open.	None
A writ of certiorari may include a direction for refund if the claim is clearly within the time prescribed by the Limitation Act but it is not a compulsory remedy to replace a suit.	None
Where the particular Act contains no machinery for refund of tax collected in excess of constitutional limits or illegally collected a suit lies.	None
Questions of the correctness of the assessment apart from its constitutionality are for the decision of the authorities and a civil suit does not lie if the orders of the authorities are declared to be final or there is an express prohibition in the particular Act.	None
In either case the scheme of the particular Act must be examined because it is a relevant enquiry.	Reasoning
An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not readily to be inferred unless the conditions above set down apply.	Reasoning
In the above summary, Proposition No. 5, however, requires a little elucidation.	Reasoning
A reading of the judgment shows that the said proposition is based upon the earlier decisions of this Court in K.S Venkataraman and Bharat Kala Bhandar Ltd. v. Municipal Committee 1965 3	Reasoning
SCR 499.	Reasoning
K.S Venkataraman, as pointed out hereinabove, was a case where the suit was filed for refund of amounts collected under provisions declared ultra vires the State Legislature, i.e, a case of what we have called unconstitutional levy.	Reasoning
Bharat Kala Bhandar Ltd. was a case where there was no machinery provided in the Central Provinces and Berar Municipal Act for refund of tax assessed and recovered in violation of the constitutional limitations.	Reasoning
It was held that one of the corollaries flowing from the principle that the Constitution is the fundamental law of the land is that the normal remedy of a suit will be available for obtaining redress against the violation of a constitutional provision.	Reasoning
The Court must, therefore, lean in favour of construing a law in such a way as not to take away this right and render illusory the protection afforded by the Constitution.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, the tax levied in this case was found to be void being violative of the provisions in Article 276 of the Constitution and Section 142A of the Government of India Act, 1935.	Reasoning
The words in excess of the constitutional limits must, therefore, be understood in the context of the ratio of the above two decisions.	Reasoning
So far as the words illegally collected in Proposition No. 5 are concerned, it is obvious that they go along with the preceding words, i.e, where a tax is collected in disregard of the constitutional limitations, it will be a tax illegally collected and a suit lies.	Reasoning
It would not be reasonable to understand the words illegally collected dissociated from their context or in a manner contrary to the ratio of Kamala Mills, which was expressly referred to and followed in this decision.	Reasoning
The facts of the decision in Tilokchand Motichand v. H.B Munshi 1969 2 SCR 824 AIR 1970 SC 898 are rather interesting.	None
They tell us how the Court viewed the attempt of a person who tried to take advantage of the decision in another persons case rendered several years later.	None
The authorities under the Bombay Sales Tax Act refunded certain amounts to the petitionersdealers on the condition that they should pass on the said amounts to their customers (these amounts were earlier collected by the dealers from their customers and paid to the State).	None
On the ground that the dealers have failed to pass on the said amounts to their customers, the authorities forfeited the said amounts under Section 21(4) of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953.	None
The dealers filed a writ petition in the Bombay High Court challenging the constitutional validity of Section 21(4).	None
A learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition holding that inasmuch as the petitionersdealers have defrauded their customers, they were not entitled to any relief under Article 226.	None
The appeal preferred by the dealers was dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court holding that even if there was a violation of petitioners fundamental right, the High Court was not bound to come to their help in view of their conduct.	None
The dealers accordingly paid up the said amount in instalments between August 1959 and August 1960.	None
More than seven years later, i.e, on 2991967, this Court struck down Section 12(A)(iv) of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1946 corresponding to Section 21(4) of the 1953 Act in Kantilal Babulal and Bros. v. H.C Patel 1968 21 STC 174.	None
On 921968, the petitioners filed a writ petition in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution for refund of the aforesaid amounts on the assumption that Section 21(4) is unconstitutional in view of the decision of this Court in Kantilal Babulal.	None
They submitted that though they had raised other grounds in support of their attack upon the validity of Section 21(4) in the High Court, they were not aware of the particular ground upon which the corresponding provision in the 1946 Act was struck down by this Court in Kantilal Babulal.	None
This Court, by majority, (Hidayatullah, C.J, Bachawat and Mitter, JJ.) dismissed the writ petition holding that the judgment of the High Court dismissing the writ petition filed by the writ petitioner operates as res judicata and bars the petition under Article 32.	None
Hidayatullah, C.J made the following relevant observations (SCC pp.	None
116117, para 12)	None
The petitioner moved the High Court for relief on the ground that the recovery from him was unconstitutional.	None
He set out a number of grounds but did not set out the ground on which ultimately in another case recovery was struck down by this Court.	None
That ground was that the provisions of the Act were unconstitutional.	None
The question is can the petitioner in this case take advantage, after a lapse of a number of years, of the decision of this Court?	None
He moved the High Court but did not come up in appeal to this Court.	None
His contention is that the ground on which his petition was dismissed was different and the ground on which the statute was struck down was not within his knowledge and therefore he did not know of it and pursue it in this Court.	None
To that I answer that law will presume that he knew the exact ground of unconstitutionality.	None
Everybody is presumed to know the law.	None
It was his duty to have brought the matter before this Court for consideration.	None
In any event, having set the machinery of law in motion he cannot abandon it to resume it after a number of years, because another person more adventurous than he in his turn got the statute declared unconstitutional, and got a favourable decision.	None
If I were to hold otherwise, then the decision of the High Court in any case once adjudicated upon and acquiesced in, may be questioned in a fresh litigation revived only with the argument that the correct position was not known to the petitioner at the time when he abandoned his own litigation.	None
I agree with the opinion of my brethren Bachawat and Mitter, JJ.	None
that there is no question here of a mistake of law entitling the petitioner to invoke analogy of the article in the limitation act.	None
The grounds on which he moved the Court might well have impressed this Court which might also have decided the question of the unconstitutionality of the Act as was done in the subsequent litigation by another party.	None
The present petitioner should have taken the right ground in the High Court and taken it in appeal to this Court after the High Court decided against it.	None
Not having done so and having abandoned his own litigation years ago, I do not think that this Court should apply the analogy of the article in the limitation act and give him the relief now.	None
(emphasis added) Bachawat, J. held that a writ under Article 32 will no doubt issue as a matter of course where infringement of fundamental right is established but that does not mean that in giving relief under the said article, this Court would ignore all laws and procedure.	None
The learned Judge also emphasised the discretionary nature of the jurisdiction.	None
Reference may also be made to the decision of K.K Mathew, J. (sitting with Alagiriswami, J.) in D. Cawasji Co. v. State of Mysore 1975 2	Reasoning
SCR 511.	Reasoning
The appellant paid education cess levied under the Mysore Elementary Education Act, 1941 (as amended in 1968).	Reasoning
The Mysore High Court struck down the relevant provisions levying the cess in 1968 on a writ petition filed by the appellant, which was affirmed by this Court in 1971.	Reasoning
In the middle of the year 1968, the appellant filed a writ petition claiming refund of the cess amount paid by him.	Reasoning
The claim was rejected by the High Court on the ground of delay.	Reasoning
On the matter being brought to this Court, this Court held following Bhailal Bhai and Aluminium Industries that taxes paid without the authority of law can be recovered by way of a writ petition and that by virtue of Section 17(1)(c) of the Limitation Act, 1963, the period of limitation does not begin to run, in a suit for relief on the ground of mistake, until the plaintiff has discovered the mistake or could, with reasonable diligence, have discovered it.	Reasoning
Mathew, J. did realise the implication of the said holding.	Reasoning
The learned Judge make these perceptive observations (SCC p. 639, para 9)	None
We are aware that the result of this view would be to enable a person to recover the amount paid as tax even after several years of the date of payment, if some other party would successfully challenge the validity of the law under which the payment was made and if only a suit or writ petition is filed for refund by the person within three years from the date of declaration of the invalidity of the law.	Reasoning
That might both be inexpedient and unjust so far as the State is concerned.	None
(emphasis added)	None
The learned Judge proceeded to observe further (SCC p. 639, para 10)	None
A tax is intended for immediate expenditure for the common good and it would be unjust to require its repayment after it has been in whole or in part expended, which would often be the case, if the suit or application could be brought at any time within three years , be it a hundred years after the date of payment.	Reasoning
Nor is there any provision under which the court deny refund of tax even if the person who paid it has collected it from his customers and has no subsisting liability or intention to refund it to them, or, for any reason, it is impracticable to do so.	Reasoning
(emphasis added)	None
The appeals were, however, dismissed holding that since the appellant has failed to claim the relief of refund in the first writ petition filed by him, he is disentitled from doing so by way of a separate subsequent writ petition.	Reasoning
It was observed that it is not open to the appellant to split up his claim for refund and file writ petitions in a piecemeal fashion.	Reasoning
The decision is significant for pointing out the irrational and unjust consequences of the holding in Bhailal Bhai and Aluminium Industries which implicitly followed Kanhaiya Lal.	Reasoning
The decision is also significant for pointing out the adverse impact on public interest inherent in holding (see Kanhaiya Lal again) that the plea that the State has expended the taxes on public purposes is no defence to a claim for refund.	Reasoning
We may at this juncture refer to a very significant decision in R.S Joshi v. Ajit Mills Ltd. 1977 4 SCC 98 rendered by a sevenJudge Constitution Bench.	Reasoning
Section 46 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 provided that no person shall collect any sum by way of sales tax which is not exigible according to law.	Reasoning
Section 37 provided for penalties in case of violation of the provisions of section 46.	Reasoning
Not only the person so collecting was liable to pay a penalty not exceeding Rupees two thousand but in addition thereto, any sum collected by the person by way of tax in contravention of Section 46 was also liable to be forfeited to the State Government.	Reasoning
The constitutionality of the said provision was questioned on the basis of the earlier decision of this Court in R. Abdul Quader Co. v. STO 1964 6 SCR 867.	Reasoning
The challenge was repelled.	Reasoning
The following observations of Krishna Iyer, J. are apposite (SCC p. 107, paras 1314)	None
The professed object of the law is clear.	None
The motive of the legislature is irrelevant to castigate an Act as a colourable device.	Reasoning
The interdict on public mischief and the insurance of consumer interests against likely, albeit, unwitting or ex abundanti cautela excesses in the working of a statute are not merely an ancillary power but surely a necessary obligation of a social welfare State.	Reasoning
One potent prohibitory process for this consummation is to penalize the trader by casting a nofault or absolute liability to cough up to the State the total unjust takings snapped up and retained by him by way of tax where tax is not so due from him, apart from other punitive impositions to deter and to sober the merchants whose arts of dealing with customers may include many a little makes a mickle.	Reasoning
If these steps in reasoning have the necessary nexus with the power to tax under Entry 54 List II, it passes ones comprehension how the impugned legislation can be denounced as exceeding legislative competence or as a colourable device or as supplementary, not complementary.	Reasoning
In our view, the true key to constitutional construction is to view the equity of the statute and sense the social mission of the law, language permitting, against the triune facets of justice highlighted in the Preamble to the Paramount Parchment, read with a spacious signification of the listed entries concerned.	Reasoning
The learned Judge also observed that social justice clauses integrally connected with the taxing provisions cannot be viewed as a mere device.	Reasoning
The Court held that since the forfeiture of the sums collected by way of tax contrary to law was by way of penalty, the legislation was within the purview of Entry 54 of List II and constitutionally valid.	Reasoning
In our view, the approach adopted in this case is of great relevance in the matters before us.	Reasoning
Decisions of this Court which have applied the Doctrine of Unjust Enrichment Shiv Shankar Dal Mills v. State of Haryana 1980 1	None
SCR 1170 arose with reference to market fees collected under a provision which was struck down by this Court in Kewal Krishan Puri v. State of Punjab 1980 1 SCC 416.	Reasoning
The enhancement of market fee from two to three per cent was held to be bad, whereupon the traders demanded refund of the excess market fee collected from them.	Reasoning
This Court held that though refund of the fee so collected may be legally due to the traders, the traders may be repaid amounts only to the extent they have not passed on the burden to their customers.	Reasoning
To the extent they have passed on, it held, they were not entitled.	Reasoning
This principle was deduced from the concept of distributary justice underlying Articles 38 and 39 of the Constitution of India as also from the discretionary nature of the power under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Following the principle enunciated by this Court in Newabganj Sugar Mills Co. Ltd. v. Union of India 1976 1 SCC 120 , the Court devised a scheme of refund by the market committees providing for refund of amounts to those from whom illegal collections had been made by the traders.	Reasoning
Amar Nath Om Prakash v. State of Punjab 1985 2 SCR 72 was also a case arising with reference to market fee, i.e, an indirect tax.	Reasoning
Section 23A of the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act enabled the market committees to retain the fee levied and collected by it from a licensee in excess of that leviable under Section 23, if the burden of such fee was passed on by the licensee to the next purchaser of the agricultural produce in respect whereof such fee was levied and collected.	Reasoning
The validity of the said provision was called in question in this case.	Reasoning
This Court negatived the challenge holding that the primary purpose of the said section was to prevent refund of licence fee to dealers who have already passed on the burden of such fee to purchasers and who want to unjustly enrich themselves by obtaining refund from the market committee.	Reasoning
The said provision, it was held, recognised that the consumer public who have borne the ultimate burden are the persons really entitled to refund and since the market committee represents their interests, it is entitled to retain the amount.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that the provision for retention by market committee had to be made because of the practical impossibility of tracing the individual purchasers and consumers who have ultimately borne the burden.	Reasoning
It was held that it was really a law returning to the public what it has taken from the public, by enabling the committee to utilise the amount for the performance of services required of it under the Act.	Reasoning
Instead of allowing middlemen to profiteer by illgotten gains, the Legislature has devised a procedure to undo the wrong item that has been done by the excessive levy by allowing the committees to retain the amount to be utilised hereafter for the benefit of the very persons for whose benefit the marketing legislation was enacted.	Reasoning
The Court observed that Section 23A was akin to the provision concerned in Orient Paper Mills Ltd. v. State of Orissa 1962 1	Reasoning
SCR 549 which too disabled a dealer from claiming a refund of the fee paid by him, in case he has already passed on the burden to the next purchaser.	Reasoning
The approach adopted by this Court in this case meets our respectful approval.	Reasoning
State of M.P v. Vyankatlal 1985 2 SCC 544 marks a definite milestone in the application of the doctrine of unjust enrichment.	Reasoning
In exercise of the powers conferred upon him by the Madhya Bharat Essential Supplies (Temporary Powers) Act, 1948, the Director of Civil Supplies, issued a notification fixing exfactory prices of sugar for different sugar factories.	Reasoning
The supply price was a little higher than the exfactory price.	Reasoning
The notification required the difference between the supply price and the exfactory price to be credited to the Madhya Bharat Government Sugar Fund.	Reasoning
Pursuant to the demands made by the State, the sugar mills deposited certain amounts into the said Fund under protest and then instituted suits for refund of the amounts so deposited.	Reasoning
The High Court upheld the plea of the sugar mills that the Director of Civil Supplies had no authority in law to fix the exfactory prices.	Reasoning
This meant that the sugar mills were entitled to the refund of the amounts paid by them into the Fund.	Reasoning
The State appealed to this Court against the said decision.	Reasoning
Following the principle of Shiv Shankar Dal Mills and Amar Nath Om Prakash, this Court held that even though there is no specific provision in Madhya Bharat Act providing that the sugar mills are not entitled to refund in case they have passed on the burden to the purchasers, the said principle can safely be applied to the facts of the case before them.	Reasoning
The Court observed (SCC pp. 54950, para 14)	None
The burden of paying the amount in question was transferred by the respondents to the purchasers and, therefore, they were not entitled to get a refund.	Reasoning
Only the persons on whom lay the ultimate burden to pay the amount would be entitled to get a refund of the same.	Reasoning
The amount deposited towards the Fund was to be utilised for the development of sugarcane.	Reasoning
If it is not possible to identify the persons on whom had the burden been placed for payment towards the Fund, the amount of the Fund can be utilised by the Government for the purpose for which the Fund was created, namely, development of sugarcane.	Reasoning
There is no question of refunding the amount to the respondents who had not eventually paid the amount towards the Fund.	Reasoning
Doing so would virtually amount to allow the respondents unjust enrichment.	Reasoning
We express our respectful agreement with the above approach.	Reasoning
The same approach was adopted in the case of entry tax in Indian Aluminium Company Limited v. Thane Municipal Corporation 1992 Supp 1 SCC 480, Indian Oil Corpn.	None
v. Municipal Corpn 1993 1 SCC 333 and in Entry Tax Officer v. Chandanmal Champalal Co. 1994 4 SCC 463 Decisions of this Court dealing directly with the 1991 (Amendment) Act The first decision of this Court to consider the amended Section 11B is in Union of India v. Jain Spinners Ltd. 1992 4 SCC 389	None
The validity of the 1991 (Amendment) Act was, however, neither raised nor considered by the court.	None
The impugned orders of the High Court, made before the coming into force of the 1991 (Amendment) Act, directing refund of the excess duty collected to the manufacturers, this Court held, would defeat the provisions of amended Section 11B which had come into force during the pendency of the refund proceedings.	None
The Court held that so long as the refund proceedings are pending, the amended provisions get attracted and disentitle the manufacturerpayer from claiming any refund contrary to the said provisions.	None
In other words, the contention of the manufacturers that the amended Section 11B applies only to claims of refund arising after the coming into force of the said Amendment Act was rejected.	None
In Union of India v. ITC Ltd. 1993	None
Supp 4 SCC 326 it was held by this Court (Kuldip Singh and Dr. A.S Anand, JJ.) that the amended Section 11B applies to all pending cases, including those pending in appeal before the Supreme Court.	None
It was held that the amended provisions do apply to such a case as well, notwithstanding the fact that the refund amount was drawn out by the manufacturer, under the orders of the Court, whether subject to furnishing of adequate guarantees or otherwise.	None
The Court held further that by virtue of the 1991 (Amendment) Act, the Court is bound to take notice of the change in law governing refunds and accordingly it called upon the manufacturerassessee to furnish documentary or other evidence to establish that the amount of duty of excise in relation to which the refund is claimed had not been passed on by him to any other person.	None
Since the manufacturer could not establish the said fact, the Court declined to grant refund in terms of the amended Section	None
11B.	Decision
It must be noted that the plea of unjust enrichment was not specifically raised before the High Court and was raised only in the appeal before this Court.	None
The objection of the manufacturer on this count was repelled saying that since the 1991 Amendment was not there, the nonraising of the said defence cannot preclude the Revenue from raising the said plea after the coming into force of the Amendment Act.	None
The Court also invoked the presumption contained in Section 12B holding that the said presumption is attracted to pending proceedings as well.	None
Decisions of Foreign Courts on the subject A number of decisions rendered by foreign courts have been brought to our notice, of which we may notice a few  only with a view to note how different constitutional courts are viewing the problem of refund of taxes collected contrary to law.	None
United Kingdom Until 1992, the law in England was that taxes paid under a mistake of law were not recoverable whereas taxes paid under a mistake of fact or under compulsion were held recoverable.	None
This position was radically altered by the decision of House of Lords in Woolwich Building Society v. IRC (No. 2) 1992 3	None
All ER 737.	None
The first thing to be noticed with respect to the decision in Woolwich Building Society is that it deals with a direct tax, viz., income tax and not with an indirect tax.	None
Secondly, it is a case where the regulations under which taxes were demanded and collected, were held to be ultra vires and void.	None
In other words, it was not a case in which an excessive assessment was made on a taxpayer through some error of fact or law.	None
For this reason, it was held that the remedy of the taxpayer lay in common law and not the ones provided by the statute itself.	None
The majority (Lord Goff, Lord BrowneWilkinson and Lord Slynn of Hadley), even while holding that taxes paid under a mistake of law are recoverable, hedged the rule with certain riders.	None
Lord Goff held that where a tax or duty is paid by a citizen pursuant to an unlawful demand common justice seems to require that tax to be repaid, unless special circumstances or some principle of policy require otherwise prima facie, the taxpayer should be entitled to repayment as of right (p. 759).	None
This principle he deduced from the Bills of Rights (1688) which proclaimed inter alia that taxes should not be levied without the authority of Parliament.	None
The learned Law Lord indicated that same rule may also govern cases where excess tax is collected by misconstruction of law, though he declined to express a final opinion on the question.	None
He also did not express any definite opinion on the question  what would be the position, if the plaintiff passes on the burden of tax to another.	None
The learned Law Lord agreed that the law can place shorter timelimits for making such claims of restitution and referred in that connection to the position obtaining in German law where formal objection has to be lodged within one month of the notification to enable a citizen to claim refund of amounts collected unlawfully.	None
The German law further provides that one citizen cannot benefit from the successful formal objection of another citizen the rule is that the person should himself object and take proceedings within the prescribed timelimit.	None
The minority (Lord Keith of Kinkel and Lord Jauncey of Tullichettle), however, stuck to the prevailing view that taxes paid under a mistake of law are not recoverable.	None
Strictly speaking, this decision is of little relevance to us.	None
Firstly, it deals with a direct tax.	None
In the case of a direct tax, there can be no question of passing on the burden of the tax to others as in the case of an indirect tax.	None
All that the decision says, reversing the hitherto prevailing theory, that taxes paid under a mistake of law ought to be refunded.	None
Canada In Air Canada et al v. Queen in Right of British Columbia et al 1989 59 DLR 4th 161, Can SC, the learned Judges (including Wilson, J. who dissented on one issue to be indicated shortly) looked at the claim of refund of taxes recovered contrary to law from two standpoints, viz., Constitutional Law and Law of Restitution.	None
They held that the distinction between mistake of fact and mistake of law should play no part in the Law of Restitution and further that the rule that taxes paid under a mistake of law are not recoverable should have no place in Constitutional Law.	None
La Forest, J. put the position in the following words In my view the distinction between mistake of fact and mistake of law should play no part in the law of restitution.	None
Both species of mistake, if one can be distinguished from the other, should, in an appropriate case, be considered as factors which can make an enrichment at the plaintiffs expense unjust or unjustified.	None
This does not imply, however, that recovery will follow in every case where a mistake has been shown to exist.	None
If the defendant can show that the payment was made in settlement of an honest claim, or that he has changed his position as a result of the enrichment, then restitution will be denied.	None
Even were I not of the opinion that this rule should be abolished, I would not be prepared to extend to the constitutional plane a rule so replete with technicality and difficulty as the mistake of law rule.	None
Constitutional adjudication invites the formulation of broad principles suitable to the accommodation and resolution of broad social and political values, and this much criticized rule seems singularly unsuited for that purpose.	None
Even so, the learned Judge held that the claim of the Airlines should be denied on the ground that it passed on the burden to its customers notwithstanding the fact that by doing so, the province would be benefited at the expense of the Airlines.	None
The learned Judge, in fact, went further and held that even if the Airlines could show that they themselves bore the burden of taxes, recovery of ultra vires taxes should be denied, at least in the case of unconstitutional statutes except where the relationship between the State and a particular taxpayer resulting in the collection of taxes is unjust or oppressive in the circumstances.	None
This rule against recovery, the learned Judge held, is based on concerns for the protection of the treasury and the recognition of the reality that if the tax was refunded, modern Government would be driven to the inefficient course of reimposing it either on the same or a new generation of taxpayers to finance the operations of the Government.	None
This rule, however, was held inapplicable where the tax is extracted from a taxpayer through a misapplication of law.	None
The following observations from his opinion are relevant While it will take some time for the courts to work out the limits of the developing law of restitution, it is useful on this point to examine the American experience.	None
Professor George C. Palmer, in his work, The Law of Restitution, makes the following comment (1986 Supplement, at p. 255)	None
There is no doubt that if the tax authority retains a payment to which it was not entitled it has been unjustly enriched.	None
It has not been enriched at the taxpayers expense, however, if he has shifted the economic burden of the tax to others.	None
Unless restitution for their benefit can be worked out, it seems preferable to leave the enrichment with the tax authority instead of putting the judicial machinery in motion for the purpose of shifting the same enrichment to the taxpayer.	None
In my view there is merit to this observation, and if it were necessary I would apply it to this case as the evidence supports that the Airlines had passed on to their customers the burden of the tax imposed upon them.	None
The law of restitution is not intended to provide windfalls to plaintiffs who have suffered no loss.	None
Its function is to ensure that where a plaintiff has been deprived of wealth that is either in his possession or would have accrued for his benefit, it is restored to him.	None
The measure of restitutionary recovery is the gain the province made at the Airlines expense.	None
If the Airlines have not shown that they bore the burden of the tax, then they have not made out their claim.	None
What the province received is relevant only insofar as it was received at the Airlines expense.	None
This alone is sufficient to deny the Airlines claim.	None
However, even if the Airlines could show that they bore the burden of the tax, I would still deny recovery.	None
It is clear that the principles of unjust enrichment can operate against a Government to ground restitutionary recovery, but in this kind of case, where the effect of an unconstitutional or ultra vires statute is in issue, I am of the opinion that special considerations operate to take this case out of the normal restitutionary framework, and require a rule responding to the specific underlying policy concerns in this area.	None
A related concern, and one prevalent through many of the authorities and much of the academic literature is the fiscal chaos that would result if the general rule favoured recovery, particularly where a longstanding taxation measure is involved.	None
That this is not an unfounded concern can be seen by reference to one incident in the United States.	None
A provision has been inserted in the United States Internal Revenue Code removing the distinction between mistakes of fact and mistakes of law because of the harsh and unjust results that had occurred under the general rule.	None
This, however, placed a severe strain on the United States Treasury when the Supreme Court in United States v. Butler 297 US 1, held unconstitutional the Agricultural Adjustment Act making almost one billion dollars in invalid taxes (a respectable amount now but overwhelming during the depression) repayable by the Government.	None
Faced with this situation, Congress immediately passed an Act which provided that no refunds for such taxes would be allowed unless the claimant could establish the burden of the tax.	Reasoning
(emphasis added) Wilson, J., however, differed with the majority on the effect of passing on of the burden of tax by the plaintiff.	None
The learned Judge opined that where taxes are recovered under an unlawful statute, they must be returned irrespective of the fact whether the taxpayer has passed on the burden to its customers or not.	None
The learned Judge refused to accept the plea of fiscal chaos, as a sufficient ground for denying the refund.	None
It is brought to our notice by Shri F.S Nariman that in another judgment delivered on the same day by the Canadian Supreme Court in Canadian Pacific Airlines Ltd. v. British Columbia 1989 59 DLR 4th 218, the Court held that the C.P Air could recover the social service tax paid on purchases of equipment and parts but that the tax paid by it on alcoholic beverages is not recoverable for the reason that the latter tax was imposed on passengers who consume the liquor  and not on C.P Air.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Nariman has also placed a copy of the judgment in this case before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is evident from a reading of the judgment that it was not a case of tax levied and collected under an invalid statute but a case where the tax was collected wrongly by misinterpreting the provisions of the statute  in which situation, the taxes are refundable according to the decision in Air Canada.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, it may not be necessary to refer to the opinions of learned Judges.	Reasoning
It is not suggested that any contrary principle is enunciated in this case.	Reasoning
The law in Canada appears rather paradoxical to an Indian lawyer.	Reasoning
It says that while taxes collected under an unconstitutional statute need not be refunded (even if the burden of tax has not been passed on to a third party), taxes collected by misinterpreting misapplying the provisions of a statute ought to be refunded.	Reasoning
This circumstance emphasises how the jurisprudence in each country has developed differently.	Reasoning
We, on our part, have to evolve appropriate principles to meet the emerging situations, keeping in mind the development of law in our own country, our own circumstances and above all, our own constitutional philosophy.	Reasoning
At the same time, we express our broad agreement with the approach and thinking of the majority Judges in Air Canada.	Reasoning
Australia In Commr. of State Revenue v. Royal Insurance Australia Ltd. 1995 69	None
Aus LJ 51, the Australian High Court rejected the plea of the State that inasmuch as the plaintiff has passed on the burden of illegally collected tax to others, it is not entitled to restitution.	None
Mason, C.J observed The argument that a plaintiff who passes on a tax or charge will receive a windfall or will unjustly be enriched if recovery from a public authority is permitted rests at bottom upon the economic view that the plaintiff should not recover if the burden of the imposition of the tax or charge has been shifted to third parties.	None
In the context of the law of restitution, this economic view encounters major difficulties.	None
The first is that to deny recovery when the plaintiff shifts the burden of the imposition of the tax or charge to third parties will often leave a plaintiff who suffers loss or damage without a remedy.	None
That consequence suggests that, if the economic argument is to be converted into a legal proposition, the proposition must be that the plaintiffs recovery should be limited to compensation for loss or damage sustained.	None
The third is that an inquiry into and a determination of the loss or damage sustained by a plaintiff who passes on a tax or charge is a very complex undertaking.	None
And finally, it has long been thought that, despite Lord Mansfields statement in Moses v. Macferlan 97 ER 676, the basis of restitutionary relief is not compensation for loss or damage sustained but restoration to the plaintiff of what has been taken or received from the plaintiff without justification.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is obvious that the learned Chief Justice looked at the matter from the point of view of the law of restitution alone which fact would also be evident from the following further observations (at p. 63)	None
As between the plaintiff and the defendant, the plaintiff having paid away its money by mistake in circumstances in which the defendant has no title to retain the moneys, the plaintiff has the superior claim.	None
The plaintiffs inability to distribute the proceeds to those who recoup the plaintiff was, in my view, an immaterial consideration.	None
Dawson, J. also took the same view.	None
The following observations of the learned Judge, however, indicate the nature of the violation in this case, which is of quite some significance No question such as that which arose in Air Canada v. British Columbia would arise in the present case.	None
In the Canadian case a majority of the Supreme Court held that, whilst moneys paid under a mistake of law might be recovered upon the basis of unjust enrichment, that doctrine did not extend to moneys paid under unconstitutional legislation.	None
No question of unconstitutionality arises in this case.	None
The application of the common law would also raise the question whether the principle of unjust enrichment can be invoked when moneys paid under a mistake of fact or law constitute an expense which has been passed on to someone else, as the respondent insurer is said to have passed on the overpayments of stamp duty to its insured in this case.	None
The better view would seem to be that it is the unjust enrichment of the payee rather than loss suffered by the payer which should govern entitlement to restitution but, having regard to the view which I take, it is unnecessary to determine that question in these proceedings.	None
(emphasis supplied) E.C Amministrazione delle Finanze dello Stato (State Finance Admn.	None
v. San Giorgio SpA 1985 2 CMLR 658 was decided by the Court of Justice of the European Community.	None
Italy, which is a member of the European Economic Community made a law, Section 10(1) whereof provided that a person who has paid import duties, manufacturing taxes, taxes on consumption or State taxes which have been unduly levied, even prior to the entry into force of this decree, is not entitled to the repayment of the sums paid when the charge in question has been passed on in any way whatsoever to other persons, except in cases of substantive error.	None
Subsection (2) further provided that the charge is presumed to have been passed on whenever the goods in respect of which payment was effected have been transferred even after processing, transformation, erection, assembly or adaptation in the absence of documentary proof to the contrary.	None
The question before the Court was whether the said provision was contrary to Article 12 of the E.E.C Treaty (Treaty of Rome) which prohibited imposition of any customs duties between the member States.	None
It was held that it does.	None
The entire discussion in the judgment revolves around the incompatibility of both the provisions.	None
We do not, therefore, see any relevance of the decision to the question at issue before us.	None
S.A In this context, we may refer to a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States of America in United States v. Jefferson Electric Manufacturing Co.	None
78 L Ed 859 Section 424 of the Revenue Act, 1928 provided that no refund shall be made of any amount paid by or collected from any manufacturer, producer, or importer in respect of the tax imposed by subdivision (3) of Section 600 of the Revenue Act of 1924, or subdivision (3) of Section 900 of the Revenue Act of 1921, or of the Revenue Act of 1918, unless.	Reasoning
(2) It is established to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that such amount was in excess of the amount properly payable upon the sale or lease of an article subject to tax, or that such amount was not collected, directly or indirectly, from the purchaser or lessee, or that such amount although collected from the purchaser or lessee, was returned to him.	Reasoning
The said provision was attacked as violative of the due process clause in the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.	Reasoning
The attack was repelled holding that the provision being based upon equitable principles which underlie an action in assumpsit for money had and received is not an unreasonable provision.	Reasoning
The Court further observed that an action in assumpsit for money had and received is of equitable character aiming at the abstract justice of the case and is less restricted and fettered by technical rules and formalities than any other form of action.	Reasoning
The Court conceded that if the tax was illegally levied, under the system then in force, the taxpayer had acquired a right to have it refunded without showing whether he bore the burden of the tax or had shifted it to the purchasers.	Reasoning
Even so, it was held that the requirements imposed by Section 424 which the taxpayer should satisfy before he can claim refund were reasonable and equitable.	Reasoning
The following observations of the Court are apposite	None
But it cannot be conceded that in imposing this restriction the section strikes down prior rights, or does more than to require that it be shown or made certain that the money when refunded will go to the one who has borne the burden of the illegal tax, and therefore is entitled in justice and good conscience to such relief.	Reasoning
This plainly is but another way of providing that the money shall go to the one who has been the actual sufferer and therefore is the real party in interest.	Reasoning
We do not perceive in the restriction any infringement of due process of law.	Reasoning
If the taxpayer has borne the burden of the tax, he readily can show it and certainly there is nothing arbitrary in requiring that he make such a showing.	Reasoning
If he has shifted the burden to the purchasers, they and not he have been the actual sufferers and are the real parties in interest and in such a situation there is nothing arbitrary in requiring, as a condition of refunding the tax to him, that he give a bond to use the refunded money in reimbursing them.	Reasoning
The present contention is particularly faulty in that it overlooks the fact that the statutes providing for refunds and for suits on claims therefor proceed on the same equitable principles that underlie an action in assumpsit for money had and received.	Reasoning
Of such an action it rightly has been said This is often called an equitable action and is less restricted and fettered by technical rules and formalities than any other form of action.	Reasoning
It aims at the abstract justice of the case, and looks solely to the inquiry, whether the defendant holds money, which ex aequo at bono belongs to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
It was encouraged and, to a great extent, brought into use by that great and just Judge, Lord Mansfield, and from his day to the present, has been constantly resorted to in all cases coming within its broad principles.	Reasoning
It approaches nearer to a bill in equity than any other common law action.	Reasoning
We express our broad agreement with the approach adopted by the United States Supreme Court.	Reasoning
Shri Nariman, however, referred to the second alternate condition imposed by Section 424 which provided that if the manufacturer gives a bond undertaking to refund the same to purchaser within a particular period, he would be entitled to claim refund.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that such a condition could have been imposed in the Central Excises and Customs Act as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that even if it is legitimate for Parliament to prescribe that in case the money was passed on, it must be made over to the person from whom it was collected, all this should be done through the medium of the manufacturer taxpayer and not through any other medium.	Arguments of Petitioner
We must say that we are not concerned with the question of desirability of a provision which could have been made but with the legality of the provision which has been made.	Reasoning
It cannot be suggested that Parliament should necessarily have made such a provision or that in the absence of such a provision, the provisions made are violative of Article 265 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
PART II Was Kanhaiya Lal correctly decided and if not, in what respects The first question that has to be answered herein is whether Kanhaiya Lal has been rightly decided insofar as it says (1) that where the taxes are paid under a mistake of law, the person paying it is entitled to recover the same from the State on establishing a mistake and that this consequence flows from Section 72 of the Contract Act (2) that it is open to an assessee to claim refund of tax paid by him under orders which have become final  or to reopen the orders which have become final in his own case  on the basis of discovery of a mistake of law based upon the decision of a court in the case of another assessee, regardless of the timelapse involved and regardless of the fact that the relevant enactment does not provide for such refund or reopening (3) whether equitable considerations have no place in situations where Section 72 of the Contract Act is applicable, and (4) whether the spending away of the taxes collected by the State is not a good defence to a claim for refund of taxes collected contrary to law.	Issue
Re (I) Hereinbefore, we have referred to the provisions relating to refund obtaining from time to time under the Central Excises and Salt Act.	None
Whether it is Rule 11 (as it stood from time to time) or Section 11B (as it obtained before 1991 or subsequent thereto), they invariably purported to be exhaustive on the question of refund.	Reasoning
Rule 11, as in force prior to 681977, stated that no duties and charges which have been paid or have been adjusted shall be refunded unless the claimant makes an application for such refund under his signature and lodges it to the proper officers within three months from the date of such payment or adjustment, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Rule 11, as in force between 681977 and 17111980 contained subrule (4) which expressly declared (4) Save as otherwise provided by or under this rule, no claim of refund of any duty shall be entertained.	Reasoning
Section 11B, as in force prior to April 1991 contained subsection (4) in identical words.	None
It said (4) Save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, no claim for refund of any duty of excise shall be entertained.	None
Subsection (5) was more specific and emphatic.	None
It said Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the provisions of this section shall also apply to a claim for refund of any amount collected as duty of excise made on the ground that the goods in respect of which such amount was collected were not excisable or were entitled to exemption from duty and no court shall have any jurisdiction in respect of such claim.	None
It started with a non obstante clause it took in every kind of refund and every claim for refund and it expressly barred the jurisdiction of courts in respect of such claim.	None
subsection (3) of Section 11B, as it now stands, is to the same effect  indeed, more comprehensive and allencompassing.	None
It says Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or in any law for the time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection.	None
The language could not have been more specific and emphatic.	Reasoning
The exclusivity of the provision relating to refund is not only express and unambiguous but is in addition to the general bar arising from the fact that the Act creates new rights and liabilities and also provides forums and procedures for ascertaining and adjudicating those rights and liabilities and all other incidental and ancillary matters, as will be pointed out presently.	Reasoning
This is a bar upon a bar  an aspect emphasised in para 23 supra, and has to be respected so long as it stands.	Reasoning
The validity of these provisions has never been seriously doubted.	Reasoning
Even though in certain writ petitions now before us, validity of the 1991 (Amendment) Act including the amended Section 11B is questioned, no specific reasons have been assigned why a provision of the nature of subsection (3) of Section 11B (amended) is unconstitutional.	Reasoning
Applying the propositions enunciated by a sevenJudge Bench of this Court in Kamala Mills, it must be held that Section 11B (both before and after amendment) is valid and constitutional.	Reasoning
In Kamala Mills, this Court upheld the constitutional validity of Section 20 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act (set out hereinbefore) on the ground that the Bombay Act contained adequate provisions for refund, for appeal, revision, rectification of mistake and for condonation of delay in filing appeal revision.	Reasoning
The Court pointed out that had the Bombay Act not provided these remedies and yet barred the resort to civil court, the constitutionality of Section 20 may have been in serious doubt, but since it does provide such remedies, its validity was beyond challenge.	Reasoning
To repeat  and it is necessary to do so  so long as Section 11B is constitutionally valid, it has to be followed and given effect to.	Reasoning
We can see no reason on which the constitutionality of the said provision  or a similar provision  can be doubted.	Reasoning
It must also be remembered that Central Excises and Salt Act is a special enactment creating new and special obligations and rights, which at the same time prescribes the procedure for levy, assessment, collection, refund and all other incidental and ancillary provisions.	Reasoning
As pointed out in the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill which became the Act, the Act along with the Rules was intended to form a complete Central excise code.	Reasoning
The idea was to consolidate in a single enactment all the laws relating to Central duties of excise.	Reasoning
The Act is a selfcontained enactment.	Reasoning
It contains provisions for collecting the taxes which are due according to law but have not been collected and also for refunding the taxes which have been collected contrary to law, viz., sections 11a and 11b and its allied provisions.	Reasoning
Both provisions contain a uniform rule of limitation, viz., six months, with an exception in each case.	Reasoning
sections 11a and 11b are complementary to each other.	Reasoning
To such a situation, Proposition No. 3 enunciated in Kamala Mills becomes applicable, viz., where a statute creates a special right or a liability and also provides the procedure for the determination of the right or liability by the Tribunals constituted in that behalf and provides further that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the Tribunals so constituted, the resort to civil court is not available  except to the limited extent pointed out therein.	Reasoning
Central Excise Act specifically provides for refund.	Reasoning
It expressly declares that no refund shall be made except in accordance therewith.	Reasoning
The jurisdiction of a civil court is expressly barred  vide subsection (5) of Section 11B, prior to its amendment in 1991, and subsection (3) of Section 11B, as amended in 1991.	Reasoning
It is relevant to notice that the Act provides for more than one appeal against the orders made under Section 11B Rule 11.	Reasoning
Since 1981, an appeal is provided to this Court also from the orders of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
While Tribunal is not a departmental organ, this Court is a civil court.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter and the express and additional bar and exclusivity contained in Rule 11.Section 11B, at all points of time, it must be held that any and every ground including the violation of the principles of natural justice and infraction of fundamental principles of judicial procedure can be urged in these appeals, obviating the necessity of a suit or a writ petition in matters relating to refund.	Reasoning
Once the constitutionality of the provisions of the Act including the provisions relating to refund is beyond question, they constitute law within the meaning of Article 265 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It follows that any action taken under and in accordance with the said provisions would be an action taken under the authority of law, within the meaning of Article 265.	Reasoning
In the face of the express provision which expressly declares that no claim for refund of any duty shall be entertained except in accordance with the said provision, it is not permissible to resort to Section 72 of the Contract Act to do precisely that which is expressly prohibited by the said provisions.	Reasoning
In other words, it is not permissible to claim refund by invoking Section 72 as a separate and independent remedy when such a course is expressly barred by the provisions in the Act, viz., Rule 11 and Section	Reasoning
11B.	Decision
For this reason, a suit for refund would also not lie.	Reasoning
Taking any other view would amount to nullifying the provisions in Rule 11.Section 11B, which, it needs no emphasis, cannot be done.	Reasoning
It, therefore, follows that any and every claim for refund of excise duty can be made only under and in accordance with Rule 11 or Section 11B, as the case may be, in the forums provided by the Act.	Reasoning
No suit can be filed for refund of duty invoking Section 72 of the Contract Act.	Reasoning
So far as the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226  or for that matter, the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32  is concerned, it is obvious that the provisions of the Act cannot bar and curtail these remedies.	Reasoning
It is, however, equally obvious that while exercising the power under Article 226.Article 32, the Court would certainly take note of the legislative intent manifested in the provisions of the Act and would exercise their jurisdiction consistent with the provisions of the enactment.	Reasoning
There is, however, one exception to the above proposition, i.e, where a provision of the Act whereunder the duty has been levied is found to be unconstitutional for violation of any of the constitutional limitations.	Reasoning
This is a situation not contemplated by the Act.	Reasoning
The Act does not contemplate any of its provisions being declared unconstitutional and therefore it does not provide for its consequences.	Reasoning
Rule 11.Section 11B are premised upon the supposition that the provisions of the Act are good and valid.	Reasoning
But where any provision under which duty is levied is found to be unconstitutional, Article 265 steps in.	Reasoning
In other words, the person who had paid the tax is entitled to claim refund and such a claim cannot be governed by the provisions in Rule 11.Section	Reasoning
11B. The very collection and or retention of tax without the authority of law entitles the person, from whom it is collected, to claim its refund.	Reasoning
A corresponding obligation upon the State to refund it can also be said to flow from it.	Reasoning
This can be called the right to refund arising under and by virtue of the constitutional provisions, viz., Article 265.	Reasoning
But, it does not follow from this that refund follows automatically.	Reasoning
Article 265 cannot be read in isolation.	Reasoning
It must be read in the light of the concepts of economic and social justice envisaged in the Preamble and the guiding principles of State Policy adumbrated in Articles 38 and 39  an aspect dealt with at some length at a later stage.	Reasoning
The very concept of economic justice means and demands that unless the claimant (for refund) establishes that he has not passed on the burden of the duty tax to others, he has no just claim for refund.	Reasoning
It would be a parody of economic justice to refund the duty to a claimant who has already collected the said amount from his buyers.	Reasoning
The refund should really be made to the persons who have actually borne its burden  that would be economic justice.	Reasoning
Conferring an unwarranted and unmerited monetary benefit upon an individual is the very antithesis of the concept of economic justice and the principles underlying Articles 38 and 39.	Reasoning
Now, the right to refund arising as a result of declaration of unconstitutionality of a provision of the enactment can also be looked at as a statutory right of restitution.	Reasoning
It can be said in such a case that the tax paid has been paid under a mistake of law which mistake of law was discovered by the manufacturer assessee on the declaration of invalidity of the provision by the court.	Reasoning
Section 72 of the Contract Act may be attracted to such a case and a claim for refund of tax on this score can be maintained with reference to Section 72.	Reasoning
This too, however, does not mean that the taxes paid under an unconstitutional provision of law are automatically refundable under Section 72.	Reasoning
Section 72 contains a rule of equity and once it is a rule of equity, it necessarily follows that equitable considerations are relevant in applying the said rule  an aspect which we shall deal with a little later.	Reasoning
Thus, whether the right to refund of taxes paid under an unconstitutional provision of law is treated as a constitutional right flowing from Article 265 or as a statutory right equitable right affirmed by Section 72 of the Contract Act, the result is the same  there is no automatic or unconditional right to refund.	Reasoning
Re (II) We may now consider a situation where a manufacturer pays a duty unquestioningly  or he questions the levy but fails before the original authority and keeps quiet.	None
It may also be a case where he files an appeal, the appeal goes against him and he keeps quiet.	None
It may also be a case where he files a second appeal revision, fails and then keeps quiet.	None
The orders in any of the situations have become final against him.	None
Then what happens is that after a year, five years, ten years, twenty years or even much later, a decision is rendered by a High Court or the Supreme Court in the case of another person holding that duty was not payable or was payable at a lesser rate in such a case.	None
(We must reiterate and emphasise that while dealing with this situation we are keeping out the situation where the provision under which the duty is levied is declared unconstitutional by a court that is a separate category and the discussion in this paragraph does not include that situation.	None
In other words, we are dealing with a case where the duty was paid on account of misconstruction, misapplication or wrong interpretation of a provision of law, rule, notification or regulation, as the case may be.)	Reasoning
Is it open to the manufacturer to say that the decision of a High Court or the Supreme Court, as the case may be, in the case of another person has made him aware of the mistake of law and, therefore, he is entitled to refund of the duty paid by him?	Reasoning
Can he invoke Section 72 of the Contract Act in such a case and claim refund and whether in such a case, it can be held that reading Section 72 of the Contract Act along with Section 17(1)(c) of the Limitation Act, 1963, the period of limitation for making such a claim for refund, whether by way of a suit or by way of a writ petition, is three years from the date of discovery of such mistake of law?	Reasoning
Kanhaiya Lal is understood as saying that such a course is permissible.	Reasoning
Later decisions commencing from Bhailal Bhai have held that the period of limitation in such cases is three years from the date of discovery of the mistake of law.	Reasoning
With the greatest respect to the learned Judges who said so, we find ourselves unable to agree with the said proposition.	Reasoning
Acceptance of the said proposition would do violence to several wellaccepted concepts of law.	Reasoning
One of the important principles of law, based upon public policy, is the sanctity attaching to the finality of any proceeding, be it a suit or any other proceeding.	Reasoning
Where a duty has been collected under a particular order which has become final, the refund of that duty cannot be claimed unless the order (whether it is an order of assessment, adjudication or any other order under which the duty is paid) is set aside according to law.	Reasoning
So long as that order stands, the duty cannot be recovered back nor can any claim for its refund be entertained.	Reasoning
But what is happening now is that the duty which has been paid under a proceeding which has become final long ago  may be an year back, ten years back or even twenty or more years back  is sought to be recovered on the ground of alleged discovery of mistake of law on the basis of a decision of a High Court or the Supreme Court.	Reasoning
It is necessary to point out in this behalf that for filing an appeal or for adopting a remedy provided by the Act, the limitation generally prescribed is about three months (little more or less does not matter).	Reasoning
But according to the present practice, writs and suits are being filed after lapse of a long number of years and the rule of limitation applicable in that behalf is said to be three years from the date of discovery of mistake of law.	Reasoning
The incongruity of the situation needs no emphasis.	Reasoning
And all this because another manufacturer or assessee has obtained a decision favourable to him.	Reasoning
What has indeed been happening all these years is that just because one or a few of the assessees succeed in having their interpretation or contention accepted by a High Court or the Supreme Court, all the manufacturers assessees all over the country are filing refund claims within three years of such decision, irrespective of the fact that they may have paid the duty, say thirty years back, under similar provisions  and their claims are being allowed by courts.	Reasoning
All this is said to be flowing from Article 265 which basis, as we have explained hereinbefore, is totally unsustainable for the reason that the Central Excises Act and the Rules made thereunder including Section 11B Rule 11 too constitute law within the meaning of Article 265 and that in the face of the said provisions  which are exclusive in their nature  no claim for refund is maintainable except under and in accordance therewith.	Reasoning
The second basic concept of law which is violated by permitting the above situation is the sanctity of the provisions of the Central Excises and Salt Act itself.	Reasoning
The Act provides for levy, assessment, recovery, refund, appeals and all incidental ancillary matters.	Reasoning
Rule 11 and Section 11B, in particular, provide for refund of taxes which have been collected contrary to law, i.e, on account of a misinterpretation or misconstruction of a provision of law, rule, notification or regulation.	Reasoning
The Act provides for both the situations represented by sections 11a and 11b.	Reasoning
As held by a sevenJudge Bench in Kamala Mills, following the principles enunciated in Firm Illuri Subbayya Chetty, the words any assessment made under this Act are wide enough to cover all assessments made by the appropriate authorities under the Act whether the assessments are correct or not and that the words an assessment made cannot mean an assessment properly and correctly made.	Reasoning
It was also pointed out in the said decision that the provisions of the Bombay Sales Tax Act clearly indicate that all questions pertaining to the liability of the dealer to pay assessment in respect of their transactions are expressly left to be decided by the appropriate authorities under the Act as matters falling within their jurisdiction.	Reasoning
Whether or not a return is correct and whether a transaction is exigible to tax or not are all matters to be determined by the authorities under the Act.	Reasoning
The argument that the finding of the authority that a particular transaction is taxable under the Act is a finding on a collateral fact and, therefore, resort to civil court is open, was expressly rejected and it was affirmed that the whole activity of assessment beginning with the filing of the return and ending with the order of assessment falls within the jurisdiction of the authorities under the Act and no part of it can be said to constitute a collateral activity not specifically or expressly included in the jurisdiction of the authorities under the Act.	Reasoning
It was clarified that even if the authority under the Act holds erroneously, while exercising its jurisdiction and powers under the Act that a transaction is taxable, it cannot be said that the decision of the authority is without jurisdiction.	Reasoning
We respectfully agree with the above propositions and hold that the said principles apply with equal force in the case of both the Central Excises and Salt Act and the Customs Act.	Reasoning
Once this is so, it is ununderstandable how an assessment adjudication made under the Act levying or affirming the duty can be ignored because some years later another view of law is taken by another court in another persons case.	Reasoning
Nor is there any provision in the Act for reopening the concluded proceedings on the aforesaid basis.	Reasoning
We must reiterate that the provisions of the Central Excise Act also constitute law within the meaning of Article 265 and any collection or retention of tax in accordance or pursuant to the said provisions is collection or retention under the authority of law within the meaning of the said article.	Reasoning
In short, no claim for refund is permissible except under and in accordance with Rule 11 and Section 11B.	Reasoning
An order or decree of a court does not become ineffective or unenforceable simply because at a later point of time, a different view of law is taken.	Reasoning
If this theory is applied universally, it will lead to unimaginable chaos.	Reasoning
It is, however, suggested that this result follows only in tax matters because of Article 265.	Reasoning
The explanation offered is untenable, as demonstrated hereinbefore.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, the situation today is chaotic because of the principles supposedly emerging from Kanhaiya Lal and other decisions following it.	Reasoning
Every decision of this Court and of the High Courts on a question of law in favour of the assessee is giving rise to a wave of refund claims all over the country in respect of matters which have become final and are closed long number of years ago.	Reasoning
We are not shown that such a thing is happening anywhere else in the world.	Reasoning
Article 265 surely could not have been meant to provide for this.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the clear and considered opinion that the theory of mistake of law and the consequent period of limitation of three years from the date of discovery of such mistake of law cannot be invoked by an assessee taking advantage of the decision in another assessees case.	Reasoning
All claims for refund ought to be, and ought to have been, filed only under and in accordance with Rule 11.Section 11B and under no other provision and in no other forum.	Reasoning
An assessee must succeed or fail in his own proceedings and the finality of the proceedings in his own case cannot be ignored and refund ordered in his favour just because in another assessees case, a similar point is decided in favour of the manufacturer assessee.	Reasoning
(See the pertinent observations of Hidayatullah, C.J in Tilokchand Motichand extracted in para 46.)	Reasoning
The decisions of this Court saying to the contrary must be held to have been decided wrongly and are accordingly overruled herewith.	Reasoning
Re (III) For the purpose of this discussion, we take the situation arising from the declaration of invalidity of a provision of the Act under which duty has been paid or collected, as the basis, inasmuch as that is the only situation surviving in view of our holding on (I) and (II).	Reasoning
In such cases, the claim for refund is maintainable by virtue of the declaration contained in Article 265 as also under Section 72 of the Contract Act as explained hereinbefore, subject to one exception Where a person approaches the High Court or the Supreme Court challenging the constitutional validity of a provision but fails, he cannot take advantage of the declaration of unconstitutionality obtained by another person on another ground this is for the reason that so far as he is concerned, the decision has become final and cannot be reopened on the basis of a decision on another persons case this is the ratio of the opinion of Hidayatullah, C.J in Tilokchand Motichand and we respectfully agree with it.	Reasoning
In such cases, the plaintiff may also invoke Section 17(1)(c) of the Limitation Act for the purpose of determining the period of limitation for filing a suit.	Reasoning
It may also be permissible to adopt a similar rule of limitation in the case of writ petitions seeking refund in such cases.	Reasoning
But whether the right to refund or restitution, as it is called, is treated as a constitutional right flowing from Article 265 or a statutory right arising from Section 72 of the Contract Act, it is neither automatic nor unconditional.	Reasoning
The position arising under Article 265 is dealt with later in paras 84 to 86.	Reasoning
Here we shall deal with the position under Section 72.	Reasoning
Section 72 is a rule of equity.	Reasoning
This is not disputed by Shri F.S Nariman or any of the other counsel appearing for the appellantspetitioners.	Reasoning
Once it is a rule of equity, it is ununderstandable how can it be said that equitable considerations have no place where a claim is made under the said provision.	Reasoning
What those equitable considerations should be is not a matter of law.	Reasoning
That depends upon the facts of each case.	Reasoning
But to say that equitable considerations have no place where a claim is founded upon Section 72 is, in our respectful opinion, a contradiction in terms.	Reasoning
Indeed, in Kanhaiya Lal, the Court accepts that the right to recover the taxes  or the obligation of the State to refund such taxes  under Section 72 of the Contract Act is subject to questions of estoppel, waiver, limitation or the like, but at the same time, the decision holds that equitable considerations cannot be imported because of the clear and unambiguous language of Section 72.	Reasoning
With great respect, we think that a certain amount of inconsistency is involved in the aforesaid two propositions.	Reasoning
Estoppel, waiver or the like, though rules of evidence, are yet based upon rules of equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
So is Section 72.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that equitable considerations cannot be held to be irrelevant where a claim for refund is made under Section 72.	Reasoning
Now, one of the equitable considerations may be the fact that the person claiming the refund has passed on the burden of duty to another.	Reasoning
In other words, the person claiming the refund has not really suffered any prejudice or loss.	Reasoning
If so, there is no question of reimbursing him.	Reasoning
He cannot be recompensated for what he has not lost.	Reasoning
The loser, if any, is the person who has really borne the burden of duty the manufacturer who is the claimant has certainly not borne the duty notwithstanding the fact that it is he who has paid the duty.	Reasoning
Where such a claim is made, it would be wholly permissible for the court to call upon the petitioner plaintiff to establish that he has not passed on the burden of duty to a third party and to deny the relief of refund if he is not able to establish the same, as has been done by this Court in I.T.C	Reasoning
In this connection, it is necessary to remember that whether the burden of the duty has been passed on to a third party is a matter within the exclusive knowledge of the manufacturer.	Reasoning
He has the relevant evidence  best evidence  in his possession.	Reasoning
Nobody else can be reasonably called upon to prove that fact.	Reasoning
Since the manufacturer is claiming the refund and also because the fact of passing on the burden of duty is within his special and exclusive knowledge, it is for him to allege and establish that he has not passed on the duty to a third party.	Reasoning
This is the requirement which flows from the fact that Section 72 is an equitable provision and that it incorporates a rule of equity.	Reasoning
This requirement flows not only because Section 72 incorporates a rule of equity but also because both the Central excises duties and the customs duties are indirect taxes which are supposed to be and are permitted to be passed on to the buyer.	Reasoning
That these duties are indirect taxes, meant to be passed on, is statutorily recognised by Section 64A of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 which was introduced by the Indian Sale of Goods (Amendment) Act, 1940 and substituted later by act 33 of 1963.	Reasoning
As originally introduced, Section 64A read 64A. In the event of any duty of customs or excise on any goods being imposed, increased, decreased or remitted after the making of any contract for the sale of such goods without stipulation as to the payment of duty where duty was not chargeable at the time of the making of the contract, or for the sale of such goods dutypaid where duty was chargeable at that time (a) if such an imposition or increase so takes effect that the duty or increased duty, as the case may be, or any part thereof, is paid, the seller may add so much to the contract price as will be equivalent to the amount paid in respect of such duty or increase of duty, and he shall be entitled to be paid and to sue for and recover such addition and (b) if such decrease or remission so takes effect that the decreased duty only or no duty, as the case may be, is paid, the buyer may deduct so much from the contract price as will be equivalent to the decrease of duty or remitted duty, and he shall not be liable to pay, or be sued for or in respect of, such deduction.	None
As substituted in 1963, and as it stands today, Section 64A reads thus 64A. In contracts of sale, amount of increased or decreased taxes to be added or deducted.(1) Unless different intention appears from the terms of the contract in the event of any tax of the nature described in subsection (2) being imposed, increased, decreased or remitted in respect of any goods after the making of any contract for the sale or purchase of such goods without stipulation as to the payment of tax where tax was not chargeable at the time of the making of the contract, or for the sale or purchase of such goods tax paid where tax was chargeable at that time, (a) if such imposition or increase so takes effect that the decreased tax or increased tax, as the case may be, or any part of such tax is paid or is payable, the seller may add so much to the contract price as will be equivalent to the amount paid or payable in respect of such tax or increase of tax, and he shall be entitled to be paid and to sue for and recover such addition and (b) if such decrease or remission so takes effect that the decreased tax only, or no tax, as the case may be, is paid or is payable, the buyer may deduct so much from the contract price as will be equivalent to the decrease of tax or remitted tax, and he shall not be liable to pay, or be sued for, or in respect of, such deduction.	None
The provisions of subsection (1) apply to the following taxes, namely (a) any duty of customs or excise on goods (b) any tax on the sale or purchase of goods.	None
Subsection (2), it may be noted, expressly makes the said provision applicable to duty of customs and duties of excise on goods.	Reasoning
This fact was also recognised by the Federal Court in Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna Sons 1942 FCR 90 and by this Court in R.C Jall v. Union of India 1962 Supp 3 SCR 436.	Reasoning
In such a situation, it would be legitimate for the court to presume, until the contrary is established, that a duty of excise or a customs duty has been passed on.	Reasoning
It is a presumption of fact which a court is entitled to draw under Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act.	Reasoning
It is undoubtedly a rebuttable presumption but the burden of rebutting it lies upon the person who claims the refund (plaintiff petitioner) and it is for him to allege and establish that as a fact he has not passed on the duty and, therefore, equity demands that his claim for refund be allowed.	Reasoning
This is the position dehors 1991 (Amendment) Act  and as we shall point out later, the said Amendment Act has done no more than to give statutory recognition to the above concepts.	Reasoning
This is the position whether the refund is claimed by way of a suit or by way of a writ petition.	Reasoning
It needs to be stated and stated in clear terms that the claim for refund by a person who has passed on the burden of tax to another has nothing to commend itself not law, not equity and certainly not a shred of justice or morality.	Reasoning
In the case of a writ petition under Article 226, it may be noted, there is an additional factor the power under Article 226 is a discretionary one and will be exercised only in furtherance of interests of justice.	Reasoning
This factor too obliges the High Court to enquire and find out whether the petitioner has in fact suffered any loss or prejudice or whether he has passed on the burden.	Reasoning
In the latter event, the court will be perfectly justified in refusing to grant relief.	Reasoning
The power cannot be exercised to unjustly enrich a person.	Reasoning
Re (IV) We are also of the respectful opinion that Kanhaiya Lal is not right in saying that the defence of spending away the amount of tax collected under an unconstitutional law is not a good defence to a claim for refund.	Reasoning
We think it is, subject to this rider Where the petitionerplaintiff alleges and establishes that he has not passed on the burden of the duty to others, his claim for refund may not be refused.	Reasoning
In other words, if he is not able to allege and establish that he has not passed on the burden to others, his claim for refund will be rejected whether such a claim is made in a suit or a writ petition.	Reasoning
It is a case of balancing public interest visvis private interest.	Reasoning
Where the petitionerplaintiff has not himself suffered any loss or prejudice (having passed on the burden of the duty to others), there is no justice or equity in refunding the tax (collected without the authority of law) to him merely because he paid it to the State.	Reasoning
It would be a windfall to him.	Reasoning
As against it, by refusing refund, the monies would continue to be with the State and available for public purposes.	Reasoning
The money really belongs to a third party  neither to the petitioner plaintiff nor to the State  and to such third party it must go.	Reasoning
But where it cannot be so done, it is better that it is retained by the State.	Reasoning
By any standard of reasonableness, it is difficult to prefer the petitionerplaintiff over the State.	Reasoning
Taxes are necessary for running the State and for various public purposes and this is the view taken in all jurisdictions.	Reasoning
It has also been emphasised by this Court in D. Cawasji wherein Mathew, J. not only pointed out the irrational and unjust consequences flowing from the holding in Bhailal Bhai and Aluminium Industries but also pointed out the adverse impact on public interest resulting from the holding that expending the taxes collected by the State is not a valid defence.	Reasoning
(See paras 48 and 49).	Reasoning
This would not be a case of unjust enrichment of the State, as suggested by the petitionersappellants.	Reasoning
The very idea of unjust enrichment is inappropriate in the case of the State, which is in position of parens patrea, as held in Charan Lal Sahu v. Union Of India.	Reasoning
1990 1 SCC 613 (SCC at p. 649).	Reasoning
And even if such a concept is tenable, even then, it should be noticed that the State is not being enriched at the expense of the petitionerplaintiff but at someone elses expense who is not the petitionerplaintiff.	Reasoning
As rightly explained by Saikia, J. in Mahabir Kishore v. State of M.P 1989 4 SCC 1 , 8 para 11, the principle of unjust enrichment requires  first that the defendant has been enriched by the receipt of a benefit secondly, that this enrichment is at the expense of the plaintiff and thirdly, that the retention of the enrichment be unjust.	Reasoning
This justifies restitution.	Reasoning
We agree with the holding in Air Canada (quoting Professor George C. Palmer) that in such a case, it seems preferable to leave the enrichment with the tax authority instead of putting the judicial machinery in motion for the purpose of shifting the same enrichment to the taxpayer.	Reasoning
The Canadian Supreme Court has further emphasised  and, in our opinion, rightly  the fiscal chaos that would result if the general rule favoured recovery, particularly where the longstanding taxation measure is involved.	Reasoning
In this connection, the majority decision refers to what happened in United States.	Reasoning
In United States v. Butler the Agricultural Adjustment Act was held unconstitutional, the result of which was refund of almost one billion dollars collected under the said statute.	Reasoning
In such a situation, it is pointed out, the Congress passed an Act which provided that no refunds shall be allowed unless the claimant establishes that he himself bore the burden of tax.	Reasoning
Similar provision was also made in another enactment, viz., Section 424 of the Revenue Act, 1928, the validity of which has been upheld by the United States Supreme Court in Jefferson.	Reasoning
In this connection, Shri K. Parasaran has rightly emphasised the distinction between the constitutional values obtaining in countries like United States of America, Canada and Australia  or for that matter, United Kingdom  and the values obtaining under our Constitution.	Reasoning
Unlike the economically neutral  if not procapitalist  Constitutions governing those countries, the Indian Constitution has set before itself the goal of Justice, Social, Economic and Political  a total restructuring of our society  the goal being what is set out in Part IV of the Constitution and, in particular, in Articles 38 and 39.	Reasoning
Indeed, the aforesaid words in the Preamble constitute the motto of our Constitution, if we can call it one.	Reasoning
Article 38 enjoins upon the State to strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice, social, economic and political shall inform all the institutions of the national life.	None
Article 39 lays down the principles of policy to be followed by the State.	None
It says that the State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing (b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good and (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.	None
Refunding the duty paid by a manufacturer assessee in situations where he himself has not suffered any loss or prejudice (i.e, where he has passed on the burden to others) is no economic justice it is the very negation of economic justice.	Reasoning
By doing so, the State would be conferring an unearned and unjustifiable windfall upon the manufacturing community thereby contributing to concentration of wealth in a small class of persons which may not be consistent with the common good.	Reasoning
The Preamble and the aforesaid articles do demand that where a duty cannot be refunded to the real persons who have borne the burden, for one or the other reason, it is but appropriate that the said amounts are retained by the State for being used for public good (see Amar Nath Om Prakash).	Reasoning
Indeed, even in an economically neutral Constitution, like that of United States of America, such a course has been adopted by the State and upheld by the Courts.	Reasoning
It would be rather curious  nay, ridiculous  if such a course were held to be bad under our Constitution which speaks of economic and distributive justice, opposes concentration of wealth in a few hands and when the FortySecond (Amendment) Act describes our Republic as a Socialist Republic.	Reasoning
It is true that some of the concepts now affirmed by us, e.g, effect of passing on and the relevance of our constitutional values in the matter of judging the legitimacy of a claim for refund were not presented to the Bench which decided Kanhaiya Lal but that can be no ground for not entertaining or accepting those concepts.	Reasoning
As observed by Thomas Jefferson, as far back as in 1816, laws and institutions must go handinhand with the progress of the human mind as new discoveries are made, new truths are discovered and manners and opinions change with the change of circumstances, institutions must advance also and keep pace with the time.	None
The very same thought was expressed by Krishna Iyer, J. in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy 1977 4 SCC 471 with particular reference to our constitutional philosophy and values (SCC p. 496, paras 45, 47) Constitutional problems cannot be studied in a socioeconomic vacuum, since sociocultural changes are the source of the new values, and sloughing off old legal thought is part of the process of the new equityloaded legality.	None
It is right that the rule of law enshrined in our Constitution must and does reckon with the roaring current of change which shifts our social values and shrivels our feudal roots, invades our lives and fashions our destiny.	None
The learned Judge quoted Granville Austin, saying (SCC p. 518, para 85)	None
The Judiciary was to be the arm of the social revolution, upholding the quality that Indians had longed for in colonial days.	None
The courts were also idealised because, as guardians of the Constitution, they would be the expression of a new law created by Indians for Indians.	None
That the material resources of the community are not confined to public resources but include all resources, natural and manmade, public and private owned is repeatedly affirmed by this Court.	Reasoning
(See Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal 1983 1 SCC 147 and State of T.N v. L. Abu Kavur Bai 1984 1 SCC 515.	Reasoning
We are of the considered opinion that Shri Parasaran is right in saying that the philosophy and the core values of our Constitution must be kept in mind while understanding and applying the provisions of Article 265 of the Constitution of India and Section 72 of the Contract Act (containing as it does an equitable principle)  for that matter, in construing any other provision of the Constitution and the laws.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we hold that even looked at from the constitutional angle, the right to refund of tax paid under an unconstitutional provision of law is not an absolute or an unconditional right.	Reasoning
Similar is the position even if Article 265 can be invoked  we have held, it cannot be  for claiming refund of taxes collected by misinterpretation or misapplication of a provision of law, rules, notifications or regulation.	Reasoning
Part III Validity and meaning of the provisions introduced by the 1991 (Amendment) Act While examining the validity and reasonableness of the provisions introduced by the 1991 (Amendment) Act, it is necessary to bear in mind certain principles relevant in that behalf.	None
In R.K Garg v. Union of India AIR 1981 SC 2138 , this Court held that (SCC pp.	Reasoning
69091, para 8) laws relating to economic activities should be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion etc.	Reasoning
It has been said by no less a person than Holmes, J. that the legislature should be allowed some play in the joints, because it has to deal with complex problems which do not admit of solution through any doctrinaire or straitjacket formula and this is particularly true in case of legislation dealing with economic matters, where, having regard to the nature of the problems required to be dealt with, greater play in the joints has to be allowed to the legislature.	Reasoning
The court should feel more inclined to give judicial deference to legislative judgment in the field of economic regulation than in other areas where fundamental human rights are involved.	Reasoning
The Court must always remember that legislation is directed to practical problems, that the economic mechanism is highly sensitive and complex, that many problems are singular and contingent, that laws are not abstract propositions and do not relate to abstract units and are not to be measured by abstract symmetry that exact wisdom and nice adaption of remedy are not always possible and that judgment is largely a prophecy based on meagre and uninterpreted experience.	Reasoning
Every legislation particularly in economic matters is essentially empiric and it is based on experimentation or what one may call trial and error method and therefore it cannot provide for all possible situations or anticipate all possible abuses.	Reasoning
There may be crudities and inequities in complicated experimental economic legislation but on that account alone it cannot be struck down as invalid.	Reasoning
The courts cannot, as pointed out by the United States Supreme Court in Secy. of Agriculture v. Central Roig Refining Co. 94 L Ed 381, be converted into tribunals for relief from such crudities and inequities.	Reasoning
There may even be possibilities of abuse, but that too cannot of itself be a ground for invalidating the legislation, because it is not possible for any legislature to anticipate as if by some divine prescience, distortions and abuses of its legislation which may be made by those subject to its provisions and to provide against such distortions and abuses.	Reasoning
Indeed, howsoever great may be the care bestowed on its framing, it is difficult to conceive of a legislation which is not capable of being abused by perverted human ingenuity.	Reasoning
The Court must therefore adjudge the constitutionality of such legislation by the generality of its provisions and not by its crudities or inequities or by the possibilities of abuse of any of its provisions.	Reasoning
If any crudities, inequities or possibilities of abuse come to light, the legislature can always step in and enact suitable amendatory legislation.	Reasoning
That is the essence of pragmatic approach which must guide and inspire the legislature in dealing with complex economic issues.	Reasoning
To the same effect are the observations by Khanna, J. in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala 1973 4 SCC 225 (SCR at p. 755 SCC p. 669).	Reasoning
The learned Judge said (SCC p. 821, para 1535)	None
In exercising the power of judicial review, the Courts cannot be oblivious of the practical needs of the government.	Reasoning
The door has to be left open for trial and error.	Reasoning
Constitutional law like other mortal contrivances has to take some chances.	Reasoning
Opportunity must be allowed for vindicating reasonable belief by experience.	Reasoning
To the same effect are the observations in T.N Education Deptt.	Reasoning
Ministerial and General Subordinate Services Assn. v. State of T.N 1980 3 SCC 97 (SCR at p. 1031)	Reasoning
(Krishna Iyer, J.).	Reasoning
It is equally wellsettled that mere possibility of abuse of a provision by those in charge of administering it cannot be a ground for holding the provision procedurally or substantively unreasonable.	Reasoning
In Collector of Customs v. Nathella Sampathu Chetty 1962 3 SCR 786 , this Court observed The possibility of abuse of a statute otherwise valid does not impart to it any element of invalidity.	Reasoning
It was said in State of Rajasthan v. Union of India 1977 3 SCC 592 (SCR at p. 77), it must be remembered that merely because power may sometimes be abused, it is no ground for denying the existence of power.	Reasoning
The wisdom of man has not yet been able to conceive of a government with power sufficient to answer all its legitimate needs and at the same time incapable of mischief.	Reasoning
(Also see Commr., H.R.E v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt 1954	Reasoning
SCR 1005 (SCR at p. 1030).	Reasoning
Section 11B, as amended in 1991, has been set out in para 19 hereinabove.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) of Section 11B says that every claim for refund shall be made before the Assistant Commissioner of Central Excise within six months of the relevant date.	None
The application shall have to be in the prescribed form and manner and shall be accompanied by documentary and other evidence including those referred to in Section 12A to establish that the duty claimed by way of refund has not been passed on by him to any other person.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proviso to subsection (1) expressly states that pending applications for refund made before the commencement of the 1991 (Amendment) Act shall be deemed to have been made under Subsection (1) of Section 11B as amended in 1991 and that the same shall be dealt with in accordance with subsection (2).	None
Subsection (2) provides that only in situations specified in clauses (a) to (f) therein will the refund be granted to the applicant in all other cases, the amount will be credited to the Fund established under Section 12C. Subsection (3) declares that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in (a) any judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any Court or (b) any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or (c) any other law for the time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	None
subsection (1) of Section 11D too opens with a non obstante clause.	None
It provides for making over of excise duty, realised by a person from his buyer, to the Central Government forthwith.	None
Subsection (2) says that duty so paid shall be adjusted against the duty payable by him on finalisation of assessment.	None
The subsection further says that if on such adjustment, any surplus duty is left, it shall be dealt with in accordance with Section 11B. Section 12A requires every person liable to pay duty to indicate prominently in sales invoices, documents of assessment and other similar documents, the amount of duty forming part of the price at which the goods are sold.	None
Section 12B creates a rebuttable presumption of law that every person paying the duty shall be deemed to have passed on the full incidence of duty to the buyer of such goods.	None
Section 12C provides for the establishment of the Consumer Welfare Fund (Fund) while Section 12D provides for rules being made to specify the manner in which the monies in the Fund shall be utilised.	None
Rules have indeed been made under Section 12D, which provide for grants being made to Consumers Welfare Organisations for being spent on welfare of consumers.	None
The challenge to the validity of the provisions introduced by the 1991 (Amendment) Act has been presented under various heads which we now proceed to deal with separately.	None
Meaning and scope of subsection (3) of Section 11B	None
A good amount of debate took place before us on the question whether subsection (3) makes Section 11B exhaustive of all kinds of refund claims including those which are refundable as a consequence of appellate revisional order and or as a consequence of orders made by the High Court Supreme Court.	Issue
Shri Nariman pointed out that in Rule 11 (as it was in force during the period 681977 to 17111980), subrule (3) expressly provided that where as a result of any order passed in appeal or revision under the Act, refund of any duty becomes due to any person, the proper officer may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf and that subsection (3) of Section 11B, before its amendment in 1991, was also in identical terms.	Arguments of Petitioner
But, Shri Nariman says, subsection (3) of Section 11B has now been dropped there is no corresponding provision in Section 11B as it now stands, which means, says the counsel, that even a refund claim arising as a result of an appellate order or an order of a court has also got to be made under and in accordance with subsections (1) and (2) of Section 11B and will be disposed of in terms of subsection (2) of the said section, as amended in 1991.	Arguments of Petitioner
This consequence, the learned counsel says, is unjust, unreasonable and arbitrary.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no reason why a person who becomes entitled to refund of duty as a result of appellate or court order should also be made to apply and satisfy all the requirements of subsections (1) and (2) of Section 11B (amended) when he is entitled to such refund as a matter of right.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Nariman submits that if a manufacturer assessee, who succeeds in vindicating his claim after a long fight  may be, up to this Court  and applies for refund is asked to satisfy that he has not passed on the burden of tax to another, he would rather keep quiet than fighting the levy.	Arguments of Petitioner
There would be no incentive for him to file the appeal appeals or approach the higher courts which also involves substantial expense.	Arguments of Petitioner
If after all this fight and expense, he is to be denied the refund on the ground that he has passed on the burden of duty to third parties, why should he fight and spend money for fighting the litigation, says the counsel.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sorabjee and Shri Salve too emphasised this aspect and said that this situation would lead to many an undesirable consequence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The assessing approving officer (original authority) would become the monarch whatever he says would be the law since there would be nobody interested in challenging his order.	Arguments of Petitioner
Illegal levies would become the order of the day.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a situation, the learned counsel point out, is neither in the interest of law nor in the interest of consumer or the larger public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is accordingly submitted that it would be just and proper that the amended Section 11B is held not to take in refund claims arising as a consequence of appellate or a superior court order.	Reasoning
We do not think it is possible to agree.	Reasoning
Such a holding would run against the very grain of the entire philosophy underlying the 1991 Amendment.	Reasoning
The idea underlying the said provisions is that no refund shall be ordered unless the claimant establishes that he has not passed on the burden to others.	Reasoning
Subsection (3) of the amended Section 11B is emphatic.	Reasoning
It leaves no room for making any exception in the case of refund claims arising as a result of the decision in appeal reference writ petition.	Reasoning
There is no reason why an exception should be made in favour of such claims which would nullify the provision to a substantial degree.	Reasoning
So far as lack of incentive argument is concerned, it has no doubt given us a pause it is certainly a substantial plea, but there are adequate answers to it.	Reasoning
Firstly, the rule means that only the person who has actually suffered loss or prejudice would fight the levy and apply for refund in case of success.	Reasoning
Secondly, in a competitive market economy, as the one we have embarked upon since 199192, the manufacturers self interest lies in producing more and selling it at competitive prices  the urge to grow.	Reasoning
A favourable decision does not merely mean refund it has a beneficial effect for the subsequent period as well.	Reasoning
It is incorrect to suggest that the disputes regarding classification, valuation and claims for exemptions are fought only for refund it is for more substantial reasons, though the prospect of refund is certainly an added attraction.	Reasoning
It may, therefore, be not entirely right to say that the prospect of not getting the refund would dissuade the manufacturers from agitating the questions of exigibility, classification, approval of price lists or the benefit of exemption notifications.	Reasoning
The disincentive, if any, would not be significant.	Reasoning
In this context, it would be relevant to point out that the position was no different under Rule 11, or for that matter Section 11B, prior to its amendment in 1991.	Reasoning
Subrules (3) and (4) of Rule 11 (as it obtained between 681977 and 17111980) read together indicate that even a claim for refund arising as a result of an appellate or other order of a superior court authority was within the purview of the said rule though treated differently.	Reasoning
The same position continued under Section 11B, prior to its amendment in 1991.	Reasoning
Subsections (3) and (4) of this section are in the same terms as subrules (3) and (4) of Rule 11 if anything, subsection (5) was more specific and emphatic.	Reasoning
It made the provisions of Section 11B exhaustive on the question of refund and excluded the jurisdiction of the civil court in respect of all refund claims.	Reasoning
Subrule (3) of Rule 11 or subsection (3) of Section 11B (prior to 1991) did not say that refund claims arising out of or as a result of the orders of a superior authority or court are outside the purview of Rule 11.Section	Reasoning
11B. They only dispensed with the requirement of an application by the person concerned which consequentially meant nonapplication of the rule of limitation otherwise, in all other respects, even such refund claims had to be dealt with under Rule 11.Section 11B alone.	Reasoning
That is the plain meaning of subrule (3) of Rule 11 and subsections (3) and (4) of Section 11B (prior to 1991 Amendment).	Reasoning
There is no departure from that position under the amended Section	Reasoning
11B. All claims for refund, arising in whatever situations (except where the provision under which the duty is levied is declared as unconstitutional), has necessarily to be filed, considered and disposed of only under and in accordance with the relevant provisions relating to refund, as they obtained from time to time.	Reasoning
We see no unreasonableness in saying so.	Reasoning
It is then pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitionersappellants that if the above interpretation is placed upon amended Section 11B, a curious consequence will follow.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that a claim for refund has to be filed within six months from the relevant date according to Section 11B and the expression relevant date has been defined in clause (B) of the Explanation appended to Subsection (1) of Section 11B to mean the date of payment of duty in cases other than those falling under clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of the said Explanation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that clauses (a) to (e) deal with certain specific situations whereas the one applicable in most cases is the date of payment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the appellate revision proceedings, or for that matter proceedings in High Court Supreme Court, take a number of years and by the time the claimant succeeds and asks for refund, his claim will be barred it will be thrown out on the ground that it has not been filed within six months from the date of payment of duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
We think that the entire edifice of this argument is erected upon an incomplete reading of Section	Reasoning
11B.	Decision
The second proviso to Section 11B (as amended in 1991) expressly provides that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	Reasoning
Now, where a person proposes to contest his liability by way of appeal, revision or in the higher courts, he would naturally pay the duty, whenever he does, under protest.	Reasoning
It is difficult to imagine that a manufacturer would pay the duty without protest even when he contests the levy of duty, its rate, classification or any other aspect.	Reasoning
If one reads the second proviso to Subsection (1) of Section 11B along with the definition of relevant date, there is no room for any apprehension of the kind expressed by the learned counsel.	Reasoning
It was then submitted that Rule 233B which prescribes the procedure to be followed in cases where duty is paid under protest requires the assessee to state the grounds for payment of duty under protest and that it may well happen that the authority to whom the letter of protest is submitted may refuse to record it, if he is not satisfied with the grounds of protest.	None
In our opinion, the said apprehension is not wellfounded.	None
Subrules (1), (2) and (3) of Rule 233B read as follows 233B. Procedure to be followed in cases where duty is paid under protest.(1) Where an assessee desires to pay duty under protest he shall deliver to the proper officer a letter to this effect and give grounds for payment of the duty under protest.	None
On receipt of the said letter, the proper officer shall give an acknowledgement to it.	None
The acknowledgement so given shall, subject to the provisions of subrule (4), be the proof that the assessee has paid the duty under protest from the day on which the letter of protest was delivered to the proper officer.	None
The rule no doubt requires the assessee to mention the grounds for payment of the duty under protest but it does not empower the proper officer, to whom the letter of protest is given, to sit in judgment over the grounds.	None
The assessee need not particularise the grounds of protest.	None
It is open to him to say that according to him, the duty is not exigible according to law.	None
All that the proper officer is empowered to do is to acknowledge the letter of protest when delivered to him  and that acknowledgement shall be the proof that the duty has been paid under protest.	None
A reading of the rule shows that the procedure prescribed therein is evolved only with a view to keep a record of the payment of duty under protest.	None
It is meant to obviate any dispute whether the payment is made under protest or not.	None
Any person paying the duty under protest has to follow the procedure prescribed by the rule and once he does so, it shall be taken that he has paid the duty under protest.	None
The period of limitation of six months will then have no application to him.	None
We may clarify at this stage that when the duty is paid under the orders of court (whether by way of an order granting stay, suspension, injunction or otherwise) pending an appeal reference writ petition, it will certainly be a payment under protest in such a case, it is obvious, it would not be necessary to lodge the protest as provided by Rule 233B.	None
Whether Section 11B is retrospective?	None
It is submitted by the learned counsel for the petitionersappellants that the amended Section 11B is prospective in operation and cannot apply to pending proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention, it is submitted that according to subsection (1), the application for refund has to be accompanied by documentary or other evidence including the documents referred to in Section 12A to prove that the incidence of duty has not been passed on by the applicant to any other person.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that Section 12A was also inserted by the very same 1991 (Amendment) Act and, therefore, it is not expected of any manufacturer assessee to maintain the records required by Section 12A, prior to its coming into force.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in respect of an application filed before the commencement of the said Act, it is not possible to comply with the requirement of subsection (1) insofar as it requires the filing of documents referred to in Section 12A.	Arguments of Petitioner
This circumstance is pointed out as a ground for holding that the amended Section 11B applies only to refund applications filed after coming into force of the 1991 (Amendment) Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the right to recover excess duty paid is both a constitutional and a statutory right.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also a substantive right, it is submitted, as held in CST v. Auriaya Chamber of Commerce 1986 3 SCC 50 and Patel India (P) Ltd. v. Union of India 1973 1 SCC 745.	Arguments of Petitioner
All these factors, it is submitted, militate against giving retrospective effect to Section	None
11B.	Decision
It is difficult to agree with the propositions in the light of the specific and clear language of the first proviso to subsection (1).	None
The first proviso expressly declares that where an application for refund has been made before the commencement of the Central Excises and Customs (Amendment) Act, 1991, such application shall be deemed to have been made under this subsection as amended by the said Act and the same shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2) substituted by that Act.	None
In the face of this proviso, it is idle to contend that subsections (1) and (2) of Section 11B do not apply to pending proceedings.	None
They apply to all proceedings where the refund has not been made finally and unconditionally.	None
Where the duty has been refunded under the orders of the court pending disposal of an appeal, writ or other proceedings, it would not be a case of refund finally and unconditionally, as explained in Jain Spinners and I.T.C	None
It is, of course, obvious that where the refund proceedings have finally terminated  in the sense that the period prescribed for filing the appeal against such order has also expired  before the commencement of the 1991 (Amendment) Act (1991991), they cannot be reopened and or be governed by Section 11B(3) as amended by the 1991 (Amendment) Act.	Decision
This, however, does not mean that the power of the appellate authorities to condone delay in appropriate cases is affected in any manner by this clarification made by us.	None
So far as the difficulty or impossibility of filing the documents referred to in Section 12A is concerned, it is obvious that the said requirement cannot be insisted upon in cases where the application is filed prior to the commencement of the Act or for the period anterior to the commencement of the said Amendment Act, though the burden of proving that the burden of duty has not been passed on by him is still upon the applicant.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 11B is of general application.	None
It not merely governs the pending applications but also provides for future applications.	None
Reasonably construed and read together, the said provisions mean that in respect of pending applications, the requirement is only to produce such documentary and other evidence as is sufficient to establish that the incidence of duty, refund of which is claimed, has not been passed on by the applicant to any other person.	None
The requirement of enclosing the documents referred to in Section 12A is obligatory only where the claim of refund pertains to the period subsequent to the commencement of the 1991 (Amendment) Act.	None
There is yet another circumstance Section 12B does not create a new presumption unknown till then it merely gives statutory shape to an existing situation, as explained hereinbefore.	None
At the most, it can be said that there were two views on the subject and Section 12B affirms one of them.	None
Even without Section 12B, the true position is the same, as held by us in the earlier part of this judgment.	None
The obligation to prove that duty has not been passed on to another person is always there as a precondition to claim of refund.	None
It cannot also be said that by giving retrospective effect to Section 11B, any vested rights or substantive rights are being taken away.	None
The deprivation, if at all, is not real.	None
The manufacturer has already collected the duty from his purchaser and has thus reimbursed itself.	None
By applying for refund yet, he is trying to reap a windfall deprivation of that cannot be said to be real or substantial prejudice or loss.	None
A manufacturer had no vested legal right to refund even when he had passed on the burden of duty to others.	None
No law conferred such a right in him  not Article 265, nor	None
Section 11B.	None
It was only on account of an incorrect view of law taken in Kanhaiya Lal  and that cannot be treated as a vested legal right.	None
Correction of judicial error does not amount to deprivation of vested substantive rights, even though a person may be deprived of an unwarranted advantage he had under the overruled decision.	None
In cases, where the burden is not passed on, there is no prejudice he can always get the refund.	None
Is Section 11B a mere device to retain illegally collected taxes?	None
A major attack is mounted by the learned counsel for petitionersappellants on Section 11B and its allied provisions on the ground that real purpose behind them was not to benefit the consumers by refusing refund to manufacturers (on the ground of passing on the burden) but only to enable the Government to retain the illegally collected taxes.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is suggested that the creation of the Consumer Welfare Fund is a mere pretence and not an honest exercise.	Arguments of Petitioner
By reading the Rules framed under Section 12D, it is pointed out, even a consumer, who has really borne the burden of tax and is in a position to establish that fact, is yet not entitled to apply for refund of the duty since the Rules do not provide for such a situation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Rules contemplate only grants being made to Consumer Welfare Societies.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even in the matter of making grants, it is submitted, the Rules are so framed as to make it highly difficult for any consumer organisation to get the grant.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no provision in the Act, Shri Nariman submitted, to locate the person really entitled to refund and to make over the money to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
We expect a sensitive Government not to bluff	Arguments of Petitioner
but to hand back the amounts to those entitled thereto, intoned Shri Nariman.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is a colourable device  declaimed Shri Sorabjee  a dirty trick and a shabby thing.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reply of Shri Parasaran to this criticism runs thus It illbecomes the manufacturers assessees to espouse the cause of consumers, when all the while they had been making a killing at their expense.	None
No consumers organisation had come forward to voice any grievance against the said provisions.	None
Clause (e) of the proviso to subsection (2) of Section 11B does provide for the buyer of the goods, to whom the burden of duty has been passed on, to apply for refund of duty to him, provided that he has not in his turn passed on the duty to others.	None
It is, therefore, not correct to suggest that the Act does not provide for refund of duty to the person who has actually borne the burden.	None
There is no vice in the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
Rules cannot be relied upon to impugn the validity of an enactment, which must stand or fall on its own strength.	None
The defect in the Rules, assuming that there is any, can always be corrected if the experience warrants it.	None
The Court too may indicate the modifications needed in the Rules.	None
The Government is always prepared to make the appropriate changes in the Rules since it views the process as a trial and error method  says Shri Parasaran.	None
We agree with Shri Parasaran that so far as the provisions of the Act go, they are unexceptionable.	None
Section 12C which creates the Consumer Welfare Fund and Section 12D which provides for making the Rules specifying the manner in which the money credited to the Fund shall be utilised cannot be faulted on any ground.	None
Now, coming to the Rules, it is true that these Rules by themselves do not contemplate refund of any amount credited to the Fund to the consumers who may have borne the burden the Rules only provide for grants being made in favour of consumer organisations for being spent on welfare of consumers.	None
But, this is perhaps for the reason that clause (e) of the proviso to subsection (2) of Section 11B does provide for the purchaser of goods applying for and obtaining the refund where he can satisfy that the burden of the duty has been borne by him alone.	None
Such a person can apply within six months of his purchase as provided in clause (e) of Explanation B appended to Section	None
11B.	Decision
It is, therefore, not correct to contend that the impugned provisions do not provide for refunding the tax collected contrary to law to the person really entitled thereto.	None
A practical difficulty is pointed out in this behalf by the learned counsel for appellantspetitioners It is pointed out that the manufacturer would have paid the duty at the place of removal or clearance of the said goods but the sale may have taken place elsewhere if the purchaser wants to apply for refund  it is submitted  he has to go to the place where the duty has been paid by the manufacturer and apply there.	None
It is also pointed out that purchasers may be spread all over India and it is not convenient or practicable for all of them to go to the place of removal of goods and apply for refund.	None
True it is that there is this practical inconvenience but it must also be remembered that such claims will be filed only by purchasers of highpriced goods where the duty component is large and not by all and sundry small purchasers.	None
This practical inconvenience or hardship, as it is called, cannot be a ground for holding that the provisions introduced by the 1991 (Amendment) Act are a device or a ruse to retain the taxes collected illegally and to invalidate them on that ground  assuming that such an argument is permissible in the case of a taxing enactment made by Parliament.	None
(See R.K Garg and other decisions cited in paras 87 and 88.)	None
Do Sections 11B and 12B have the effect of changing the very nature of excise duty?	None
It is next contended that in a competitive atmosphere or for other commercial reasons, it may happen that the manufacturer is obliged to sell his goods at less than its proper price.	None
The suggestion is that the manufacturer may have to forego not only his profit but also part of excise duty and that in such a case levy and collection of full excise duty would cease to be a duty of excise it will become a tax on income or on business.	None
We are unable to appreciate this argument.	None
Ordinarily, no manufacturer will sell his products at less than the cost price plus duty.	None
He cannot survive in business if he does so.	None
Only in case of distress sales, such a thing is understandable but distress sales are not a normal feature and cannot, therefore, constitute a basis for judging the validity or reasonableness of a provision.	None
Similarly, no one will ordinarily pass on less excise duty than what is exigible and payable.	None
A manufacturer may dip into his profits but would not further dip into the excise duty component.	None
He will do so only in the case of a distress sale again.	None
Just because duty is not separately shown in the invoice price, it does not follow that the manufacturer is not passing on the duty.	None
Nor does it follow therefrom that the manufacturer is absorbing the duty himself.	None
The manner of preparing the invoice is not conclusive.	None
While we cannot visualise all situations, the fact remains that, generally speaking, every manufacturer will sell his goods at something above the cost price plus duty.	None
There may be a lossmaking concern but the loss occurs not because of the levy of the excise duty  which is uniformly levied on all manufacturers of similar goods  but for other reasons.	None
No manufacturer can say with any reasonableness that he cannot survive in business unless he collects the duty from both ends.	None
The requirement complained of (prescribed by Section 11B) is thus beyond reproach  and so are sections 12a and 12b.	None
all that section 12a requires is that every person who is liable to pay duty of excise on any goods, shall, at the time of clearance of the goods, prominently indicate in all the relevant documents the amount of such duty which will form part of the price at which the goods are to be sold, while Section 12B raises a presumption of law that until the contrary is proved, every person who has paid the duty of excise on any goods shall be deemed to have passed on the full incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.	None
Since the presumption created by Section 12B is a rebuttable presumption of law  and not a conclusive presumption  there is no basis for impugning its validity on the ground of procedural unreasonableness or otherwise.	None
This presumption is consistent with the general pattern of commercial life.	None
It indeed gives effect to the very essence of an indirect tax like the excise duty customs duty.	None
In this connection, it is repeatedly pointed out by the learned counsel for the petitionersappellants that the levy of duty is upon the manufacturer assessee and that he cannot disclaim his liability on the ground that he has not passed on the duty.	None
This is undoubtedly true but this again does not affect the validity of Section 12A or 12B. A manufacturer who has not passed on the duty can always prove that fact and if it is found that duty was not leviable on the transaction, he will get back the duty paid.	None
Ordinarily speaking, no manufacturer would take the risk of not passing on the burden of duty.	None
It would not be an exaggeration to say that whenever a manufacturer entertains a doubt, he would pass on the duty rather than not passing it on.	None
It must be remembered that manufacturers as a class are knowledgeable persons and more often than not have the benefit of legal advice.	None
And until about 1992, at any rate, Indian market was by and large a sellers market.	None
For a proper appreciation of the learned counsels contention, it would be appropriate to examine the scheme of the Act and the Rules concerning the valuation of excisable goods and their clearance removal.	Issue
Section 4 deals with valuation of excisable goods.	Issue
The assessable value under Section 4 is determined on the basis of the normal price referred to in Section 4(1)(a)  and in certain cases under Section 4(1)(b).	None
In either case, the excise duty and certain specified amounts are deductible.	None
More important, in the documents submitted by the manufacturer for determination of the assessable value, he has to clearly state the excise duty payable as well as other charges and discounts which he claims to be deductible.	None
Ordinarily speaking, a manufacturer has to file a classification list first (Rule 173B) for approval by the proper officer.	None
On the basis of the approved classification list and the rate of duty approved therein, he files a price list for approval as contemplated by Rule 173C.	None
Prior to 141994, the price list had to be declared in the Form prescribed for the purpose which Form required the manufacturer to disclose clearly and separately the excise duty and other deductions claimed by him.	None
The Form requires the manufacturer to declare that the facts stated therein are true.	None
After the price list is approved, removal begins.	None
Under the Self Removal Procedure (SRP), the procedure in vogue until recently  speaking broadly  was that at the time of removal of goods, gatepass in Form G.PI had to be issued which required the manufacturer to mention several particulars of the goods removed including the rate of duty and the total duty paid.	None
Form G.PI too had to be verified by the manufacturer declaring that the facts stated therein are true.	None
From the price list and the gatepass, therefore, it was easy to ascertain the duty component of the price.	None
It may also be mentioned that G.PI required the name and address of the consignee as well as the manner of transport to be mentioned therein.	None
(More often than not the sale of excisable goods is simultaneous with the removal clearance.)	None
In addition to the above, the manufacturer was required to file monthly returns (RT12) as provided by Rule 173G.	None
The monthly returns had to be filed every month, within seven days of the succeeding month in respect of all clearances during that month.	None
The RT12 Form also provides for several particulars including the rate of duty and duty payable.	None
These documents clearly and cogently disclose the excise duty that has been paid.	None
Since 141994, however, there is said to have occurred a change in the procedure.	None
Under the new Rules, a pro forma has been provided under which a declaration is to be filed indicating inter alia the tariffchapter heading applicable and the effective rate of duty assessable on the goods.	None
This Form has to be filled in and filed by the manufacturer with a declaration that the particulars stated therein are true.	None
In the place of gatepass, provision is now made for a special form of invoice which gives full particulars of the price, assessable value, rate of duty and duty actually paid.	None
From the invoice and the pro forma now prescribed, it is equally easy to ascertain the duty component, i.e, the effective duty paid and passed on to the purchaser.	None
We may also mention that, in case of SRP, the Rules require that every assessee shall keep a current account with the Collector Commissioner.	None
He has to make periodical credits in the current account by cash payment into the treasury so as to keep the balance sufficient to cover the duty due on the goods intended to be removed at any time.	None
On each consignment removed by him, he has to pay the duty determined by him by debiting the same to the current account before removal of the goods.	None
As stated already, in the case of SRP also, the manufacturer has to file the monthly returns in Form RT12 which have to be assessed by the proper officer as required by Rule 173I.	None
The proper officer adjusts the duty paid by the manufacturer against the duty assessed by him.	None
If as a result of such adjustment, it is found, during the course of assessment of RT12 Forms, that duty has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid, the authority is entitled to make a demand for the same according to law.	None
Indeed, it is suggested on behalf of the Union of India that if, in any case, a manufacturer is obliged to sell his goods at a price lower than the normal price declared under Section 4 (for the purpose of determining the assessable value), it is always open to him to approach the excise authorities for redetermination of the assessable value.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, he can ask for reduction in the excise duty component on the ground that he is obliged to sell his goods at a lower price on account of various commercial compulsions.	Arguments of Respondent
Rule 9B provides for provisional assessment in situations specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of subrule (1).	None
The goods provisionally assessed under subrule (1) may be cleared for home consumption or export in the same manner as the goods which are finally assessed.	None
Subrule (5) provides that when the duty leviable on the goods is assessed finally in accordance with the provisions of these Rules, the duty provisionally assessed shall be adjusted against the duty finally assessed, and if the duty provisionally assessed falls short of or is in excess of the duty finally assessed, the assessee shall pay the deficiency or be entitled to a refund, as the case may be.	None
Any recoveries or refunds consequent upon the adjustment under Subrule (5) of Rule 9B will not be governed by Section 11A or Section 11B, as the case may be.	None
However, if the final orders passed under Subrule (5) are appealed against  or questioned in a writ petition or suit, as the case may be, assuming that such a writ or suit is entertained and is allowed decreed  then any refund claim arising as a consequence of the decision in such appeal or such other proceedings, as the case may be, would be governed by Section	None
11B.	Decision
It is also made clear that if an independent refund claim is filed after the final decision under Rule 9B(5) reagitating the issues already decided under Rule 9B  assuming that such a refund claim lies  and is allowed, it would obviously be governed by Section	None
11B. It follows logically that position would be the same in the converse situation.	None
Nature and character of refund claims under the Central Excises and Salt Act and the Customs Act It would be evident from the above discussion that the claims for refund under the said two enactments constitute an independent regimen.	Issue
Every decision favourable to an assessee manufacturer, whether on the question of classification, valuation or any other issue, does not automatically entail refund.	None
Section 11B of the Central Excises and Salt Act and Section 27 of the Customs Act, whether before or after the 1991 Amendment  as interpreted by us herein  make every refund claim subject to proof of not passing on the burden of duty to others.	None
Even if a suit is filed, the very same condition operates.	None
Similarly, the High Court while examining its jurisdiction under Article 226  and this Court while acting under Article 32  would insist upon the said condition being satisfied before ordering refund.	None
Unless the claimant for refund establishes that he has not passed on the burden of duty to another, he would not be entitled to refund, whatever be the proceeding and whichever be the forum.	None
Section 11B Section 27 are constitutionally valid, as explained by us hereinbefore.	None
They have to be applied and followed implicitly wherever they are applicable.	None
Meaning and purport of Section 11D It was contended by the learned counsel for the appellantspetitioners that Section 11D provides for double taxation.	None
It was contended that subsection (1) of Section 11D makes the manufacturer liable to pay duty which he collects from the buyer as part of the price of goods even where the manufacturer has already paid the duty at the time of removal.	None
We do not think that there is any foundation for the said understanding or apprehension.	None
There are no words in the section which provide for payment of duty twice over.	None
All that the section says is this The amount collected by a person manufacturer from the buyer of goods as representing duty of excise shall be paid over to the State even if the tax collected by the manufacturer from his purchaser is more than the duty due according to law, the whole amount collected as duty has to be paid over to the State if on the assessment being made it is found that the duty collected and paid over by the manufacturer is more than the duty due according to law, such surplus amount shall either be credited to the Fund or be paid over to the person who has borne the incidence of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Section	None
11B.	Decision
It is obvious that if in a given case, the manufacturer has collected less amount as representing the duty of excise than what is due according to law, he is not relieved of the obligation to pay the full duty according to law.	None
This is the general purport and meaning of Section 11D. There may be cases where goods are removed cleared without effecting their sale.	None
In such a case, Section 11D is not attracted.	None
It is attracted only when goods are sold.	None
The purport of this section is in accord with Section 11B and cannot be faulted.	None
A clarification The situation in the case of captive consumption has not been dealt with by us in this opinion.	None
We leave that question open.	None
PART IV	None
The discussion in the judgment yields the following propositions.	Decision
We may forewarn that these propositions are set out merely for the sake of convenient reference and are not supposed to be exhaustive.	Decision
In case of any doubt or ambiguity in these propositions, reference must be had to the discussion and propositions in the body of the judgment.	None
Where a refund of tax duty is claimed on the ground that it has been collected from the petitioner plaintiff  whether before the commencement of the Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991 or thereafter  by misinterpreting or misapplying the provisions of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 read with Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 or Customs Act, 1962 read with Customs Tariff Act or by misinterpreting or misapplying any of the rules, regulations or notifications issued under the said enactments, such a claim has necessarily to be preferred under and in accordance with the provisions of the respective enactments before the authorities specified thereunder and within the period of limitation prescribed therein.	Decision
No suit is maintainable in that behalf.	Decision
While the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226  and of this Court under Article 32  cannot be circumscribed by the provisions of the said enactments, they will certainly have due regard to the legislative intent evidenced by the provisions of the said Acts and would exercise their jurisdiction consistent with the provisions of the Act.	Decision
The writ petition will be considered and disposed of in the light of and in accordance with the provisions of Section	Decision
11B.	Decision
This is for the reason that the power under Article 226 has to be exercised to effectuate the rule of law and not for abrogating it.	Decision
The said enactments including Section 11B of the Central Excises and Salt Act and Section 27 of the Customs Act do constitute law within the meaning of Article 265 of the Constitution of India and hence, any tax collected, retained or not refunded in accordance with the said provisions must be held to be collected, retained or not refunded, as the case may be, under the authority of law.	Decision
Both the enactments are selfcontained enactments providing for levy, assessment, recovery and refund of duties imposed thereunder.	Decision
Section 11B of the Central Excises and Salt Act and Section 27 of the Customs Act, both before and after the 1991 (Amendment) Act are constitutionally valid and have to be followed and given effect to.	Decision
Section 72 of the Contract Act has no application to such a claim of refund and cannot form a basis for maintaining a suit or a writ petition.	Decision
All refund claims except those mentioned under Proposition (ii) below have to be and must be filed and adjudicated under the provisions of the Central Excises and Salt Act or the Customs Act, as the case may be.	Decision
It is necessary to emphasise in this behalf that Act provides a complete mechanism for correcting any errors whether of fact or law and that not only an appeal is provided to a Tribunal  which is not a departmental organ  but to this Court, which is a civil court.	None
Where, however, a refund is claimed on the ground that the provision of the Act under which it was levied is or has been held to be unconstitutional, such a claim, being a claim outside the purview of the enactment, can be made either by way of a suit or by way of a writ petition.	None
This principle is, however, subject to an exception Where a person approaches the High Court or the Supreme Court challenging the constitutional validity of a provision but fails, he cannot take advantage of the declaration of unconstitutionality obtained by another person on another ground this is for the reason that so far as he is concerned, the decision has become final and cannot be reopened on the basis of a decision on another persons case this is the ratio of the opinion of Hidayatullah, C.J in Tilokchand Motichand and we respectfully agree with it.	Decision
Such a claim is maintainable both by virtue of the declaration contained in Article 265 of the Constitution of India and also by virtue of Section 72 of the Contract Act.	Decision
In such cases, period of limitation would naturally be calculated taking into account the principle underlying clause (c) of subsection (1) of Section 17 of the Limitation Act, 1963.	Decision
A refund claim in such a situation cannot be governed by the provisions of the Central Excises and Salt Act or the Customs Act, as the case may be, since the enactments do not contemplate any of their provisions being struck down and a refund claim arising on that account.	Decision
In other words, a claim of this nature is not contemplated by the said enactments and is outside their purview.	Decision
A claim for refund, whether made under the provisions of the Act as contemplated in Proposition (i) above or in a suit or writ petition in the situations contemplated by Proposition (ii) above, can succeed only if the petitioner plaintiff alleges and establishes that he has not passed on the burden of duty to another person other persons.	Decision
His refund claim shall be allowed decreed only when he establishes that he has not passed on the burden of the duty or to the extent he has not so passed on, as the case may be.	Decision
Whether the claim for restitution is treated as a constitutional imperative or as a statutory requirement, it is neither an absolute right nor an unconditional obligation but is subject to the above requirement, as explained in the body of the judgment.	Decision
Where the burden of the duty has been passed on, the claimant cannot say that he has suffered any real loss or prejudice.	Decision
The real loss or prejudice is suffered in such a case by the person who has ultimately borne the burden and it is only that person who can legitimately claim its refund.	Decision
But where such person does not come forward or where it is not possible to refund the amount to him for one or the other reason, it is just and appropriate that that amount is retained by the State, i.e, by the people.	Decision
There is no immorality or impropriety involved in such a proposition.	Decision
The doctrine of unjust enrichment is a just and salutary doctrine.	Decision
No person can seek to collect the duty from both ends.	Decision
In other words, he cannot collect the duty from his purchaser at one end and also collect the same duty from the State on the ground that it has been collected from him contrary to law.	Decision
The power of the Court is not meant to be exercised for unjustly enriching a person.	Decision
The doctrine of unjust enrichment is, however, inapplicable to the State.	Decision
State represents the people of the country.	Decision
No one can speak of the people being unjustly enriched.	Decision
It is not open to any person to make a refund claim on the basis of a decision of a court or tribunal rendered in the case of another person.	Decision
He cannot also claim that the decision of the court tribunal in another persons case has led him to discover the mistake of law under which he has paid the tax nor can he claim that he is entitled to prefer a writ petition or to institute a suit within three years of such alleged discovery of mistake of law.	Decision
A person, whether a manufacturer or importer, must fight his own battle and must succeed or fail in such proceedings.	Decision
Once the assessment or levy has become final in his case, he cannot seek to reopen it nor can he claim refund without reopening such assessment order on the ground of a decision in another persons case.	Decision
Any proposition to the contrary not only results in substantial prejudice to public interest but is offensive to several wellestablished principles of law.	Decision
It also leads to grave public mischief.	Decision
Section 72 of the Contract Act, or for that matter Section 17(1)(c) of the Limitation Act, 1963, has no application to such a claim for refund.	Decision
Article 265 of the Constitution has to be construed in the light of the goal and the ideals set out in the Preamble to the Constitution and in Articles 38 and 39 thereof.	None
The concept of economic justice demands that in the case of indirect taxes like Central Excises duties and Customs duties, the tax collected without the authority of law shall not be refunded to the petitionerplaintiff unless he alleges and establishes that he has not passed on the burden of duty to a third party and that he has himself borne the burden of the said duty.	Decision
Section 72 of the Contract Act is based upon and incorporates a rule of equity.	Decision
In such a situation, equitable considerations cannot be ruled out while applying the said provision.	None
While examining the claims for refund, the financial chaos which would result in the administration of the State by allowing such claims is not an irrelevant consideration.	None
Where the petitionerplaintiff has suffered no real loss or prejudice, having passed on the burden of tax or duty to another person, it would be unjust to allow or decree his claim since it is bound to prejudicially affect the public exchequer.	Decision
In case of large claims, it may well result in financial chaos in the administration of the affairs of the State.	Decision
The decision of this Court in STO v. Kanhaiya Lal Mukundlal Saraf must be held to have been wrongly decided insofar as it lays down or is understood to have laid down propositions contrary to the propositions enunciated in (i) to (vii) above.	Decision
It must equally be held that the subsequent decisions of this Court following and applying the said propositions in Kanhaiya Lal have also been wrongly decided to the above extent.	Decision
This declaration  or the law laid down in Propositions (i) to (vii) above  shall not however entitle the State to recover the taxes duties already refunded and in respect whereof no proceedings are pending before any authority Tribunal or Court as on this date.	Decision
All pending matters shall, however, be governed by the law declared herein notwithstanding that the tax or duty has been refunded pending those proceedings, whether under the orders of an authority, Tribunal or Court or otherwise.	Decision
The amendments made and the provisions inserted by the Central Excises and Customs Law (Amendment) Act, 1991 in the Central Excises and Salt Act and the Customs Act are constitutionally valid and are unexceptionable.	Decision
By virtue of subsection (3) to Section 11B of the Central Excises and Salt Act, as amended by the aforesaid Amendment Act, and by virtue of the provisions contained in subsection (3) of Section 27 of the Customs Act, 1962, as amended by the said Amendment Act, all claims for refund (excepting those which arise as a result of declaration of unconstitutionality of a provision whereunder the levy was created) have to be preferred and adjudicated only under the provisions of the respective enactments.	Decision
No suit for refund of duty is maintainable in that behalf.	Decision
So far as the jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution  or of this Court under Article 32  is concerned, it remains unaffected by the provisions of the Act.	Decision
Even so, the Court would, while exercising the jurisdiction under the said articles, have due regard to the legislative intent manifested by the provisions of the Act.	Decision
The writ petition would naturally be considered and disposed of in the light of and in accordance with the provisions of Section	Decision
11B.	Decision
This is for the reason that the power under Article 226 has to be exercised to effectuate the regime of law and not for abrogating it.	Decision
Even while acting in exercise of the said constitutional power, the High Court cannot ignore the law nor can it override it.	Decision
The power under Article 226 is conceived to serve the ends of law and not to transgress them.	Decision
Section 11B applies to all pending proceedings notwithstanding the fact that the duty may have been refunded to the petitioner plaintiff pending the proceedings or under the orders of the Court Tribunal Authority or otherwise.	Decision
It must be held that Union of India v. Jain Spinners and Union of India v. ITC have been correctly decided.	Decision
It is, of course, obvious that where the refund proceedings have finally terminated  in the sense that the appeal period has also expired  before the commencement of the 1991 (Amendment) Act (1991991), they cannot be reopened and or governed by Section 11B(3) as amended by the 1991 (Amendment) Act.	Decision
This, however, does not mean that the power of the appellate authorities to condone delay in appropriate cases is affected in any manner by this clarification made by us.	None
Section 11B does provide for the purchaser making the claim for refund provided he is able to establish that he has not passed on the burden to another person.	None
It, therefore, cannot be said that Section 11B is a device to retain the illegally collected taxes by the State.	Decision
This is equally true of Section 27 of the Customs Act, 1962.	Decision
We take note of the fact that writ petitions writ appeals suits claiming refund of excise duties customs duties may be pending as on today.	Decision
They are liable to fail on the ground of maintainability by virtue of the law declared herein.	Decision
Since the law is being declared and clarified by us now, we make the following directions In cases where writ petitions, writ appeals (by whatever appellation they are called) or suits (at whatever stage they may be, as on today) are pending as on today, and provided they have not already taken proceedings for refund under the Act, it shall be open to the petitioners appellants plaintiffs to file applications for refund under Section 11B within sixty days from today.	Decision
If the applications are so filed by them, they shall not be rejected on the ground of limitation and shall be dealt with according to law.	Decision
We make it clear that this direction applies only to petitioners appellants plaintiffs in pending writ petitions writ appeals suits (pending as on today), as explained hereinabove, and not to any others.	Decision
The applications so filed under Section 11B shall be disposed of under Section 11B, as interpreted herein, and in accordance with law.	Decision
It is obvious that if any of such petitioners appellants plaintiffs have already taken proceedings for refund under the Act and having failed therein  either partly or wholly  have resorted to writ petition or suit, they shall not be entitled to the benefit of this direction.	Decision
The individual cases may now be listed before a Division Bench for being disposed of in the light of this judgment.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	None
Hansaria, J. The conclusions arrived at by learned Brother Paripoornan, J. and the reasons given in support thereof, have my respectful concurrence.	None
I have nothing useful to add.	None
The time at my disposal does not really permit me to do so, as the draft of this judgment reached my hands on the night of 15th instant indeed, the first draft judgment of the case got to me in the evening of 13th of this month.	None
Sen, J. Leave granted in the special leave petitions.	None
In CA No. 3255 of 1984 and a number of other cases which have been heard together, questions have been raised, firstly, as to whether a refund of Central excise duty wrongly realised from a taxpayer can be withheld on the ground of what is described as unjust enrichment, without any specific provision of law to that effect secondly, whether the position was altered after the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 was amended by the Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991 which came into effect on 2091991?	Issue
By virtue of this amendment Section 11B along with a few other sections of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 stood amended.	Issue
I shall deal with both these questions separately.	Issue
But before entering into that controversy, it is important to bear in mind the provisions of Article 265 of the Constitution and its amplitude.	Issue
It has also to be seen what is the scope, meaning and purport and also the import of what is described as unjust enrichment.	Issue
A challenge has also been made to the validity of the amendments made to the Central Excise Act.	Issue
That will also have to be examined.	Issue
Article 265 Article 265 of the Constitution lays down that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	None
The mandate of the Constitution is lucid and clear and must be taken to mean what it says.	None
No tax takes in every type of tax.	None
It has been contended on behalf of the Union of India that Article 265 merely lays down that no direct tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	Arguments of Respondent
The first question is that if that was the intention of the Constitutionmakers, then why did they not say so in so many words?	Issue
Taxation has been defined in Article 366(28) to include the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special, and tax shall be construed accordingly.	None
Therefore, the word tax will include any tax general, local or special.	None
That means every kind of tax direct or indirect will come within the ambit of Article 265.	None
It has also to be noted that Article 265 is included in Part XII of the Constitution which deals with Finance, Property, Contracts and Suits.	None
Chapter I of Part XII deals with Finance.	None
Under this heading, both direct and indirect taxes have been dealt with in a number of articles.	None
Article 268 deals with stamp duties and duties of excise on medicinal and toilet preparations.	None
Article 269 deals with duties in respect of succession to property other than agricultural land, estate duty in respect of property other than agricultural land, terminal taxes on goods or passengers, taxes on railway fares and freights, taxes other than stamp duties on transactions in stock exchanges and futures markets and taxes on the sale or purchase of newspapers and on advertisements published therein.	None
Article 270 deals with taxes on income other than agricultural income.	None
Article 272 deals with Union duties of excise other than duties of excise on medicinal and toilet preparations.	None
Article 276 deals with taxes for the benefit of a State or a municipality, district board, local board or other local authority in respect of professions, trades, callings or employments.	None
Article 277 deals with taxes, duties, cesses or fees which were being lawfully levied by the Government of any State or by any municipality or other local authority or body for the purposes of the State, municipality, district or other local area.	None
Article 287 deals with tax on the consumption or sale of electricity.	None
All these articles go to show that Part XII, Chapter I, deals with not only direct taxes like taxes on income or duties in respect of succession to property, but also deals with indirect taxes like stamp duty, duties of excise on medicinal and toilet preparations, other duties of excise, terminal taxes on goods, taxes on railway freights, taxes on transactions in stock exchanges and futures markets and taxes on sale or purchase of newspapers.	None
In the context of all these articles in Chapter I of Part XII dealing with direct and indirect taxes, it is difficult to hold that the mandate at the beginning of the Chapter that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law, was meant to be confined to direct taxes only and not to other types of taxes which were specifically enumerated in a number of other articles in Chapter I of Part XII of the Constitution.	None
Moreover, this argument, if accepted, will have dangerous implications.	None
It will mean that the Constitution has impliedly empowered the Government to levy and collect indirect taxes without any authority of law.	None
Bearing in mind that the bulk of the taxes imposed by the Union and practically the entire amount of taxes collected by the States is by indirect levies, the constitutional protection against unlawful taxes will become meaningless and devoid of any substance.	None
Mr Parasaran, appearing on behalf of Union of India, has argued that Article 265 has to be read along with the Directive Principles.	None
The State has been enjoined to direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.	None
I do not see how this provision or any other provision of Article 39 can in any way whittle down the scope of Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
If the provisions of Article 39 are to be construed as a licence given to the State to retain whatever has been collected however unlawfully, then why should any distinction be made between direct taxes and indirect taxes?	None
If the argument is taken to its logical conclusion, it will mean that the State will be at liberty to retain whatever it has gathered unlawfully by direct as well as indirect taxation and use the same for the purpose of common good according to its perception.	None
The victims of unlawful activities of the State will have no remedy against the State.	None
This reasoning, if accepted, will have the effect of turning the State into a Leviathan in which the individuals have only such rights as may be permissively given by the State.	None
The various constitutional guarantees given to protect the individuals from the oppression by the State will become futile and without any meaning and substance.	None
Neither Article 38 nor Article 39, in any way, empower the State to levy or retain taxes without any authority of law.	None
The importance and effectiveness of the Directive Principles of the State Policy have been laid down in Article 31C in the following words 31C. Saving of laws giving effect to certain directive principles.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in Article 13, no law giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing all or any of the principles laid down in Part IV shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by Article 14 or Article 19 and no law containing a declaration that it is for giving effect to such policy shall be called in question in any court on the ground that it does not give effect to such policy Provided that where such law is made by the legislature of a State, the provisions of this article shall not apply thereto unless such law, having been reserved for the consideration of the President, has received his assent.	None
The disputes raised in this case do not relate to enforcement of the guarantees contained in Article 14 or Article 19 of the Constitution in any manner.	None
The laws of Central Excise have been enforced since 1944 or even earlier.	None
It is a tax on manufacture of goods.	None
The object of the tax is to raise revenue for the Government.	None
But this can only be done in accordance with law.	None
No man can be subjected to an unlawful exaction made by the State by whatever process in disregard of the guarantee given by Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
In my judgment, apart from its boldness, there is no merit in the contention that guarantee contained in Article 265 of the Constitution must be restricted to direct taxes only.	None
In my judgment, Article 265 must be implemented in letter and spirit as it stands and all the tax laws and all Government actions to realise and retain tax must be tested on the anvil of this guarantee.	None
The courts should jealously guard against any attempt to whittle down or do away with any of the guarantees given under the Constitution to the citizens.	None
In my judgment, Article 265 will have to be given full effect in cases of direct as well as indirect taxation.	None
If any tax has been levied and collected without authority of law, then the State has committed a wrong and that wrong must be undone by the State by returning the tax unlawfully collected to the person from whom it was collected.	None
The Court has a duty to uphold the Constitution in letter and spirit.	None
If the Court comes to the conclusion that a levy of tax is unlawful, the Court will direct the Government to return the tax.	None
It is not for the Court to enquire how the taxpayer has managed his affairs after payment of the unlawful levy.	None
It is but natural that the taxpayer will try to raise funds by raising price or cutting down costs or forgoing profits to get over the loss caused by the unlawful exaction of tax.	None
There is usually a considerable time gap between payment of any illegal levy and obtaining an order of refund.	None
In most of the cases several years pass before refund of duty paid can be obtained.	None
In such a situation, it is impossible for the taxpayer company not to do something to raise money somehow to carry on its business.	None
Merely because a manufacturer has raised its price after paying the illegal levy cannot be a ground for denying him the constitutional guarantee contained in Article 265.	None
The constitutional guarantee is unconditional and unequivocal and must be enforced regardless of what the manufacturer does after payment of tax.	None
If the manufacturer has done something unlawful, steps must be taken against him.	None
If this Court holds that constitutional guarantees ought to be enforced depending upon the conduct of the manufacturer after payment of the illegal levy, then the Court would be adding a rider to Article 265 which is not permissible.	None
By this forced interpretation the Court will not be upholding the Constitution, but will be undermining it.	None
A point has been made that the manufacturer has passed on the burden of the illegal levy to his customers by raising his price of the goods.	None
But that is no reason why the guarantee given by the Constitution should not be enforced.	None
The manufacturer may have been compelled to raise the price because of the imposition of an illegal levy.	None
But that is no reason to dilute the mandate contained in Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
Article 265 forbids the State from making an unlawful levy or collecting taxes unlawfully.	None
The bar is absolute.	None
It protects the citizens from any unlawful exaction of tax.	None
So long as Article 265 is there, the State cannot be permitted to levy any tax without authority of law and if any tax has been collected unlawfully that must be restored to the person from whom it was collected.	None
If the tax has been collected from any person unlawfully, it is the taxpayers money which is in unlawful possession of the State.	None
The State has a constitutional obligation to give back the money to the taxpayer.	None
An act done in violation of constitutional mandate is void and no right flows out of that void act to the State.	None
The State is in unlawful possession of the taxpayers property.	None
The State cannot retain it on any equitable ground nor can it give it to any other person out of any supposed equitable consideration.	None
The constitutional mandate cannot be ignored on the pretext of any rule of equity or on the ground of what is perceived as substantive justice.	None
Every word of the Constitution has to be treated as sacrosanct and respected and obeyed by the State and the legislature and enforced by the Court.	None
The Court cannot, by torturing the language of Article 265 or by any other means, construe it so as to give it a meaning which it does not naturally bear.	None
It was observed in the case of IRC v. Rossminster Ltd. 1980 AC 952 (AC at p. 1018) that in construing a statutory provision, the rule of construction must be however much a court may deprecate an Act, it must apply it.	None
It cannot by torturing its language or any other means construe it so as to give a meaning which Parliament did not clearly intend it to bear.	None
The same rule of construction will apply for construing a constitutional provision.	None
The Court may dislike Article 265 and its natural consequence.	None
But because of that the Court cannot torture its language to bring out a meaning which the words do not naturally bear.	None
Once it is established that a levy or collection of tax is void, no legal or equitable right is acquired by the State in the unlawfully collected money.	None
The right to get refund accrues to the person who pays it the moment an illegal levy or collection is made.	None
Once the levy or collection is declared illegal, the illegally collected amount has to be immediately paid back to the person from whom it was collected.	None
The refund order is made to enforce the right of the taxpayer which accrued when the tax was illegally levied and collected from him.	None
This is an absolute obligation under the Constitution.	None
No statute can provide otherwise.	None
If a collection of tax is found to be illegal being in contravention of the provisions of the Central Excise Act, then it not only violates the Act but also the Constitution.	None
If the Central Excise Act is amended or any separate Act is passed to provide for denial of refund to the taxpayer, in any manner, then such amendment or Act is as offensive to the Constitution as the illegal levies themselves were.	None
If the tax has been illegally exacted from a person, then he has been denied the protection given to him by the Constitution.	None
The denial of the right to recover the unlawfully collected tax is denial of the protection given to a citizen by Article 265.	None
A similar question was examined by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in an appeal from Australia in Commr.	None
for Motor Transport v.	None
Antill Ranger Co.	None
Pty. Ltd. 1956 3	None
All ER 106, PC There, certain charges had been levied by the State of New South Wales under an Act in connection with interState transactions.	None
These charges were held to be violative of section 92 of the commonwealth of australian constitution.	None
Subject to imposition of uniform duties of customs, Section 92 guarantees freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse among the States by internal carriage or ocean navigation.	None
The levy under the Principal Act having been declared unlawful, an Act called the State Transport Coordination (Barring of Claims and Remedies) Act, 1954 was passed barring and extinguishing the right of recovery of any sums collected or recovered under the Principal Act.	None
It was made clear that the provisions of the Barring Act would apply to proceedings pending at the commencement of the Act as well as proceedings brought after the commencement of the Act.	None
The validity of the Barring Act was challenged.	None
It was pointed out by the Judicial Committee that if the Act was valid, it would be a complete answer to the claim of the taxpayers.	None
But the validity of the relevant provisions of the Barring Act could be no greater or no less if they had been contained in the Principal Act itself.	None
It was held that neither prospectively nor retrospectively can a State law make lawful that which the Constitution says is unlawful.	None
If the statute laid down that the charges in respect of interState trade should be imposed and that, if they were illegally imposed and collected, they should nevertheless, be retained, such an enactment would be illegal.	None
The statutory immunity accorded to illegal acts is as offensive to the Constitution as the illegal acts themselves.	None
The Judicial Committee posed the following question Then the question is whether the statutory immunity accorded to illegal acts is not as offensive to the Constitution as the illegal acts themselves, and, applied to the present circumstances, that question is whether, if the imposition of charges in respect of interState trade is invalid as an offence against Section 92, is it not equally an offence to deny the right to recover them after they have been unlawfully exacted?	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The Judicial Committee answered the question by saying that It appears to their Lordships that to this question there can be only one answer.	None
It cannot be too strongly emphasised or too often repeated that, in the words of the High Court, the immunity given by Section 92 to trade, commerce and intercourse cannot be transient or illusory.	None
Yet, how fugitive would that protection be if effect were given to the argument of the appellants in this case.	None
The Judicial Committee clearly recognised section 92 of the australian constitution as a measure of protection to the respondents who were the taxpayers.	None
The Judicial Committee emphasised, this protection could not be allowed to be transient or illusory.	None
We should also not allow the protection to the taxpayers by Article 265 of our Constitution to be transient and illusory.	None
The Judicial Committee went on to give an illustration which is also useful for the purpose of this case.	None
A trader desiring to engage in interState trade and confronted with the provisions of an unlawful Act may conform to its requirements and submit to the pecuniary exactions in order that he may be able to carry on his business.	None
He can test the legality of the exactions in a court of law and if he was right and these sums were unlawfully exacted, he is entitled to the protection afforded by Section 92 of the Constitution.	None
What is his situation if then he finds himself by a later provision of the same Act or by a subsequent Act once more subjected to the same exactions?	None
The burden on his trade remains just what it was the freedom of his trade has been in the same degree impaired.	None
In letter and spirit, Section 92 is in the same measure defeated.	None
An argument was advanced before the Judicial Committee that the Barring Act did not impose any burden on trade but only barred the right of property viz., the right to sue for money which accrued after the trading operations were over.	None
The Judicial Committee rejected this argument by observing that an enactment whose only object is to validate an exaction which the section renders unlawful would in their Lordships opinion be a mockery of the spirit of the Constitution.	None
In the case before us, a very similar situation has arisen.	None
The levy and collection of excise duty has been found to be illegal.	None
It has been levied and collected in violation of the Central Excise Act and also the guarantee contained in the Constitution.	None
The levy is void.	None
It has denied the taxpayer the protection given by the Constitution.	None
If illegally collected tax is not immediately restored to the taxpayer, the guarantee given by the Constitution will be a mockery.	None
The constitutional guarantee is not hedged by any clause.	None
A trader may trade with his goods as he likes.	None
The terms and conditions under which he sells his goods is a matter between him and the purchaser.	None
He may raise his price high enough to include costs and taxes.	None
If he does so with the agreement of the buyer, he does not lose his right to get back what had been collected from him illegally or the protection of Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
That will be putting a rider on the Constitution.	None
The Court is not permitted to write the Constitution but is dutybound to enforce it.	None
The view of the Judicial Committee was that but for section 92 of the australian constitution, the barring act might have been held to be valid.	None
In the instant case also, the amended provisions of Section 11B of the Central Excise Act might have been held to be valid but for Article 265 of the Indian Constitution.	None
The right to get refund arose the moment an illegal levy was imposed.	None
As was pointed out in that case, the taxpayer had no option but to pay this levy otherwise he could not have carried on his trade at all.	None
The goods would not be cleared without payment of the illegal demand made by the excise authority.	None
This does not debar him from pointing out that the collection of tax was illegal and claiming return of the illegal levy.	None
The American Constitution does not contain anything similar to Article 265 of our Constitution.	None
The U.S Supreme Court, therefore, had no difficulty in upholding the validity of Section 424 of the Revenue Act of 1928 in the case of United States v.	None
Jefferson Electric Manufacturing Co.	None
Section 424 provided Refund of automobile accessories tax.(a)	None
No refund shall be made of any amount paid by or collected from any manufacturer, producer, or importer in respect of the tax imposed by subdivision (3) of Section 600 of the Revenue Act of 1924 unless either Pursuant to a judgment of a court in an action duly begun prior to 3041928 or It is established to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that such amount was in excess of the amount properly payable upon the sale or lease of an article subject to tax, or that such amount was not collected, directly or indirectly, from the purchaser or lessee, or that such amount, although collected from the purchaser or lessee, was returned to him .	Reasoning
The Act came into force on 2951928.	None
The section was challenged on the ground that it was violative of the Fifth Amendment of the American Constitution in that a taxpayer was being deprived of his property without due process of law and his private property was being taken away for public use without just compensation.	None
It was held The contention is made that subdivision (a)(2), when construed and applied as we hold it should be, infringes the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution in that it strikes down rights accrued theretofore and still subsisting, but not sued on prior to 3041928.	None
This contention is pertinent, because the cases now being considered were begun after 3041928, and in each the tax in question was paid before Section 424 was enacted, which was 2951928.	None
If the tax was erroneous and illegal, as is alleged, it must be conceded that, under the system then in force, there accrued to the taxpayer when he paid the tax a right to have it refunded without any showing as to whether he bore the burden of the tax or shifted it to the purchasers.	Reasoning
And it must be conceded also that Section 424 applies to rights accrued theretofore and still subsisting, but not sued on prior to 3041928, and subjects them to the restriction that the taxpayer (a) must show that he alone has borne the burden of the tax, or (b), if he has shifted the burden to the purchasers, must give a bond promptly to use the refunded sum in reimbursing them.	None
But it cannot be conceded that in imposing this restriction the section strikes down prior rights, or does more than to require that it be shown or made certain that the money when refunded will go to the one who has borne the burden of the illegal tax, and therefore is entitled in justice and good conscience to such relief.	Reasoning
This plainly is but another way of providing that the money shall go to the one who has been the actual sufferer and therefore is the real party in interest.	Reasoning
We do not perceive in the restriction any infringement of due process of law .	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
What the U.S Supreme Court held in that case was that the new enactment did not infringe the due process of law and, therefore, could not be struck down.	None
The U.S Supreme Court did not have to consider the impugned section in the light of a provision similar to Article 265 of the Indian Constitution.	None
But there were two important observations which have to be borne in mind If the tax was erroneous and illegal, a right accrued to the taxpayer when he paid the tax to have it refunded without showing as to whether he bore the burden of tax or shifted it to the purchaser.	None
Section 424 applied to rights accrued theretofore and still subsisting but not sued on prior to 3041928.	None
A question similar to the one dealt with by the American Supreme Court also came up before the Supreme Court of Canada, in the case of Air Canada v. British Columbia.	None
The principles laid down in Air Canada case cannot be understood unless one bears in mind the peculiar facts of the case which has been recorded in detail in the judgment of La Forest, J. The dispute was confined to the taxes paid by Air Canada in the 23month period between 181974 and 171976.	None
The tax was levied under the Gasoline Tax Act, 1948.	None
The Act as it stood on 181974 provided that every purchaser shall pay a tax equal to 10 cents per gallon on all gasoline purchased except gasoline purchased for use in an aircraft, which was taxed at a lower rate.	None
Section 2 defined purchaser as under purchaser means any person who within the Province purchases gasoline when sold for the first time after its manufacture in or importation into the Province.	None
An identical provision in a cognate statute was struck down by the Privy Council which led to retroactive amendment of the Gasoline Tax Act by inserting Section 25 which was as under 25.	None
(1) In this section purchaser means any person who, within the Province, after 181974 and before 871976 purchased or received delivery of gasoline for his own use or consumption or for the use or consumption by other persons at his expense, or on behalf of, or as an agent for a principal who was acquiring the gasoline for use or consumption by the principal or by other persons at his expense.	None
Every purchaser shall pay to Her Majesty for the purpose of raising revenue for Provincial purposes a tax of 15c a gallon on all gasoline purchased by him after 181974 and before 2821975, but (a) where gasoline was purchased for use in an aircraft the tax shall be 8c a gallon, and (b) where gasoline in the form of liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas was purchased to propel a motor vehicle the tax shall be 10c a gallon.	None
Every purchaser shall pay to Her Majesty for the purpose of raising revenue for Provincial purposes a tax of 17c a gallon on all gasoline purchased by him after 2721975 and before 871976, but (a) where gasoline was purchased for use in an aircraft the tax shall be 5c a gallon, and (b) where gasoline in the form of liquefied petroleum gas or natural gas was purchased to propel a motor vehicle the tax shall be 12c a gallon.	None
(4) Where after 181974 and before 871976, money was collected or purported to have been collected as taxes, penalties or interest under this Act, the money shall by this section be conclusively deemed to have been confiscated by the Government without compensation.	None
These amendments were statutorily given retroactive character by Section 62(5) of the Finance Statutes Amendment Act, 1981.	None
By this change of definition of purchaser what was an indirect tax earlier was converted into a direct tax.	None
The tax was on gasoline purchased by a purchaser for his own use or consumption or for consumption of other persons at his expense or on behalf of or as an agent for the principal for use or consumption by the principal or by other persons at his expense.	None
Although, it was provided by subsection (5) that the amount which was collected before the amendment of the Act between 181974 and 171976 as tax shall be conclusively deemed to have been confiscated by the Government without compensation, according to La Forest, J., the section really does not mean what it says.	None
A fund of money illegally collected was lying with the Province.	None
Having imposed the tax retroactively, the Province merely was enabled to retain the amount in its hands by adjusting it against the tax which has subsequently become payable by the amended provision.	None
The tax retained and the tax payable were identical amounts.	None
This in sum and substance, was the judgment of La Forest, J. The rest of the observations of La Forest, J. in Air Canada case 33 1989 59 DLR 4th 161, Can SC appears to be obiter.	None
After referring to the amended section, La Forest, J. said That the tax is a direct tax I have no doubt.	None
Since at least Bank of Toronto v. Lambe 1887 12 AC 575, the generally accepted test of what constitutes a direct tax has been that of	None
John Stuart Mill	None
A direct tax is one which is demanded from the very person who it is intended or desired should pay it.	None
That person is clearly identified in the definition in the 1976 Act as the ultimate consumer of the gasoline there is no passing on of the tax to others, whatever may be the opportunities of recouping the amount of the tax by other means (a very different thing).	None
Referring to the new Section 25 brought into existence by the 1981 Act, La Forest, J. identified the real issue of the case in the following words None of the judges in the courts below casts any doubt on the legislative power of the province to impose a retroactive tax in the manner provided in Section 25(1) to (4).	None
What they really disagreed about was the effect of Section 25(5) on those provisions.	None
In common with these judges, I am unable to see any constitutional impediment to the provinces enacting Section 25(1) to (4).	None
On the reasoning regarding the 1976 Act, these provisions seem to be a proper exercise of its power to impose direct taxation in the province, the sole difference being that the 1981 provisions are given retroactive effect, a result that is not constitutionally barred.	None
The real question, then, is whether when Section 25(1) to (4) are conjoined to Section 25(5), they become so coloured by the latter provision as to make all of Section 25 ultra vires.	None
That question was answered by La Forest, J. in the following words That, of course, raises the issue whether Section 25(5) is itself ultra vires.	None
There are, in my view, some serious difficulties in establishing its invalidity.	None
It may be, if the provision stood alone, that it could be successfully maintained that it violates the principle in the Amax decision.	None
I need not consider that situation because it does not stand alone.	None
It is the fifth of five subsections, the first four of which impose a valid direct tax, and it must obviously be read in that context.	None
It must also be read in light of the wellknown principle that it must be assumed that the legislature intended to stay within the confines of its constitutional competence.	None
While, as Esson, J.A notes, the expression confiscated is distasteful, one should not permit it to mislead us regarding the purpose of Section 25(5).	None
The function of the courts is not to give the legislature lessons in tact.	None
Their function, rather is to attempt to discover what the legislature, however, clumsily was attempting to achieve by the language it used, a task that should, as already noted, be informed by the presumption that the legislature intended to stay within its constitutional powers.	None
In the context in which it appears, Section 25(5) seems to be nothing more nor less than machinery for collecting the taxes properly imposed in the first four subsections of Section 25.	None
It must be remembered that the amounts illegally collected under the ultra vires provision before 1974 would be equal to the taxes levied under Section 25(1) to (4).	None
Administratively, the taxes levied under the invalid scheme were collected in the same manner and in the same amounts and from the same taxpayers as would have occurred if the scheme had originally been framed along the lines of Section 25(1) to (4).	None
What the legislature attempted to do by Section 25(5), therefore, was to provide collection machinery whereby the moneys owing by the taxpayers under the latter provision could simply be taken out of the equal amounts it had collected from those taxpayers under the invalid tax.	None
It was in that sense that the moneys were deemed to have been confiscated by the Government.	None
Having reached this conclusion, La Forest, J. distinguished this case with the principles laid down in Amax case in the following manner In that case, the legislature sought, by giving itself immunity, to avoid repaying an unlawful tax.	None
This was simply an indirect way of giving effect to the invalid statute.	None
The situation is entirely different here.	None
The legislature did directly what it was empowered to do  impose a direct tax under subsections (1) to (4).	None
I see no reason why it could not then take that tax out of moneys it had improperly collected from the taxpayers under the ultra vires statutes, just as it could have set it off against any other obligation of the Government to the taxpayers.	None
The good fortune of the legislature, in the unusual facts of this case, in having collected amounts that matched precisely those owing by each taxpayer under Section 25(1) to (4) affords no reason to brand as unconstitutional a tax that it can validly impose and collect.	None
This is the ratio of the decision of La Forest, J. An unconstitutional levy brought about by an indirect tax was cured retroactively by a direct levy.	None
What was collected wrongfully under an indirect levy was retained by adjusting the unlawful collection against what turned out to be a valid collection under the new law.	None
Section 25(5) was clumsily worded in that it had used the word confiscated.	None
Properly understood, according to La Forest, J., it did not really confiscate the amount already paid but adjusted that amount against the subsequent lawful demands made under the retroactively amended provisions.	None
Thereafter, La Forest, J. went on to discuss the points raised on mistake of law.	None
La Forest, J. came to the conclusion after review of the caselaw that in my view, the distinction between mistake of fact and mistake of law should play no part in the law of restitution.	None
But he was of the view that recovery of taxes imposed by a legislation subsequently declared ultra vires could not be allowed even if the airlines could show that they bore the burden of the tax, .	None
The view on ultra vires taxes as expressed by La Forest, J. is an extreme proposition which may be acceptable in accordance with the Constitution laws of Canada, but it cannot be held valid under our system.	None
Wilson, J. who dissented in part held It is, in my view, impossible to divorce Section 25(1) to (4) from Section 25(5) of the Gasoline Tax Act, R.S.B.C 1979, c.152	None
The only possible basis for the confiscation under Section 25(5) is the imposition of the retroactive tax under Section 25(1) to (4).	None
Certainly the payments made under the ultra vires legislation could not support such a confiscation since the moneys were not as a constitutional matter properly exigible under that legislation .	None
Adverting to Mistake of Law Wilson, J. observed Whatever the nature of the mistake, the key question, my colleague suggests, should be whether the respondent has been unjustly enriched at the appellants expense or whether there is some specific reason which makes restitution inappropriate in the circumstances.	None
My colleague concludes that there was unjust enrichment in this case but he finds two reasons why restitution is inappropriate.	None
The first is that the appellants in all likelihood passed on the burden of the ultra vires tax to their customers the unjust enrichment of the respondent was therefore not shown to be at the expense of the appellants.	None
The second is that the general rule of recovery should, as a matter of policy, be reversed where the person unjustly enriched is a governmental body .	None
Wilson, J. went on to observe It is, however, my view that payments made under unconstitutional legislation are not voluntary in a sense which should prejudice the taxpayer.	None
The taxpayer, assuming the validity of the statute as I believe it is entitled to do, considers itself obligated to pay.	None
Citizens are expected to be law abiding.	None
They are expected to pay their taxes.	None
Pay first and object later is the general rule.	None
The payments are made pursuant to a perceived obligation to pay which results from the combined presumption of constitutional validity of duly enacted legislation and the holding out of such validity by the legislature.	None
In such circumstances I consider it quite unrealistic to expect the taxpayer to make its payments under protest.	None
Any taxpayer paying taxes exigible under a statute which it has no reason to believe or suspect is other than valid should be viewed as having paid pursuant to the statutory obligation to do so.	None
Adverting to the argument that any refund to the taxpayer who has passed on the burden of tax to the ultimate consumer will result in an unmerited windfall to him, Wilson, J. observed My colleague advances another reason why the appellants should be denied recovery in this case.	None
He says, in effect, that the appellants would be receiving a windfall if they received their money back because in all likelihood they have already recouped the payments made on account of the ultra vires tax from their customers.	None
In terms of my colleagues analysis, the appellants are unable to show that the unjust enrichment of the province was at their expense.	None
In my view there is no requirement that they be able to do so.	None
Where the payments were made pursuant to an unconstitutional statute there is no legitimate basis on which they can be retained.	None
As Dickson, J. stated in Amax, supra, at p. 10 To allow moneys collected under compulsion, pursuant to an ultra vires statute, to be retained would be tantamount to allowing the provincial legislature to do indirectly what it could not do directly, and by covert means to impose illegal burdens.	None
Indeed, even on my colleagues unjust enrichment analysis Dickson, J. found in Nepean, supra, that there were no equitable reasons of principle or policy to preclude recovery from Ontario Hydro.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
I shall deal with Sections 11B, 11D and 12A to 12D of the Central Excise Act as amended by Act 40, 1991 later in this judgment in greater detail.	Issue
But it may be noted that now these provisions have made it practically impossible for a taxpayer to get back what had been collected unlawfully from him, whatever the wording of the statute may be.	None
La Forest, J. interpreted subsection (5) of Section 25 of the Gasoline Tax Act and construed that although the word confiscation was used, the provision was not confiscatory but was really a provision for setting off of the new claims arising out of the retroactive statute against the moneys which were lying in the hands of the Province even though unlawfully collected.	None
In the present case, although the term confiscation has not been used in Sections 11B, 11D and 12A to 12D, these provisions, in effect, have confiscated without any compensation all illegally gathered taxes which came within their ambit.	None
Air Canada case came up for further consideration in the case of Allied Air Conditioning Inc. v. British Columbia 76 BCLR 2d 218.	None
Here the question was whether a taxpayer could recover the moneys which were collected as tax, but were not properly payable.	None
The plaintiff had paid Social Service Tax to the Province of British Columbia totalling to 500,000.	None
In the judgment of Oliver, J., it was stated that the required elements at the heart of the law of restitution were (1) an enrichment of the defendant, (2) a corresponding deprivation of the plaintiff and (3) an absence of any juristic reason for the enrichment.	None
Oliver, J. stated that the distinction between recovery of money paid under mistake of fact and money paid under mistake of law had now been swept away by the decision in Air Canada case.	None
On the day on which the judgment in the case of Air Canada was pronounced, a second judgment was delivered in the case of Air Canada v. British Columbia 1989 36 BCLR 2d 185 (C.P Air).	None
There the dispute related to Social Service Tax, wrongly paid on (a) aircraft parts and equipment and (b) alcoholic beverages sold to passengers on the flight.	None
The Supreme Court held that C.P.A could recover the Social Service Tax paid on purchases of equipment and parts, but the tax paid on alcoholic beverages sold to passengers was imposed on the passengers who consumed the liquor and therefore, the C.P.A was not entitled to recover the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Oliver, J. observed that it can be agreed that both taxes were passed on to customers by Air Canada in the price of airline tickets.	None
La Forest, J. in the C.P.A case held that Social Service Tax paid by the airlines was not properly payable on either aircraft parts or on alcoholic beverages.	None
Having found that the tax was inapplicable, La Forest, J. concluded There seems no reason to refuse Air Canada the recovery it seeks.	None
There is nothing to indicate it ever abandoned this claim.	None
The claim for recovery of the tax paid on alcoholic beverages was rejected on the ground that the tax was imposed on the passengers, not Air Canada.	None
Air Canada was simply an agent to collect it under the Act, and, in fact, obtained a fee for doing so.	None
I am unable to see how it could identify the passengers who consumed the liquor, so its repayment to Air Canada would simply amount to a windfall to the airline.	None
The contention of the plaintiffs in Allied Air Conditioning Inc. case before Oliver, J. was that the observations of La Forest, J. that a passingon defence is available to the taxing authority whenever the taxpayer can be shown to have passed on the tax burden, regardless of whether it was passed on specifically and directly or generally in the price charged to customers was obiter.	None
The true reasoning of the Supreme Court with respect to the passingon defence can be gleaned from its decision in C.P Air in which it allowed a passingon defence where the tax was directly and specifically passed on to customers but not where the tax was merely included generally in the price of airline tickets.	None
In the end, after noting that the comment of La Forest, J. at p. 179 that this alone is sufficient to deny the Airlines claim, Oliver, J. stated that the rest of the decision of La Forest, J. was obiter.	None
Oliver, J., however, disposed of the case before him by observing In the present case the invoices given by the plaintiffs to their customers for lump sum contracts did not set out any amounts charged for materials, labour or taxes simply the lump sum itself was shown.	None
The evidence discloses that many factors, including the competitive environment and the plaintiffs profit margin goals, influence the amount of the lump sum.	None
In my opinion, it cannot be said in such a case that the tax is passed directly and specifically to customers so that they become the true taxpayers.	None
While it is difficult to make specific comparisons, the situation in the present case more closely resembles the tax paid on aircraft parts and equipment in C.P Air than the tax paid on alcoholic drinks in that case.	None
I find that in all the circumstances no passingon defence is available and that the plaintiffs are entitled to restitution of the amounts they are claiming as wrongly paid taxes, subject to any applicable limitation period.	None
In the case of Woolwich Building Society v. IRC (No. 2) All ER at p. 763, Lord Goff cited with approval the dissenting view expressed by Wilson, J. in Air Canada case after quoting from the judgment and noting the fact that She also rejected the proposed defence of passing on (at pp. 169170).	None
Accordingly in her opinion the taxpayer should be entitled to succeed.	None
I cannot deny that I find the reasoning of Wilson, J. most attractive.	None
Moreover, I agree with her that, if there is to be a right to recovery in respect of taxes exacted unlawfully by the Revenue, it is irrelevant to consider whether the old rule barring recovery of money paid under mistake of law should be abolished, for that rule can have no application where the remedy arises not from error on the part of the taxpayer, but from the unlawful nature of the demand by the Revenue.	None
Furthermore, like Wilson, J., I very respectfully doubt the advisability of imposing special limits on recovery in the case of unconstitutional or ultra vires levies.	None
In the concluding part of the judgment, Lord Goff recognised the difficulties involved in the doctrine of passingon.	None
Lord Goff pointed out that the question need not be finally decided in that case.	None
It was observed It will be a matter for consideration whether the fact that the plaintiff has passed on the tax or levy so that the burden has fallen on another should provide a defence to his claim.	None
Although this is contemplated by the Court of Justice of the European Communities in the San Giorgio case it is evident from Air Canada v. British Columbia that the point is not without its difficulties and the availability of such a defence may depend on the nature of the tax or other levy .	None
In the case of Commr. of State Revenue v. Royal Insurance Australia Ltd.	None
the question before the Australian High Court was whether a taxpayer is entitled to recover overpayment of stamp duty.	None
It was held that there was no obligation to refund the overpayment because subsection (1) of Section 111 of the Stamps Act conferred discretionary power on the Commissioner to refund the money but did not create any duty to do so.	None
Therefore, the finding that there was an overpayment did not give rise to any enforceable obligation to make refund.	None
One of the points that came up for consideration was disruption of public finance as a consequence of restitution.	None
Mason, C.J did not uphold this contention.	None
He observed that That proposition was accepted by La Forest, J. in Air Canada v. British Columbia	None
but it was repudiated by Wilson, J. in her dissenting judgment for reasons which, to my mind, are compelling .	None
Mason, C.J went on to observe that the argument that the plaintiff will receive a windfall or will unjustly enrich if recovery from public authority is permitted, cannot be accepted straightaway.	None
He further observed In the context of the law of restitution, this economic view encounters major difficulties.	None
The first is that to deny recovery when the plaintiff shifts the burden of the imposition of the tax or charge to third parties will often leave a plaintiff who suffers loss or damage without a remedy.	None
That consequence suggests that, if the economic argument is to be converted into a legal proposition, the proposition must be that the plaintiffs recovery should be limited to compensation for loss or damage sustained.	None
The third is that an enquiry into and a determination of the loss or damage sustained by a plaintiff who passes on a tax or charge is a very complex undertaking.	None
And, finally, it has long been thought that, despite Lord Mansfields statement in Moses v. Macferlan, the basis of restitutionary relief is not compensation for loss or damage sustained but restoration to the plaintiff of what has been taken or received from the plaintiff without justification.	None
After a review of the large number of cases cited, Mason, C.J concluded The United States and European decisions demonstrate that any acceptance of the defence of passingon is fraught with both practical and theoretical difficulties.	None
Indeed, the difficulties are so great that, in my view, the defence should not succeed unless it is established that the defendants enrichment is not at the expense of the plaintiff but at the expense of some other person or persons.	None
Brennan, J. who agreed with Mason, C.J that the appeal should be dismissed, held that The fact that Royal had passed on to its policyholders the burden of the payments made to the Commissioner does not mean that Royal did not pay its own money to the Commissioner.	None
The passing on of the burden of the payments made does not affect the situation that, as between the Commissioner and Royal, the former was enriched at the expense of the latter.	None
In the concurrent judgment of Dawson, J., there are certain observations to which I shall refer later on in this judgment.	None
All these cases go to show the complexity of the problem of doctrine of passingon.	None
The U.S view appears to be that but for the law passed in 1924, illegally collected tax had to be refunded even if it was passed on to the consumers.	None
The majority view of the Canadian Supreme Court was to the contrary.	None
However, the dissenting judgment of Wilson, J. was found preferable by Mason, C.J in Australia as well as by Lord Goff who spoke for the House of Lords in England.	None
But the English decision as well as the Australian decisions were founded on common law and Bill of Rights.	None
In none of these countries, any constitutional provision akin to Article 265 fell for consideration.	None
The debate whether a taxpayer is entitled to get refund when the levy is found illegal is concluded by Article 265 of the Constitution in our country.	None
The protection afforded to the taxpayer is total and complete.	None
It cannot be taken away under any circumstances or by any legislative action.	None
The Constitution being sacrosanct and overriding, in my view, any tax collected unlawfully, must be returned to the taxpayer.	None
Whether the taxpayer has passed on the burden of the tax to the consumers or not is a matter of no consequence.	None
The constitutional embargo is on both the levy and collection of tax without authority of law.	None
It has been repeatedly asserted by the courts that every taxing law has three parts.	None
First is charge, the second is computation which results in a demand of tax and the third is recovery of the tax so computed.	None
The Constitution has enjoined that there must be a valid levy.	None
The word levy has also been understood in a broad sense in various cases to include not only the imposition of the charge but also the whole process up to raising of the demand.	None
The Constitution guarantees that not only the levy should be lawful but also collection of tax must also be done with the authority of law.	None
The State is not permitted to exact any tax from a citizen without the authority of law and without following the procedure laid down by law.	None
This guarantee has to be strictly enforced not only in the matter of levy but also in the matter of collection.	None
It was pointed out by this Court in the case of Municipal Council v. Kamal Kumar 1965 2	None
SCR 653 that Article 265 of the Constitution clearly implies that the procedure to impose a liability upon the taxpayer has to be strictly complied with.	None
Where it is not complied with, the liability to pay a tax cannot be said to be according to law.	None
In that case, a validly passed municipal law was sought to be enforced, but the objections of the ratepayer were not dealt with by the Municipal Council as a whole but by a subcommittee.	None
The Court held that this was erroneous.	None
The phrase levy and collection indicates that all the steps in making a man liable to pay a tax and exaction of tax from him must be in accordance with law.	None
There must be a valid statute which will be properly followed.	None
All steps must be taken according to statutory provisions.	None
Recovery of tax must also be according to law.	None
No one can be subjected to levy or tax or deprived of his money by the State without authority of law.	None
Article 39 of the Constitution has directed the State to formulate its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.	None
These provisions do not in any way curtail the scope and effect of Article 265.	None
Article 39 does not enjoin that unlawfully collected properties should be used by the State for the common good.	None
Nor does it say that the operation of the economic system should be so moulded as to prevent concentration of wealth, by unlawful means.	None
Article 39 cannot be a basis for retaining whatever has been gathered unlawfully by the Government for common good.	None
Simply stated the Directive Principles of State Policy do not license the Government to rob Peter to pay Paul.	None
It has been repeatedly asserted by the Supreme Court of the United States that it is the duty of the courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizens and against any stealthy encroachments thereon.	None
(See Boyd v. United States 116 US 616.)	None
Actually, that should be the main function of the Court.	None
Otherwise, independence of the judiciary will become meaningless.	None
Independent tribunals of justice will be naturally led to resist every encroachment upon rights expressly stipulated for in the Constitution by the declaration of rights.	None
Madison, I Annals of Cong.	None
439 (1789).	None
Repeatedly, in various contexts, it has been emphasised that constitutional rights of citizens should not be watered down however desirable the end result of a particular case may be.	None
The Constitution is to last forever.	None
If for one particular case, out of its perceived notion of expediency, the Court cuts down the scope and effect of a constitutional provision, the Court will be failing in its bounden duty to uphold the Constitution.	None
The Court should not be guided by any policy of expedition but only by the dictates of what has been laid by the Constitution and what the American Courts refer to as Imperative of Judicial Integrity.	None
It is the imperative of judicial integrity that Article 265 is upheld as it is.	None
If it is allowed to be destroyed in this case, there is no reason why other articles of the Constitution should not slowly and steadily be whittled away to take away all the other guarantees given to the citizens by the Constitution.	None
This case, then, would be a dangerous precedent for demolition of the Constitution, article by article.	None
Apart from that, the Government cannot be allowed to say that it has broken the law but it will retain the fruits thereof.	None
As was observed by Mr Justice Brandeis in Olmstead v. United States 277 US 438 Our Government is the potent, the omnipresent teacher.	None
For good or for ill, it teaches the whole people by its example.	None
If the Government becomes a lawbreaker, it breeds contempt for law it invites every man to become a law unto himself it invites anarchy.	None
In the case of Mapp v. Ohio 367 US 643 Mr Justice Clark delivering the opinion of the Court in a case where the State tried to use in evidence the materials gathered as a result of unlawful search, on the ground that it was very desirable to do so in the facts of that case observed Our decision, founded on reason and truth, gives to the individual no more than that which the Constitution guarantees him, to the police officer no less than that to which honest law enforcement is entitled, and, to the courts, that judicial integrity so necessary in true administration of justice.	None
In my view, the scope and effect of Article 265 cannot be whittled down in any manner in order to enable the Government to retain unlawfully gathered tax on the pretext that a refund will unduly enrich the taxpayers.	None
Whatever the consequence may be, the provisions of the Constitution must be upheld as they stand.	None
In my judgment, Article 265 does not permit the State to levy or collect any tax without the authority of law.	None
This is a protection afforded to the citizens by the Constitution from State oppression in financial matters.	None
This protection given to the citizens must be jealously guarded by the courts.	None
If any tax has been gathered unlawfully by the State, it cannot be retained by the State.	None
If any law has been passed for retention of the illegal levy, it must be struck down in the same manner as the Judicial Committee struck down the Barring Act in the case of Commr.	None
for Motor Transport v.	None
Antill Ranger Co.	None
Pty. Ltd.	None
Who is the taxpayer under the Central Excise Act?	Issue
The taxable event for payment of Central excise is manufacture of excisable goods.	None
The Central Excise Act has a long history and the courts have never been in doubt that the excise duty under the various Excise Acts was payable by the manufacturer and if there was any excess payment, the refund of the excess amount of tax must be made to the manufacturer who had actually paid the duty.	None
In this connection, it has to be borne in mind that the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 is a consolidating Act.	None
In the Statement of Objects and Reasons it is stated The administration of internal commodity taxation in British India has grown up piecemeal over many years and has been considerably expanded during the last decade.	None
Hitherto the introduction of a new Central duty of excise has required the enactment of selfcontained law and the preparation of a separate set of statutory rules.	None
There are no less than 10 separate Excise Acts (the excise on kerosene being covered by a part of the Indian Finance Act, 1922) and 11 sets of statutory rules and there are also 5 Acts relating to salt, the duty on which is by a wide margin the oldest of our taxes on indigenous commodities.	None
The taxes being closely akin to one another, the methods of collection follow the same general pattern, and many of the provisions of the various Acts are identical or closely similar and this is the case also with many of the statutory rules.	None
The agglomeration of statutes and regulations dealing with similar matters is neither convenient for the public nor conducive to wellorganised administration.	None
The intention of the Bill is to reproduce provisions already existing in the Acts which it is proposed to repeal, but in the process certain small amendments have been made, either in modernising the language or for dovetailing the provisions and otherwise adapting them to present circumstances.	None
These amendments are the minimum consistent with each blending and adaptation.	None
Section 39 of the Act, when it was passed in 1944, stood as under The enactments specified in the Third Schedule are hereby repealed to the extent mentioned in the fourth column thereof.	None
But all rules made, notifications published, licences, passes or permits granted, powers conferred and other things done under any such enactment and now in force shall, so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act, be deemed to have been respectively made, published, granted, conferred or done under this Act.	None
The Third Schedule contained as many as 17 Acts which were entirely repealed.	None
The Acts were, inter alia, the Motor Spirit (Duties) Act, 1970, the Silver (Excise Duty) Act, 1930, the Sugar (Excise Duty) Act, 1934, the Matches (Excise Duty) Act, 1934, the Iron and Steel Duties Act, 1934, the Tyres (Excise Duty) Act, 1941, the Tobacco (Excise Duty) Act, 1943, the Vegetable Product (Excise Duty) Act, 1943 and the Mechanical Lighters (Excise Duty) Order, 1934.	None
In all these Acts the Central Government were empowered to make rules for assessment and collection of duty, issue of notice requiring payment, the manner in which the duties shall be payable and the recovery of duty not paid.	None
The rules also provided for appeals in case the taxpayer was aggrieved by any order.	None
Elaborate provisions were made for payment of excise duty on various products, the manner in which the duty was to be paid, imposition of penalty in case of evasion of duty and also the remedies to a taxpayer including refund of any excess amount of duty paid.	None
If an assessee succeeded in appeal, the appellate authority was competent to give suitable direction to grant relief to the assessee.	None
For example, under the Sugar (Excise Duty) Order, 1934 duty was imposed on certain varieties of sugar.	None
Provisions were made for filing of monthly returns (Rule 5).	None
The Collector was empowered to make assessment and also summary assessment (Rule 6).	None
Provisions for refunds and remissions of duty were made (Rule 9).	None
Any dispute could be determined by a suitably empowered officer (Rule 11) and appeal also lay to such authority as the Local Government might direct (Rule 12).	None
Any order of the Collector or such authority could be revised by the Local Government or such higher authority as the Local Government might direct.	None
A timelimit for filing of appeals was provided in Rule 13.	None
Rule 16 entitled the Collector to recover duty which had been shortlevied through inadvertence, error or misconstruction of the law by the Collector, or through misstatement as to quantity on the part of the owner of a factory, or even when erroneously refunds had been made.	None
Rule 17 provided No duty which has been paid and of which repayment wholly or in part is claimed in consequence of the same having been paid through inadvertence, error or misconstruction shall be returned unless such claim is made within three months from the date of such payment.	None
Likewise, in the Mechanical Lighters (Excise Duty) Order, 1934 a duty of excise was imposed on manufacture of mechanical lighters.	None
Such manufacturer was required to take a licence from the Collector (Rule 4).	None
The manufacture could only take place in terms of the licence.	None
Every holder of licence had to keep a correct daily account (Rule 7).	None
Within five days after the close of such month, every holder of a licence had to submit to the Collector a monthly return showing the number of mechanical lighters removed from the manufactory during that month (Rule 8).	None
On receipt of the return, the Collector would make an assessment.	None
The Collector was empowered to make a summary assessment (Rule 9).	None
Provisions for refunds and remissions were contained in Chapter IV.	None
Chapter V dealt with miscellaneous provisions including provision for preferring an appeal, firstly, to the Local Government or to such higher authority as the Local Government might direct.	None
Appeal could also be made to the Central Board of Revenue and any order could be revised by the Governor GeneralinCouncil (Rule 22).	None
Rule 23 imposed a timelimit of three months for preferring an appeal.	None
Rule 26 dealt with shortlevy through inadvertence, error or misconstruction on the part of the Collector, or through misstatement as to the quantity on the part of the owner of the manufactory.	None
Recovery could also be made when erroneous refunds had been made.	None
Such claims of refund had to be made within three months from the date of such payment.	None
Some provisions were made in the other orders or statutes by directly providing for payment of tax, appeals and refunds or by incorporating provisions of other Acts like the Sea Customs Act.	None
What is important to remember is that it was never in doubt that it was the manufacturer who was liable to pay tax and also entitled to get refund of any tax paid to the State through inadvertence, error or misconstruction.	None
This scheme was continued in the Consolidating Act of 1944.	None
As was stated in the object clause of the Act, the Act sought to consolidate the existing legislations and did not seek to bring about any fundamental changes in the legislation.	None
In fact even under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 after the levy of duty if the taxpayer felt aggrieved he could go up in appeal and claim that the levy was excessive or unlawful and if he succeeded, he got refund of the excess amount paid.	None
This is how the Act was understood and interpreted.	None
Now it is being argued that if excess amount of duty has been realised the taxpayer should not get back the excess payment because it is morally wrong.	None
The burden of tax has been passed on to the consumers who are the real taxpayers.	None
This argument cannot be upheld for three reasons When a statute of this nature, which is a Consolidating Act, is passed, the Court should not presume that the legislature was unaware of the scheme of the earlier statutes and how the law was understood and administered.	None
The legislature avowedly did not bring about any fundamental change in the structure of these existing laws in passing the Consolidating Act.	None
Tax was to be paid on manufacture of the excisable goods.	None
There were provisions for assessment and computation of tax.	None
Provisions were also made for appeals, recovery of tax in cases of shortlevy and refund of tax in cases of excess realisation.	None
The duty of the Court is not to legislate but to find out the intention of the legislature.	None
The legislative intent was to consolidate and continue the laws that were existing in one comprehensive statute and even when the new statute was in force the legislature did not think fit to stop refund of a wrong levy of tax to the manufacturer and thereby confer a right on the consumers to get refund before the amendment made in 1991.	None
Before that the Central Excise Act did not recognise any right of the consumer of excisable goods to get a refund of duty.	None
Refund of tax whether under the Income Tax Act, Wealth Tax Act, Gift Tax Act, Estate Duty Act, Sales Tax Act, Customs Act or the Central Excise Act has to be given under the statutory provisions contained in the Act.	None
Refund in a taxing statute is to be made not on the ground of compensation for loss or damage sustained by a taxpayer but on the principle of restoration to the taxpayer of what had been collected from him without justification of law.	None
This was highlighted by Mason, C.J in the Australian case.	None
It is not without significance that in all the tax laws, the word refund has been preferred to restitution or compensation.	None
The dictionary meaning of refund is to give or pay back money etc., Websters Comprehensive Dictionary, International Edn., 1984.	None
When a taxing statute provides for refund, it is not to be understood as a section providing for compensation for loss or damage.	None
Refund of tax means returning to the assessee what had been taken or received from him unlawfully.	None
Under the Central Excise Act, there is only one tax which is levied by Section 3 and the taxpayer is the person who pays the charge levied by Section 3.	None
The taxable event under the charging section is manufacture.	None
This is the duty which a manufacturer has to pay before he can remove the manufactured goods from his factory.	None
What the buyer of the goods pays to the manufacturer is the price of the goods.	None
No duty is levied by the Central Excise Act upon the buyer.	None
What the buyer pays to the manufacturer is not under any charge imposed by any statute.	None
What he pays is the price of the goods.	None
The price is a matter of contract between the buyer and the seller.	None
Whatever the buyer pays and the seller gets is the price of the goods, even though the tax element is included in the price.	None
I shall refer to the decided cases later in the judgment.	None
Section 3, which is the charging section, reads Duties specified in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 to be levied.(1)	None
There shall be levied and collected in such manner as may be prescribed duties of excise on all excisable goods which are produced or manufactured in India as, and at the rates, set forth in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985.	None
Provided that the duties of excise which shall be levied and collected on any excisable goods which are produced or manufactured, in a free trade zone and brought to any other place in India or by a hundred per cent, exportoriented undertaking and allowed to be sold in India, shall be an amount equal to the aggregate of the duties of customs which would be leviable under Section 12 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), on like goods produced or manufactured outside India if imported into India, and where the said duties of customs are chargeable by reference to their value, the value of such excisable goods shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), and the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975).	None
Explanation 1.Where in respect of any such like goods, any duty of customs leviable under the said Section 12 is leviable at different rates, then, such duty shall, for the purposes of this proviso, be deemed to be leviable under the said Section 12 at the highest of those rates.	None
Explanation 2.	None
In this proviso, free trade zone means the Kandla Free Trade Zone and the Santa Cruz Electronics Export Processing Zone and includes any other free trade zone which the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf hundred per cent exportoriented undertaking means an undertaking which has been approved as a hundred per cent exportoriented undertaking by the Board appointed in this behalf by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 14 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), and the rules made under that Act.	None
(1A)	None
The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply in respect of all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India by, or on behalf of, Government, as they apply in respect of goods which are not produced or manufactured by Government.	None
The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, fix, for the purpose of levying the said duties, tariff values of any articles enumerated, either specifically or under general headings, in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 as chargeable with duty ad valorem and may alter any tariff values for the time being in force.	None
Different tariff values may be fixed (a) for different classes or descriptions of the same excisable goods or (b) for excisable goods of the same class of description produced or manufactured by different classes or producers or manufacturers or sold to different classes of buyers Provided that in fixing different tariff values in respect of excisable goods falling under subclause (i) or subclause (ii), regard shall be had to the sale prices charged by the different classes of producers or manufacturers or, as the case may be, the normal practice of the wholesale trade in such goods.	None
Actually there has been very little change in the charging section since 1944, except that since 1985 excise duty has to be paid at the rates set forth in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985.	None
Before this amendment with effect from 2821986, the levy was at the rates set forth in the First Schedule of the Central Excise Act.	None
Since 1944 the taxable event continues to be production and manufacture of excisable goods.	None
The moment any excisable goods are produced or manufactured, levy of excise duty is attracted.	None
The time and manner of payment of duty have been fixed by Rule 9 of the Central Excise Rules Time and manner of payment of duty.(1)	None
No excisable goods shall be removed from any place where they are produced, cured or manufactured or any premises appurtenant thereto, which may be specified by the Commissioner in this behalf, whether for consumption, export or manufacture of any other commodity in or outside such place, until the excise duty leviable thereon has been paid at such place and in such manner as is prescribed in these Rules or as the Commissioner may require and accept on presentation of an application in the proper form and on obtaining the permission of the proper officer on the form Provided that such goods may be deposited without payment of duty in a storeroom or other place of storage approved by the Commissioner under Rule 27 or Rule 47 or in a warehouse appointed or registered under Rule 140 or may be exported under bond as provided in Rule 13 Provided further that such goods may be removed without payment or on part payment of duty leviable thereon if the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, allow the goods to be so removed under Rule 49 Rule 9A inter alia lays down that the rate of duty and tariff valuation shall be the rate and valuation in force in the case of goods removed from a factory or a warehouse on the date of the actual removal of such goods from such factory or warehouse.	None
Even if any excisable goods are lost after manufacture, the duty will have to be paid.	None
Clause (iii) of subrule (4) of Rule 9A provides 9A. (4) The rate and valuation, if any, applicable to cases of losses of goods shall (i) (ii) where the loss occurs in storage, whether in a factory or in a warehouse, be the rate and valuation, if any, in force on the date on which such loss is discovered by the proper officer or made known to him.	None
These provisions have undergone minor alterations from time to time, but there is not the slightest doubt that the levy of excise duty is on manufacture of goods.	None
The taxable event is the manufacture.	None
The duty will have to be paid regardless of the destination of the goods.	None
Even if the goods are lost before clearance, duty will have to be paid.	None
Whether the manufacturer after removal of the goods, is able to sell the goods or not is a matter of no consequence.	None
Once the taxable event has happened the duty has to be paid.	None
There is no escape from it.	None
This is a strict liability foisted on manufacture by Section 3.	None
But nothing in excess of this strict liability can be collected by the Excise Officers.	None
If something is levied or collected which is beyond the charging section, then that has to be paid back to the taxpayer.	None
Whatever tax has been levied or collected in violation of law has to be restored to the person from whom such illegal levy has been extracted.	None
Otherwise the guarantee under Article 265 becomes meaningless.	None
The argument that the real taxpayer is the person who buys the goods from the manufacturer or the ultimate consumer because duty is included in the price, forms a component of the price and is thereby passed on to the consumer, does not bear scrutiny.	None
Excise duty is payable because of the charge levied by Section 3.	None
Whether the manufacturer is able to sell his goods or not, excise duty will have to be paid.	None
If a man is able to pass on the burden or not is something with which the Excise Act is not concerned.	None
If as a result of high excise tariff the price becomes too high and the goods become unsaleable, the manufacturer may go out of business but will not be absolved from payment of duty.	None
Hardships suffered by the manufacturers may be redressed by the Government for which power has been retained in the Central Excise Act (Section 5A).	None
But a manufacturer cannot decline to pay excise duty on the ground of inability to sell his products and failure to pass on the burden of the duty.	None
If the Central Excise Officer discovers that the duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid, he has a right to recover the duty from the manufacturer (Section 11A).	None
The shortlevy may have been due to an oversight or mistake committed by the Excise Officer.	None
It may be that the goods manufactured have already been sold off and it will not be possible for the manufacturer to recover the amount of duty from his customers.	None
That is a postduty situation with which the Excise Act is not concerned.	None
The Central Excise Act is only concerned about collection of the duty levied by Section 3 on the manufacture of goods.	None
In the scheme of the Act, the consumer who purchases the goods from the manufacturer and pays cumduty price does not pay any tax either directly or through the manufacturer.	None
If a manufacturing company goes into liquidation after selling off all its products, the Excise Officer can in no way realise any shortlevy or underlevy from the consumer.	None
A tax is a compulsory levy imposed by the statute which is something quite different from purchase price.	None
If a person having paid the tax increases the price of the goods, what the purchaser pays the taxpayer is not the tax but the price of the goods.	None
The price usually comprises costs, taxes and profits.	None
But there is only one tax and one taxpayer who pays the tax.	None
If there is shortlevy or underlevy of excise duty due to any reason, the excise authority has no right to chase the consumers for the arrears of tax.	None
In no sense of the term can the consumer be treated as the taxpayer under the Central Excise Act.	None
Moreover, if the consumer is a businessman, the cumduty price will be deductible from his income under the Income Tax Act.	None
The charge of duty under the Central Excise Act is imposed by Section 3.	None
It has to be computed in the manner laid down in the Rules and paid also in the way the Rule provides.	None
The charge of tax is to be recovered from every person who produces, cures or manufactures any excisable goods (Rule 7).	None
It may also be recovered from the person who stores such goods in a warehouse.	None
It further provides that the duty shall be payable at such time and place and to such person as may be designated.	None
Rule 7 really supplements the charging section and specifies the person who has to pay excise duty and to whom, where and within which time the duty is to be paid.	None
Rule 9, which has been set out earlier in the judgment, places a bar on removal of goods from the place of manufacture until the excise duty leviable thereon has been paid at such place and in such manner as is prescribed in these rules or as the Collector may require.	None
Under the scheme of the excise act and the rules, these are the only provisions by which excise duty is made payable.	None
The charge is declared in Section 3.	None
The liability to pay duty is cast on any person who produces, cures or manufactures any excisable goods or stores such goods in a warehouse (Rule 7).	None
Time and manner of payment of duty is laid down by Rule 9.	None
Date for determination of duty and tariff valuation is provided by Rule 9A and Rule 9B provides for provisional assessment to duty.	None
It is provided that when the duty leviable on the goods is assessed finally, the duty provisionally assessed has to be adjusted against the duty finally assessed and if the duty provisionally assessed falls short of, or is in excess of, the duty finally assessed, the assessee has to pay the deficiency or be entitled to refund, as the case may be.	None
Provisions were also made for recovery of duties not levied or not paid, or shortlevied or not paid in full or erroneously refunded (Rule 10).	None
Rule 10A provided residuary powers for recovery of duties for which any specific provision had not been made in the Act or the Rules.	None
Rule 10B dealt with claim for refund of duties.	None
Rules 10A and 10B were as under 10A. Residuary powers for recovery of sums due to Government.(1) Where these rules do not make any specific provision for the collection of any duty, or of any deficiency in duty if the duty has for any reason been shortlevied, or of any other sum of any kind payable to the Central Government under the Act or these rules, the proper officer may serve a notice on the person from whom such duty, deficiency in duty or sum is recoverable requiring him to show cause to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice.	None
The Assistant Collector of Central Excise, after considering the representation, if any, made by the person on whom notice is served under subrule (1), shall determine the amount of duty, deficiency in duty or sum due from such person (not being in excess of the amount specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall pay the amount so determined within ten days from the date on which he is required to pay such amount or within such extended period as the Assistant Collector of Central Excise may, in any particular case, allow.	None
10B. Claim for refund of duty.	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty paid by him may, make an application, for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the date of payment of duty Provided that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
Explanation.	None
Where any duty is paid provisionally under these rules on the basis of the value or the rate of duty, the period of six months shall be computed from the date on which the duty is adjusted after final determination of the value or the rate of duty, as the case may be.	None
If on receipt of any such application the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty paid by applicant should be refunded to him, he may make an order accordingly.	None
Where, as a result of any order, passed in appeal or revision, under the Act, refund of any duty becomes due to any person, the proper officer may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf.	None
Save as otherwise provided by or under these rules, no claim for refund of any duty shall be entertained.	Reasoning
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this rule refund includes rebate referred to in Rules 12 and 12A. Rules 10A and 10B were in force till 1980.	None
These two rules were substantially adopted in Sections 11A and 11B of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 by the Customs Central Excises and Salt Act and Central Boards of Revenue (Amendment) Act, 1978.	None
The two sections came into force on 17111980.	None
It is wellsettled that these two rules (Rules 10A and 10B) are complementary.	None
Rule 10A invests the Government with the power to recover duty where any duty had not been levied or paid or had been shortlevied or erroneously refunded or any duty assessed had not been paid in full.	None
In such a case, the proper officer within six months could serve a notice on a person chargeable with the duty requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice.	None
Likewise, Rule 10B enabled a person to claim refund of any duty paid by him.	None
This could be done by an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before expiry of six months from the date of payment of duty.	None
Where any duty was paid provisionally under Rule 9B, the period of six months was to be computed from the date on which the duty was adjusted after final determination of the value.	None
If as a result of any appellate or revisional order refund of duty is due to any person, the proper officer had to refund the amount to such person even without any application.	None
There is nothing in the Act which enables or enjoins the manufacturer to pass on the duty of excise to the purchaser nor is any duty cast on the purchaser to pay the excise duty.	None
It is the manufacturer who has to pay the duty imposed by Section 3 by virtue of the provisions of Rule 7 and in the manner laid down in Rules 9A and 9B.	None
He is the person against whom proceedings for recovery could be taken in case of nonlevy or shortlevy or erroneous refund of duty.	None
Only a person who was under a legal obligation to pay duty under Section 3 read with Rule 7 and has actually paid duty in the manner laid down in Rule 9 (or any other rule), can claim refund of duty.	None
Duty has been defined by Rule 2(v) to mean the duty payable under Section 3 of the Act.	None
All these provisions go to show that there is only one duty payable under the Central Excise Act.	None
It has to be paid by the manufacturer or producer of the excisable goods.	None
In fact stringent provisions have been made to ensure that there is no evasion of duty by the manufacturer.	None
Under Rule 43 the manufacturer is required to give notice before commencement of production.	None
He has also to give a notice before stopping or resuming production of such goods.	None
He has also to give particulars of the raw materials used for production and if there is any change in the nature of the raw material that has also to be conveyed to the Collector of Excise.	None
Under Rule 49 duty has to be paid by a manufacturer only when the goods are removed from the factory premises or an approved place of storage.	None
But a manufacturer has to pay on demand the duty leviable on any goods which cannot be accounted for or which are not shown to have been lost or destroyed by natural causes or by an unavoidable accident during handling or storage of such goods.	None
The procedure of clearance is contained in Rule 52.	None
The manufacturer has to make an application in triplicate to the proper officer in proper form at least twelve hours before the removal of the goods.	None
The officer has to assess the amount of duty on the goods on production of evidence that the sum has been paid into the treasury or the approved bank as has been provided in the Rules.	None
This Rule has also importance for our purpose.	None
Duty of Central excise is to be paid into the treasury or the bank specified in Rule 52.	None
Any payment made by any person by way of price has not been treated as payment of duty by the Central Excise Act.	None
Rule 53 enjoins every manufacturer to make a stock account of his goods.	None
Monthly return has to be filed showing the quantity of goods manufactured, the quantity removed on payment of duty, the quantity removed for export without payment of duty and such other particulars as may be prescribed.	None
Materials used for manufacturing of the goods have also to be accounted for under the provisions of rule 55.	None
It is not really necessary to examine the scope of procedure for the dutypaid materials or under MODVAT scheme.	None
All these elaborate rules and procedures have been made for payment and collection of duty by and from the manufacturer.	None
The Central Excise Act has not made the manufacturer an agent of the State for collection of tax from the consumers.	None
If an illegal levy has been made on the manufacturer and any tax has been collected unlawfully from him by the State, the State cannot refuse to return the unlawfully collected amount.	None
The amount which has been unlawfully collected is the property of the taxpayer.	None
If the law has been broken by the State and an unlawful levy has been made, the State is not at liberty to distribute the amount so collected on any supposed equitable principle to somebody other than the actual taxpayer without a specific provision of law to that effect.	None
If this is allowed, the legal wrong done to the taxpayers will remain unredressed.	None
In the case of Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan (P) Ltd. v. Excise Commr., U.P 1971 1 SCC 4 a Bench of three Judges of this Court reiterated that the Court should not concern itself with the policy behind the provisions of the statute or even with its impact.	None
The observations of Rowlatt, J. in Cape Brandy Syndicate v. IRC 1921 1 KB 64 was cited in the judgment that in a taxing Act one has to look at what is clearly said.	None
There is no room for any intendment.	None
There is no equity about a tax.	None
There is no presumption as to a tax.	None
Nothing is to be read in, nothing is to be implied.	None
One can only look fairly at the language used.	None
In the case of R.C Jall v. Union of India after quoting with approval the observations of Lord Simonds in Governor GeneralinCouncil v. Province of Madras AIR 1945 PC 98 AIR at p. 101, Subba Rao, J. observed as under the said tax can be levied at a convenient stage so long as the character of the impost, that is, it is a duty on the manufacture or production, is not lost.	None
The method of collection does not affect the essence of the duty, but only relates to the machinery of collection for administrative convenience.	None
Whether in a particular case the tax ceases to be in essence an excise duty, and the rational connection between the duty and the person on whom it is imposed ceased to exist, is to be decided on a fair construction of the provisions of a particular Act.	None
In Bharat Kala Bhandar (P) Ltd. v. Municipal Committee the subjectmatter of dispute was a municipal levy.	None
The appellant claimed repayment of an excess amount of tax recovered by the municipality.	None
Although the facts and the subjectmatter of the decision were municipal levy which is quite different from the facts of this case, there is an important observation made by a Constitution Bench of five Judges The Constitution is the fundamental law of the land and it is wholly unnecessary to provide in any law made by the legislature that anything done in disregard of the Constitution is prohibited.	None
Such a prohibition is to be read in every enactment.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Here we are dealing with a taxing legislation.	None
Like all other taxing statutes the Central Excise Act has a charging section, provisions for computation and quantification of the charge and also collection of the charge (Sections 11 and 11A) and also for refund of duty (Section 11B).	None
The Court cannot ignore these provisions and hold without any specific charge levied to that effect in the Act that the ultimate consumer is the real taxpayer.	None
The refund must be made of excess realisation of the duty of excise to the manufacturer.	None
The Government has not imposed nor realised any duty from the ultimate consumer.	None
The structure of the Excise Act has to be borne in mind.	None
Duty is levied on manufacture and collected from the manufacturer according to the rules.	None
The wellknown distinction between levy and assessment and between levy and collection will have to be borne in mind in this connection.	None
In the case of CCE v. National Tobacco Co. of India Ltd. 1972 2 SCC 560	None
it was held by this Court that (SCC p. 572, para 19)	None
The term levy appears to us to be wider in its import than the term assessment.	None
It may include both imposition of a tax as well as assessment.	None
The term imposition is generally used for the levy of a tax or duty by legislative provisions indicating the subjectmatter of the tax and the rates at which it has to be taxed.	None
The term assessment, on the other hand, is generally used in this country for the actual procedure adopted in fixing the liability to pay a tax on account of particular goods or property or whatever may be the object of the tax in a particular case and determining its amount.	None
The Division Bench appeared to equate levy with an assessment as well as with the collection of a tax when it held that when the payment of tax is enforced, there is a levy.	None
We think that, although the connotation of the term levy seems wider than that of assessment, which it includes, yet, it does not seem to us to extend to collection.	None
Article 265 of the Constitution makes a distinction between levy and collection.	None
We also find that in N.B Sanjana CCE v. Elphinstone Spg. and Wvg.	None
Mills Co. Ltd. 1971 1 SCC 337 , this Court made a distinction between levy and collections as used in the Act and the rules before us.	None
It said there with reference to Rule 10 We are not inclined to accept the contention of Dr Syed Mohammad that the expression levy in Rule 10 means actual collection of some amount.	None
The charging provision Section 3(1) specifically says There shall be levied and collected in such a manner as may be prescribed the duty of excise.	None
It is to be noted that subsection (i) uses both the expressions levied and collected and that clearly shows that the expression levy has not been used in the Act or the Rules as meaning actual collection.	None
I fail to see how a person who has been subjected to levy of excise duty and from whom the duty has been collected cannot get the refund of the duty but only a person who has neither been charged any duty nor paid any duty under the Act can claim refund of the duty.	None
This will be clearly against Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
Refund 193.	None
sections 11a and 11b before their amendment in 1991 stood as under 11A. Recovery of duties not levied or not paid or shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded.(1) When any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded, a Central Excise Officer may, within six months from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty which has not been levied or paid or which has been shortlevied or shortpaid or to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice Provided that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded by reason of fraud, collusion or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent, the provisions of this subsection shall have effect, as if for the words Central Excise Officer, the words Collector of Central Excise, and for the words six months, the words five years were substituted.	None
Explanation.	None
Where the service of the notice is stayed by an order of a court, the period of such stay shall be excluded in computing the aforesaid period of six months or five years, as the case may be.	None
The Assistant Collector of Central Excise or, as the case may be, the Collector of Central Excise shall, after considering the representation, if any, made by the person on whom notice is served under subsection (1), determine the amount of duty of excise due from such person (not being in excess of the amount specified in the notice) and thereupon such person shall pay the amount so determined.	None
For the purposes of this section refund includes rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported out of India relevant date means, (a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid Where under the rules made under this Act a monthly return, showing particulars of the duty paid on the excisable goods removed during the month to which the said return relates, is to be filed by a manufacturer or producer or a licensee of a warehouse, as the case may be, the date on which such return is so filed (B) where no monthly return as aforesaid is filed, the last date on which such return is to be filed under the said rules (C) in any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act or the rules made thereunder (b) in a case where duty of excise is provisionally assessed under this Act or the rules made thereunder, the date of adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof (c) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has been erroneously refunded, the date of such refund.	None
11B. Claim for refund of duty.(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the relevant date Provided that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
If on receipt of any such application, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant should be refunded to him, he may make an order accordingly.	None
Where as a result of any order passed in appeal or revision under this Act refund of any duty of excise becomes due to any person, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf.	None
Save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, no claim for refund of any duty of excise shall be entertained.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the provisions of this section shall also apply to a claim for refund of any amount collected as duty of excise made on the ground that the goods in respect of which such amount was collected were not excisable or were entitled to exemption from duty and no court shall have any jurisdiction in respect of such claim.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purpose of this section, (A) refund includes rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported out of India (B) relevant date means, (a) in the case of goods exported out of India where a refund of excise duty paid is available in respect of the goods themselves or, as the case may be, the excisable materials used in the manufacture of such goods, if the goods are exported by sea or air, the date on which the ship or the aircraft in which such goods are loaded, leaves India, or if the goods are exported by land, the date on which such goods pass the frontier, or if the goods are exported by post, the date of despatch of goods by the Post Office concerned to a place outside India (b) in the case of goods returned for being remade, refined, reconditioned, or subjected to any other similar process, in any factory, the date of entry into the factory for the purposes aforesaid (c) in the case of goods to which banderols are required to be affixed if removed for home consumption but not so required when exported outside India, if returned to a factory after having been removed from such factory for export out of India, the date of entry into the factory (d) in a case where a manufacturer is required to pay a sum, for a certain period, on the basis of the rate fixed by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette in full discharge of his liability for the duty leviable on his production of certain goods, if after the manufacturer has made the payment on the basis of such rate for any period but before the expiry of that period such rate is reduced, the date of such reduction (e) in a case where duty of excise is paid provisionally under this Act or the rules made thereunder, the date of adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof (f) in any other case, the date of payment of duty.	None
Section 11B before its amendment in 1991 provided by subsection (1) Any person claiming refund of any of duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the relevant date.	None
By subsection (2), the Assistant Collector was required to examine the application and if he was satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant should be refunded to him, he may make an order accordingly.	None
Subsection (3) dealt with the consequence of an order passed in appeal or revision under the Act.	None
It provided that if as a result of any appellate or revisional order, any duty of excise becomes due to any person, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise may refund the amount.	None
Subsection (4) provided that no claim for refund for any duty of excise shall be entertained except as provided by or under this Act.	None
Subsection (5) laid down that the provisions of this section will also apply to a claim for refund of any amount collected as duty of excise made on the ground that the goods in respect of which such amount was collected were not excisable or were entitled to exemption from duty.	None
In order to claim refund, a person has to establish that he has paid the duty.	None
The duty is what is paid pursuant to the charge levied by Section 3 and quantified in the manner laid down in the Rules.	None
Rule 3(v) of the Central Excise Rules also says that duty means the duty payable under Section 3 of the Act.	None
The time and manner of payment of duty will have to be in accordance with the provisions of Rules 9 and 9A(4).	None
There is no other duty charged under the Central Excise Act and there is no other way a duty can be paid under the Central Excise Act.	None
It is the person who has paid the duty of Central excise under the charge imposed by the Act and within the time and in the manner laid down by the Act, who can claim the refund of duty under Section	None
11B.	Decision
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise must be the person who has paid the aforesaid duty in the aforesaid manner.	None
A consumer or buyer cannot say that he has paid any duty of excise.	None
The duty is only on the manufacturer and not on the consumer.	None
Under subsection (2), the Excise Officer has to be satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise should be refunded to the person who has paid the duty.	None
This is the law in respect of payment of duty and obtaining refund of duty paid in excess.	None
The buyer or the consumer does not pay any duty and, therefore, he is precluded from making any application for refund under Section	None
11B.	Decision
A person who has not paid any duty in law cannot claim a refund on the ground that he has borne the burden of duty.	None
The Excise Officer is a creature of the statute.	None
His powers and functions are circumscribed by the statute.	None
He can realise tax strictly in accordance with the statute.	None
He cannot realise tax beyond the charge imposed by Section 3 out of any extrastatutory considerations.	None
If more tax than permissible under the charge imposed by Section 3 has been collected, it must be returned to the taxpayer.	None
There is nothing in the Act which enables the Excise Officer to embark upon an enquiry to find out whether after payment of the duty, the manufacturer has sold his goods and if so, has included this amount in his price.	None
It is not a ground on which the Excise Officer can refuse to refund the excess amount of duty paid by the manufacturer in the mode and manner laid down by the Act.	None
A taxation statute has to be construed strictly.	None
The Excise Officer cannot insert a proviso to the section and say that even if the levy is illegal and the manufacturer is otherwise entitled to refund of duty under Section 11B, he will not be given this refund if he has included the duty element in the price of the goods manufactured by him.	None
The Excise Officer has no discretionary power to refuse to pay refund even when he was satisfied that excess payment of duty contrary to law has been collected or paid.	None
Though subsection (2) of Section 11B or earlier Rule 11A used the language that the Central Excise Officer may make an order of refund, the word may, in this context, has to be construed as must.	None
The section does not give the Central Excise Officer any discretion once he was satisfied that excess payment had been made.	None
He cannot withhold payment on some extraneous reasons.	None
This point was dealt with at length in the Australian case of Commr. of State Revenue v. Royal Insurance by Dawson, J. There, Section 111(1) of the Stamps Act, provided Where the Comptroller finds in any case that duty has been overpaid, whether before or after the commencement of the Stamps Act, 1978 he may refund to the company, person or firm of persons which or who paid the duty the amount of duty found to be overpaid.	None
This section was later on amended to provide that the Comptroller must refund the amount of the overpaid duty upon an application made within three years of overpayment.	None
There was no dispute that a huge amount of stamp duty had been overpaid by Royal in respect of premiums for workers compensation insurance.	None
The overpayments had been passed on.	None
The Comptroller made a decision not to refund the overpaid duty.	None
Royal initiated an action for the recovery of the amount.	None
It was unsuccessful before the trial Judge who reached the conclusion that the use of the word may in Section 111(1) gave the Comptroller a discretion whether or not to refund the overpaid tax.	None
The Full Court on appeal came to a contrary conclusion.	None
It held that after being satisfied that overpayment had been made, it was not open to the Comptroller to refuse to refund the duty.	None
One of the points argued was that the Act was amended later to use the word shall in place of may.	None
Dawson, J. observed that this was of no consequence.	None
On behalf of the Comptroller it was argued that a number of considerations might justify her withholding of refund of overpaid stamp duty and submitted that the possibility of these situations arising explains why the legislature had used the word may.	None
Chief among these considerations was the impossibility of ensuring that where the duty had been passed on to some other person, any refund should be similarly passed on.	None
It was argued that unlikelihood of Royals passing on of any refund would result in a windfall to it because the burden of the duty had in fact been borne by its customers.	None
Dawson, J. repelled this contention by saying But that it is a situation for which the legislature might have provided had it wished to do so and its failure to do so does not indicate an intention to give to the Comptroller a discretion to retain payments of stamp duty which were not made pursuant to any legal obligation.	None
The absence of any qualification of this kind in Section 111(1) suggests to my mind an obligation to refund the overpaid duty rather than a discretion to withhold repayment in situations which the legislature might have specified but did not.	None
It must be borne in mind that the occasion for the exercise of the authority conferred by Section 111(1) is the finding of an overpayment of stamp duty that is to say, a finding that the Comptroller received moneys to which she had no entitlement.	None
The subsection must be read either as requiring her to refund the overpayment or as conferring a discretion upon her to keep the moneys notwithstanding that she had no entitlement to receive them.	None
The principle that a statute will not be read as authorising expropriation without compensation unless an intention to do so is clearly expressed has been described as a firmly established rule of law.	None
Dawson, J. also expressed the view that the Comptroller did not have a discretion which had to be exercised in accordance with law of restitution.	None
He pointed out that the occasion for the exercise of the authority was identified.	None
The only question which arose was whether the authority must be exercised when the necessary finding of overpayment had been made or whether its exercise was discretionary.	None
Dawson, J. observed that if the common law, rather than the subsection, were to govern the Comptrollers obligation to make a refund, then no doubt a refund would now be required.	None
In fact, this principle is very important to understand the problem raised in this Court.	None
The Central Excise Act provides for every situation for levy, collection and refund of tax.	None
If an overpayment has been made for whatever reason, the amount has to be refunded.	None
The Excise Officer, who deals with an application for refund, has to find out whether an overpayment has been made under the Act.	None
He may, for any reason to be found in the Act, decline to give refund.	None
He cannot travel beyond the Act to find other considerations for withholding the refund.	None
As Dawson, J. pointed out if that was the intention of the legislature, the legislature would have expressly provided for it.	None
Dawson, J. observed However, as I have said, I do not regard Section 111(1) as conferring a discretion.	None
Once the Comptroller found that duty had been overpaid, she was under an obligation to refund it.	None
Since Dawson, J. concluded that Section 111(1) did not confer any discretion to the Comptroller to withhold payment of an unlawful levy, he did not express any final opinion on the question of unjust enrichment and passing on of the overpayment of stamp duty to the insurer in that case.	None
However, Dawson, J. observed The better view would seem to be that it is the unjust enrichment of the payee rather than loss suffered by the payer which should govern entitlement to restitution, but, having regard to the view which I take, it is unnecessary to determine that question in these proceedings.	None
I am also of the view that the Excise Act before its amendment in 1991, in particular Rule 10B and later Section 11B, did not confer any power on the Excise Officer to withhold refund on any ground of unjust enrichment, after being satisfied that overpayment of tax has been made.	None
Moreover, refund is to be claimed within six months from the date of payment of tax which means within six months from removal of the goods from the factory.	None
A company may take a very long time to dispose of its goods after clearance.	None
But a claim for refund has to be made within the short time permitted by the Act.	None
These provisions are indicative of the fact that refund claim has to be made regardless of the sale of the goods.	None
That passing on of the incidence of tax was not relevant consideration is also borne out by subsection (3) of Section 11B as well as subrule (3) of Rule 10B, e.g, if there is dispute as to classification of the goods and the assessee takes resort to filing of an appeal which ends in favour of the assessee, refund will have to be made of the excess amount of tax realised to the assessee without his having to make any claim in that regard.	None
In such a situation, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is not empowered, before refunding the money, to make an enquiry as to whether the duty has been passed on to the consumers.	None
The concept of passing on of the duty cannot be fitted in the provisions of the Excise Duty Act before its amendment in 1991.	None
As has been repeatedly asserted in a number of cases that in a taxing statute, there is nothing to be added and there is nothing to be taken out and the words must be interpreted as they stand.	None
There is no equity about taxation.	None
To introduce the concept of unjust enrichment in the Act even before its amendment in 1991 is not permissible by any canon of construction.	None
Our attention has not been drawn to any provision of the Act which is concerned about the consumers of the product after they pass out of the factory gate.	None
The rule and the section dealing with the refund do not contain any provision that the Excise Officer will be entitled to withhold refund if it is found that the duty has been passed on to the consumers.	None
As I have stated earlier powers and functions of the Excise Officer are circumscribed by the Act.	None
He cannot take into consideration anything which is not specifically contained in the Act.	None
The contention of Mr Parasaran on behalf of the Union of India has been that the incidence of tax is on the ultimate consumer.	None
As I have pointed out earlier, the Central Excise Act is not at all concerned with the ultimate consumer.	None
Even if it is not possible for a manufacturer to sell the goods, the duty will have to be paid.	None
If it is found after sale of the goods that there is any shortlevy or underlevy, the duty will still have to be paid by the manufacturer.	None
If there is a penalty imposable because of shortlevy or underlevy or any interest is payable, it is the manufacturer who has to bear it.	None
If the goods are lost after production, the manufacturer will have to pay duty on the lost goods.	None
To sum up, under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, there is only one duty and that has been imposed on manufacture.	None
This duty has to be paid before clearance.	None
This duty has to be paid in the manner and mode laid down by the Act.	None
The Act does not impose any other duty.	None
The Act is not concerned with what happens after the goods have been cleared.	None
If the duty has been erroneously imposed, the refund of the duty must be made to the person on whom it is imposed.	None
Refund of tax must not be confused with restitution or compensation.	None
In my judgment, there is only one taxpayer and it is the person who pays the tax at the time of clearance of goods.	None
There is no other tax imposed by the Central Excise Act.	None
How the burden of tax is borne or its economic impact on the manufacturer are not matters within the purview of the Central Excise Act.	None
No notice of these considerations can be taken in deciding the application for refund by the Excise Officer.	None
Article 265 of the Constitution enjoins that no duty shall be levied and collected except in accordance with law.	None
If it is found that a manufacturer has been asked to pay more than what he is liable to pay under the Central Excise Act, he is immediately entitled to get the refund of the wrongfully collected duty.	None
This constitutional guarantee cannot be sidetracked in any manner.	None
Every manufacturer tries to maximise his profits.	None
When he sells goods, he fixes a price at which he can make the maximum profits.	None
Higher prices do not necessarily fetch higher profits.	None
The manufacturer has to sell his products and if the prices are too high, the products will not sell.	None
He has to fix a price keeping in view the costs incurred by him (this will include costs of production as well as selling costs and also the overheads) and also the taxes he has to pay.	None
He will also have to take into consideration the market forces, the effective demand for his products and also the nature and price of the competing products in the market.	None
He will only fix such a price which the traffic can bear.	None
It is wrong to presume that if taxes are raised, the manufacturer has merely to pass on the burden to the consumers by raising the price.	None
It should always be borne in mind that a manufacturer has to generate sufficient income to pay for the prices of inputs, wages to the employees, rents, fuel charges, overheads and many other charges, including direct and indirect taxes.	None
Every type of tax, except only those which are levied on the profits like income tax and surtax on companys profits, will have to be included in the price.	None
The price must be high enough to fetch sufficient income to the manufacturer to pay for all these things and stay in business.	None
If the manufacturer is a company, as the appellant herein is, out of the profits, specific and general reserves will have to be created.	None
Provisions have to be made for known liabilities like provident fund and gratuity for workers, etc.	None
Debentureholders and preferential shareholders will have to be paid.	None
Dividends will also have to be paid to the shareholders who have invested their money in the company.	None
All these things will have to be paid out of the profits made by a company after paying all the expenses including excise and other duties.	None
A manufacturer has also to take into account that all the goods produced by him may not be sold in the year of production itself.	None
That means a large amount of circulating capital will remain blocked.	None
This will also lead to higher interest charges.	None
In fact, there is hardly a company which does not have to carry inventories of taxpaid finished goods year after year.	None
Goods distributed for sale to various outlets may not be sold for months or even years.	None
Such goods may ultimately have to be sold at large discounts or even at a loss.	None
Many products after some time cannot be sold at all for various reasons.	None
In the case of BSC Footwear Ltd. v. Ridgeway 1972 AC 544 the House of Lords dealt with a case of a wellknown shoemanufacturing company.	None
It was found that the unsold stock of shoes of the company at the end of the trading year was generally about a third of the quantity actually sold in that year.	None
Substantial part of the stockinhand at the end of the year would be sold either at reduced prices in January sales and thereafter at even lower prices in later sales.	None
The question in that case was how to value the unsold stock at the end of the trading year.	None
That question does not arise in this case, but it is illustrative of the difficulty of selling goods produced by a manufacturer.	None
Can it be said in such cases when a substantial portion of the goods are being sold at an undervalue and thus causing large erosion of profits, that the incidence of duty has been merrily passed on to the consumers?	None
The goods could not be sold except by reducing the price drastically.	None
It is difficult to say that in such a case incidence of tax is being borne by the consumers and the loss by the producer.	None
BSC Footwear case illustrates the predicament of an average manufacturer.	None
A substantial quantity of taxpaid products cannot be disposed of as a matter of course and the manufacturer has to get rid of the unsold products by organising first sale at a discount thereafter at even lower prices.	None
This is a problem with every manufacturer and to assume that the excise duty can be passed on to the consumer without any corresponding loss to the manufacturer is to ignore reality.	None
In the case of British Paints India Ltd. v. CIT 1978 111 ITR 53 Cal the problem was once again of valuation of unsold stock of a paint manufacturer.	None
It was recognised that paints had a very short shelf life.	None
In other words, unsold cans of paints lying on the shelves of the various outlets of the manufacturer could not retain its quality and utility for indefinite length of time and became unfit for market.	None
In that case, the question was whether the company was entitled to depart from the usual practice of valuing the unsold stock at the end of the year on cost or market price, whichever was lower, basis.	None
The Court said Yes.	None
The Court held that the company was entitled to value its unsold stock of the goods in process on the basis of the cost of raw materials and finished products on the basis of its costs.	None
It was recognised that the company might have to sell a portion of its products ultimately at a vastly reduced price.	None
I have not understood the concept of passing on of tax liability.	None
If this argument is taken to its logical conclusion, then it means that the manufacturing company does not incur any expenditure at all.	None
The taxes as well as the costs of production are recovered through price.	None
Will that mean that a company does not have any cost of production?	None
The wages of labourers, their provident fund, gratuity, bonus, the costs of raw material, the fuel charges, the overheads all these things have to be paid out of the money generated by the company.	None
This can only be done through price obtained by the sale of goods.	None
A suit for short sale by a manufacturing company or recovery of money for overcharging can be defeated by saying that all these things have been passed on to the consumer.	None
An electricity supply company or a coal supplier can also take the plea, faced with an allegation of excessive charge, that in any event the charges have been passed on to the consumers.	None
As I have emphasised earlier that it is not possible to split up the price of a commodity and find out how much is attributable to labour, how much to cost of production and how much to the overheads.	None
That the buyer pays nothing but the price, has been made clear by Section 2(10) and also Section 4 of the Sale of Goods Act.	None
Section 64A permits the seller to add an amount equal to any new tax imposed or any tax increased if such imposition or increment has taken place after the contract was entered into and if a different intention does not appear from the terms of the contract.	None
Incidentally, it should be noted that Lord Goddard, J. took into consideration Section 27 of the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1940 which appears to be similar to Section 64A of our Sale of Goods Act, 1930.	None
Section 64A provides 64A. In contracts of sale, amount of increased or decreased taxes to be added or deducted.(1)	None
Unless different intention appears from the terms of the contract in the event of any tax of the nature described in subsection (2) being imposed, increased, decreased or remitted in respect of any goods after the making of any contract for the sale or purchase of such goods without stipulation as to the payment of tax where tax was not chargeable at the time of the making of the contract, or for the sale or purchase of such goods tax paid where tax was chargeable at that time, (a) if such imposition or increase so takes effect that the decreased tax or increased tax, as the case may be, or any part of such tax is paid or is payable, the seller may add so much to the contract price as will be equivalent to the amount paid or payable in respect of such tax or increase of tax, and he shall be entitled to be paid and to sue for and recover such addition and (b) if such decrease or remission so takes effect that the decreased tax only, or no tax, as the case may be, is paid or is payable, the buyer may deduct so much from the contract price as will be equivalent to the decrease of tax or remitted tax, and he shall not be liable to pay, or be sued for, or in respect of, such deduction.	None
The provisions of subsection (1) apply to the following taxes, namely (a) any duty of customs or excise on goods (b) any tax on the sale or purchase of goods.	None
The English law in this regard is the same.	None
Lord Goddards judgment goes to show that even if the duty element was separately shown in the invoice what the buyer pays is the price of the product and nothing else.	None
The seller similarly gets only the price.	None
Lord Goddard, J. also noted the fact in that case that the burden of the tax had been passed on.	None
This, according to Lord Goddard, J., did not make any difference.	None
In the case of Paprika Ltd. v. Board of Trade 1944 KB 327 a person was called upon to pay penalty which was three times the price at which the articles were expected to be sold.	None
The Divisional Court rejected the argument that the tax element in the price should be excluded because it was no price at all.	None
It was an amount which would ultimately go to the Government.	None
The Court recognised the fact that the price could be affected by the tax element but it does not cease to be the price which buyer has to pay even if the price is expressed to be as X plus purchase tax.	None
This case was cited with approval by Lord Goddard, J. (as His Lordship then was) in the case of Love v. Norman Wright (Builders) Ltd. 1944 1	None
All ER 618 The question before the Court of Appeal was whether the seller of goods under a contract made after the purchase tax had been imposed by law could call upon the purchaser to pay the tax exigible in respect of the sale in addition to the agreed price at which the goods were to be supplied.	None
Goddard, J., pointed out that if a seller quoted a price X plus purchase tax, the buyer must pay the tax as part of the purchase price.	None
Conversely, if a seller agreed to supply goods for a certain sum, then he could not call on the buyer to pay anything extra for tax additionally, unless he was authorised by any statute to do so.	None
In George Oakes (P) Ltd. v. State of Madras AIR 1962 SC 1037 this Court was called upon to consider whether a dealer can pass on his tax liability as such to his customer.	None
In that decision while rejecting the contention that the tax liability as such can be transferred to the buyers, this Court referred to the observations of Lawrence, J. in Paprika Ltd. v. Board of Trade and Goddard, L.J, in Love v. Norman Wright (	None
Builders) Ltd.	None
In the former case, Lawrence, J. observed Whenever a sale attracts purchase tax, that tax presumably affects the price which the seller who is liable to pay the tax demands, but it does not cease to be the price which the buyer has to pay even if the price is expressed as X plus purchase tax.	None
In Love case Goddard, L.J, observed Where an article is taxed, whether by purchase tax, customs duty or excise duty, the tax becomes part of the price which ordinarily the buyer will have to pay.	None
The price of an ounce of tobacco is what it is because of the rate of tax, but on a sale there is only one consideration, though made up of cost plus profit plus tax.	None
So, if a seller offers goods for sale, it is for him to quote a price which includes the tax if he desires to pass it on to the buyer if the buyer agrees to the price it is not for him to consider how it is made up, or whether the seller has included tax or not.	None
In that decision, reference was also made to the decision of this Court in Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar 1958 SCR 1355.	None
Therein Das, C.J who delivered the majority judgment of the Court said The circumstance that the 1947 Act, after the amendment, permitted the seller who was a registered dealer to collect the sales tax as a tax from the purchaser does not do away with the primary liability of the seller to pay the sales tax.	None
This is further made clear by the fact that the registered dealer need not, if he so pleases or chooses, collect the tax from the purchaser and sometimes by reason of competition with other registered dealers he may find it profitable to sell his goods and to retain his old customers even at the sacrifice of the sales tax.	None
This also makes it clear that the sales tax need not be passed on to the purchasers and this fact does not alter the real nature of the tax which, by the express provisions of the law, is cast upon the seller.	None
The buyer is under no liability to pay sales tax in addition to the agreed sale price unless the contract specifically provides otherwise.	None
See Love v. Norman Wright	None
(Builders) Ltd.	None
From all these observations, it is clear that when the seller passes on his tax liability to the buyer, the amount recovered by the dealer is really part of the entire consideration paid by the buyer and the distinction between the two amounts  tax and price  loses all significance.	None
These decisions were reaffirmed by this Court in the case of Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. CST 1971 2 SCC 559.	None
In the case of Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. CST Hegde, J., speaking for the Court, once again emphasised (SCC p. 562, para 7)	None
Unless the price of an article is controlled, it is always open to the buyer and the seller to agree upon the price to be payable.	None
While doing so it is open to the dealer to include in the price the tax payable by him to the Government.	None
If he does so, he cannot be said to be collecting the tax payable by him from his buyers.	None
The levy and collection of tax is regulated by law and not by contract.	None
So long as there is no law empowering the dealer to collect tax from his buyer or seller, there is no legal basis for saying that the dealer is entitled to collect the tax payable by him from his buyer or seller.	None
Whatever collection that may be made by the dealer from his customers the same can only be considered as valuable consideration for the goods sold.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
I have been at great pains to emphasise that if the seller passes on his tax liability to the buyer, the amount equivalent to the tax received by the seller is part of the entire sale consideration.	None
It is not collection of tax, because levy and collection of tax is regulated by law and not by contract.	None
Whatever may have been collected by a seller from his customer on account of tax, the same can only be considered as valuable consideration for the price of the goods sold.	None
What the buyer pays is the price of the goods and not the components of the price.	None
Production costs, selling costs, overheads, taxes, everything goes into fixation of the price.	None
Moreover, the market conditions will have to be taken into account.	None
If the price is too high for the market to bear, the goods will not sell.	None
In order to absorb the excise duty, the manufacturer may have to cut various types of costs.	None
It may have to reduce its profit, pay lesser dividends to shareholders, he may not readily agree to any increment in pay or payment of bonus or other benefits to the workers.	None
It has not been explained how it can be readily assumed that all that the seller has to do to absorb higher duty is to include it in its price and pass it on to the consumers.	None
If the Preamble to the Constitution and social justice are borne in mind, then it may as well be argued, as Karl Marx did, that every article of manufacture is congealed labour.	None
If the labour is given just reward for the work done by him, no surplus value will be left.	None
It is this surplus value extracted from the labour through the pricing mechanism that becomes the manufacturers profit.	None
To prevent unjust enrichment, the entire surplus should go back to the labour.	None
But, here we are not concerned with social and economic theories, but only with the prosaic realm of law as it stands.	Issue
Harold Laski in his wellknown book Introduction to Politics pointed out the difference between role of law and role of politics by saying that the lawyers will have to take the law as it stands.	None
It is not for them to ask why these laws should be our laws?	None
What ends do these laws serve?	None
Why should those ends be our ends?	None
Whereas a student of politics may ask all these questions.	None
Laski said We have to add, so to say, a teleology to law.	None
In this case also we are not entitled to add any teleology to law.	None
We have to take the Central Excise Act as it stands.	None
We may or may not like the law.	None
But for that reason we cannot discard it or its language to bring out an abnormal meaning.	None
If the meaning of price as given in the Sale of Goods Act is borne in mind and its implications as explained in judgments referred to hereinabove are kept in view, then it can never be said that the seller has charged anything but the price of the goods from his buyer.	None
He cannot by a contract call upon the buyer to pay any tax which is the prerogative of a taxing statute.	None
Even if he quotes the price as X (costs) Y (taxes) Z (profit), what the buyer will pay is the price of the goods and nothing else.	None
Neither the costs nor the taxes are passed on to the buyer.	None
Unjust Enrichment	None
The facile assumption that when excise duty is imposed or raised, it can be passed on to the consumer by merely raising the price with no corresponding loss or detriment to the manufacturer has not been made on the basis of any market study.	None
In fact, before the new amendments were effected no indepth study was at all done by the legislature.	None
The basic premise of this line of reasoning is fallacious.	None
The Finance Minister in his budget speech for the year 199495 (206 ITR p. 19) stated Over the years, our indirect tax structure has grown into a complex maze of high and multiple rates, with numerous exemptions, and different rates being applicable for the same product for different uses and users.	None
This has resulted in unnecessary complexity leading to administrative abuse, mounting litigation and uncertain economic impact.	None
All this has effectively eroded the tax base and buoyancy of the system and created serious economic distortions.	None
To illustrate the enormity of excise burden which has to be borne by the manufacturers, it may be mentioned that in the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985, duty on oils used for skincare was 105 per cent and duty on residual oil which was not specifically mentioned under the Heading 3305.90 was 105 per cent.	None
The duty on paints and varnishes under the Heading 32.09 was as high as 60 per cent.	None
Under the Heading 33.07 preshave, shaving or aftershave preparations had to bear duty of 105 per cent.	None
The examples of high excise duty can be multiplied.	None
It cannot be blindly assumed that levy of excise duty does not cause any financial hardship or loss to the manufacturers because they can merrily pass it on to the consumers.	None
In fact, in very many cases, the Central Government had to issue exemption notifications on the representation made by industries exempting goods wholly or partially from excise duty having regard to the plight to which the industries had been reduced under the impact of taxation.	None
The economic reality that rise in duty causes financial hardship to the manufacturer and that the manufacturer cannot get rid of that hardship by simply passing on the duty has been recognised by the Central Government itself by giving relief to the manufacturers by various exemption notifications.	None
Even in cases where exemption notifications could not be issued retrospectively, an Act was passed to help the manufacturers.	None
The Central Duties of Excise (Retrospective Exemption) Act, 1986 was passed on 891986 to give retrospective effect to certain notifications to enable the Excise authorities to refund duties of excise which had already been collected in certain cases.	None
It was stated by Section 2 of the Act that the Act shall be deemed to have and to have always had, effect on and from the 1st day of March, 1986.	None
It went on to provide The duties of excise which have been collected, but which would not have been so collected if the said notification had been in force at all material times, shall be refunded The duties of excise which have become payable, but which would not have been so payable if the said notification had been in force at all material times, shall not be required to be paid.	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise under subsection (2) may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the commencement of this Act.	Reasoning
It had the effect of refunding the duties of excise which had already been collected and declaring the duties of excise which had become payable (but would not have been payable if the notifications had been in force) shall not be required to be paid.	None
This Act was passed in recognition of the fact that high excise duty causes hardship to the manufacturers.	None
They must be given relief even with retrospective effect.	None
This Act is important for the purpose of this case because it goes to show the legislative intent.	None
The legislature never intended before 1991 that refunds of excise duty will not be given to the manufacturers but to the buyers of the goods.	None
The Central Excise Act is totally silent on this aspect of the matter and we shall not add a rider to the Central Excise Act to deny any refund due to the manufacturer.	None
It has also to be borne in mind that the rates of duty in India are much higher than in USA, Australia or Canada.	None
Its economic impact is much greater.	None
In fact, in the case of United States v. Jefferson Electric Manufacturing Co.	None
the dispute related to levy of excise duty at the rate of 5 per cent.	None
In Air Canada case the disputed duty was 5 cents per gallon.	None
It is needless to speculate how the courts would have reacted if they had to face the high tax regime that exists in India.	None
Mason, C.J in the case of Commr. of State Revenue v. Royal Insurance Australia Ltd. noted how the theory that the burden imposed by higher excise duty can be passed on to the consumers without any economic loss to the manufacturer has been rejected in various courts in the United States, Canada and also Australia.	None
Mason, C.J observed that this economic theory had major difficulties.	None
The first was that to deny recovery when the plaintiff shifted the burden of the imposition of the tax or charge to third parties will often leave a plaintiff who suffered loss or damage without a remedy.	None
Another reason given by Mason, C.J was that an enquiry into and a determination of the loss or damage sustained by a plaintiff who had passed on a tax or charge was a very complex undertaking.	None
Mason, C.J also pointed out that the basis of restitutionary relief was not compensation for loss or damage sustained but restoration to the plaintiff of what has been taken or received from the plaintiff without justification.	None
Mason, C.J in his judgment illustrated the proposition with a number of cases to show that the doctrine of passingon was fraught with many difficulties.	None
An American case was cited where the Supreme Court of U.S had rejected the doctrine of passingon under antitrust laws where the plaintiffs had passed on overpayments to their customers (Hanover Shoe Inc. v. United Shoe Machinery Corp. 392 US 481) Commenting on this, Mason, C.J observed that though the context is different, the reasons given for the rejection were relevant for the present case.	None
They include the difficulty of determining the economic impact upon the plaintiffs business of passing on the overpayment, the practical problems which availability of the defence would generate involving massive evidence and complicated theories.	None
Further the defence would probably apply all the way down the chain of distribution to the ultimate consumer who would have little interest to sue.	None
The U.S Supreme Court also noted that economic theories rely upon the assumptions which do not operate in the real world, thereby making the proof of passing on extremely difficult.	None
This view was also expressed in the opinion of the Advocate General in Amministrazione delle Finanze dello Stato v. San Giorgio SpA.	None
Mason, C.J concluded that The United States and European decisions demonstrate that any acceptance of the defence of passing on is fraught with both practical and theoretical difficulties.	None
Indeed, the difficulties are so great that, in my view, the defence should not succeed unless it is established that the defendants enrichment is not at the expense of the plaintiff but at the expense of some other person or persons.	None
In view of all these, I see no basis to deny the refund to a manufacturer on the facile assumption that burden of duty has been passed on to the consumers without any loss or detriment to the manufacturer.	None
The absurdity of this doctrine of passingon can well be demonstrated by the following examples.	None
Supposing, a manufacturer of pulp sells his product to a rayon manufacturer which uses the pulp to manufacture rayon it can be said that the burden of duty has been passed on to the rayon manufacturer.	None
The rayon manufacturer, in his turn, includes the cumduty price in his costs and includes it in his price when he sells his yarn to a cloth manufacturer.	None
The cloth manufacturer in his turn will include the dutypaid price of rayon in his costs and will sell his products to a garment manufacturer at dutypaid price.	None
The garmentmaker will sell the garments to the actual users.	None
Can the last consumer establish that he has borne the incidence of an illegal excise duty imposed on pulp and claim refund of the unlawful duty on pulp?	None
Can he at all be made aware of such an unlawful levy on pulp?	None
Or will it be that the rayon manufacturer will get the refund as a consumer of pulp even though he has included the dutypaid price in his costs of raw material for production of rayon and has thereby passed on the burden to his customers?	None
These illustrations can be multiplied ad infinitum.	None
If a scrap dealer buys dutypaid scrap and sells to a carparts manufacturer who in his turn treats such price as his cost and includes it in his price (duty included) and sells the parts to a car manufacturer, who in his turn sells cars to the actual users, who will get back any illegal levy of excise duty on scraps?	None
This problem has other dimensions.	None
The Excise Act cannot be viewed in isolation.	None
If there is an illegal levy of paper and a lawyer buys paper at cumduty price, he gets deduction of the entire sum in computation of income under the Income Tax Act.	None
Can he claim refund of excise duty as being the ultimate consumer?	None
As I said earlier, these are not isolated examples, but things that are happening in everyday life.	None
Dutypaid price charged by a manufacturer is his income for income tax purposes, turnover for sales tax and turnover tax.	None
It has a variety of other fiscal dimensions.	None
How can it ever be assumed that an illegal levy of tax will be a source of joy for the taxpayer?	None
He will happily pass on the burden and merrily enjoy the refund.	None
The argument by reference to the Directive Principles that unlawfully collected tax must be retained by the Government for the common good of the people and also to involve the weaker sections of the people may have a populist appeal, but is without any basis having regard to the provisions of the Central Excise Act as well as the Excise Tariff Act.	None
The Central Excise Act levies a tax on manufacture of goods.	None
Very often goods are manufactured by smallscale industries or individuals for the benefit of large industries.	None
If a smallscale paper pulp manufacturer who struggles to exist, cannot get back an illegal levy of excise duty because the consumer, a largescale viscose fibre manufacturer, has ultimately borne the burden of the duty and the illegally collected duty is paid back to that large company, the weaker section far from being benefited, will be thoroughly robbed.	None
In fact, if we look at the Central Excise Tariff Act, it will be seen that the vast majority of the products are not for household use or for the common man.	None
The list of excisable commodities starts with animal products, which may include products of the kind unfit or unsuitable for human consumption guts, bladders or stomachs of animals or animal blood or animal fat, other than pig fat (Chapter 2).	None
Obviously these have industrial uses, but a common man will not buy them.	None
Likewise, Lac, Gums, Resins (Chapter 13), Bituminous and Asphalt, Chemical Compound (Chapter 27), Chemical Compounds  Organic and Inorganic (Chapter 28), Explosives, Pyrotechnic Products Pyrophoric Alloys and other Combustible Preparations (Chapter 36) will only be used by large industries.	None
A large number of chemical products are taxed under the heading Miscellaneous Chemical Products, like Graphite, Activated Carbon, Rubber Accelerators, compound plasticisers, organic composite solvents (Chapter 38), charged fire extinguishing grenade are not used by the common man.	None
In fact, the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act has as many as 96 Chapters and appears to contain more entries relating to goods which are used by trade and industry than the common man in everyday life like Base Metals, Iron and Steel, Aluminium Metal (Chapter 72), Nuclear Reactors, Boilers, machineries, mechanical appliances parts thereof, electric motors and generators, rotary converters, transformers, static converters, electromagnets, etc. (Chapter 85).	None
The Schedule also includes Railway or Tramway Locomotives, RollingStock and parts thereof Railway or Tramway Track Fixtures and Fittings and parts thereof Mechanical Traffic Signalling Equipment of all kinds (Chapter 86).	None
This entry is followed by vehicles other than Railway or Tramway etc.	None
(Chapter 87).	None
This entry includes motor cars, motor vehicles, tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles and also parts and accessories of the motor cars and motor vehicles principally designed for transport of persons, motor vehicles for the transport of goods.	None
Even here it should be noted that, having regard to the price of the motor cars and motor vehicles, it is not the weaker section of the population who uses these vehicles.	None
In the name of benefiting the weaker section, unlawfully and illegally levied duty of excise on parts and accessories and various inputs manufactured by small manufacturers for use of the large manufacturers will not be returned to them but handed over to the large manufacturer or rich consumers who have the resource and ability to claim it.	None
There are of course household goods or goods of everyday necessity like edible oil, toothpaste, toothbrush, soap, some textile articles and possibly some items falling under paper and paper board are used by the common man in everyday life.	None
But taking an overall view of the tariff items in the Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, it can hardly be said that excise duty by and large is on goods to be used by the common man.	None
Moreover, there are many industries reserved for smallscale sector.	None
This has been done to protect smallscale industries from competition from the big manufacturers.	None
If for example, a manufacturer of wristwatch strap (reserved for small sector) is unable to get back any illegally imposed duty of excise because the watch straps have been sold to a large watchmanufacturing company and that large company is given the refund, the weaker section will not benefit in any way.	None
Even for the consumer goods, it is not in the realm of belief that an ordinary buyer will be able to chase the Excise Officer and claim refund of duty illegally imposed on the manufacturer.	None
For example, a person buying toothbrush from the local grocery shop, will not retain the cash memo for years and years and even if he does so, he will not know that there is a dispute about the levy of excise duty pending.	None
Furthermore, a man who purchases a toothbrush in Madras will not be able to claim refund of duty from the proper Excise Officer who has jurisdiction over the company at Bombay.	None
We shall bear all these considerations in mind before trying to interpret the law in a way which will benefit the weaker sections of the people and give them a sense of participation in the development of the country.	None
Moreover, only the manufacturer has to separately show the duty element in his invoice.	None
The wholesaler, the distributor or the retailer has no such obligation.	None
Ordinary customers buy their goods at the retail outlet, where even if a cash memo is given, the duty element will not be shown separately.	None
How will the common man know that he has paid any duty and if so of what amount?	None
In my view, the entire argument based on unjust enrichment is founded on a false premise.	None
It will be wrong to assume that the duty element can be included in the price and that no prejudice will be caused to the manufacturer by the levy or enhancement of the duty.	None
To take this position is to ignore the economic realities.	None
There may also be a situation when a manufacturer will not be able to certify that he has not passed on the duty even though he has borne it.	None
Supposing a manufacturer is charging Rs 100 per unit of goods.	None
The price of Rs 100 is calculated on the basis of Rs 80 as costs, Rs 10 as profits and Rs 10 as excise duty.	None
The excise duty element is enhanced unlawfully by Rs 5.	None
In such a case, the manufacturer may either raise the price of the goods by Rs 5 or he may decide to reduce his profit to Rs 5 and sell the goods at the same price.	None
In the second case when the manufacturer reduces the profit element to Rs 5 and sells the goods at Rs 100, can it be said that he has passed on the burden of excise duty to his customers.	None
The price is inclusive of the duty element.	None
In a sense, the burden of duty borne by the manufacturer has been passed on.	None
But then again, the manufacturer has suffered diminution of profit.	None
Can it be said in such a case that if the manufacturer manages to get an order of refund of duty, it will be unethical for him to get the amount because this will be unlawful enrichment?	None
The manufacturer in a case like this will not be in a position to certify that the burden of duty has not been included in the price of the goods but the fact remains that in order to maintain the price of goods at the optimum level the manufacturer had to suffer loss of profit.	None
The Central Government has been empowered to exempt, generally or absolutely by notification, excisable goods from the whole or any part of the duty imposed thereon.	None
Judicial notice must be taken that in very many cases, having regard to the hardship suffered by the industry and representations made by the industry, duties have been reduced or exempted by issuing appropriate notifications or even by legislation.	None
Scope of Sections 11B, 11D, 12A, 12B, 12C and 12D of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 Sections 11B and 11D in Chapter II and Sections 12A, 12B, 12C and 12D in Chapter IIA are now to be considered 11B. Claim for refund of duty.(1)	Issue
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the relevant date in such form and manner as may be prescribed and the application shall be accompanied by such documentary or other evidence (including the documents referred to in Section 12A) as the applicant may furnish to establish that the amount of duty of excise in relation to which such refund is claimed was collected from or paid by him and the incidence of such duty has not been passed on by him to any other person Provided that where an application for refund has been made before the commencement of the Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991, such application shall be deemed to have been made under this subsection as amended by the said Act and the same shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2) as substituted by that Act Provided further that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	Reasoning
If, on receipt of any such application, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant is refundable, he may make an order accordingly and the amount so determined shall be credited to the Fund Provided that the amount of duty of excise as determined by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise under the foregoing provisions of this subsection shall, instead of being credited to the Fund, be paid to the applicant, if such amount is relatable to (a) rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported out of India (b) unspent advance deposits lying in balance in the applicants account current maintained with the Collector of Central Excise (c) refund of credit of duty paid on excisable goods used as inputs in accordance with the rules made, or any notification issued, under this Act (d) the duty of excise paid by the manufacturer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person (e) the duty of excise borne by the buyer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person (f) the duty of excise borne by any other such class of applicants as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify Provided further that no notification under clause (f) of the first proviso shall be issued unless in the opinion of the Central Government, the incidence of duty has not been passed on by the persons concerned to any other person.	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	None
Every notification under clause (f) of the first proviso to subsection (2) shall be laid before each House of Parliament, if it is sitting, as soon as may be after the issue of the notification, and, if it is not sitting, within seven days of its reassembly, and the Central Government shall seek the approval of Parliament to the notification by a resolution moved within a period of fifteen days beginning with the day on which the notification is so laid before the House of the People and if Parliament makes any modification in the notification or directs that the notification should cease to have effect, the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.	None
For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any notification issued under clause (f) of the first proviso to subsection (2), including any such notification approved or modified under subsection (4), may be rescinded by the Central Government at any time by notification in the Official Gazette.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section, (A) refund includes rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported out of India (B) relevant date means, (a) in the case of goods exported out of India where a refund of excise duty paid is available in respect of the goods themselves or, as the case may be, the excisable materials used in the manufacture of such goods, if the goods are exported by sea or air, the date on which the ship or the aircraft in which such goods are loaded, leaves India, or if the goods are exported by land, the date on which such goods pass the frontier, or if the goods are exported by post, the date of despatch of goods by the Post Office concerned to a place outside India (b) in the case of goods returned for being remade, refined, reconditioned, or subjected to any other similar process, in any factory, the date of entry into the factory for the purposes aforesaid (c) in the case of goods to which banderols are required to be affixed if removed for home consumption but not so required which exported outside India, if returned to a factory after having been removed from such factory for export out of India, the date of entry into the factory (d) in a case where a manufacturer is required to pay a sum, for a certain period, on the basis of the rate fixed by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette in full discharge of his liability for the duty leviable on his production of certain goods, if after the manufacturer has made the payment on the basis of such rate for any period but before the expiry of that period such rate is reduced, the date of such reduction (e) in the case of a person, other than the manufacturer, the date of purchase of the goods by such person (ea) in the case of goods which are exempt from payment of duty by a special order issued under subsection (2) of Section 5A, the date of issue of such order (f) in any other case, the date of payment of duty.	None
11D. Duties of excise collected from the buyer to be deposited with the Central Government.(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder, every person who has collected any amount from the buyer of any goods in any manner as representing duty of excise, shall forthwith pay the amount so collected to the credit of the Central Government.	None
The amount paid to the credit of the Central Government under subsection (1) shall be adjusted against the duty of excise payable by the person on finalisation of assessment and where any surplus is left after such adjustment, the amount of such surplus shall either be credited to the Fund or, as the case may be, refunded to the person who has borne the incidence of such amount, in accordance with the provisions of Section 11B and the relevant date for making an application under that section in such cases shall be the date of the public notice to be issued by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise.	None
12A. Price of goods to indicate the amount of duty paid thereon.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, every person who is liable to pay duty of excise on any goods shall, at the time of clearance of the goods, prominently indicate in all the documents relating to assessment, sales invoice, and other like documents, the amount of such duty which will form part of the price at which such goods are to be sold.	None
12B. Presumption that incidence of duty has been passed on to the buyer.	None
Every person who has paid the duty of excise on any goods under this Act shall, unless the contrary is proved by him, be deemed to have passed on the full incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.	None
12C. Consumer Welfare Fund.(1)	None
There shall be established by the Central Government a fund, to be called the Consumer Welfare Fund.	None
There shall be credited to the Fund, in such manner as may be prescribed, (a) the amount of duty of excise referred to in subsection (2) of Section 11B or subsection (2) of Section 11C or subsection (2) of Section 11D (b) the amount of duty of customs referred to in subsection (2) of Section 27 or subsection (2) of Section 28A, or subsection (2) of Section 28B of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) (c) any income from investment of the amount credited to the Fund and any other monies received by the Central Government for the purposes of this Fund.	None
12D. Utilisation of the Fund.(1)	None
Any money credited to the Fund shall be utilised by the Central Government for the welfare of the consumers in accordance with such rules as that Government may make in this behalf.	None
The Central Government shall maintain or, if it thinks fit, specify the authority which shall maintain, proper and separate account and other relevant records in relation to the Fund in such form as may be prescribed in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.	None
Section 11B(1) contemplates that for claiming refund of any duty of excise a person has to apply with documentary evidence to establish, (1) the amount of duty of excise was collected from him or paid by him and (2) the incidence of such duty has not been passed on by him to any other person.	None
subsection (2) of Section 11B provides that if the Excise Officer is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant is refundable, he may make an order accordingly.	None
The refundable amount, however, will be credited to a Fund.	None
The proviso lays down certain circumstances under which the duty may be paid to the applicant.	None
Clause (d) of the proviso says that the duty of excise paid by the manufacturer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person, will be refunded to him.	Decision
These provisions are not in consonance with the charging provisions of the Excise Act and the Rules.	None
The wellknown principle of fiscal legislation is that the charge lies where it falls.	None
It cannot be shifted by a contract.	None
Acts relating to income tax, wealth tax, sales tax as well as excise duty have charging sections.	None
A man may contract with somebody to pay his income tax, a seller may contract with somebody else to pay his sales tax and a manufacturer may contract with a third party to pay the duty of excise.	None
These contracts are not enforceable by or against the Revenue.	None
The Central Excise Act imposes a tax on manufacture.	None
This tax has to be paid before the goods are cleared in the manner laid down by the Act and the Rules.	None
There is no other duty of excise payable under the Act.	None
I have referred to various decisions wherein it has been pointed out that the contract between the manufacturer and a buyer is of no consequence in the matter of payment and collection of excise duty.	None
The question of passing on can only arise after the duty has been fully paid.	None
The duty of excise is never borne by the buyer as stated in clause (e) of the proviso.	None
The buyer may pay a sum equivalent to the duty of excise pursuant to a contract with the manufacturer, but that is a matter of contract.	None
The duty imposed on and collected from the manufacturer, if it is found to be in excess of the charge imposed by Section 3, has to be returned to the manufacturer and nobody else, otherwise charging provision, rules for computation of charge and imposition and collection of duty will become meaningless.	None
If any amount has been realised by the Excise Officer in excess of the charge imposed by the charging section, then such collection is beyond the competence of the Act and also violates Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
It was pointed out in the case of CCE v. National Tobacco Co. of India Ltd.	None
SCC at p. 572 that Article 265 of the Constitution makes a distinction between levy and collection.	None
Levy may include both imposition of a tax as well as assessment.	None
Collection will be recovery of tax.	None
If it is found that a taxpayer has been levied more than the permissible limit imposed by the charging section read with the Excise Tariff Act and the Rules, the levy is bad.	None
The collection pursuant to this levy is equally bad.	None
Such levy and collection are dehors the provisions of the excise act.	None
There is no way that the Central Excise authority can retain the amount or use the amount.	None
In any way it has to refund the amount to the person from whom it has been unlawfully collected by the Excise Officer.	None
According to the Central Excise Act, as Hegde, J. pointed out in the case of Delhi Cloth and General Mills, duty is imposed by a statute whereas the cumduty price is paid by the purchaser under a contract with the manufacturer.	None
No portion of the cumduty price in law can be treated as the duty of excise.	None
Nothing which is not imposed by Section 3 and collected under the provisions of the Excise Act and Rules, can be called duty of excise.	None
In my view this is the basic principle of any tax law.	None
If by any device any amount which is not leviable in law has been levied and collected from a taxpayer, then retention of such amount will be unlawful.	None
Any provision appearing or trying to bar recovery of illegally collected tax is violative of Article 265 of the Constitution and must be struck down as the Barring Act was struck down by the Privy Council in the case of Commr.	None
for Motor Transport v.	None
Antill Ranger Co.	None
Pty. Ltd.	None
If the realisation of tax is in excess of the charge imposed by the Excise Act read with the Excise Tariff Act and Rules, then such levy of tax is not authorised by law.	None
The collection of such excess unlawful levy is also invalid.	None
As the Judicial Committee pointed out if the levy is invalid as an offence against Section 92, it is equally an offence to deny the right to recover it after it has been unlawfully exacted.	None
Therefore, in my view, once it is established that more than what is payable under the statute has been collected from the taxpayer, the taxpayer automatically gets a right to get back the whole amount.	None
If the right is sought to be effectively taken away by imposing conditions, then the law imposing these conditions must be declared to be bad and ultra vires the Constitution.	None
There is another aspect of this matter.	None
The Excise Officer cannot tax more than what is permitted by the statute.	None
If the levy is in excess of the statute, then its retention by the State is unauthorised by law.	None
What is being retained is not in enforcement of the charging section but something else.	None
Such illegally collected tax is not the property of the State and is not within the disposing power of the State.	None
If the money has to be utilised by the State, the State has to find out some legitimacy for having possession of the money.	None
In the Canadian case of Air Canada v. British Columbia retroactive amendment of the Gasoline Tax Act was passed with a new definition of purchaser to make a levy valid and retain the illegally collected amount by setting off against the claim raised by the amended Act.	None
That is the only way in which La Forest, J. could justify, what was otherwise a confiscatory provision.	None
In this case, there has been no attempt to give legitimacy to the holding of the amount or utilisation of the amount by the Government.	None
The entire amount was collected unlawfully.	None
The original sin has not been cured as in Canada by a retroactive charge.	None
I shall now examine the other provisions of the newlyadded sections.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 11B requires an application for refund to be made.	None
Subsection (2) requires the Assistant Commissioner to pass an order of refund provided the conditions set out therein are fulfilled.	None
Subsection (3) merely lays down that no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	None
There is a non obstante clause that this will operate notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree, order etc.	None
It is obvious that new provisions will apply in cases where applications for refund were made before the new provisions came into force and also subsequently.	None
Subsection (3) has no retrospective effect.	None
When a case has been finally heard and disposed of and no application for refund need be made, subsection (3) cannot apply.	None
If there is a judgment, decree or order which has to be carried out, the legislature cannot take away the force and effect of that judgment, decree or order, except by amending the law retrospectively on the basis of which the judgment was pronounced.	None
I have indicated earlier in the judgment and shall not repeat that it is practically impossible for an ultimate consumer to make an application for refund under Section	None
11B. He has to know that there is a dispute about levy of excess duty which is going on between the manufacturer and the Excise authority.	None
He has to know the outcome of that dispute.	None
He has also to find out what is the amount of duty he has borne.	None
This is a difficult process because the ultimate consumer may have a cash memo from his retail seller.	None
A retail seller usually does not give the breakup of duty in the price he charges.	None
The new law requires a manufacturer at the time of clearance of the goods to prominently indicate in the invoice and other documents the amount of such duty which will form part of the price.	None
There is no such requirement for the dealers down the line.	None
It is incomprehensible how a person who buys a cake of soap will know the duty content in the price and whether the excise duty levied was valid or not and how will he find out which is the proper officer, to whom to make an application in the prescribed form for refund of duty and what sort of evidence will he be having in his possession to authenticate his claim.	None
It is rightly contended by Mr Nariman that all these provisions are only an eyewash to retain the illegally exacted excess levy by the Government which is, as a matter of fact what is actually being done.	None
Now I shall deal with Section 11D. Excise duty is levied by the charging Section 3.	None
It has to be paid according to the Excise Tariff Act, 1985 and the Rules.	None
Before clearance of the goods, the assessee is required by Rule 173B to file what is known as price classification list in which full particulars of the goods manufactured and intended to be removed from his factory has to be given.	None
The chapter heading and subheading number under which the goods are to be assessed under the Tariff Act has also to be indicated.	None
The assessee has also to state the rate of duty leviable on each such goods.	None
On the basis of the declaration made by the assessee, the Excise Officer has to make his calculation of duty.	None
For the purpose of proper valuation of the goods assessable ad valorem, pro forma price list for commodities has to be filed.	None
The value of the goods have to be calculated by making deductions from the wholesale price in accordance with Section 4(4) of the Excise Act.	None
There may be dispute as to the valuation or rate of duty for which an adjudication proceeding may have to be taken.	None
But without the approval of the Excise Officer, no goods can be removed from the factory.	None
The assessee has also to maintain an account current.	None
This is laid down by Rule 173G 173G. Procedure to be followed by the assessee.(1)	None
Every assessee shall keep an account current with the Commissioner separately for each excisable goods , in such form and manner as the Commissioner may require, of the duties payable on the excisable goods and in particular such account shall be maintained in triplicate by using indelible pencil and doublesided carbon, and the assessee shall periodically make credit in such account current, by cash payment into the treasury so as to keep the balance, in such account current, sufficient to cover the duty due on the goods intended to be removed at any time and every such assessee shall pay the duty determined by him for each consignment by debit to such account current before removal of the goods This Rule requires advance payment of tax.	None
Money has to be deposited in the treasury well in advance before removal of the goods.	None
Section 11D is a curious piece of legislation.	None
Even after the full amount of duty has been paid and goods have been cleared, the manufacturer is being called upon to deposit with the Central Government any amount collected from the buyer representing duty of excise.	None
In other words, having paid the full amount of duty of excise, the manufacturer is being called upon to deposit the duty element in the price of his goods to be deposited to the credit of the Central Government.	None
The only justification for this appears to be that the entire amount will be held till finalisation of the assessment.	None
But the section provides that if there is any surplus left after such adjustment, the surplus shall not come back to the seller but will be credited to the Fund or paid to the person who has borne the incidence of the duty in accordance with the provisions of Section 11B which means the ultimate consumer.	None
An attempt has been made to salvage this section by construing that this section will apply only if duty has not been paid on the goods or if any excess collection has been made over and above the duty already paid.	None
It is very difficult to agree to such a construction.	None
There cannot be a blanket statutory direction to pay everything collected from a buyer on account of excise duty to be paid over to the Excise Officer.	None
If it is in the nature of advance tax, there has to be some attempt to fix a percentage which needs to be handed over.	None
Otherwise, it will be unreasonable restriction on trade.	None
The sale price is a part of the circulating capital.	None
Goods are converted into money and money is again utilised to manufacture goods.	None
If a substantial portion of this money is taken away without having regard to the actual or probable necessity for the collection, it will be unreasonable restraint on the right of a person to carry on business.	None
Moreover, the amount may be kept till finalisation of assessment.	None
The assessment may not be finalised till the dispute has been decided finally by CEGAT or even by this Court.	None
Will the money be blocked up till then?	None
Supposing the assessee succeeds, why will he not get back the money with interest?	None
This provision has to be contrasted with the advance tax collected under the Income Tax Act.	None
Such collection is authorised by the charging section of the Act Section 4(2) because otherwise, the collection would have gone beyond the scope of the charge.	None
The rate on which the tax is to be collected and the basis is clearly stated.	None
High rates of interest are payable both by the assessee and the Government in appropriate cases.	None
But if an amount is taken in advance, then the residue after adjustment of tax must go back to the taxpayer.	None
That is not the scheme here.	None
So, this cannot be treated as something in the nature of advance collection of tax where duty has not at all been paid on the goods.	None
The second point that this has been done to safeguard against any excess collection from the consumer is equally unreasonable.	None
The excise duty is a duty on the manufacture of the goods.	None
Once full amount of duty has been collected, the Excise authority cannot control any contract between the purchaser and the seller.	None
The Excise Act imposes a charge on the manufacturer.	None
There is no charge of duty levied by the Excise Act on excess collection by the manufacturer from the buyer.	None
Any question of excess collection by the manufacturer from the buyer is entirely out of the purview of the charging section.	None
If the assessee has collected on account of excise duty from the purchaser more than what he has paid, perhaps, a purchaser can bring an action against the seller.	None
In the event of a contractual dispute between the purchaser and the seller, the relevant statutes will be the Contract Act, the Sale of Goods Act and similar other statutes.	None
But the Central Excise Officer cannot under any circumstances, lay his hands on anything more than what is actually levied by the Act.	None
He cannot collect something which is not payable under the charging section even for the purpose of directing it to the Fund or to the actual consumer.	None
The entire Section 11D is ultra vires the charge levied by the Excise Act itself.	None
Moreover, the entire sale price (duty included), will form part of the sales turnover of the assessee on which sales tax will have to be paid under the State Acts.	None
Turnover tax will have to be paid by big assessees.	None
The purchaser may also have to pay purchase tax on the purchase price.	None
In such cases, how will the State Revenue authorities determine the quantum of turnover of sales or purchase for levy of sales tax or purchase tax?	None
The sale proceeds will be income of the assessee for the purpose of levy of income tax.	None
Unlike the Income Tax Act, the assessee has not been given any option to show that he is not liable to pay the amount which is being taken away from his proceeds.	None
He has no opportunity of getting a hearing on this issue.	None
The Income Tax Act enables the assessee, in such circumstances, to dispute the estimation of advance tax made by the Income Tax Officer and file his own estimate (of course at his own peril).	None
Here he has no option but to pay without any hearing.	None
I repeat that a manufacturer cannot be called upon to pay anything except the duty imposed by the charging provisions.	None
Even if the final assessment has not been made, goods may be allowed to be cleared by paying the admitted amount of duty and furnishing the security for the disputed amount.	None
The security may be keeping sufficient money in the account current with the Excise Department or even by furnishing a bond or a bank guarantee.	None
This is provided by the Rules.	None
There is no legal or rational basis for a blanket provision to deposit whatever is included on account of excise duty in the price of the goods sold.	None
The position gets curiouser after the deposit.	None
After adjustment of the tax against the deposit, the surplus amount is not returned to the manufacturer.	None
It has to be credited to the Fund or paid to the person who has borne the incidence of tax, i.e, the ultimate consumer.	None
In other words, the manufacturer will be robbed of a portion of his sale price for no rhyme or reason.	None
This may also have the effect of nullifying the sale contract entered into by the manufacturer with the buyer.	None
The buyer had agreed to pay an agreed price which may include the duty element.	None
The seller agreed to sell the goods to the buyer at that price.	None
Section 64A of the Sale of Goods Act protects the interests of both.	None
How can a portion of that price be taken away and credited to a Fund or paid to the ultimate consumer?	None
What will happen to the contract?	None
The only effect of Section 11D is to rob the manufacturer of a portion of his legitimate dues.	None
These provisions are not in aid of the charge on manufacture levied by the Central Excise Act, but are in excess of the charge and are confiscatory in nature and have to be struck down.	None
It appears to me that by these newly amended provisions, the legislature has merely created a device or a cloak to confiscate the property of the taxpayer.	None
In such a situation, a Bench of five Judges of this Court in Raja Jagannath Baksh Singh v. State of U.P AIR 1962 SC 1563 said that the law has to be struck down as passed in colourable exercise of the power of taxation.	None
It was observed by Gajendragadkar, J., speaking for the Bench the conclusion that a taxing statute is colourable would not and cannot normally be raised merely on the finding that the tax imposed by it is unreasonably high or heavy, because the reasonableness of the extent of the levy is always a matter within the competence of the legislature.	None
Such a conclusion can be reached where in passing the Act, the legislature has merely adopted a device and a cloak to confiscate the property of the citizen taxed.	None
If, however, such a conclusion is reached on the consideration of all relevant facts, that is a separate and independent ground for striking down the Act.	None
So far as sections 12a and 12b are concerned, only thing that has to be pointed out is that these two sections do not change the character of the price of the goods.	None
Both these elements were taken into consideration by Lord Goddard, J. in the case of Love v. Norman Wright (	None
Builders) Ltd.	None
It was stated that even if the burden of duty was passed on and the price was expressed as Pound X plus duty, even then what the buyer paid was the price of the goods and not the duty and the seller obtained the price and nothing else.	None
This principle was reaffirmed time and again, as we have noted earlier in the judgment, in a number of cases by this Court.	None
Apart from what has been stated hereinabove, I find that the entire group of these sections is dehors the charging section of the Central Excise Act.	None
The Central Excise Act imposes a duty on manufacture of goods.	None
Various provisions have been made for computation and collection of that duty.	None
Anything collected in excess of that charge is unlawful.	None
If any provision is made for retention of duties collected without any authority of law, then such provision will be beyond the scope of the charge.	None
It will amount to collecting and retaining something which is not at all dutypayable under Section 3.	None
The legislature has now authorised the Excise Department to retain the illegal levy.	None
In my judgment, these provisions are ultra vires the charge levied by Section 3 and cannot be sustained in any way.	None
In the language of Lord MacMillan in Ayrshire Employers Mutual Insurance Assn. Ltd. v. IRC 27 Tax Cases 331 Tax Cases at p. 337, the legislature has missed fire.	None
The scope of charge in a taxing Act is of the highest importance.	None
Nothing can be realised under a taxing Act beyond that.	None
The new provisions of the excise act are not in aid of the charge imposed by Section 3.	None
These sections are designed to enable the Excise Department to retain what was collected over and above the charge.	None
The amounts collected in excess of what is actually payable under the charging section is not excise duty at all.	None
Nothing can be collected under a taxing Act which is not authorised by the charging section read with the machinery provisions.	None
The new provisions not only effectively bar recovery of unlawful levies by the taxpayer but have also taken away from him a portion of the price at which he has contracted to sell the goods to the purchasers.	None
How can a portion of the sale price be taken away and retained by the Excise Officer or returned to the buyer in derogation of a contract of sale passes comprehension.	None
I have already noted earlier in the judgment the impossibility of finding out on whom the incidence of charge falls and also the various unworkable problems created by these illconceived amendments.	None
In my view, the amended provisions must be struck down as violative of Article 265 and the guarantee contained in Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India.	None
I am further of the view that the legislature has merely adopted a device and a cloak to confiscate the property of the taxpayer by not only withholding repayment of unlawfully gathered tax but also taking away a portion of the sale price collected from the buyer without any lawful demand or excuse.	None
Every person has a right to contract and bargain for the price.	None
Section 11D places unreasonable fetter to the freedom to carry on trade and commerce and violates the guarantee given by Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	None
Various other points were raised in these cases.	Decision
I am not dealing with them separately, but I express my respectful concurrence with the views of my learned Brother Paripoornan, J. that an action by way of a suit or writ petition will be maintainable, depending upon the facts and circumstances of the case.	Decision
I am entirely in agreement with the views expressed by him and the reasoning thereof on Points E, F and G of the concluding part of his judgment.	None
In conclusion, I hold that the Government is permitted to levy and retain only that much of excise duty which can be lawfully levied and collected under the Central Excise Act read with the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 and the Central Excise Rules and various notifications issued from time to time.	None
Anything collected beyond this is unlawful and cannot be retained by the Government under any pretext.	None
The illegal levy and collection of duty violates not only the Central Excise Act and the Rules but also offends Article 265 of the Constitution of India.	None
I am of the view that the provision of Section 11B is a device for denying the claim for refund of duty to a taxpayer and must be struck down as violative of Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
It in effect tries to perpetuate an illegal levy without altering the basis of the law under which the levy was made in any way.	None
It is also a colourable piece of legislation and must be struck down.	None
Section 11D imposes unreasonable restriction on the right to carry trade and violates Article 19(1)(g).	None
Excise authority cannot deny the manufacturer the freedom to commerce and trade and take away a portion of the contract price even without raising any demand or giving any hearing.	None
The Excise Officer cannot under any circumstance give the balance to the ultimate consumer or credit the amount to the Fund.	None
Section 11D is arbitrary and is a colourable piece of legislation and is hereby struck down.	None
Sections 12C and 12D are parts of a device to withhold refunds of unlawfully gathered tax.	None
These provisions are also violative of Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
I express my respectful agreement with the views expressed by my learned Brother Paripoornan, J. that an action by way of a suit or writ petition will be maintainable, depending upon the facts and circumstances of the case.	Decision
I am entirely in agreement with the views expressed by him and the reasoning on Points E, F and G of the concluding part of his judgment.	None
I also agree with my learned Brother Paripoornan, J.s holding on Points H	None
and I subject to my views that in view of Article 265 of the Constitution, the Excise Department is not entitled to withhold refund of any unlawfully collected duty of excise under any circumstances.	None
Any provision to that effect will be ultra vires Article 265 of the Constitution.	None
Such illegally collected duties must be returned to the person from whom it has been collected.	None
In my judgment, the appeals should be allowed and the writ petitions should succeed.	None
There will be no order as to costs.	None
Paripoornan, J. Common questions of law arise for consideration in this batch of cases.	None
Initially the matter came up before a twoMember Bench.	None
The said Bench felt that the decision of the Constitution Bench comprising five Judges in STO v. Kanhaiya Lal Mukundlal Saraf requires reconsideration and referred the matter to a larger Bench of seven Judges.	Issue
When the matter came up before a Bench of seven Judges, it was noticed that Kanhaiya Lal case was expressly approved by a Bench of seven Judges in the decision reported in State Of Kerala v. Aluminium Industries Ltd., Kundara, Quilon.	Issue
and so, by order dated 2871993, the said Bench directed that the matter may be placed before the learned Chief Justice for constituting a still larger Bench.	Issue
That is how this batch of cases came up before a Bench of nine Judges.	Issue
We heard Shri F.S Nariman, Shri Soli Sorabjee and Shri Harish Salve, Senior Advocates, who appeared for the different assessees (claimants) and Shri K. Parasaran and Shri M. Chandrasekharan, Senior Advocates, who appeared for the Union of India.	None
Stated briefly, the controversy centres around the tenability or otherwise of the claim for refund of the amounts paid by way of excise duty under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, now titled as the Central Excises Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Excise Act) on the ground that it was so done under mistake of law.	Issue
It will be convenient to deal with the controversy by adverting to the minimal facts in the main appeal argued before us  Civil Appeal No. 3255 of 1984  Mafatlal Industries Ltd. v. Union of India.	Facts
The appellant is a textile mill situate at Ahmedabad.	Facts
The appellant and a few other mills manufacture blended yarn.	Facts
The said blended yarn was captively consumed by the various mills for manufacture of fabric, popularly known as art silk fabric.	Facts
For the period prior to 1631972/1731972, the mills paid excise duty on blended yarn manufactured for captive consumption under Tariff Item 18 or 18A of the First Schedule to the Excise Act.	Facts
In Special Application No. 1058 of 1972 filed by M s Calico Mills, who manufactured fabrics and was captively consuming blended yarn produced by it for manufacturing fabric known as art silk fabric, a Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court by judgment dated 1511976, held that the levy of the excise duty on blended yarn prior to 1631972/1731972 under Tariff Item 18 or 18A was clearly ultra vires.	Facts
The High Court directed refund of the excise duty levied for 3 years prior to institution of the petition, which was instituted on 651972.	Facts
The appellant and other millowners stated that as a result of the declaration of the law as aforesaid by the Court, they were not liable to pay excise duty on blended yarn up to 1631972/1731972 and that they had paid the excise duty on the same up to that date under mistake of law.	Facts
They requested for refund of the excise duty so paid till 1631972/1731972, stating that such duty was illegally recovered from them.	Facts
The Revenue did not refund the excise duty as claimed.	Facts
So, the appellant and others filed suits within three years of the aforesaid judgment (1511976) for refund of excise duty illegally recovered from them, with interest.	Facts
The trial court decreed the suits.	Facts
In the appeals filed by the Union of India against the aforesaid decrees passed by the trial court, the High Court of Gujarat allowed the appeals and set aside the decrees passed by the trial court, by judgment dated 641984.	Facts
It was held that in order to successfully sustain the claim of restitution based on Section 72 of the Contract Act, the person claiming restitution should prove loss or injury to him, and in the cases before them, the excise duty paid on blended yarn was ultimately passed on to the buyer of the fabric, and so the claim for restitution will not lie.	Facts
In other words, in cases where an assessee has passed on the duty paid by or released from him, he has suffered no loss or injury, and the action for restitution is unsustainable.	Facts
The aforesaid statement of the law is seriously disputed by the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 3255 of 1984 and others.	Facts
In the ultimate analysis, the main question that falls for consideration in this batch of cases is, whether in an action claiming refund of excise duty (tax) paid under mistake of law, is it essential for the person claiming such refund, to establish loss or injury to him?	Issue
In other words, in cases where the person from whom the excise duty (tax) is collected, has passed on the liability or deemed to have passed on the liability is it open to him to claim refund of the duty paid by him, placing reliance on Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act?	Issue
The further question as to whether an action by way of civil suit or a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution will lie, in the light of various amendments to the Act, claiming refund or restitution, also arises for consideration.	Issue
I perused the draft judgment prepared by my learned Brother Jeevan Reddy, J., wherein on the main question, he has held that if the person claiming the refund has passed on the burden of duty to another and has not really suffered any loss or prejudice, there is no question of reimbursing him and he cannot successfully sustain an action for restitution, based on Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act.	None
With great respect, I fully concur with the aforesaid conclusion of my learned Brother.	None
But, in view of the importance of the question raised, I would like to record my own reasons for the aforesaid conclusion.	None
I shall separately deal with the maintainability of the action either by way of suit or petition under Article 226 of the Constitution  the extent to which there is ouster of jurisdiction of courts.	None
In this batch of cases, the claims by different assessees for refund of excise duty paid by them under mistake of law arise over a period of years, and the claims were made in different proceedings  before the departmental authorities, by way of civil suits and writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution, which are in appeal before us.	Issue
Broadly, the basis for the various refund claims can be classified into 3 groups or categories The levy is unconstitutional  outside the provisions of the Act or not contemplated by the Act.	None
(II)	None
The levy is based on misconstruction or wrong or erroneous interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Act, Rules or Notifications or by failure to follow the vital or fundamental provisions of the Act or by acting in violation of the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.	None
(III) Mistake of law  the levy or imposition was unconstitutional or illegal or not exigible in law (without jurisdiction) and, so found in a proceeding initiated not by the particular assessee, but in a proceeding initiated by some other assessee either by the High Court or the Supreme Court, and as soon as the assessee came to know of the judgment (within the period of limitation), he initiated action for refund of the tax paid by him, due to mistake of law.	Issue
For the periods during which the refund were claimed, there were different statutory provisions which governed the subject.	None
They are Period up to 781977  	None
Rule 11 of the Central Excise Rules, before amendment Period from 781977 to 16111980  Rule 11 of the Central Excise Rules, as amended Period from 16111980 to 1991991  Section 11A and Section 11B of the then Central Excises and Salt Act Period after 1991991  Section 11A read along with Section 11B of the Act, as amended by Act 40 of 1991.	None
The circumstances and grounds on the basis of which the refund can be claimed, the period within which it should be so done, the forum before which the claim should be preferred and whether the decision thereon is subject to the jurisdiction of ordinary courts, vary from period to period.	None
We shall advert to such provisions and their impact on various aspects regarding the claim for refund a little later.	None
Rule 11 of the Central Excise Rules which dealt with claims for refund of duty as it was in force prior to 781977, is to the following effect No refund of duties or charges erroneously paid, unless claimed within three months.	Reasoning
No duties or charges which have been paid or have been adjusted in an account current maintained with the Collector under Rule 9, and of which repayment wholly or in part is claimed in consequence of the same having been paid through inadvertence, error or misconstruction, shall be refunded unless the claimant makes an application for such refund under his signature and lodges it with the proper officer within three months from the date of such payment or adjustment, as the case may be.	None
It should be noted that Rule 11 before amendment did not provide for any ouster of jurisdiction of courts.	None
We shall deal with Rule 11A as amended and Sections 11A and 11B of the Excise Act a little later.	None
The Revenue states that in view of these later provisions, there is ouster of jurisdiction of courts, relating to claims for refund.	None
The claims by different assessees for refund arose and are were preferred during different periods.	None
After Rule 11 was amended and Sections 11A and 11B were inserted in the Act, the statute contained provisions making them exclusive for claiming refund.	None
Be that as it may, it is only relevant to state at this juncture that in all cases, irrespective of the relevant statutory provisions in the excise act and or the Rules, the claims for refund were made in different proceedings mainly based on Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act.	None
So the main issue, in all the cases, that arises for consideration is, whatever be the nature of the attack regarding the levy, or the basis put forward for claiming refund, or the period for which refund is claimed or the character of the proceedings in which it was so done, or the different nature or character of the statutory provisions either providing or not providing as to how and in what manner the claim should be made,  whether the claim for refund is tenable in any of the proceedings, for any period, based on Section 72 of the Contract Act, if the assessee has passed on the liability to the consumer or third party?	Issue
The levy under the Excise Act is an indirect tax (duty).	None
A duty of excise is levied on the manufacture or production of goods.	None
Ordinarily, it is levied on the manufacturer or producer of goods.	None
(Since the levy is in relation to or in connection with the manufacture or production of goods, it may be levied even at a point later than manufacture or production of the goods.)	None
The duty levied will form part of the total cost of the manufacturer or producer.	None
The levy being a component of the price for which the goods are sold, is ordinarily passed on to the customer.	None
It is a matter of common knowledge that every prudent businessman will adjust his affairs in his best interests and pass on the duty levied or leviable on the commodity to the consumer.	None
That is the presumption in law.	None
The claim for refund in these cases is based upon the plea that excise duty was paid when it was not exigible.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was so done under mistake of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Refund is claimed basing the action under Section 72 of the Contract Act, which is to the following effect Liability of person to whom money is paid or thing delivered, by mistake or under coercion.	None
A person to whom money has been paid, or anything delivered, by mistake or under coercion, must repay or return it.	None
Illustrations A and B jointly owe 100 rupees to C. A alone pays the amount to C, and B, not knowing this fact, pays 100 rupees over again to C. C is bound to repay the amount to B. A railway company refuses to deliver up certain goods to the consignee, except upon the payment of an illegal charge for carriage.	None
The consignee pays the sum charged in order to obtain the goods.	None
He is entitled to recover so much of the charge as was illegally excessive.	None
Chapter V of the Indian Contract Act is styled thus Of certain relations resembling those created by Contract.	None
The Chapter contains five sections  Sections 68 to 72.	None
The rights and liabilities dealt with in those sections accrue from relations resembling those created by contract.	None
It is not a real contract, but one implied in law or a quasicontract.	None
Law is fairly settled that Money paid under a mistake or on a consideration which has wholly failed or under duress falls under the general head of money had and received.	None
An action for money had and received is an action founded on simple contract which has been called quasicontract or restitution.	None
See Pollock Mulla  Indian Contract and Specific Relief Acts (10th Edn.), p. 598.	None
The Law of Restitution is founded upon the principle of unjust enrichment.	None
As stated by the learned authors, Lord Goff of Chieveley and Gareth Jones in the book The Law of Restitution (3rd Edn.), 1986, It presupposes three things first, that the defendant has been enriched by the receipt of a benefit secondly, that he has been so enriched at the plaintiffs expense and thirdly, that it would be unjust to allow him to retain the benefit.	None
These three subordinate principles are closely interrelated.	None
(p. 16).	None
See also Cheshire Fifoot Furmstons Law of Contract (12th Edn.) 1991, p. 649.	None
The second aspect aforesaid, namely, that the defendant has been enriched at the plaintiffs expense, has been considered by Peter Birks (Professor of Civil Law, University of Edinburgh) in his book Introduction to the Law of Restitution rather elaborately.	None
The principles discernible from the above discussion have been succinctly stated by Endrew Burrows in his book  The Law of Restitution (1993), at p. 16, thus It is the major theme of Birks work that this phrase ambiguously conceals two different ideas in the law of restitution.	None
The first, and most natural meaning, is that the defendants gain represents a loss to the plaintiff in Birks terminology a subtraction from the plaintiff.	None
The second, and less obvious meaning, is that the defendants gain has been acquired by committing a wrong against the plaintiff.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The person claiming restitution should have suffered a loss or injury.	None
In my opinion, in cases where the assessee or the person claiming refund has passed on the incidence of tax to a third person, how can it be said that he has suffered a loss or injury?	None
How is it possible to say that he has got ownership or title to the amount claimed, which he has already recouped from a third party?	None
So, the very basic requirement for a claim of restitution under Section 72 of the Contract Act is that the person claiming restitution should plead and prove a loss or injury to him in other words, he has not passed on the liability.	None
If it is not so done, the action for restitution or refund, should fail.	None
In this connection, the decision of a threeMember Bench of this Court in Mulamchand v. State of M.P AIR 1968 SC 1218 affords some guidance.	None
The appellant in that case, purchased a right to pluck, collect and remove the forest produce from the proprietors.	None
The right was acquired before the proprietary rights vested in the State of Madhya Pradesh by Act No. 1 of 1951  called the Abolition Act.	None
Acting under the Act, in April 1951 the Deputy Commissioner auctioned the forest produce of villages covered by the purchases of the appellant.	None
Amongst others, the appellant had deposited a sum of Rs 10,000 towards the right to collect lac from the forest.	None
It turned out that the provisions of Article 299 of the Constitution were not complied with and the contract entered into by the appellant therein with the State of Madhya Pradesh was void.	None
The appellant claimed refund on the basis that there was no valid contract.	None
The trial court as well as the appellate court held that the appellant having worked out the contract by collecting the lac from the jungles in pursuance of the agreement, was not entitled to refund of the amount of deposit.	None
In the appeal filed by the appellant, this Court held that if the money is deposited and the goods are supplied or services rendered in terms of the contract, the provisions of Section 70 of the Contract Act may be applicable and, can be invoked by the aggrieved party to the void contract.	None
This Court further held thus (AIR pp. 122223)	None
The juristic basis of the obligation in such a case is not founded upon any contract or tort but upon a third category of law, namely, quasicontract or restitution.	None
In Fibrosa v. Fairbairn 1943 AC 32, Lord Wright has stated the legal position as follows any civilised system of law is bound to provide remedies for cases of what has been called unjust enrichment or unjust benefit, that is, to prevent a man from retaining the money of, or some benefit derived from, another which it is against conscience that he should keep.	None
Such remedies in English law are generically different from remedies in contract or in tort, and are now recognised to fall within a third category of the common law which has been called quasicontract or restitution.	None
In Nelson v. Larholt 1948 1 KB 339, Lord Denning has observed as follows It is no longer appropriate to draw a distinction between law and equity.	None
Principles have now to be stated in the light of their combined effect.	None
Nor is it necessary to canvass the niceties of the old forms of action.	None
Remedies now depend on the substance of the right, not on whether they can be fitted into a particular framework.	None
The right here is not peculiar to equity or contract or tort, but falls naturally within the important category of cases where the court orders restitution if the justice of the case so requires.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
This Court further stated the law thus (AIR p. 1223)	None
It is well established that a person who seeks restitution has a duty to account to the defendant for what he has received in the transaction from which his right to restitution arises.	None
In other words, an accounting by the plaintiff is a condition of restitution from the defendant (See Restatement of the Law of Restitution, American Law Institute, 1937 Edn., p. 634).	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The observations extracted above indisputably point out that a person who seeks restitution, has a duty to disclose or account for what he has received in the transaction.	None
An accounting is a condition precedent in an action for restitution.	None
By way of analogy, it can be stated that in cases where restitution is claimed under Section 72 of the Contract Act, on the ground of payment due to mistake of law, the person claiming restitution, should plead and prove that he has not passed on the liability to another.	None
That is the nature of accounting in cases falling under Section 72 of the Contract Act.	None
In my opinion, the High Court was justified in law in holding that since the excise duty paid by the appellant was ultimately passed on to the buyers of the fabric, and that the appellant has suffered no loss or injury, the action for restitution based on Section 72 of the Contract Act, was unsustainable.	None
(This is the legal position even under general law, without reference to Section 11B of the Central Excises and Salt Act as amended by Act 40 of 1991.)	Decision
Mr F.S Nariman, Senior Counsel for the appellants, contended that in an action for restitution under Section 72 of the Contract Act, the question as to whether the incidence of duty or tax has been passed on, is an irrelevant factor.	None
There is no such requirement in the statute.	None
The sheetanchor of the appellants case is founded on the decision of the Constitution Bench in Kanhaiya Lal case which was followed by a Bench of 7 Judges in Aluminium Industries case.	None
It was argued that the decision in Kanhaiya Lal case was followed subsequently in Tilokchand Motichand v. H.B Munshi, D. Cawasji Co. v. State of Mysore, Dhanyalakshmi Rice Mills v. Commr. of Civil Supplies 1976 3	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 387.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plea was that the law laid down in Kanhaiya Lal case has stood the test of time for nearly four decades and there is no requirement either in Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act or in any of the above decisions, holding that in order to claim refund or restitution based on Section 72 of the Contract Act, the liability (duty) should not have been passed on.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was also invited to the decision of the House of Lords in Woolwich Building Society v. IRC (No. 2), of the Canadian Court in Air Canada case, (in particular dissenting judgment of Wilson, J.), of the decision of the Australian Court in Commr. of State Revenue v. Royal Insurance Australia Ltd., of the European Economic Committee in San Giorgio SpA case and the decision of the United States Supreme Court in United States v. Jefferson Electric Manufacturing Co.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the preponderance of judicial opinion in other jurisdictions also is in favour of the view, that passingon of the liability, is an irrelevant factor for consideration in an action for restitution, and at any rate, it cannot form the basis of a valid defence in an action for restitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr Parasaran, Senior Counsel for the Union of India, contended that the question of passingon of the liability never arose for consideration in Kanhaiya Lal case nor was it decided.	Arguments of Respondent
The said decision cannot be an authority for the proposition that a person claiming refund of tax on the ground of mistake of law is not obliged to allege and prove that it has not been passed on on the other hand, it is mandatory for a claimant in such cases to allege and prove that he suffered a loss or detriment.	Arguments of Respondent
Then and then alone, the Court can grant the equitable relief of restitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel also contended that the principle in Kanhaiya Lal case has not been uniformly followed by this Court subsequently.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel also distinguished the various foreign decisions that were brought to our notice and highlighted the fact that those decisions were rendered on their own facts.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel further contended that in cases of indirect levy of tax (cess or fee) which was passed on, this Court has negatived the claim for refund in a few cases.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was invited to the following decisions Shiv Shankar Dal Mills v. State of Haryana (SCR p. 1173), State of M.P v. Vyankatlal (SCR pp.	Arguments of Respondent
566, 568), Amar Nath Om Prakash v. State of Punjab (SCR pp. 96100), Indian Aluminium Company Limited v. Thane Municipal Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
(SCC pp. 488489) and State of Rajasthan v. Novelty Stores AIR 1995 SC 1132 See this order printed on p. 743.	Arguments of Respondent
The main case relied on, Kanhaiya Lal case requires a little detailed examination.	Issue
The respondent, Kanhaiya Lal was a firm.	None
For the Assessment Years 194849, 194950 and 195051, its forward transactions were brought to tax by the assessing authority  the Sales Tax Officer, as per assessment orders dated 3151949, 30101950 and 2281951.	Reasoning
On 2721952, the Allahabad High Court in Budh Prakash Jai Prakash v. STO held that the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Sales Tax Act, taxing forward contracts were ultra vires the U.P Legislature.	Reasoning
The said judgment was affirmed by this Court on 351954.	None
The attempts of the assessee to obtain refund of tax basing its claim on Budh Prakash Jai Prakash case before the statutory authorities were futile.	None
Thereafter, the assesseefirm filed a writ petition in the High Court, praying to quash the assessment orders, and for direction for refund of tax illegally collected.	Reasoning
By judgment dated 30111956, a learned Single Judge of the High Court, allowed the writ petition.	None
In the appeal, the Revenue contended that since the tax was paid under mistake of law, it was not recoverable.	None
Even so, relying on Section 72 of the Contract Act, the Division Bench affirmed the decision of the Single Judge.	Reasoning
The Revenue took up the matter in appeal before this Court.	None
The pleas of the appellantRevenue, that the assessee should have followed the procedure prescribed by the U.P Sales Tax Act and, that the writ petition filed for refund of money would not lie, were not allowed to be urged by this Court.	None
Mainly, two questions arose before this Court for consideration  Whether the term mistake occurring in Section 72 of the Contract Act took within its fold mistake of law as well as mistake of fact?	None
Whether the tax paid under mistake of law can be recovered under Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act?	None
This Court held that the word mistake occurring in Section 72 of the Contract Act has been used without any qualification or limitation and, so, it takes within its fold mistake of law as well as mistake of fact.	None
On the second question, this Court held that once it is established that the payment, even though it be a tax, has been made by the party under a mistake of law, the party is entitled to recover the same and a party who received the tax is bound to repay or return it.	None
This Court held that there can be no distinction in a tax liability and any other liability on a plain reading of Section 72 and the plea that tax paid by mistake of law cannot be recovered under Section 72, will not be a proper interpretation of the relevant provisions, but to make a law, adding such words as otherwise than by way of taxes after the word paid.	None
The scope of Section 72 was considered only within a limited sphere.	None
It should be noticed that no question was raised before this Court that in order to claim refund (restitution) of sales tax paid,  (an indirect levy)  under Section 72, the claimant should necessarily prove that he has sustained a loss or injury.	None
In other words, the tax collected by him has not been passed on to a third party.	None
Dealing with the plea that the position in law obtaining in England, America and Australia that money paid under mistake of law could not be recovered, and that similar considerations should weigh in interpreting Section 72, the Court held that the true meaning and intent of Section 72 should be interpreted on its own terms, divorced from all considerations, as to what was the state of previous law or the law in England or elsewhere.	None
This Court made further observations to the following effect (SCR pp. 136367) if it is once established that the payment even though it be of a tax, has been made by the party labouring under a mistake of law the party is entitled to recover the same and the party receiving the same is bound to repay or return it.	None
No distinction can therefore, be made in respect of a tax liability and any other liability on a plain reading of the terms of Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act, even though such a distinction has been made in America vide the passage from Willoughby on the Constitution of the United States, Vol. 1, p. 12, op cit.	None
To hold that tax paid by mistake of law cannot be recovered under Section 72 will be not to interpret the law but to make a law by adding some such words as otherwise than by way of taxes after the word paid.	Reasoning
Voluntary payment of such tax liability was not by itself enough to preclude the respondent from recovering the said amounts, once it was established that the payments were made under a mistake of law.	None
On a true interpretation of Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act the only two circumstances there indicated as entitling the party to recover the money back are that the monies must have been paid by mistake or under coercion.	None
If mistake either of law or of fact is established, he is entitled to recover the monies and the party receiving the same is bound to repay or return them irrespective of any consideration whether the monies had been paid voluntarily, subject however to questions of estoppel, waiver, limitation or the like.	None
If, once that circumstance is established the party is entitled to the relief claimed.	None
No question of estoppel can ever arise where both the parties, as in the present case, are labouring under the mistake of law and one party is not more to blame than the other.	None
The other circumstances would be such as would entitle a court of equity to refuse the relief claimed by the plaintiff because on the facts and circumstances of the case it would be for the court to award the relief to the plaintiff.	None
These are, however, equitable considerations and could scarcely be imported when there is a clear and unambiguous provision of law which entitles the plaintiff to the relief claimed by him.	Reasoning
Merely because the State of U.P had not retained the monies paid by the respondent but had spent them away in the ordinary course of the business of the State would not make any difference to the position and under the plain terms of Section 72 of the Indian Contract Act the respondent would be entitled to recover back the monies paid by it to the State of U.P under mistake of law.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is apparent that in Kanhaiya Lal case there was no plea by the Revenue that since the assessee has passed on the tax, the claim for refund is unsustainable.	None
Such a question was not posed before this Court for consideration.	None
One of the main aspects to be proved in a claim for restitution, that the person claiming restitution should have suffered a loss or injury in order to sustain an action, was not urged and was not considered.	None
In such a situation the following observations of Lord Halsbury in Quinn v. Leathem 1901 AC 495 (AC p. 506) quoted with approval by a Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Orissa v. Sudhansu Sekhar Misra 1968 2 SCR 154 (SCR p. 162) and again in Orient Paper and Industries Ltd. v. State of Orissa 1991 Supp 1 SCC 81 should govern the matter (SCC p. 96, para 20) there are two observations of a general character which I wish to make, and one is to repeat what I have very often said before, that every judgment must be read as applicable to the particular facts proved, or assumed to be proved, since the generality of the expressions which may be found there are not intended to be expositions of the whole law, but governed and qualified by the particular facts of the case in which such expressions are to be found.	None
The other is that a case is only an authority for what it actually decides.	None
I entirely deny that it can be quoted for a proposition that may seem to follow logically from it.	None
Such a mode of reasoning assumes that the law is necessarily a logical code, whereas every lawyer must acknowledge that the law is not always logical at all.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The above observations should be borne in mind in understanding the scope of the decision in Kanhaiya Lal case and the cases following the said case.	None
The said decisions cannot be understood as laying down the law that even in cases the liability has been passed on, the assessee can maintain an action for restitution.	Decision
It also appears that there is some inconsistency in the Kanhaiya Lal case.	None
The basis in an action for restitution under Section 72 of the Contract Act, rests upon the equitable doctrine of unjust enrichment.	None
The Court observed on p. 1364 that the recovery of the money paid under mistake of law or fact can be recovered subject however to questions of estoppel, waiver, limitation or the like.	None
Even so, at p. 1366, the Court has observed equitable considerations could scarcely be imported when there is a clear and unambiguous provision of law which entitles the plaintiff to the relief claimed by him.	Reasoning
The very basis of the claim, though statutorily incorporated in Section 72 of the Contract Act, is equitable in nature and if so, how can it be said that equitable considerations should not be applied in adjudicating the claim for restitution (refund)?	None
If an assessee has passed on the tax to the consumer or a third party and sustained no loss or injury, grant of refund to him will result in a windfall to him.	None
Such a person will be unjustly enriched.	None
This will result in the assessee or the claimant obtaining a benefit, which is neither legally nor equitably due to him.	None
In other words, such a person is enabled to obtain an unjust benefit at the cost of innumerable persons to whom the liability (tax) has been passed on and to whom really the refund or restitution is due.	None
The above factors certainly disentitle such a person from claiming restitution.	None
If the decision in Kanhaiya Lal case and the cases following the said decision, enable such a person to claim refund (restitution), with great respect to the learned Judges, who rendered the above decisions, I express my dissent thereto.	Decision
Shri Nariman and Shri Sorabjee also contended that if the relief of refund is withheld or denied on the ground that the assessee has passed on the tax (liability) to the consumer or third party, it will result in a position where the State is enabled to retain and appropriate the unlawful collection to itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plea was that Article 265 of the Constitution of India contains a mandate to the effect that no tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that this is a basic feature of the Constitution and cannot be ignored.	Arguments of Petitioner
If no tax can be collected except by authority of law, the same logic would prevail for retention of amounts collected without the authority of law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made in this connection to the decision of the Madras High Court in Rayalseema Constructions v. CTO 1959 10 STC 345 Mad (STC pp. 355356) and affirmed by this Court in Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Madras v. Rayalaseema Constructions 1966 17 STC 505 SC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plea urged was that, if the assessee, is denied the refund, the State Government could retain the amount illegally collected, and it would amount to violation of the constitutional mandate enshrined in Article 265 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
An equitable principle will not hold good against a constitutional mandate.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand the counsel for the Union of India, Shri K. Parasaran, brought to our notice the following portion of the Preamble and Articles 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution to contend that Article 265 of the Constitution cannot be construed in a vacuo or isolation, but should be construed in the light of the basic principles contained in other parts of the Constitution  viz.  	Arguments of Respondent
the Preamble and the Directive Principles of State Policy	Arguments of Respondent
Preamble WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIA, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a Sovereign Socialist Secular Democratic Republic and to secure to all its citizens Justice, social, economic and political Articles 39(b) and (c) 39.	None
(b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good (c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment (emphasis supplied)	None
Mr Parasaran also urged that it should be borne in mind that excise duty is an indirect levy or tax which could be passed on.	None
Innumerable persons bear the brunt.	None
And it is passed on, ordinarily by prudent businessmen.	None
The decisions in R.C Jall v. Union of India (SCR at p. 451) and Province of Madras v. Boddu Paidanna and Sons were referred to.	None
Reference also was made to Section 64A of Sale of Goods Act, 1930 which was substituted later by act 33 of 1963 to show that the levy could be passed on and so recognised by statute, and in the above background, there is a presumption that excise duty has been passed on.	None
The scope of Article 39(b) of the Constitution, as laid down by this Court in State of Karnataka v. Ranganatha Reddy (SCR p. 689), Sanjeev Coke Mfg. Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (SCR pp.	None
102324 1026),	None
State of T.N v. L. Abu Kavur Bai (AIR p. 343	None
SCR pp.	None
759, 761) was highlighted.	None
Reliance was placed on Amar Nath Om Prakash v. State of Punjab (SCR pp.	None
96, 97, 99, 100) Shiv Shankar Dal Mills v. State of Haryana (SCR p. 1173) and Walaiti Ram Mahabir Prashad v. State of Punjab AIR 1984 PH 120 (AIR p. 124), to stress the point that the persons claiming refund who were only middlemen, should not be unjustly enriched and allowed to make a fortune as it were, at the expense of innumerable unidentifiable innocent consumers and that public interest requires that such persons claiming refund should not be unduly or unjustly benefited and, public interest is better served, if the State is allowed to retain the collection of tax, which could be made spent, for the benefit of the public.	None
On an evaluation of the rival pleas urged in the matter, I am of the view that the plea of the counsel for Union of India should prevail.	None
Following the decision in the Province of Madras case and other cases, a Constitution Bench of this Court in R.C Jall v. Union of India stated the nature and character of excise duty, thus (SCR p. 451)	None
Excise duty is primarily a duty on the production or manufacture of goods produced or manufactured within the country.	None
It in an indirect duty which the manufacturer or producer passes on to the ultimate consumer, that is, its ultimate incidence will always be on the consumer.	None
(emphasis supplied) Section 64A of the Sale of Goods Act after its amendment by act 33 of 1963, in providing that in contract of sale amount of increased or decreased taxes, may be added or deducted by the seller or by the buyer, in case of increase or decrease or remitted, after the making of the contract for the sale or purchase of such goods, without stipulation as to the payment of tax where a tax was not chargeable at the time of making the contract, expressly states that the provisions shall apply to any duty of customs or excise and any tax on the sale or purchase of goods.	None
The scope of Article 39(b) of the Constitution which has as its basis the concept of distributive justice, as explained in three cases referred to in the paragraph 305 Ranganatha Reddy, Sanjeev Coke v. Bharat and L. Abu go to show that the words material resources occurring in Article 39 clause (b) will take in, natural or physical resources and also moveable or immovable property and it would include all private and public sources of meeting material needs, and not merely confined to public possessions.	None
So also, the three cases, Shiv Shankar Dal Mills case, Amar Nath Om Prakash case and Walaiti Ram Mahabir Prashad emphasise the principle that the persons who have passed on the burden of the levy  middlemen  should not be allowed to profiteer by illgotten gains and unjustly enriched.	None
An analysis of the above decisions in detail will point out that if Article 265 of the Constitution is literally interpreted and in isolation, and refund ordered, in cases where excise duty has been passed on, it will result in a mockery, totally ignoring the other salient features of the Constitution and the ground realities.	None
As the Preamble states, the Constitution was enacted by the people, to secure to all the citizens, justice, political, social and economic.	None
It is fairly settled by the decisions of this Court, that the Directive Principles contained in Part IV of the Constitution are fundamental in the governance of this country and all organs of the State including the judiciary are bound to enforce those directives.	None
In interpreting the various provisions of the Constitution, the courts have to be realistic and should be alive to the needs of the times.	None
The courts have a responsibility to ensure proper and meaningful interpretation of the Directive Principles and to adjust or harmonise the objectives enshrined in the Preamble  justice, political, social and economic and the Directive Principles contained in Part IV, with the individual rights.	None
In the process, it is permissible to restrict, abridge, curtail and in extreme cases, abrogate other rights in the Constitution, if found necessary and expedient, in particular situations.	None
In the light of the above, I hold that Article 265 should be read along with the Preamble and Articles 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution, and so construed in cases where the assessee has passed on the liability to the consumer or third party, he is not entitled to the claim of restitution or refund.	Decision
The fact that the levy is invalid need not automatically result in a direction for refund of all collections made in pursuance thereto.	Decision
The observation of a threeMember Bench of this Court in Orissa Cement Ltd. v. State of Orissa 1991 Supp 1 SCC 430 (SCC at p. 498, para 69) is apposite in this context.	None
We are inclined to accept the view urged on behalf of the State that a finding regarding the invalidity of a levy need not automatically result in a direction for a refund of all collections thereof made earlier.	None
The declaration regarding the invalidity of a provision and the determination of the relief that should be granted in consequence thereof are two different things and, in the latter sphere, the court has, and must be held to have, a certain amount of discretion.	None
It is a wellsettled proposition that it is open to the court to grant, mould or restrict the relief in a manner most appropriate to the situation before it in such a way as to advance the interests of justice.	None
It is open to the court to deny the equitable remedy of refund (restitution) in such cases.	None
The attempt of persons who have passed on the liability in claiming refund is only to strike at a bargain  to make a fortune at the expense of innumerable unidentifiable consumers.	None
Such persons have suffered no loss.	None
On the other hand, if the State is allowed to retain the amount, it will be available to the community at large and could be made use of for public purposes.	None
On this basis as well, the denial of refund or restitution is valid.	None
There is nothing abhorrent or against public policy if refund or restitution is withheld in such a situation.	None
It should also be stated that in cases of indirect levy of tax which was passed on, this Court has negatived the claim for refund in a few cases, mentioned in para 300 (supra)  	None
Shiv Shankar Dal Mills v. State of Haryana (SCR p. 1173), State of M.P v. Vyankatlal (SCR pp.	Arguments of Respondent
566, 568), Amar Nath Om Prakash v. State of Punjab (SCR pp. 96100), Indian Aluminium Company Limited v. Thane Municipal Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
(SCC pp. 488489) and State of Rajasthan v. Novelty Stores.	Arguments of Respondent
It now remains to consider the foreign decisions brought to our notice.	None
The various decisions of foreign courts and their scope have been very exhaustively considered by Jeevan Reddy, J. in his judgment under the heading Decisions of foreign courts on the subject.	None
I am in broad agreement with my learned brother Jeevan Reddy, J., in the analysis of the various decisions aforesaid.	None
It is unnecessary to cover that ground all over again.	None
In this context, it would not be out of place to note that academicians have bestowed great thought and in various articles dealt with the matter in sufficient detail, particularly with reference to the foreign decisions brought to our notice.	None
To mention a few, they are When money is paid in pursuance of a void authority.  	None
A duty to repay by Peter Birks Public Law (1992)	None
p. 580	None
Restitution of taxes, levies and other imposts Defining the extent of the Woolwich Principle  by J. Beatson.	None
Law Quarterly Review, Vol. 109, ( 1993)	None
p. 401	None
Restitution of Overpaid Tax, Discretion and Passingon  by J. Beatson.	None
Law Quarterly Review, Vol. 111, (1995)	None
p. 375	None
Notes Unjust Enrichment  by Steve Hedley.	None
Cambridge Law Journal (1995) pp.	None
578599	None
Unjust Enrichment Claims A Comparative Overview  by Brice Dickson Cambridge Law Journal (1995)	None
pp. 100126	None
The Law of Taxation is not an island  Overpaid Taxes and the Law of Restitution  by Graham Virgo British Tax Review (1993)	None
pp.	None
442467 Payments of Money under Mistake of Law	None
A Comparative View  by Gareth Jones Cambridge Law Journal (1993) Comment (225) Restitution, Misdirected Funds and Change of Position  by Ewan McKendrick, Modern Law Review (1992) Vol. 55, pp. 377385	None
In some of the articles, the defences to a claim for restitution of overpaid taxes, has been dealt with in detail.	None
One of them is the article by Graham Virgo appearing in British Tax Review, (1993) (pp. 442467) titled The Law of Taxation is not an island  Overpaid Taxes and the Law of Restitution.	None
At pp.	None
462 and 463 under the subheading Passingon, the learned author has made the following comment Passingon Since restitution at common law is based upon the principle of reversing an unjust enrichment, it is important to determine whether the defendant was actually enriched at the plaintiffs expense.	None
This raises a difficult problem where the Revenue was initially enriched at the taxpayers expense, by virtue of the receipt of overpaid tax, but the taxpayer did not ultimately suffer a loss because the burden of the payment was passed on to somebody else.	None
This could arise if the taxpayer pays excessive VAT and passes the amount overpaid on to customers.	None
As a matter of principle it could be argued that, in such a case, the taxpayer should not be allowed to recover the amount overpaid from the Revenue, because recovery would mean that the taxpayer was unjustly enriched at the expense of those who ultimately bore the burden of the tax.	None
A possible solution to this is to allow those who effectively paid the tax to recover from the taxpayer, who in turn should recover from the Revenue.	None
However, typically in cases of passingon there are many people who effectively bear the burden of the tax and to encourage actions by them would be impractical and unrealistic.	None
Thus, in such cases the best approach is to allow the Revenue a defence of passingon and enable it to retain the tax and use it for the public benefit.	None
However, it remains uncertain to what extent a defence of passingon exists in English law.	None
Such a defence is recognised by European Community law.	None
In Amministrazione delle Finanze dello Stato v. SpA San Giorgio it was held that Community law does not prevent member States from disallowing repayment of charges which have been unduly levied where to do so would entail unjust enrichment of the recipients, for example where the unduly levied charges have been incorporated in the price of goods and passed on to purchasers.	None
Although this decision is confined to charges levied contrary to the rules of Community law, the very fact that Community law accepts the validity of a defence of passingon and accepts that the rationale of it is to avoid the unjust enrichment of the initial taxpayer, is a good reason for the defence to be adopted generally in English law.	None
It would be odd if there were a divergence of approach between English and Community laws on this matter.	None
However, it must be noted that Community law does not prevent member States from adopting a defence of passingon.	None
The San Giorgio case is not authority for the proposition that member States must adopt such a defence.	None
There has been some disquiet expressed as to the need for such a defence in theory and how it would work in practice.	None
The defence was rejected in Mason v. New South Wales 1959 102 CLR 108, Aust HC.	None
The operation of the defence is fraught with difficulties because it is not easy to show that the charge was passed on in the price of goods.	None
For the price of goods is affected by many factors, conditional upon the state of the market.	None
Advocate General Mancini in the San Giorgio case said that the passingon of charges is not generally relevant because of the innumerable variables which affect price formation in a free market and because of the consequent impossibility of definitively relating any part of the price exclusively to a certain cost.	None
Thus, maybe the price of goods was increased in an attempt to recoup the tax paid to the Revenue from the purchasers of goods, but this in turn may have had an impact on sales volume resulting in an overall loss.	None
The burden of the enrichment cannot really be said to have been passed on when the initial taxpayer suffers a net loss.	None
It is submitted that in principle a defence of passingon should exist, with a burden of proving this being on the Revenue it unlawfully demanded the taxes and so it should show that repayment would unjustly enrich the taxpayer.	None
It is unlikely that such a defence would operate successfully in practice in many cases because of the difficulty of proving that the tax was actually passed on.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Similarly, in the article by J. Beatson (1993) 109 L.Q.R 401, 427428, the learned author has stated regarding passingon, thus Passingon The Law Commission raised the question of whether a payer who has passed on to others, for instance by price increases, the higher cost he has borne because of the overpayment should be precluded from recovering.	None
This defence is permitted by European Community law so long as it does not have the effect of making the right to recover impossible in practice or excessively difficult to exercise.	None
However, it has been criticised, technically because, inter alia, price increases should mean that less will be sold, and also because of difficulties of proof.	None
These difficulties were noted by Lord Goff, and arguments for a similar limit were not accepted by the High Court of Australia in Mason v. New South Wales.	None
However, the underlying rationale of a passingon defence might be achieved by providing, as in the statutes on recovery of value added tax and car tax, that recovery should not be allowed if the payee can show that the payer would be unjustly enriched if he recovered the payment.	None
This would be consistent with the basic equitable features that have influenced the development of the action for money had and received.	None
It is also possible that such a limit would achieve the same policy ends as the reasonable and just limit in provisions such as Section 33 of the Taxes Management Act, 1970 and, if so, it might provide a useful method of achieving a measure of rationalisation.	None
Mention may also be made about the Law Commissions Report in England, Law Consultation Paper No. 120 Restitution of Payments made under a mistake of law  wherein, after discussing the entire caselaw of England and other jurisdictions, an observation is made thus 3.85	None
In principle there would appear to be no reason why such a defence should not apply to cases where the authority can prove on the balance of probabilities that the payer would be unjustly enriched because the charge has been passed on.	None
The views of consultees on the general issue of a passingon defence are invited.	None
In Kanhaiya Lal case (SCR p. 1367)	None
this Court was not inclined to accept the defence in mitigation that the State has not retained the amount, but has spent them away in the ordinary course of governmental activities.	None
This plea in defence based on the theory of Change of Position has been dealt with by Graham Virgo in his article in British Tax Review (1993) at pp. 458459.	None
See also the views expressed in this behalf by a twoMember Bench of this Court in D. Cawasji Co. v. State of Mysore.	None
I am of the view that the above academic opinion has got much force.	None
However, it is subject to one aspect, stated hereunder.	None
As held by me earlier, ordinarily, the presumption is that the taxpayer has passed on the liability to the consumer (or third party).	Decision
It is open to him to rebut the presumption.	Decision
The matter is exclusively within the knowledge of the taxpayer, whether the price of the goods included the duty element also and or also as to whether he has passed on the liability since he is in possession of all relevant details.	Decision
Revenue will not be in a position to have an indepth analysis in the innumerable cases to ascertain and find out whether the taxpayer has passed on the liability.	Decision
The matter being within the exclusive knowledge of the taxpayer, the burden of proving that the liability has not been passed on should lie on him.	Decision
It is held accordingly.	None
The next important question that falls to be considered is, as to what extent the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts is ousted, regarding claims for refund of tax illegally levied or collected?	Issue
According to the Revenue, the Act is a special enactment creating new rights and liabilities and has also made exhaustive provisions, to ventilate the grievances against all illegal and improper assessments by way of appeals, revisions etc. and also to obtain refunds in appropriate cases by following certain procedures and fulfilling some conditions.	Arguments of Respondent
A hierarchy of tribunals is provided to afford relief to the assessees.	Arguments of Respondent
Elaborate alternate remedies provided by the Act, taken along with the specific bar of the jurisdiction of courts provided in Rule 11 (as amended) and Section 11B of the Act, and in particular specifying the conditions and procedure for entertaining claims for refund, period of limitation within which the claim should be preferred, etc., will oust bar the jurisdiction of ordinary courts in that regard.	Arguments of Respondent
(Attention was also drawn to Sections 11C, 11D and also to Sections 12A to D of the Act, to stress the scheme of the Act.)	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, counsel for the assesseesclaimants urged that the provisions in the Act dealing with refund of tax unconstitutionally or illegally or unauthorisedly collected are not exhaustive.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even so, in cases where the levy is unconstitutional or illegal or without jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the civil courts is not barred to annul the levy and or order refund.	Arguments of Petitioner
316.	None
As stated by me earlier in para 290 of this judgment, the claims for refund can be classified broadly into 3 groups.	None
They are (I) the levy is unconstitutional  outside the provisions of the Act or not contemplated by the Act.	Issue
(II) the levy is based on misconstruction or wrong or erroneous interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Act, Rules or Notifications or by failure to follow the vital or fundamental provisions of the Act or by acting in violation of the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.	None
(III) mistake of law  the levy or imposition was unconstitutional or illegal or not exigible in law (without jurisdiction) and, so found in a proceeding initiated not by the particular assessee, but in a proceeding initiated by some other assessee either by the High Court or the Supreme Court, and as soon as the assessee came to know of the judgment, (within the period of limitation) he initiated action for refund of the tax paid by him, due to mistake of law.	Issue
The relevant provisions of law that existed during different periods dealing with the claim for refund are different in content and scope.	None
They are as follows Period	None
up to 781977  Rule 11 of the Central Excise Rules, before amendment Period from 781977 to 16111980  Rule 11 of the Central Excise Rules, as amended Period from 16111980 to 1991991  Section 11A and Section 11B of the Central Excises Salt Act and Period after 1991991  Section 11A read along with Section 11B of the Act, as amended by Act 40 of 1991.	None
Rule 11 of the Central Excise Rules which was in force prior to 781977, has been quoted in para 291 of this judgment.	None
It contains no specific provision relating to ouster of jurisdiction of the courts.	None
Rule 11 of the Central Excise Rules as amended, Section 11A and Section 11B before Amendment Act 40 of 1991 and Section 11B, as amended by Act 40 of 1991, will be more important to consider the question of ouster of jurisdiction of courts.	Issue
Sections 11C, 11D as also Sections 12A to 12D of the Act, will throw light on the scheme of the Act as amended.	Issue
They are as follows (insofar as they are relevant in the instant cases)	None
Rule 11 as Amended Claim for refund of duty.(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty paid by him may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the date of payment of duty Provided that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
Explanation.	None
Where any duty is paid provisionally under these rules on the basis of the value or the rate of duty, the period of six months shall be computed from the date on which the duty is adjusted after final determination of the value or the rate of duty, as the case may be.	None
If on receipt of any such application the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty paid by the applicant should be refunded to him, he may make an order accordingly.	None
Where as a result of any order passed in appeal or revision under the Act, refund of any duty becomes due to any person, the proper officer may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf.	None
Save as otherwise provided by or under these rules no claim for refund of any duty shall be entertained.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this rule, refund includes rebate referred to in Rules 12 and 12A. Section 11A	None
11A. Recovery of duties not levied or not paid or shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded.(1) When any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded, a Central Excise Officer may, within six months from the relevant date, serve notice on the person chargeable with the duty which has not been levied or paid or which has been shortlevied or shortpaid to whom the refund has erroneously been made, requiring him to show cause why he should not pay the amount specified in the notice Provided that where any duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid or erroneously refunded by reason of fraud, collusion or any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts, or contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or of the rules made thereunder with intent to evade payment of duty, by such person or his agent, the provisions of this subsection shall have effect, as if, for the words six months, the words five years were substituted.	None
Explanation.	None
relevant date means, (a) in the case of excisable goods on which duty of excise has not been levied or paid or has been shortlevied or shortpaid (c) in any other case, the date on which the duty is to be paid under this Act or the rules made thereunder Section 11B before Amendment by Act 40 of 1991 11B. Claim for refund of duty.(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the relevant date Provided that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
If on receipt of any such application, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant should be refunded to him, he may make an order accordingly.	None
Where as a result of any order passed in appeal or revision under this Act refund of any duty of excise becomes due to any person, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf.	None
Save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, no claim for refund of any duty of excise shall be entertained.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the provision of this section shall also apply to a claim for refund of any amount collected as duty of excise made on the ground that the goods in respect of which such amount was collected were not excisable or were entitled to exemption from duty and no court shall have any jurisdiction in respect of such claim.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purpose of this section, (B) relevant date means (f) in any other case, the date of payment of duty.	None
(emphasis supplied) Sections 11B, 11D and 12A to D, as amended by Act 40 of 1991 11B. Claim for refund of duty.(1)	None
Any person claiming refund of any duty of excise may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Central Excise before the expiry of six months from the relevant date in such form and manner as may be prescribed and the application shall be accompanied by such documentary or other evidence including the documents referred to in Section 12A as the applicant may furnish to establish that the amount of duty of excise in relation to which such refund is claimed was collected from or paid by him and the incidence of such duty had not been passed on by him to any other person Provided that where an application for refund has been made before the commencement of the Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991, such application shall be deemed to have been made under this subsection as amended by the said Act and the same shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of subsection (2) as substituted by that Act Provided further that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
If, on receipt of any such application, the Assistant Collector of Central Excise is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty of excise paid by the applicant is refundable, he may make an order accordingly and the amount so determined shall be credited to the Fund Provided that the amount of duty of excise as determined by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise under the foregoing provisions of this subsection shall, instead of being credited to the Fund, be paid to the applicant, if such amount is relatable to (a) rebate of duty of excise on excisable goods exported out of India or on excisable materials used in the manufacture of goods which are exported out of India (b) unspent advance deposits lying in balance in the applicants account current maintained with the Collector of Central Excise (c) refund of credit of duty paid on excisable goods used as inputs in accordance with the rules made, or any notification issued, under this Act (d) the duty of excise paid by the manufacturer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person (e) the duty of excise borne by the buyer, if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person (f) the duty of excise borne by any other such class of applicants as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify Provided further that no notification under clause (f) of the first proviso shall be issued unless in the opinion of the Central Government, the incidence of duty has not been passed on by the persons concerned to any other person.	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any judgment, decree, order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force, no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section, (B) relevant date means (f) in any other case, the date of payment of duty.	None
(emphasis supplied) Section 11C deals with the power of the Central Government to dispense with recovery of excise duty in certain specified cases, which is not necessary for our discussion.	None
Section 11D and Sections 12A to D highlight the new scheme of the Act, relating to refund and they are as follows 11D. Duties of excise collected from the buyer to be deposited with the Central Government.(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any order or direction of the Appellate Tribunal or any court or in any other provision of this Act or the rules made thereunder, every person who has collected any amount from the buyer of any goods in any manner as representing duty of excise, shall forthwith pay the amount so collected to the credit of the Central Government.	None
The amount paid to the credit of the Central Government under subsection (1) shall be adjusted against duty of excise payable by the person on finalisation of assessment and where any surplus is left after such adjustment, the amount of such surplus shall either be credited to the Fund or, as the case may be, refunded to the person who has borne the incidence of such amount, in accordance with the provisions of Section 11B and the relevant date for making an application under that section in such cases shall be the date of the public notice to be issued by the Assistant Collector of Central Excise.	None
12A. Price of goods to indicate the amount of duty paid thereon.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, every person who is liable to pay duty of excise on any goods shall, at the time of clearance of the goods, prominently indicate in all the documents relating to assessment, sales invoice, and other like documents, the amount of such duty which will form part of the price at which such goods are to be sold.	None
12B. Presumption that incidence of duty has been passed on to the buyer.	None
Every person who has paid the duty of excise on any goods under this Act shall, unless the contrary is proved by him, be deemed to have passed on the full incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.	None
12C. Consumer Welfare Fund.(1)	None
There shall be established by the Central Government a fund, to be called the Consumer Welfare Fund.	None
There shall be credited to the Fund, in such manner as may be prescribed, (a) the amount of duty of excise referred to in subsection (2) of Section 11B or subsection (2) of Section 11C or subsection (2) of Section 11D (b) the amount of duty of customs referred to in subsection (2) of Section 27 or subsection (2) of Section 28A, or subsection (2) of Section 28B of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) (c) any income from investment of the amount credited to the Fund and any other monies received by the Central Government for the purposes of this Fund.	None
12D. Utilisation of the Fund.(1)	None
Any money credited to the Fund shall be utilised by the Central Government for the welfare of the consumers in accordance with such rules as that Government may make in this behalf.	None
The Central Government shall maintain or, if it thinks fit, specify the authority which shall maintain, proper and separate account and other relevant records in relation to the Fund in such form as may be prescribed in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India.	None
It is evident that Rule 11, before amendment, provided a timelimit to apply for refund.	None
Rule 11(4) as amended, Section 11B clauses (4) and (5) before amendment and Section 11B clause (3) after amendment, specifically oust the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts.	None
Detailed provisions are also provided to ventilate the grievances and making such provisions exclusive.	None
Other ancillary or incidental provisions are specified in Sections 11D and 12A to 12D  Section 11D provides that every person, who collects excise duty from the buyer, should deposit the same with the Central Government.	None
It will be adjusted against the duty of excise payable by the person concerned on finalisation of the assessment.	None
Section 11D requires clarification.	None
Excise duty is, ordinarily paid or payable at the time of clearance of the goods.	None
The sale of the goods may be later.	None
So, if excise duty due is already paid by the manufacturer, and later collected by him when the goods are sold, such collection, need not be paid to the Government.	None
Only if the duty has not been paid already or if any excess is collected over and above the duty already paid, then only an occasion arises for payment of the duty collected or excess collected  and this is the purport of	None
Section 11D.	None
The said section (Section 11D) should be understood in the above practical and business sense.	None
Section 12A provides that the price of the goods sold should indicate the amount of duty, which will form part of the price.	None
Section 12B states that the person, who has paid the duty of excise on any goods under the Act, shall be deemed to have passed on the incidence of such duty to the buyer of such goods.	None
It is a rebuttable presumption.	None
Section 12C creates the Consumer Welfare Fund.	None
The amount of duty referred to in Sections 11B(2), 11C(2) and 11D(2) shall be credited in the said Fund.	None
Section 12D provides that the Fund shall be utilised for the welfare of the consumers.	None
The question that falls to be considered is as to how far or to what extent the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts is barred, in view of the alternate remedies provided by the Act by way of appeals, revisions, claims for refund and the period of limitation provided therefor, etc., and specifically excluding the jurisdiction of the civil courts for claiming refund?	Issue
In discussing this aspect, one has to bear in mind the content of Article 265 also.	None
It will apply where the statute is unconstitutional or invalid and also where the collection is unauthorised illegal, i.e, without authority of law.	None
It is settled law that exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil courts is not to be readily inferred, but that such exclusion must either be explicitly expressed or clearly implied.	Reasoning
There are a few decisions of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council and innumerable decisions of this Court which have dealt with the matter in detail.	None
I propose to deal, only with the landmark decisions on the subject.	None
In Secy. of State v. Mask Co. AIR 1940 PC 105 the Judicial Committee laid down the law thus (AIR p. 110)	None
It is settled law that the exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil courts is not to be readily inferred, but that such exclusion must either be explicitly expressed or clearly implied.	Reasoning
It is also well settled that even if jurisdiction is so excluded, the civil courts have jurisdiction to examine into cases where the provisions of the Act have not been complied with, or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
The scope of the above observation has been explained by a Constitution Bench of this Court, in Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty and Sons v. State of A.P The minimal facts in this case will be relevant to understand the scope of the decision.	None
The case arose under the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939.	None
Section 18A of the Act provided that no suit or other proceeding shall except expressly provided in the Act, be instituted in any court to set aside or modify any assessment made under the Act.	None
The Act also contained provisions by way of appeals, revisions and further revision to the High Court.	None
The levy under the Act was only on purchase of groundnuts, but the Sales Tax authorities brought to tax the sales turnover and collected tax.	None
The assessee contended that levy of tax on the sales turnover as distinguished from the purchase turnover is illegal, and filed a suit for recovery of the amount so collected.	None
It should be noticed that the assessee himself voluntarily made a return and paid the tax.	None
In such circumstances, the question arose, whether the suit so filed is maintainable in view of the adequate alternate remedies provided by the Act and the ouster of jurisdiction of the courts expressly contained in Section 18A of the Act?	None
On the facts of the case, it was held that the suit was barred.	None
In considering the question of exclusion of jurisdiction of the civil courts to entertain civil actions by virtue of specific provisions contained in the special statute, reference was made to the decision of the Judicial Committee in Secy. of State v. Mask Co.	None
After referring to the observations of the Judicial Committee quoted hereinabove, this Court in Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty and Sons v. State of A.P explained the said observations thus (AIR pp. 32526)	None
It is necessary to add that these observations, though made in somewhat wide terms, do not justify the assumption that if a decision has been made by a taxing authority under the provisions of the relevant taxing statute, its validity can be challenged by a suit on the ground that it is incorrect on the merits and as such, it can be claimed that the provisions of the said statute have not been complied with.	None
Noncompliance with the provisions of the statute to which reference is made by the Privy Council must, we think, be noncompliance with such fundamental provisions of the statute as would make the entire proceedings before the appropriate authority illegal and without jurisdiction.	None
Similarly, if an appropriate authority has acted in violation of the fundamental principles or judicial procedure, that may also tend to make the proceedings illegal and void and this infirmity may affect the validity of the order passed by the authority in question.	None
It is cases of this character where the defect or the infirmity in the order goes to the root of the order and makes it in law invalid and void that these observations may perhaps be invoked in support of the plea that the civil court can exercise its jurisdiction notwithstanding a provision to the contrary contained in the relevant statute.	None
In what cases such a plea would succeed it is unnecessary for us to decide in the present appeal because we have no doubt that the contention of the appellant that on the merits, the decision of the assessing authority was wrong, cannot be the subjectmatter of a suit because Section 18A clearly bars such a claim in the civil courts.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In this case, the relevant Act contained detailed and specific provisions by way of appeal, revision, etc., to ventilate the grievances of the assessees.	None
In addition thereto, there was specific provision ousting the jurisdiction of the courts.	None
Even so, the court did not hold that the principles laid down in Mask Co. case are inapplicable.	None
The principles in Mask Co. case were affirmed and explained.	None
The decision of the Privy Council in Mask Co. case and other decisions of the Privy Council and of this Court, were surveyed in detail by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Dhulabhai v. State of M.P In that case, the assessees filed a suit for refund of the tax on the ground that it was illegally collected from them being against the constitutional prohibition contained in Article 301 of the Constitution of India and not saved in Article 304(a) of the Constitution.	None
Section 17 of the relevant Act was pleaded in defence as a bar to the maintainability of the suit.	None
Section 17 provided that no assessment made and no order passed under the Act or the Rules by any of the statutory authorities, shall be called in question in any case.	None
The Court held that notwithstanding the alternate remedies by way of appeal, revision, rectification and reference to the High Court, the tax therein was levied without a complete charging section and this affected the jurisdiction of the tax authorities, and so, the suit was maintainable, and decreed the suit.	None
After referring to the relevant decisions and in particular, Secy. of State v. Mask Co., Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty and Sons v. State of A.P this Court held in para 28 of the judgment, thus (AIR p. 88)	None
The Constitution Bench, however went on to examine the rulings of the Judicial Committee in Mask and Co. and Raleigh Investment Co. cases.	None
Dealing with the former case, this Court pointed out that noncompliance with the provisions of the statute meant noncompliance with such fundamental provisions of the statute as would make the entire proceedings before the appropriate authority illegal and without jurisdiction.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Referring to the facts of Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty and Sons v. State of A.P it was further observed The case of Firm of Illuri Subbayya, may be said to be decided on special facts with additional reference to the addition of Section 18A excluding the jurisdiction of civil court and the special remedies provided in Sections 12A to 12D by which the matter could be taken to the highest civil court in the State.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
This Court also considered the facts and the actual decision of the Special Bench of seven Judges in Kamala Mills Ltd. v. State Of Bombay in detail, with reference to Section 20 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1946, and observed thus The Special Bench refrained from either accepting the dictum of Mask Co. case, or rejecting it, to the effect that even if jurisdiction is excluded by a provision making the decision of the authorities final, the civil courts have jurisdiction to examine into cases where the provisions of the particular Act are not complied with.	None
It is evident from the above, that the principle laid down in Mask Co. case though explained, was not questioned, or departed from, either in Illuri Subbayya Chetty case or Kamala Mills case.	None
In a subsequent decision  Ram Swarup v. Shikar Chand AIR 1966 SC 893 a Constitution Bench of this Court again considered the scope of the decisions in Mask Co. case and Kamala Mills case.	None
Ram Swarup case arose under the U.P (Temporary) Control of Rent and Eviction Act.	None
Section 3(4) of the Act provided that the order passed by the designated authority shall be final and Section 16 thereof further provided that the order passed by the State Government or the District Magistrate, shall not be called in question in any court.	None
In other words, the jurisdiction of civil courts was excluded in relation to the matters covered by orders included within the provisions of Sections 3(4) and 16 of the said Act.	None
The Constitution Bench approached the matter thus One of the points which is often treated as relevant in dealing with the question about the exclusion of civil courts jurisdiction, is whether the special statute which, it is urged, excludes such jurisdiction, has used clear and unambiguous words indicating that intention.	None
Another test which is applied is does the said statute provide for an adequate and satisfactory alternative remedy to a party that may be aggrieved by the relevant order under its material provisions?	None
Applying these two tests, it does appear that the words used in Section 3(4) and Section 16 are clear.	None
Section 16 in terms provides that the order made under this Act to which the said section applies shall not be called in question in any court.	None
This is an express provision excluding the civil courts jurisdiction.	None
Section 3(4) does not expressly exclude the jurisdiction of the civil courts, but, in the context, the inference that the civil courts jurisdiction is intended to be excluded, appears to be inescapable.	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that Mr Goyal is right in contending that the jurisdiction of the civil courts is excluded in relation to matters covered by the orders included within the provisions of Section 3(4) and Section 16.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Even so, this Court proceeded to state to the following effect (AIR p. 896, para 13)	None
This conclusion, however, does not necessarily mean that the plea against the validity of the order passed by the District Magistrate, or the Commissioner, or the State Government, can never be raised in a civil court.	None
In our opinion, the bar created by the relevant provisions of the Act excluding the jurisdiction of the civil courts cannot operate in cases where the plea raised before the civil court goes to the root of the matter and would, if upheld, lead to the conclusion that the impugned order is a nullity.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
This Court referred to the decisions of the Judicial Committee, in Secy. of State for India in Council v. Roy Jatindra Nath Chowdhury AIR 1924 PC 175 and the decision in Mask Co. and also quoted the observations in the latter case which have been quoted hereinbefore (para 27  supra) and concluded thus In Kamala Mills Ltd. v. State Of Bombay, while dealing with a similar point, this Court has considered the effect of the two decisions of the Privy Council, one in the case of Mask and Co. and the other in Raleigh Investment Co. Ltd. v. Governor GeneralinCouncil, IA at pp. 6263 (AIR at pp. 8081).	None
The conclusion reached by this Court in Kamala Mills case, also supports the view which we are taking in the present appeal.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
It is evident that in Ram Swarup case this Court expressed the view that the decision in Kamala Mills case is in accord with Mask Co. case and the bar of jurisdiction of civil courts cannot operate in cases where the plea raised before the civil court goes to the root of the matter and would, if upheld, lead to the conclusion that the impugned order is a nullity  in other words, where the order or proceeding is attacked as one passed without jurisdiction.	None
Again, the principle laid down in Mask Co. case was only reiterated and observations were made that the decision in Kamala Mills case was in accord with the decision in Mask Co. case.	None
It is important to notice that Gajendragadkar, C.J, spoke for the Bench in all the three decisions Illuri Subbayya Chetty, Kamala Mills and Ram Swarup.	None
In considering Mask Co. and Kamala Mills the Constitution Bench in Ram Swarup case held that if the proceeding assailed is totally invalid and a nullity or without jurisdiction, the jurisdiction of the civil courts is not barred.	None
Again, the principle laid down in Mask Co. was only affirmed.	None
On an analysis of the various decisions, this Court laid down the law thus (Dhulabhai case) (AIR pp. 8990, para 32)	None
Neither of the two cases of Firm of Illuri Subbayya, or Kamala Mills, can be said to run counter to the series of cases earlier noticed.	None
The result of this enquiry into the diverse views expressed in this Court may be stated as follows Where the statute gives a finality to the orders of the special tribunals the civil courts jurisdiction must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the civil courts would normally do in a suit.	None
Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.	None
Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to find the adequacy or the sufficiency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court.	Reasoning
Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to find out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the enquiry may be decisive.	Reasoning
In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are prescribed by the said statute or not.	None
Challenge to the provisions of the particular Act as ultra vires cannot be brought before tribunals constituted under that Act.	None
Even the High Court cannot go into that question on a revision or reference from the decision of the tribunals.	None
When a provision is already declared unconstitutional or the constitutionality of any provision is to be challenged, a suit is open.	None
A writ of certiorari may include a direction for refund if the claim is clearly within the time prescribed by the Limitation Act but it is not a compulsory remedy to replace a suit.	None
Where the particular Act contains no machinery for refund of tax collected in excess of constitutional limits or illegally collected a suit lies.	None
Questions of the correctness of the assessment apart from its constitutionality are for the decision of the authorities and a civil suit does not lie if the orders of the authorities are declared to be final or there is an express prohibition in the particular Act.	None
In either case the scheme of the particular Act must be examined because it is a relevant enquiry.	Reasoning
An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not readily to be inferred unless the conditions above set down apply.	Reasoning
(emphasis supplied)	None
Dhulabhai case has been consistently followed by this Court later  see Shree Raja Kandregula Srinivasa Jagannatha Rao Pantulu Bahadur Garu v. State of A.P AIR 1971 SC 71 and other cases.	None
Applying the law laid down in the decisions aforesaid, it is not possible to conclude that any and every claim for refund of illegal unauthorised levy of tax, can be made only in accordance with the provisions of the Act (Rule 11, Section 11B etc.	Decision
as the case may be), and an action by way of suit or writ petition under Article 226 will not be maintainable under any circumstances.	None
An action by way of suit or a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is maintainable to assail the levy or order which is illegal, void or unauthorised or without jurisdiction and or claim refund, in cases covered by propositions (1), (3), (4) and (5) in Dhulabhai case as explained hereinabove, as one passed outside the Act and ultra vires.	Decision
Such action will be governed by the general law and the procedure and period of limitation provided by the specific statute will have no application.	None
(CCE v. Doaba Coop.	None
Sugar Mills Ltd. 1988 Supp SCC 683 Escorts Ltd. v. Union of india 1994 supp 3 scc 86.)	None
rule 11 before and after amendment, or Section 11B, cannot affect Section 72 of the Contract Act or the provisions of the Limitation Act in such situations.	None
My answer to the claims for refund broadly falling under the three groups or categories enumerated in para 290 of this judgment is as follows Category (I) Where the levy is unconstitutional  outside the provisions of the Act or not contemplated by the Act In such cases, the jurisdiction of the civil courts is not barred.	None
The aggrieved party can invoke Section 72 of the Contract Act, file a suit or a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution and pray for appropriate relief inclusive of refund within the period of limitation provided by the appropriate law.	None
Dhulabhai case, para 32, clauses (3) and (4) Category (II) Where the levy is based on misconstruction or wrong or erroneous interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Act, Rules or Notifications or by failure to follow the vital or fundamental provisions of the Act or by acting in violation of the Fundamental Principles of judicial procedure Under this category, every error of fact or law committed by the statutory authority or tribunal, irrespective of its gravity, or nature of infirmity, will not be covered.	None
It is confined to exceptional cases where the provisions of a particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity with fundamental principles of judicial procedure, as stated in Mask Co. case and in Dhulabhai case.	None
The scope of the above dicta, should be understood in the background of in accord with the observations of the earlier Constitution Bench of this Court in Firm of Illuri Subbayya Chetty and Sons v. State of A.P (AIR at p. 326) to the following effect Noncompliance with the provisions of the statute, to which reference is made by the Privy Council must, we think, be noncompliance with such fundamental provisions of the statute as would make the entire proceedings before the appropriate authority illegal and without jurisdiction.	None
Similarly, if an appropriate authority has acted in violation of the fundamental principles or judicial procedure, that may also tend to make the proceedings illegal and void and this infirmity may affect the validity of the order passed by the authority in question.	None
It is cases of this character where the defect or the infirmity in the order goes to the root of the order and makes it in law invalid and void.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
Dhulabhai case, para 32, clause (1) Here also the appropriate action should be laid within the period of limitation provided by the appropriate law and also can invoke Section 72 of the Contract Act, as the case may be.	None
Category (III) Mistake of law  the levy or imposition was unconstitutional or illegal or not exigible in law (i.e without jurisdiction) and, so found in a proceeding initiated not by the particular assessee, but in a proceeding initiated by some other assessee, either by the High Court or the Supreme Court, and as soon as the assessee came to know of the judgment, (within the period of limitation) he initiated action for refund of the tax paid by him, due to mistake of law In this category, assessees who initiated proceedings and impugned the assessments claimed refund, for any reason, either by way of suit or petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, and the action was dismissed on merits, they cannot maintain an action over again.	Issue
He who fights and runs away, cannot have another day.	None
If the levy or imposition was held to be unconstitutional or illegal or not exigible in law, in a similar case filed by some other person, the assessee who had already lost the battle in a proceeding initiated by him or has otherwise abandoned the claim cannot take advantage of the subsequent declaration rendered in another case where the levy is held to be unconstitutional, illegal or not exigible in law.	None
The claim will be unsustainable and barred by res judicata.	None
(Tilokchand Motichand v. H.B Munshi, Commissioner of Sales Tax.)	None
(This will be confined to the period for which action was laid and lost.)	None
Subject to the above, if a levy or imposition of tax is held to be unconstitutional or illegal or not exigible in law i.e without jurisdiction, it is open to the assessee to take advantage of the declaration of the law so made and pray for appropriate relief inclusive of refund on the ground that tax was paid due to mistake of law, provided he initiates action within the period of limitation prescribed under the Limitation Act.	None
Such assessee should prove the necessary ingredients to enable him to claim the benefit under Section 72 of the Contract Act read with Section 17 of the Limitation Act.	None
Dhulabhai case, para 32, clauses (4) and (5) It should be borne in mind, that in all the three categories of cases, the assessee should prove the fundamental factor that he has not passed on the tax to the consumer or third party and that he suffered a loss or injury.	None
This aspect should not be lost sight of, in whatever manner, the proceeding is initiated  suit, Article 226, etc.	None
As observed earlier, Proposition (1) or clause (1), enunciated in Dhulabhai case should be understood in the background of or in accord with the observations of the earlier Constitution Bench in Illuri Subbayya Chetty case  (AIR at pp. 325326) as quoted in para 321 (supra)  (see para 329 of this judgment).	None
Opinions may differ as to when it can be said that in the public law domain, the entire proceeding before the appropriate authority is illegal and without jurisdiction or the defect or infirmity in the order goes to the root of the matter and makes it in law invalid or void (referred to in Illuri Subbayya Chetty case and approved in Dhulabhai case).	None
The matter may have to be considered in the light of the provisions of the particular statute in question and the factsituation obtaining in each case.	None
It is difficult to visualise all situations hypothetically and provide an answer.	None
Be that as it may, the question that frequently arises for consideration, is, in what situation cases the noncompliance or error or mistake, committed by the statutory authority or tribunal, makes the decision rendered ultra vires or a nullity or one without jurisdiction?	None
If the decision is without jurisdiction, notwithstanding the provisions for obtaining reliefs contained in the Act and the ouster clauses, the jurisdiction of the ordinary court is not excluded.	None
So, the matter assumes significance.	None
Since the landmark decision in Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Commission 1969 2 AC 147 the legal world seems to have accepted that any jurisdictional error as understood in the liberal or modern approach, laid down therein, makes a decision ultra vires or a nullity or without jurisdiction and the ouster clauses are construed restrictively, and such provisions whatever their stringent language be, have been held, not to prevent challenge on the ground that the decision is ultra vires and being a complete nullity, it is not a decision within the meaning of the Act.	None
The concept of jurisdiction has acquired new dimensions.	None
The original or pure theory of jurisdiction means the authority to decide and it is determinable at the commencement and not at the conclusion of the enquiry.	None
The said approach has been given a goby in Anisminic case as we shall see from the discussion hereinafter see De Smith, Woolf and Jowell  Judicial Review of Administrative Action (1995 Edn.)	None
p. 238	None
Halsburys Laws of England (4th Edn.)	None
p. 114, para 67, footnote (9).	None
As Sir William Wade observes in his book, Administrative Law (7th Edn.), 1994, at p. 299	None
The tribunal must not only have jurisdiction at the outset, but must retain it unimpaired until it has discharged its task.	None
The decision in Anisminic case has been cited with approval in a number of cases by this Court citation of a few such cases  Union of India v. Tarachand Gupta Bros. 1971 1 SCC 486 (AIR at p. 1565), A.R Antulay v. R.S Nayak 1988 2 SCC 602 (SCC at p. 650), R.B Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fatehchand Nursing Das v. Settlement Commission (IT WT) 1989 1	None
SCC 628 (SCC at p. 634), N. Parthasarathy v. Controller of Capital Issues 1991 3 SCC 153 (SCC at p. 195), Associated Engineering Co. v. Govt.	None
of A.P AIR 1992 SC 232 , Shiv Kumar Chadha v. Municipal Corpn.	None
of Delhi 1993 3 SCC 161 (SCC at p. 173).	None
Delivering the judgment of a twoMember Bench in M.L Sethi v. R.P Kapur AIR 1972 SC 2379 Mathew, J. in paras 10 and 11 of the judgment explained the legal position after Anisminic case to the following effect The word jurisdiction is a verbal cast of many colours.	None
Jurisdiction originally seems to have had the meaning which Lord Baid ascribed to it in Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Commission, namely, the entitlement to enter upon the enquiry in question.	None
If there was an entitlement to enter upon an enquiry into the question, then any subsequent error could only be regarded as an error within the jurisdiction.	None
The best known formulation of this theory is that made by Lord Dennan in R. v. Bolton 1841 1 QB 66.	None
He said that the question of jurisdiction is determinable at the commencement, not at the conclusion of the enquiry.	None
In Anisminic Ltd., Lord Reid said But there are many cases where, although the tribunal had jurisdiction to enter on the enquiry, it has done or failed to do something in the course of the enquiry which is of such a nature that its decision is a nullity.	None
It may have given its decision in bad faith.	None
It may have made a decision which it had no power to make.	None
It may have failed in the course of the enquiry to comply with the requirements of natural justice.	None
It may in perfect good faith have misconstrued the provisions giving it power to act so that it failed to deal with the question remitted to it and decided some question which was not remitted to it.	None
It may have refused to take into account something which it was required to take into account.	None
Or it may have based its decision on some matter which, under the provisions setting it up, it had no right to take into account.	None
I do not intend this list to be exhaustive.	None
In the same case, Lord Pearce said Lack of jurisdiction may arise in various ways.	None
There may be an absence of those formalities or things which are conditions precedent to the tribunal having any jurisdiction to embark on an enquiry.	None
Or the tribunal may at the end make an order that it has no jurisdiction to make.	None
Or in the intervening stage while engaged on a proper enquiry, the tribunal may depart from the rules of natural justice or it may ask itself the wrong questions or it may take into account matters which it was not directed to take into account.	None
Thereby it would step outside its jurisdiction.	None
It would turn its enquiry into something not directed by Parliament and fail to make the enquiry which Parliament did direct.	None
Any of these things would cause its purported decision to be a nullity.	None
The dicta of the majority of the House of Lords, in the above case would show the extent to which lack and excess of jurisdiction have been assimilated or, in other words, the extent to which we have moved away from the traditional concept of jurisdiction.	None
The effect of the dicta in that case is to reduce the difference between jurisdictional error and error of law within jurisdiction almost to vanishing point.	None
The practical effect of the decision is that any error of law can be reckoned as jurisdictional.	None
This comes perilously close to saying that there is jurisdiction if the decision is right in law but none if it is wrong.	None
Almost any misconstruction of a statute can be represented as basing their decision on a matter with which they have no right to deal, imposing an unwarranted condition or addressing themselves to a wrong question.	None
The majority opinion in the case leaves a court or tribunal with virtually no margin of legal error.	None
Whether there is excess of jurisdiction or merely error within jurisdiction can be determined only by construing the empowering statute, which will give little guidance.	None
It is really a question of how much latitude the court is prepared to allow.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
In a subsequent Constitution Bench decision, Hari Prasad Mulshanker Trivedi v. V.B Raju AIR 1973 SC 2602 delivering the judgment of the Bench, Mathew, J., in para 27 at page 2608 of the judgment, stated thus (SCC pp. 42324, para 28)	None
Though the dividing line between lack of jurisdiction or power and erroneous exercise of it has become thin with the decision of the House of Lords in the Anisminic case Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Commission, 1967 3 WLR 382, we do not think that the distinction between the two has been completely wiped out.	None
We are aware of the difficulty in formulating an exhaustive rule to tell when there is lack of power and when there is an erroneous exercise of it.	None
The difficulty has arisen because the word jurisdiction is an expression which is used in a variety of senses and takes its colour from its context, (see per Diplock, J. at p. 394 in the Anisminic case).	None
Whereas the pure theory of jurisdiction would reduce jurisdictional control to a vanishing point, the adoption of a narrower meaning might result in a more useful legal concept even though the formal structure of law may lose something of its logical symmetry.	None
At bottom the problem of defining the concept of jurisdiction for purpose of judicial review has been one of public policy rather than one of logic.	None
S.A Smith, Judicial Review of Administrative Action, 2nd Edn., p. 98. (1968 Edn.)	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The observation of the learned author, (S.A De Smith) was continued in its 3rd Edn.	None
(1973) at p. 98 and in its 4th Edn.	None
(1980) at p. 112 of the book.	None
The observation aforesaid was based on the then prevailing academic opinion only as is seen from the footnotes.	None
It should be stated that the said observation is omitted from the latest edition of the book De Smith, Woolf and Jowell  Judicial Review of Administrative Action  5th Edn.	None
(1995) as is evident from p. 229 probably due to later developments in the law and the academic opinion that has emerged due to the change in the perspective.	None
After 1980, the decision in Anisminic case came up for further consideration before the House of Lords, Privy Council and other courts.	None
The three leading decisions of the House of Lords wherein Anisminic principle was followed and explained, are the following Racal Communications Ltd., In re110, OReilly v. Mackman 1983 2 AC 237, Re. v. Hull University Visitor 1993 AC 682.	None
It should be noted that Racal, In re case the Anisminic principle was held to be inapplicable in the case of (superior) court where the decision of the court is made final and conclusive by the statute.	None
(The superior court referred to in this decision is the High Court) 1981 AC 374 (383, 384, 386, 391).	None
In the meanwhile, the House of Lords in Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for the Civil Service enunciated three broad grounds for judicial review, as legality, procedural propriety and rationality and this decision had its impact on the development of the law in postAnisminic period.	None
In the light of the above four important decisions of the House of Lords, other decisions of the court of appeal, Privy Council etc. and the later academic opinion in the matter the entire caselaw on the subject has been reviewed in leading textbooks.	None
In the latest edition of De Smith on Judicial Review of Administrative Action  edited by Lord Woolf and Jowell, Q.C Professor of Public Law, 5 Edn.  1995, in Chapter 5, titled as Jurisdiction, Vires, Law and Fact (pp. 223294), there is exhaustive analysis about the concept Jurisdiction and its ramifications.	None
The authors have discussed the pure theory of jurisdiction, the innovative decision in Anisminic case, the development of the law in the postAnisminic period, the scope of the finality clauses (exclusion of jurisdiction of courts) in the statutes, and have laid down a few propositions at pp. 250256 which could be advanced on the subject.	None
The authors have concluded the discussion thus at p. 256	None
After Anisminic	None
virtually every error of law is a jurisdictional error, and the only place left for nonjurisdictional error is where the components of the decision made by the inferior body included matters of fact and policy as well as law, or where the error was evidential (concerning for example the burden of proof or admission of evidence).	None
Perhaps the most precise indication of jurisdictional error is that advanced by Lord Diplock in Racal Communications, when he suggested that a tribunal is entitled to make an error when the matter involves, as many do interrelated questions of law, fact and degree.	None
Thus it was for the county court judge in Pearlman ( Pearlman v. Keepers and Governors of Harrow School, 1979 1	None
All ER 365 ) to decide whether the installation of central heating in a dwelling amounted to a structural alteration, extension or addition.	None
This was a typical question of mixed law, fact and degree which only a scholiast would think it appropriate to dissect into two separate questions, one for decision by the superior court, viz., the meaning of these words, a question which must entail considerations of degree, and the other for decision by a county court, viz., the application of words to the particular installation, a question which also entails considerations of degree.	None
It is, however, doubtful whether any test of jurisdictional error will prove satisfactory.	None
The distinction between jurisdictional and nonjurisdictional error is ultimately based upon foundations of sand.	None
Much of the superstructure has already crumbled.	None
What remains is likely quickly to fall away as the courts rightly insist that all administrative action should be, simply, lawful, whether or not jurisdictionally lawful.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The jurisdictional control exercised by superior courts over subordinate courts, tribunals or other statutory bodies and the scope and content of such power has been pithily stated in Halsburys Laws of England  4th Edn.	None
(Reissue), 1989 Vol. 1(1), p. 113 to the following effect The inferior court or tribunal lacks jurisdiction if it has no power to enter upon an enquiry into a matter at all	None
and it exceeds jurisdiction if it nevertheless enters upon such an enquiry or, having jurisdiction in the first place, it proceeds to arrogate an authority withheld from it by perpetrating a major error of substance, form or procedure, or by making an order or taking action outside its limited area of competence.	None
Not every error committed by an inferior court or tribunal or other body, however, goes to jurisdiction.	None
Jurisdiction to decide a matter imports a limited power to decide that matter incorrectly.	None
A tribunal lacks jurisdiction if (1) it is improperly constituted, or (2) the proceedings have been improperly instituted, or (3) authority to decide has been delegated to it unlawfully, or (4) it is without competence to deal with a matter by reason of the parties, the area in which the issue arose, the nature of the subjectmatter, the value of that subjectmatter, or the nonexistence of any other prerequisite of a valid adjudication.	None
Excess of jurisdiction is not materially distinguishable from lack of jurisdiction and the expressions may be used interchangeably.	None
Where the jurisdiction of a tribunal is dependent on the existence of a particular state of affairs, that state of affairs may be described as preliminary to, or collateral to the merits of, the issue, or as jurisdictional.	None
(p. 114)	None
There is a presumption in construing statutes which confer jurisdiction or discretionary powers on a body, that if that body makes an error of law while purporting to act within that jurisdiction or in exercising those powers, its decision or action will exceed the jurisdiction conferred and will be quashed.	None
The error must be one on which the decision or action depends.	None
An error of law going to jurisdiction may be committed by a body which fails to follow the proper procedure required by law, which takes legally irrelevant considerations into account, or which fails to take relevant considerations into account, or which asks itself and answers the wrong question.	None
(pp. 119120)	None
The presumption that error of law goes to jurisdiction may be rebutted on the construction of a particular statute, so that the relevant body will not exceed its jurisdiction by going wrong in law.	None
Previously, the courts were more likely to find that errors of law were within jurisdiction but with the modern approach errors of law will be held to fall within a bodys jurisdiction only in exceptional cases.	None
The courts will generally assume that their expertise in determining the principles of law applicable in any case has not been excluded by Parliament.	None
(p. 120) Errors of law include misinterpretation of a statute or any other legal document or a rule of common law asking oneself and answering the wrong question, taking irrelevant considerations into account or failing to take relevant considerations into account when purporting to apply the law to the facts admitting inadmissible evidence or rejecting admissible and relevant evidence exercising a discretion on the basis of incorrect legal principles giving reasons which disclose faulty legal reasoning or which are inadequate to fulfil an express duty to give reasons, and misdirecting oneself as to the burden of proof.	None
(pp. 121122) (emphasis supplied) H.W.R Wade and C.F Forsyth in their book  Administrative Law, 7th Edn., (1994)  discuss the subject regarding the jurisdiction of superior courts over subordinate courts and tribunals under the head Jurisdiction over Fact and Law in Chapter 9, pp. 284 to 320.	None
The decisions before Anisminic and those in the postAnisminic period have been discussed in detail.	None
At pp. 319320, the authors give the Summary of Rules thus Jurisdiction over fact and law	None
Summary	None
At the end of a chapter which is topheavy with obsolescent material it may be useful to summarise the position as shortly as possible.	None
The overall picture is of an expanding system struggling to free itself from the trammels of classical doctrines laid down in the past.	None
It is not safe to say that the classical doctrines are wholly obsolete and that the broad and simple principles of review, which clearly now commend themselves to the judiciary, will entirely supplant them.	None
A summary can therefore only state the longestablished rules together with the simpler and broader rules which have now superseded them, much for the benefit of the law.	None
Together they are as follows Errors of fact Old rule The court would quash only if the erroneous fact was jurisdictional.	None
New rule The court will quash if an erroneous and decisive fact was  (a) jurisdictional (b) found on the basis of no evidence or (c) wrong, misunderstood or ignored.	None
Errors of law Old rule The court would quash only if the error was  (a) jurisdictional or (b) on the face of the record.	None
New rule The court will quash for any decisive error, because all errors of law are now jurisdictional.	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
The scope of the exclusionary clauses contained in the statutes has been considered in great detail with reference to the decisions of the superior courts in England and also the decisions of the Supreme Court of India by Justice G.P Singh (former Chief Justice, M.P High Court) in Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 6th Edn., (1996) at p. 475.	None
The law is stated thus A review of the relevant authorities on the point leads to the following conclusions An Exclusionary Clause using the formula an order of the tribunal under this Act shall not be called in question in any court is ineffective to prevent the calling in question of an order of the tribunal if the order is really not an order under the Act but a nullity.	None
Cases of nullity may arise when there is lack of jurisdiction at the stage of commencement of enquiry, e.g, when (a) authority is assumed under an ultra vires statute (b) the tribunal is not properly constituted, or is disqualified to act (c) the subjectmatter or the parties are such over which the tribunal has no authority to enquire and (d) there is want of essential preliminaries prescribed by the law for commencement of the enquiry.	None
Cases of nullity may also arise during the course or at the conclusion of the enquiry.	None
These cases are also cases of want of jurisdiction if the word jurisdiction is understood in a wide sense.	None
Some examples of these cases are (a) when the tribunal has wrongly determined a jurisdictional question of fact or law (b) when it has failed to follow the fundamental principles of judicial procedure, e.g, has passed the order without giving an opportunity of hearing to the party affected (c) when it has violated the fundamental provisions of the Act, e.g, when it fails to take into account matters which it is required to take into account or when it takes into account extraneous and irrelevant matters (d) when it has acted in bad faith and (e) when it grants a relief or makes an order which it has no authority to grant or make as also (f) when by misapplication of the law it has asked itself the wrong question.	None
With great respect to the learned author, I would adopt the above statement of law, as my own.	None
I would conclude this aspect by holding that the jurisdiction of civil courts is not barred in entirety regarding the attack against the levy and or claim for refund in those cases, coming within the three categories mentioned in paras 290 and 327331 of this judgment, the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts will not be ousted, in the circumstances and subject to the conditions stated therein and in para 332 (supra).	Decision
Two decisions of this Court rendered after Section 11B of the Act was amended in 1991, deserve mention.	Issue
They are  Union of India v. Jain Spinners Ltd. and Union of India v. ITC Ltd.	Issue
In Jain Spinners case the application for refund itself was filed before the statutory authority concerned (Assistant Collector, Central Excise).	None
While the said application was pending, Section 11B of the Act came into force.	None
There was an earlier interim order passed by the High Court directing the deposit of the duty levied with a liberty to the Revenue to withdraw it, subject to the condition that the amount will be refunded if the assessee succeeded ultimately.	None
The Assistant Collector applying the amendments effected in 1991, declined to order refund, holding that the assessee had passed on the incidence of duty to others.	None
It was upheld by this Court notwithstanding the interim orders and other proceedings of the High Court.	None
Basically, the application for refund was filed before the statutory authority concerned, who negatived the claim by giving effect to the provisions of the Amendment Act.	None
There was no attack in the above case that the levy or collection was unauthorised or unconstitutional or without jurisdiction or illegal.	None
In Union of India v. ITC Ltd. the Jain Spinners case was followed.	None
The main aspect that arose for consideration in the latter case was, whether the assessee had passed on the incidence of duty to the consumers or other persons.	None
In spite of the repeated orders of this Court, the assessee failed to establish that the burden of excess excise duty was borne by it and was not passed on to any other person.	None
The assessee had filed five applications for refund.	None
Three of them were allowed by the statutory authorities in the appeals.	None
Only two refund applications were rejected which were assailed in the High Court.	None
The High Court allowed the said applications, directing the Revenue to refund the amounts due as per the two refund applications.	None
In appeal, this Court stressed the fact that the assessee was not able to substantiate that the burden of excess excise duty was borne by it and was not passed on to any other person.	None
Incidentally, this Court also referred to the amended provisions of the Act (Section 11B, Section 12B, etc.) and held that the amended provisions would apply when the matter regarding refund was still pending for adjudication in this Court.	None
In this case also the levy or collection was not assailed as unconstitutional or illegal or without jurisdiction and, in consequence refund was called for.	None
The above two cases did not deal with the maintainability of action in the ordinary courts where the levy or collection is assailed on the ground that it is unconstitutional, illegal or without jurisdiction.	None
The changes brought about by the Central Excises and Customs Laws (Amendment) Act, 1991 (w.e.f 2091991) regarding refund and the scope of Section 11B read with Section 12B was the subject of great controversy before us.	None
The Amendment Act, 1991 is also attacked as unconstitutional, illegal, invalid and unreasonable and as a device to deny refund legitimately due.	None
The relevant statutory provisions have been extracted earlier in this judgment.	None
Briefly stated the position is this Clause (3) of Section 11B provides that notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of the Appellate Tribunal or any court etc.	None
no refund shall be made except as provided in subsection (2).	None
In other words, the procedure to obtain refund is made exclusive as per Section 11B(3) of the Act.	None
The application, therefore, shall be made under Section 11B(1) and dealt with by the authority concerned under Section 11B(2) of the Act.	None
These provisions mandate amongst other things that the person claiming refund should substantiate that the incidence of duty has not been passed on by him to any other person.	None
The application should also be filed within the time prescribed in the said subsection.	None
Section 11B(2) and Section 11B(3) go together.	None
Under Section 11B(2), in certain specified cases, the duty paid will be refunded to the applicant.	None
One such case is the duty of excise paid by the manufacturer if he had not passed on the incidence of such duty to any other person and substantiates the same.	None
In cases not falling within the proviso to Section 11B(2) of the Act the duty collected will be credited to the Consumer Welfare Fund and the said Fund will be utilised as per Section 12D of the Act.	None
As stated, Section 11B(2) and Section 11B(3) go together.	None
The applications for refund made before the commencement of the Amendment Act, 1991, shall be deemed to have been made under Section 11B(1) of the Act as amended and it shall be dealt with in accordance with Section 11B(2) of the Act.	None
The section contemplates disposal of the applications pending on the date of the Amendment Act as also fresh applications filed after the Amendment Act, 1991 as per the amended provisions.	None
Counsel for the assessees urged that the provisions relating to refund and, in particular, Sections 11B(2) and (3) as amended in 1991 cannot apply to Refund made or due as per orders passed by courts, in a suit or in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, which have become final.	None
Refunds ordered by the statutory authority concerned which have become final.	None
It is obvious that in such cases no application can or will be deemed to be pending on the date of the commencement of the Amendment Act.	None
No application praying for refund is to be filed in such cases either.	None
No further probe regarding the requisites for obtaining refund specified in the Amendment Act, 1991 is called for in such cases.	None
The above aspects are fairly clear.	None
Sections 11B(2) and (3) cannot be made applicable to refunds already ordered by the court or the refund ordered by the statutory authorities which have become final.	None
It follows from a plain reading of Section 11B, clauses (1), (2) and (3) of the Act.	Decision
The provisions contemplate the pendency of the application on the date of the coming into force of the Amendment Act or the filing of an application which is contemplated under law to obtain a refund after the Amendment Act comes into force.	Decision
I am of the opinion that if the said provisions are held applicable, even to matters concluded by the judgments or final orders of courts, it amounts to stating that the decision of the court shall not be binding and will result in reversing or nullifying the decision made in exercise of the judicial power.	Decision
The legislature does not possess such power.	Decision
The courts decision must always bind parties unless the condition on which it is passed are so fundamentally altered that the decision could not have been given in the altered circumstances.	None
It is not so herein.	None
(Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Broach Borough Municipality 1970 1	None
SCR 388 and Madan Mohan Pathak v. Union of India 1978 3 SCR 334.)	None
See also Comorin Match Industries (P) Ltd. v. State Of T.N. 1996 5 SC 167 Alternatively, it may be stated that duty paid in cases, which finally ended in orders or decrees or judgments of courts, must be deemed to have been paid under protest and the procedure and limitation etc. stated in Section 11B(2) read with Section 11B(3) will not apply to such cases.	None
It need hardly be stated that Section 11B(1), the proviso thereto, Section 11B(2) and Section 11B(3) read together will apply only to (1) refund applications made before the amendment of the Act and still pending on the date of commencement of Amendment Act, 1991 and (2) applications contemplated under law to obtain refund and filed after the commencement of the Amendment Act, 1991.	None
(Cases dealt with in paras 290 and 327331 of this judgment will not be covered by the above, to the extent stated therein.)	Decision
Excise duty is an indirect levy.	None
It is intended or presumed to be passed on.	None
This is so under the ordinary law.	None
Section 12B of the Act only provides a statutory rebuttable presumption in that regard.	None
If it turns out that the levy is not exigible, it is refundable to the person who had borne the liability.	None
Ordinarily, in the case of indirect taxes, such persons will be innumerable and cannot be easily identified or located.	None
If the duty, which is not exigible, is refunded to the person who had not borne the liability, it will result in an unjust benefit to him.	None
So the Act has provided in Section 11B(2), that in such cases where the duty is refundable, it will be credited to the Consumer Welfare Fund (Section 12C).	None
However, the proviso to Section 11B(2) provides that the duty of excise will be refunded in a few specified cases, subject to certain conditions  one of them is the manufacturer  in cases, where he has not passed on the incidence to any other person clause (d).	Decision
Those provisions will apply only for refunds to be made under the Act.	Decision
In the totality of the factual situation, it cannot be said that the provisions ushered in by Amendment Act, 1991  and the scheme formulated in Sections 11B and 12A to D  are a device or invalid or arbitrary or unreasonable (except to the extent stated in para 342 supra) or in any way constitutionally infirm.	Decision
(Of course, the cases dealt with in paras 290 and 327331 are excluded to the extent stated therein.)	Decision
Brother Jeevan Reddy, J. has dealt with this matter rather elaborately and there is no need to elaborate the matter any further.	None
In the matter of taxation laws, the court permits a great latitude to the discretion of the legislature.	None
The State is allowed to pick and choose districts, objects, persons, methods and even rates for taxation, if it does so reasonably.	None
The courts view the laws relating to economic activities with greater latitude than other matters.	None
(See Collector of Customs v. Nathella Sampathu Chetty Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd. v. State of Assam AIR 1964 SC 925 R.K Garg v. Union of India Gauri Shanker v. Union of India 1994 6 SCC 349 Union of India v. A. Sanyasi Rao AIR 1996 SC 1219 etc.)	None
Before closing I should specifically deal with two important aspects.	None
In this judgment I have dealt with cases where duty is paid on items which are consumed as such.	None
Due to paucity of details, the case of captive consumption has not been dealt with.	None
It is made clear that whatever is stated in this judgment will not apply in the cases of goods which are captively consumed.	None
Chapter IIA of the Act was inserted by way of amendment in 1991.	None
The establishment, working, administration and utilisation of the Consumer Welfare Fund is in its stage of infancy.	None
The scheme or setup envisaged by Sections 12C and 12D and its working will require an indepth evaluation by the appropriate authorities in order to vouchsafe that the scheme is not rendered a mere ritual or illusory, but is meaningful and effective.	None
For the present, I do not want to deal with that aspect in detail.	None
For the sake of convenience, I shall summarise my conclusions as hereunder  (in case of doubt, the body of the judgment should be looked into) If the excise duty paid by the assessee was ultimately passed on to the buyers or any other person, and that the assessee has suffered no loss or injury, the action for restitution based on Section 72 of the Contract Act, is unsustainable.	Decision
(This is the legal position even under general law, without reference to Section 11B of the Central Excises and Salt Act as amended by Act 40 of 1991.)	Decision
The decision in Kanhaiya Lal case and the cases following the same cannot be understood as laying down the law that even in cases the liability has been passed on, the assessee can maintain an action for restitution.	Decision
If the decision in Kanhaiya Lal case and the cases following the said decision, enables such a person to claim refund (restitution), with great respect to the learned Judges, who rendered the above decisions, I express my dissent thereto.	Decision
In this context, the observations in paras 329331  clause III shall also be borne in mind.	None
Article 265 should be read along with the Preamble and Articles 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution and so construed in cases where the assessee has passed on the liability to the consumer or third party, he is not entitled to restitution or refund.	Decision
The fact that the levy is invalid need not automatically result in a direction for refund of all collections made in pursuance thereto.	Decision
The presumption is that the taxpayer has passed on the liability to the consumer (or third party).	Decision
It is open to him to rebut the presumption.	Decision
The matter is exclusively within the knowledge of the taxpayer, whether the price of the goods included the duty element also and or also as to whether he has passed on the liability since he is in possession of all relevant details.	Decision
Revenue will not be in a position to have an indepth analysis in the innumerable cases to ascertain and find out whether the taxpayer has passed on the liability.	Decision
The matter being within the exclusive knowledge of the taxpayer, the burden of proving that the liability has not been passed on should lie on him.	Decision
It is not possible to conclude that any and every claim for refund of illegal unauthorised levy of tax, can be made only in accordance with the provisions of the Act (Rule 11, Section 11B etc., as the case may be), and an action by way of suit or writ petition under Article 226 will not be maintainable under any circumstances.	Decision
An action by way of suit or a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution is maintainable to assail the levy or order which is illegal, void or unauthorised or without jurisdiction and or claim refund, in cases covered by Propositions (1), (3), (4) and (5) in Dhulabhai case, as one passed outside the Act, and ultra vires.	Decision
Such action will be governed by the general law and the procedure and period of limitation provided by the specific statute will have no application.	None
The attack against the illegal or unauthorised levy as also the relief of refund may fall ordinarily within the three categories specified in paras 327331 of the judgment.	None
An action by way of suit or writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India will lie in the cases and subject to the conditions stated in paras 327331 and 332 of the judgment.	Decision
The jurisdiction of civil courts is not barred in entirety regarding the attack against the levy and or claim for refund in those cases, coming within the three categories mentioned in paras 290 and 327331 of this judgment, the jurisdiction of the ordinary courts will not be ousted, in the circumstances and subject to the conditions stated therein and in para 332 (supra).	Decision
Sections 11B(2) and (3) cannot be made applicable to refunds already ordered by the court or the refund ordered by the statutory authorities, which have become final.	None
It follows from a plain reading of Section 11B, clauses (1), (2) and (3) of the Act.	Decision
The provisions contemplate the pendency of the application on the date of the coming into force of the Amendment Act or the filing of an application which is contemplated under law, to obtain a refund, after the Amendment Act comes into force.	Decision
If the said provisions are held applicable, even to matters concluded by the judgments or final orders of the courts, it amounts to stating that the decision of the court shall not be binding and will result in reversing or nullifying the decision made in exercise of the judicial power.	Decision
The legislature does not possess such power.	Decision
Alternatively, it may be stated that duty paid in cases, which finally ended in orders or decrees or judgments of courts, must be deemed to have been paid under protest and the procedure and limitation etc. stated in Section 11B(2) read with Section 11B(3) will not apply to such cases.	None
It need hardly be stated, that Section 11B(1), the proviso thereto, Section 11B(2) and Section 11B(3) read together will apply, only to (1) refund applications made under the statute and filed before the amendment of the Act and still pending on the date of commencement of Amendment Act, 1991 and (2) applications contemplated under law to obtain refund and filed after the commencement of the Amendment Act, 1991.	None
(Cases dealt with in paras 290 and 327331 of this judgment will not be covered by the above to the extent stated therein.)	Decision
The proviso to Section 11B(2), provides, that the duty of excise will be refunded in a few specified cases, subject to certain conditions  one of them is the manufacturer  in cases, where he has not passed on the incidence to any other person clause (d).	Decision
Those provisions will apply only for refunds to be made under the Act.	Decision
In the totality of the factual situation, it cannot be said, that the provisions ushered in by Amendment Act, 1991  and the scheme formulated in Sections 11B and 12A to 12D  (in the light of the clarifications made in the body of the judgment, and more particularly in paras 318319 and 344345 above) are a device or invalid or arbitrary or unreasonable (except to the extent stated in para 342 supra) or in any way constitutionally infirm.	Decision
(Of course, the cases dealt with in paras 290 and 327331 are excluded to the extent stated therein.)	Decision
The principles laid down in this judgment should be applied to the factsituation obtaining in individual cases and should be disposed of accordingly.	Decision
The matters may be placed before My Lord the Chief Justice for appropriate orders in this behalf.	Decision
Text of Order in State of Rajasthan v. Novelty Stores.	None
The Orders is of the High Court in the impugned appeals are to be set aside on the sole ground that the respondents after paying octroi duty have passed on the burden to the consumers and collected from the customers on the cloth purchased and sold by them.	None
Therefore, the order of refund would be an unjst enrichment for them.	None
This Court has repeatedly held that such a refund should not be ordered.	None
In that view of the matter without expressing any opinion on the merits during the interrgnum Gram Panchayat was entitled to collect the octroi since respondents are not entitled to the refund of the amount which is already collected and passed on the burden to the consumers these appeals are to be allowed.	None
The appeals are accordingly allowed and the writ petitions in the High Court stand dismissed	None
