 CHINNAPPA REDDY, J. 1.	None
The appellant Bai Dosabai obtained two plots of land in Survey Nos. 59 and 63 of Vastrapur from her fatherinlaw, Jehangirji, by way of gift.	Facts
On February 25, 1946, Dosabai executed a deed, styled a deed of lease, in favour of Indu Prasad Dev Shanker Bhatt, whose successors in interest are the respondents to this appeal.	Facts
The material terms of the deed were the following The lease was to be for a period of seven years from January 23, 1946.	Facts
As a tenant was already in actual possession of the land, the lessee in whose favour the deed was executed was given symbolic possession only.	Facts
The stipulated rent was Rs. 4357 83 per year.	Facts
Rent for two years was to be paid in advance.	Facts
In fact it had already been paid on January 23, 1946.	Facts
The future rent was to be paid in advance every year.	Facts
If the lessee failed to pay the rent the lessor was to demand the same by giving notice of three months.	Facts
If the lessee continued to default despite the notice, the lessor was entitled to recover the rent with damages and costs.	Facts
The rent was to be a first charge on the land as well as the structures that might be constructed on the land, the lessee having been given the right to raise constructions on the land or to use it as an open land.	Facts
On default of payment of rent even after three months notice, it was provided by clause (4) of the deed that the lessor would be further entitled to take steps in the manner provided in clause 17 of the deed, which we shall presently extract.	Facts
It was also agreed that the lessor would sell the land to the lessee within the period specified in clause 15 of the deed, to which we shall refer immediately, for a price of Rs. 1, 29, 1 1180 out of which a sum of Rs. 32, 227140 being onefourth of the amount was paid in cash on the very date of the execution of the deed of lease.	Facts
It was agreed that if the land was acquired under the provision of the Land Acquisition Act, the less ee should take the entire amount of compensation and pay to the lessor an amount calculated at the rate of Rs. 380 per square yard whether such amount was more or less than the amount of compensation.	Facts
Clause 15 provided that if at any time after tw o years and within seven years from the date of execution of the deed the lessee desired to purchase the land for the stipulated price of Rs. 1, 29, 11180 (calculated at the rate of Rs. 380 per square yards), the lessor was bound to execute a deed of sale, in favour of the lessee or his nominees.	Facts
If the lessee on calculation, was found to have over paid the rent upto the date of sale he was to get credit for the same.	Facts
If the lessee got the deed of sale executed within two years , he would have no claim to get credit for any part of the two years rent paid in advance, the whole of which was to be retained by the lessor.	Facts
Clause 17 of the deed, the most important clause for our present purpose was as follows(17 ).	Facts
If the party of the second part fails to get the sale effected within the specified time, after paying the sale price agreed to by the parties of both the parts as mentioned in para 15 herein above, the party of the first parts shall after giving three months notice in writing be lawfully entitled to force the party of the second part to get the sale effected.	Facts
If in spite of giving the notice, the party of the second part fails to pay t he balance of the consideration amount and get sale deed executed, the party of the first part shall be entitled to take possession of the said land together with whatever structures the party of the second part the may have constructed thereon.	Facts
After taking such possession, the party of the first part shall be bound to sell the same by public auction at the cost and risk of the party of the second part.	Facts
If, the amount realised at the public auction mentioned above, is less than the price of the land agreed to in this deed, the party of the first part shall be entitled to recover the deficiency from the second part, and if the amount realised is more, the part y of the first part shall pay the surplus to the party of the second part.	Facts
In this account Rs. 32, 277140 being the onefourth the consideration amount already paid shall be given credit for without interest by one part to other.	Facts
2.	None
Thus, a conspectus of the relevant provisions of the deed reveals certain vital terms which may be summarised thus The lessee was entitled to purchase the land at any time within seven years by paying the stipulated price, a fourth of which was paid in advance.	Facts
Until the date of sale he was to pay the rent but if the sale took place within two years of the deed, the lessor would not be obliged to return a proportionate part of the advance rent paid by him.	Facts
If there w as default in payment of rent and if the default continued even after three months notice had been given or if the lessor failed to pay the purchase price and get sale deed executed in his favour, the lessor was entitled to call upon the lessee, b y giving three months notice, to pay the purchase price and take a deed of sale in his favour.	Facts
If the lessee failed to comply with the notice the lessor was entitled to take possession of the land alongwith the structures thereon.	Facts
After taking possession the lessor was bound to sell the same by public auction at the cost and risk of the lessee.	Facts
If, at the auction, a price less than the stipulated price was fetched the lessee was bound to make good the deficiency to the lessor.	Facts
If th e price realised was more, the lessor was to pay the surplus to the lessee.	Facts
The amount of Rs. 32, 277140 paid by the lessee to the lessor as advance of one fourth of the consideration was to be given credit to the lessor.	None
3. Three peculiar features of the agreement were (1) Though the lessor was entitled to obtain possession of the land from the lessee on his committing default, she was not entitled to retain possession of the land but was under an obligation to sell the lands by public auction, (2) the lessor was to be entitled to the originally stipulated sale price of Rs. 1, 29, 11180 neither more nor less, under any circumstances, and (3) the amount of Rs. 32, 227140 which was paid by way of advance of one fourth of the consideration was never to be forfeited.	Facts
Nor was it to be refunded to the lessee.	Facts
It was to be given credit to the lessee even if he had defaulted in any respect.	None
4.	None
On October 25, 1950 the lessor gave a notice to the lessee (wh en we use the expression lessee hereafter we include the successors in interest of the original lessee also within that term) demanding payment of rent for the year 195951 which was payable in advance but was in default.	Facts
On March 7, 1951, the lessor gave a second notice to the lessee demanding payment of rent due for the years 195051, and 195152.	Facts
The lessee was informed that if the rent demanded was not paid a suit would be instituted to recover possession of the property in terms of clauses 15 and 17 of the deed and the property would be sold thereafter by public auction at the cost and risk of the lessee.	Facts
On June 19, 1952, the lessor issued a third notice to the lessee demanding payment of rent for the three years 11950 51, 195152 and 195253 and also callinon the lessee pay the balance, of price within three months from the date of receipt of the notice and get a deed of sale executed and registered in his favour.	Facts
The lessee was further informed that if he failed to do so, a suit would be instituted to recover possession of the property and to sell it by public auction at the cost and risk of the lessee.	Facts
Thereafter, on November 21, 1952, the lessor filed a suit in the Court of Small Cause s at Ahmedabad to recover rent for the period from January 23, 1950 to January 22, 1953.	Facts
The plaint was, however, returned for presentation to the proper Court and it was then filed in the Court of the Civil Judge, Senior Division, Ahmedabad.	Facts
The lessor with the permission of the Court, amended the plaint so as to include a claim for possession as well as damages in lieu of rent from January 22, 1953 onwards.	Facts
The present plaintiff, the successorininterest of the original lessee who was defendant No. 4 in the suit filed a written statement pleading that he was a tenant as defined by the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act 1948, that his possession could not be disturbed and that the Civil Court had no jurisdiction to pass a decree for possession or for mesne profits.	Facts
This plea was based on the circumstance that an amendment which came into force on January 1, 1953 made the provisions of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act applicable to the suit lands.	Facts
We may also mention here that the Act ceased to be applicable to the suit lands on August 11, 1958, when the suit lands came to be included within the limits of the Ahmedabad Municipality.	Facts
To continue the narration, the suit filed by the lessor for possession was decreed on December 30, 1955.	Facts
It must be mentioned here that the lessee himself had filed a suit for possession against the tenant who was in actual occupation of the lands and obtained possession from him on April 30, 1955.	Facts
The lessee filed an appeal to the High Court of Bombay which was dismissed on March 19, 1958 and a further appeal to the Supreme Court which was also dismissed on March 8, 1965.	None
5.	None
In execution of the decree obtained by her, the lessor obtained possession o	None
f the lands on December 22, 1960.	None
Immediately on the lessor obtaining possession, the lessee, on January 16, 1961, instituted the suit out of which the present appeal arises seeking (a) specific performance of the agreement dated February 25, 1946 by directing the lessordefendant to execute a sale deed in his favour after receiving from the plaintiff the balance of sale price of Rs. 96, 833100, and, (b) in the alternative, to direct the defendant to sell the land by public auction t o retain a sum of Rs. 96, 833100 out of the sale price and to pay the excess amount to the plaintiff.	Facts
The first relief sought was subsequently given up.	Facts
The lessor who had in the meanwhile entered into an agreement of sale in favour of Patel Singhvi Co. filed a written statement contesting the suit on various grounds.	Facts
The City Civil Court dismissed the suit on July 16, 1965, but on appeal by the plaintiff, the judgment of the Trial Court was reversed and it was decreed that the suit la nd should be sold by public auction, or by private treaty if the parties so agreed, in one lot or by consent of the parties in several lots within six months from the date of the decree.	Facts
Out of the sale price fetched the defendant was first to reimbur se herself to the extent of the balance of the original purchase price of Rs. 96, 833 100 with interest at 9 percent from January 23, 1953 and thereafter the remaining amount was to be equally divided between the plaintiff and the defendant.	Facts
If the price fetched at the sale was less than Rs. 96, 833100, the defendant was to recover the deficit from the plaintiff.	Facts
The decree in these terms was so granted by the High Court as it was thought that both parties had committed default and that the decree if granted in those terms would meet the ends of justice.	Facts
On the basis of the English equitable doctrine of conversion which they held applied in India also, the High Court took the view that the deed dated February 25, 1946 had created an equitable interest in the land in favour of the plaintiff.	Facts
The High Court also expressed the view that neither the provisions of the Bombay Tenancy Agricultural Lands Act nor the scheme made under the provisions of the Bombay Town Planning A ct stood in the way of the plaintiff.	Facts
The defendant has preferred this appeal by special leave of this Court.	Facts
6.	None
Shri Vakil learned counsel for the appellant raised several contentions before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the English Equitable doctrine of conversion of reality into personalty had no application in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the plaintiff was disentitled to specific performance of any term of agreement as he had done every thing that was possible to prevent the defendant from obtaining possession of the lands thereby clearly indicating that he had resiled from and was not ready and willing to perform his part of the agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further argued that the provisions of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948, and t he provisions of the Gujarat Vacant Lands in Urban areas (Prohibition of Alienations) Act, 1972, and the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976, were a bar to the sale by public auction of the lands by defendant.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not wish to go in any detail into the question whether the English Equitable doctrine of conversion of reality into personality is applicable in India.	Reasoning
However, we do wish to say that the Enghish doctrine of conversion of reality into personality cannot be bodily lifted from its native English soil and transplanted in statutebound Indian law.	Reasoning
But, we have to notice that many of the principles of English Equity have taken statutory form in India and have been incorporated in occasional provisions of various Indian statutes such as the Indian Trusts Act, the Specific Relief Act, Transfer of Property Act etc. and where a question of interpretation of such Equity based statutory provisions arises we will be well justified in seeking aid from the Equity source.	Reasoning
The concept and creation of duality of ownership, legal and equitable, on the execution of an agreement to convey immovable property, as understood in England is alien to Indian Law which recognises one owner i.e. the legal owner vide, Ramboran Prasad v. Ram Mohit Hazra Ors.	Reasoning
and Narandas Karsondas v. S. A. Kamtam Anr.	Reasoning
The ultimate paragraph of s. 54 of the Transfer of Property Act, expressly enunciates that a contract for the sale of immovable property does not, of itself, create any interest in or charge on such property.	Reasoning
But the ultimate and penultimate paragraphs of s. 40 of the Transfer of Property Act make it clear that such a contract creates an obligation annexed to the ownership of immovable property, not amounting to an interest in the property, but which obligation may be enforced against a transferee with notice or the contract or a gratuitous transferee of the property.	Reasoning
Thus the Equitable ownership in property recognised by Equity in England is translated into Indian law as an obligation annexed to the ownership of property, not amounting to an interest in the property, but an obligation which may be enforced against a transferee with notice or a gratuitous transferee.	Reasoning
8.	None
If we now turn to the Indian Trusts Act, we find trust defined as an obligation annexed to the ownership of property, and arising out of a confidence reposed in and accepted by the owner, or declared and accepted by him, for the benefit of another, or of another and the owner, and beneficial interest defined as the interest of the beneficiary against the trustee as owner of the trust property.	None
Chapter IX of the Trusts Act enumerates in section after section cases where obligations in the nature of trust are created.	None
S. 94 finally provides94.	None
In any case not coming within the scope of any of the preceding sections, where there is no trust, but the person having possession of property has not the whole beneficial interest therein, he must hold the property for the benefit of the persons having such interest, or the residue thereof (as the case may be), to the extent necessary to satisfy their just demands.	None
9.	None
We may now examine some of the provisions of the Specific Relief Act, 1877, which though repealed and replaced by Act 47 of 1963.	None
is the statute with which we are concerned.	None
Trust was define d in Section 3 of the 1877 Act as having the same meaning as in Section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act and as including an obligation in the nature of a trust within the meaning of Chapter IX of that Act.	None
Section 12(a) of the Act of 1877 provided, Except as otherwise provided in this Act, specific performance of contract may, in the discretion of the Court, be enforced when the act agreed to be done is in the performance wholly or partly of a trust.	None
The other clauses of Section 12 and Sections 13 to 18 enumerated the other contracts which might be specifically enforced.	None
S. 21 specified when contracts were not specifically enforceable.	None
S. 16 is of some relevance.	None
It saidwhen part of a contract which, taken by itself can and ought to be specifically performed, stands on a separate and independent footing from another part of the same contract which cannot or ought not to be specifically performed, the Court may direct specific performance of the former part.	None
10.	None
We may now consider the deed dated February 25, 1946 the important and relevant terms of which we have either summarised or extracted earlier.	None
We have also pointedly mentioned some peculiar features of the deed.	None
From the terms of the deed we gather that the right of the lessor, basically is to get the full sale price of Rs. 1, 29, 11180 either from the lessee or by selling the property by public auction if the lessee does not himself want to buy, the lessee however, making up any deficit.	None
The lessor is under an obligation to sell the land to the lessee if the latter so desires within a period of seven years and pays the purchase price and, if he does not so desire, to sell the land by public auction and to recoup the balance of the stipulated price.	None
The lessor is under an obligation to pay the excess price, if any, realised by the sale by public auction to the lessee.	None
To sell, the property by public auction is thus both a right and an obligation.	None
The obligation of the lessee is to pay one fourth of the stipulated price in advance and to pay the balance if he desires to purchase the property or to pay the deficit, if any, if the lessor is obliged to sell the property consequent on his failure to purchase.	None
His right is to obtain a sale deed by paying the balance price or to get any excess amount realised at the public auction.	None
Whatever happens, he is not entitled to get a refund of the advance of onefourth of the purchase price paid by him, and whatever happens, the lessor is bound to sell the property either to the lessee or by public auction.	None
11.	None
We do not have any doubt, on a consideration of the terms of the deed and the relevant statutory provisions earlier referred, that the obligation of the lessor to sell the land by public auction and pay the excess price to the lessee is an obligation annexed to the ownership of the property, not amounting to an interest in the property, that it is an obligation in the nature of a trust, and, therefore an obligation which may be specifically enforced.	None
12.	None
It was contended that the plaintiff could be compensated in terms of money and therefore, the contract should not be specifically enforced.	None
It is obvious from the very nature and the terms of the contract and the facts and circumstances of the case that compensation or damages is not determinable.	Reasoning
In fact the defendant, apart from not raising an appropriate plea, did not offer any evidence to prove what would be suitable compensation.	Reasoning
13.	None
It was argued that the defendant had throughout committed default first by not paying the balance of the purchase price and taking the sale deed in his favour and next by resisting delivery of possession to the plaintiff.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the defendant was thus never ready and willing to perform his obligation under the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
We find no force in these submissions.	None
As already observed by us the defendant had the option to purchase the property if he so desired but he was under no obligation to do so.	Reasoning
The contract itself provided for the eventuality of the defendant ultimately not desiring to purchase the property himself.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore, be said that the defendant committed any default in not paying the balance of the purchase price and taking a deed of sale in his own favour.	Reasoning
Regarding resistance to delivery of possession, it is true that he claimed the benefits given to a tenant under the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Land Act and resisted giving possession to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
If under a bonafide mistaken belief that the statute had stepped in to give him higher rights than under the contract the defendant refused to deliver possession to the plaintiff until it was found by the Court that he had no such higher rights, the defendant cannot later be denied even the rights under the contract on the ground that he had claimed higher statutory rights.	Reasoning
We do not subscribe to the proposition that a person claiming the benefits of a beneficient social legislation should be denied his contractual rights if he is found not to be entitled to the legislative benefits.	None
14.	None
It was said that the contract became void so soon as the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, became applicable to the suit lands and that it could not be revived after the act ceased to apply to the suit lands .	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not see any force in this submission either.	Reasoning
The plaintiffrespondent became entitled to demand that the property should be sold by public auction only when the defendantappellant obtained possession and since on the date when the defendant obtained possession of the property the Act was not applicable to the lands in question, we see no impediment in the plaintiff seeking to enforce the contract.	Reasoning
Similarly the Gujarat Vacant Lands in Urban Areas (Prohibition of Alienations) Act, 197 2, was in force for a limited period of one year only.	Reasoning
While it prohibited alienation of land during that Period it did not render the contract which was earlier in point of time void so as to render it incapable of being performed after the Ac t itself expired.	Reasoning
15.	None
Shri Vakil finally submitted that the contract had become impossible of performance as a result of the enactment of the Urban Land (Ceiling Regulation) Act 1976.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that s. 5(3) of the Act prohibits every person holding vacant land in excess of the ceiling limit before the commencement of the Act from transferring such land or part thereof by way of sale, mortgage, gift, lease or otherwise until he has furnished a statement as prescribed by the Act and a notification has been published after the prescribed procedure has been gone through.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act came into force subsequent to the passing of the decree by the High Court.	None
The question for our consideration is what is the effect of the Urban Land (Ceiling Regulation) Act, 1976 on the decree passed by the High Court.	Issue
While it is true that events and changes in the law occurring during the pendency of an appeal require to be taken into consideration in order to do complete justice between parties and so that a futile decree may not be passed.	None
It is also right and necessary that the decree should be so moulded as to accord with the changed statutory situation.	Reasoning
The right obtained by a party under a decree cannot be allowed to be defeated by delay in the disposal of the appeal against the decree, if it is possible to save the decree by moulding it to conform to the statutes subsequently coming into force.	Reasoning
These propositions emerge from the decisions of the Court in Pasupulti Venkateswarlu v. The Motor General Traders, and Rameshwar Ors.	Reasoning
v. Jot Ram Ors.	Reasoning
The question, therefore, is how the decree passed by the High Court can be saved and given effect.	None
S.21 of the Urban Land (Ceiling Regulation) Act, 1976, provides that where a person holds any vacant land in excess of the ceiling limit and such person declares within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner before the competent authority that the land is to be utilised for the construction of dwelling units, for the accommodation of the weaker section of the society in accordance with any scheme approved by the specified authority, then the competent authority may after due enquiry declare such land not to be excess land and permit such person to continue to hold the land for the said purpose subject to the prescribed terms and conditions.	Reasoning
The Government of Gujarat by various orders has prescribed the terms and conditions subject to which exemption will be granted under s. 21.	Reasoning
The last circular dated October 25, 1979 of the Government also specifies that the value of the land for the purpose of s. 21 and the scheme should not exceed Rs. 50 per square meter.	Reasoning
The last date for submitting a scheme under the rules made by the Government of Gujarat was January 31, 1980.	Reasoning
Realising that all would be lost and none would be the gainer if no scheme was submitted before January 31, 1980, the respondent filed Civil Miscellaneous Petition No. 18 3 of 1980 for the appointment of a Receiver of the suit land with power to apply for seeking exemption from the operation of the said Act under section 20 and or 21 of the Act, by taking help of an organiser and or builder to build residential premises for weaker sections of the Society, and or by joining with the Cooperative Society in applying for an exemption under the said Act, and in the process after getting necessary permission, allow buildings to be built, and then permission to sell the tenements, so built either collectively and or individually and or to a cooperative Society and in the process realize price of suit land at a price not lesser then Rs. 50/ per meter and to invest the same when realized at prevailing Bank rate, in Fixed Deposit, in a Nationalised Bank.	Reasoning
By our order dated January 18, 1980, we appointed Shri R.L. Dave, Additional Registrar of the Gujarat High Court as Receiver and charged him with the duty of submitting a building scheme and other necessary documents to the Competent authority under s. 21 of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, before January 31, 1980.	Reasoning
He was directed to do so in consultation with the parties or their counsel.	Reasoning
The order was made without prejudice to the application said to have been made by the appellant under s. 20 of the Act.	Reasoning
As directed by us the Receiver submitted a scheme to the Competent authority.	Reasoning
He also entered into an agreement with a builder as the scheme would not be otherwise received by the Competent authority.	Reasoning
Various objections have been filed before us by the defendant and some other parties.	Reasoning
We do not desire to adjudicate upon the objections raised by the plaintiff and other parties.	Reasoning
We, however, affirm the action taken by the Receiver in submitting a scheme to the Competent authority.	Reasoning
All further directions in this matter may be obtained from the Trial Court to whom all the relevant records will be forwarded.	Reasoning
We think that the decree of the High Court should be modified in the following manner in order to bring it in conformity with the provisions of the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976.	Reasoning
In the place of the direction to the lessor to sell the land by public auction or by private treaty and to reimburse himself from the sale price the sum of Rs. 96833100 with interest at 9 per cent from January 23, 1953 and the balance to be equally divided between the lessor and the lessee, a direction will issue for the appointment of a Receiver to take all necessary steps to seek exemption from the operation of the Act, under s. 20 and or s. 21 of the Act by taking the help of an organiser and or builder to build residential premises for weaker section of the Society, and or by joining with the cooperative Society in applying for an exemption under the said Act and in the process after getting necessary permission, allow buildings to be built, and then permission to sell the tenements, so built either collectively and or individually and or to a Cooperative Society and in the process realize price of suit land at a price not lesser than Rs. 50 per meter and to invest the same when realised at prevailing Bank rate, in fixed Deposit, in a Nationalised Bank.	Reasoning
The Receiver appointed by us in C.M.P. No. 183 of 1980 will continue to act as Receiver under the decree.	Decision
Out of the sum realised after deducting the expenses involved, a sum of Rs. 96833100 together with interest at 9 percent per annum from January 23, 1953 upto the date of payment, will be paid in the first instance to the defendant and the balance will be divided equally between the plaintiff and the defendant.	Reasoning
If the amount realised by t he Receiver after deducting the expenses fall short of sum of Rs. 96833100 with interest at 9 per cent per annum from January 23, 1953, the plaintiff shall make good the amount to the defendant.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed but the decree is modified as indicated above.	None
16.	None
Special Leave Petition No. 4023 of 1980 filed by the defendant is allowed, leave granted and the appeal disposed of in the same terms as Civil Appeal No. 1147 of 1978.	Decision
Delay condoned.	Decision
There will be no order regarding costs in both the Appeals. 17.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
