 Untwalia, J.1.	None
The appellant company in these appeals by special leave is manufacturer of rubber tyres and tubes.	Facts
It imports several raw materials including Pyratex Vinyl Pyridine Latex used in the manufacture of rubber tyres and tubes.	Facts
The customs authorities of the Government of India have been charging custom duty on V. P. Latex under the residuary item 87 of the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 instead of ICT 39  an item meant for charging duty on rawrubber.	Facts
The custom duty charged under item 87 is much more than the one chargeable under item 39.	Facts
A countervailing duty under item 15A of the Central Excise Tariff in accordance with the Central Salt and Excises Act, 1944 is also charged if the article imported is not treated as raw rubber.	Facts
On five consignments of V. P. Latex imported by the appellant in the year 1968 custom duty was charged under item 87 by the Appraiser pursuant to his order of assessment.	Facts
Since he was an officer lower in rank than the Assistant Collector of Customs the appellant filed five applications before the Assistant Collector under Section 27(1) of the Customs Act, 1962  hereinafter referred to as the Act, for refund of the excess amount of duty charged.	Facts
In other words, the appellant took the stand that if a custom duty would have been charged on V. P. Latex under item 39 then the amount would have been less to the extent of Rs. 3, 74, 879.49 on the five consignments in question.	Facts
It, therefore, claimed the refund of the said amount, the details of which are as follows Bill No. and Date Date of claim Delay Amountfor refund1.	Facts
D. No. 1644 dated 8469 3 1/2 months 50, 309.5324619682.	Facts
D. No. 1024 dated 27669 3 months 60, 335.9718919683.	Facts
D. No. 1132 dated 8469 2 months 1, 61, 615.10218684.	Facts
D. No. 1931 dated 10469 1 month 50, 512.71237685. D. No. 68 dated 10469 4 months 52, 106.1816683, 74, 879.492.	Facts
Under Section 27(1) of the Act the application for refund had to be made before the expiry of six months from the date of payment of duty, the date of payment being the date of the bill in each case.	Facts
Thus there was a delay varying between 1 month to 4 months in the filing of each of the applications for refund.	Facts
The Assistant Collector of Customs dismissed the applications on the ground that they were filed out of time.	Facts
The appeals to the Appellate Collector of Customs filed under Section 128(1) (b) of the Act failed.	Facts
The appellant took the matter in revision to the Central Government under Section 131.	Facts
The revisions were dismissed by the Central Government by their order dated November 25, 1972 stating therein The Govt.	Facts
of India have carefully considered the reasons advanced by the petitioners for their failure to prefer the claims for refund within the time stipulated under section 27 of the Customs Act, 1962, but see no justification to interfere with the appellate orders.	Facts
The revision applications are, therefore, rejected.	Facts
These appeals were filed from the said order after obtaining special leave of this Court.3.	Facts
Mr. D. V. Patel learned counsel for the appellant submitted that in view of the recent decision of this Court in Dunlop India Ltd. v. Union of India V. P. Latex was chargeable to duty under item 39 only.	Arguments of Petitioner
The applications filed by the appellant for refund of the excess amount have erroneously been dismissed on the ground of having been filed out of time.	Arguments of Petitioner
submitted that the appellant used to pay custom duty not as and when a particular consignment was received but by making deposits in a running account.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence no particular date of payment could be assigned in respect of a particular consignment.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that the duty was paid under protest and hence under the proviso to subsection 27, the limitation of six months did not apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. G. L. Sanghi, learned Counsel for the respondents contended that no case of running account had been made before the authorities below and that there was nothing to show that the duty had been paid under protest in relation to any of the five consignments.4.	Arguments of Respondent
It is no doubt true that in view of the decision of this Court mentioned above the custom duty was chargeable on import of V. P. Latex under item 39.	Reasoning
The authorities below do not seem to have decided the refund applications of the appellant on merits.	None
They have dismissed them merely on the ground of limitation.	None
The only question, therefore, which falls for determination by us is whether the applications for refund were filed out of time.	None
Section 27 reads as follows 27.	None
(1) Any person claiming refund of any duty paid by him in pursuance of an order of assessment made by an officer of customs lower in rank than an Assistant Collector of Customs may make an application for refund of such duty to the Assistant Collector of Customs before the expiry of six months from the date of payment of duty.	None
Provided that the limitation of six months shall not apply where any duty has been paid under protest.	None
Explanation.  	None
Where any duty is paid provisionally under section 18, the period of six months shall be computed from the date of adjustment of duty after the final assessment thereof.(2)	None
If on receipt of any such application the Assistant Collector of Customs is satisfied that the whole or any part of the duty paid by the applicant should be refunded to him he may make an order accordingly.(3) Where, as a result of any order in appeal or revision under this Act, refund of any duty becomes due to any person, the proper officer may refund the amount to such person without his having to make any claim in that behalf.(4)	None
Save as provided in section 26, no claim for refund of any duty shall be entertained except in accordance with the provisions of this section.	None
The appellants case obviously and admittedly was not covered by subsection (3) as it had not challenged the order of assessment in any appeal or revision.	None
Nor was it a case where any duty was paid provisionally under Section 18.	Reasoning
The appellants case was governed by subsection (1) of section 27.	Reasoning
No case of any running account was set up by the appellant nor was there anything in the records of this case to substantiate it.	Reasoning
Custom duty was paid in respect of each of the five consignments on the date of its respective bill.	Reasoning
Ultimately this position could not be disputed before us.	None
The appellant, however, contended that the duty was paid always under general protest which covered the cases of these five consignments also.	None
Hence under the proviso to subsection (1) the limitation of six months does not apply.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was drawn to several letters in the records of the appeals before us to substantiate the plea of payment under protest, but none of them helps the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
We may refer to only two of them.	None
The appellant wrote a letter on February 8, 1968 to the Assistant Collector of Customs, Madras making out a case therein that V. P. Latex was assessable to duty under item 39ICT.	None
Finally in this letter a protest was made for the assessment of duty under item 87 on V. P. Latex imported by the company in the past.	None
This letter was written before the five consignments in question were imported and duty paid thereon.	None
The protest, therefore, embodied in the letter aforesaid was not in respect of any of these consignments.	None
A letter written on July 15, 1968 was a letter written at a point of time when two out of the five consignments had been imported but three were imported after the writing of this letter by the appellant to the Asstt.	None
Collector of Customs, Madras.	None
This letter relates to a consignment of 59 drums of V. P. Latex which could not be connected with any of the five consignments in question.	None
Thus there is nothing to show that duty on them paid under protest, general or specific.6.	None
It was lastly contended on behalf of the appellant that in view of the recent decision of this Court, the Government should be directed to refund the excess amount of Rs. 3, 74, 879.49 charged on the five consignments.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to do so because the present appeals arising out of the orders made by the Government of India in proceedings under Section 27(1) of the Act have got to fail on the ground that the view taken by the authorities below on the question of limitation could not be shown to be incorrect.7.	None
In the result the appeals fail and are dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
