 Bose, J.1.	None
This is an appeal from the High Court at Bombay in an Incometax Reference under S. 66(1), Incometax Act of 1922.The reference was made to the Bombay High Court by the Bombay Bench of the Incometax Appellate Tribunal in the following circumstances.2.	Facts
The appellantassessee is a Company known as the Raghuvanshi Mills Ltd., of Bombay.	Facts
The assessment year with which we are concerned is 194546.	None
The assessee had insured its buildings, plant and machinery with various insurance companies and also took out, besides those policies, four policies of a type known as a Consequential Loss Policy.	Facts
This kind of policy insures against loss of profit, standing charges and agency commission.	Facts
The total insured against under the latter heads wasRs.	Facts
37,75,000 on account of loss of profits and standing charges, andRs.	Facts
2,25,000 on account of agency commission, making a total of Rs.	Facts
40,00,000.On 1811944 a fire broke out and the mills were completely destroyed.	Facts
The various insurance companies therefore paid the assessee Company an aggregate of Rs. 14,00,000 on account in the year with which we are concerned under these policies.	Facts
This was paid in two sums as follows Rs. 8,25,000 on 891944 and Rs. 5,75,000 on 22121944.	Facts
These payments have been treated as part of the assessees income and the Company has beed taxed accordingly.	Facts
The question is whether these sums are or are not liable to tax.3.	None
Before we set out the question referred, it will be necessary to state that the whole of this Rs. 14,00,000 has been treated as paid on account of loss of profits.	None
The learned solicitorGeneral, who appeared for the appellantassessee, contended that that was wrong because the portion of it assignable to Standing Charges and Agency Commission could not on any construction be liable to tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention is new and involes question of fact and travels beyond the scope of the question referred.	Reasoning
We are consequently not able to entertain it.	Reasoning
It has been assumed throughout the proceedings, right up to this Court, that the whole of the Rs. 14,00,000 was assignable to loss of profits.	Reasoning
There is nothing on the record to show that it was ever split up among the other heads or that it was ever treated as having been split up either by the insurance companies or by the assessee, nor is there any material on which we would be able to apportion it.	Reasoning
Our decision therefore proceeds on the assumption that the whole sum is assignable to loss of profits and we make it clear that we decide, nothing about other moneys which may be distributable among other heads.4.	None
The question has been referred in these termsWhether in the circumstances of the case, the sum of Rs. 14,00,000 was the assessee companys income within the meaning of S. 2 (6C), Incometax Act and liable to pay incometax under the Indian Incometax Act.5.	Issue
We are concerned in this case with four policies of insurance with four different insurance companies.	None
The clauses relevant to the present matter are the same in all four cases though the sum insured against by each insurance company differs.	None
They are as follows Policy No. C. L. 10018. . . . . . .	None
.Rupees 10 Lacs only.	None
On Loss of Profits, Standing Charges and Agency Commission of the above Co.s	None
M1lls, situate at Haines Road, Mahaluxmi, Bombay following fire. . . . . . . . .	None
.The total amount declared for insurance is Rs.40,00,000/and for 18 months benefits, only as underRs.	None
37,75,000/ on Loss of Profits and Standing Charges.	Facts
Rs.2,25,000/ onAgency Commission.	None
Rs.	None
40,00,000/ out of which this policy covers Rs. 10 lacs onlySchedule attached to and forming part of Policy No. C. L. 10018.	None
The Company will pay to the assuredThe loss of Gross Profit due to (a) Reduction in Output and (b) Increase in Cost of Working and the amount payable as indemnity hereunder shall. . . .	None
.Definitions of those two terms follow.	None
We need not reproduce them.	None
Then come the following definitions ,Gross profitThe sum produced by adding to the Net profit the amount of the Insured standing charges, or if there be no Net Profit the amount of the Insured standing Charges, less such a proportion of any net trading as the amount of the Insured Standing Charges bears to all the Standing Charges of the business.	None
Net profitThe net trading Profit (exclusive of all capital receipts and accretions and all outlay properly chargeable to capital) resulting from the business of the Insured at the premises after due provision has been made for all Standing and other charges including depreciation.	None
Insured standing charges Interest on loans and Bank overdrafts, Rent Rates and Taxes, Salaries to permanent Staff and Wages to skilled employees, Directors Fees, Auditors Fees.	None
Travelling Expenses, Insurance Premiums, Advertising and agency Commission.	None
Period of indemnityThe period beginning with the occurrence of the fire and ending not later than eighteen consecutive calendar months thereafter during which the results of the business shall be affected in consequence of the fire.	None
Rate of Gross Profit	None
The rate of gross profit per unit earned on the output during the financial year immediately before the date of the fire to which such adjustments shall be made as may be necessary to provide for the trend of the business and for variations in or special circumstances affecting the business either before or after the fire of which would have affected the business had the fire not occurred so that the figures thus adjusted shall represent as nearly as may be reasonably practicable the result which, but for the fire, would have been obtained during the relative period after the fire.	None
The underlined words (here italicised) show that the insurance in respect of profits was to represent as nearly as possible the profits which would have been made had the Mills been working in its norma1 way.6.	None
We turn next to the Incometax Act.	None
Under S. 3 the total income of the previous year is liable to tax subject to the provisions of the Act.	None
Section 4 defines the total income to include all income, profits and gains from whatever source derived.	Reasoning
There are certain qualifications but they do not concern us here.	Reasoning
It will be seen that the taxable commodity, total income, embraces three elements, income profits and gains.	Reasoning
Now though these may overlap in many cases, they are nevertheless separate and severable, and the simple question is whether the Rs. 14 lacs falls under any one or more of those heads.	Reasoning
In our opinion, it is income and so is taxable.7.	Reasoning
It was argued on behalf of the assessee that it cannot be called profits because the money is only payable if and when there is a loss or partial loss and that something received from an outside source in circumstances like these is not money which is earned in the business and if there are no earnings and no profits there cannot be any income.	Arguments of Petitioner
But that only concentrates on the word profits.	None
This may not be a profit but it is something which represents the profits and was intended to take the place of them and is therefore just as much income as profits or gains received in the ordinary way.	None
Section 4 is so widely worded that everything which is received by a man and goes to swell the credit side of his total amount is either an income or a profit or a gain.8.	None
No attempt has been made in the Act to define income except to say in S. 2 (6C) that it includes certain things which would possibly not have been regarded as income but for the special definition.	None
That however does not limit the generality of its natural meaning except as qualified in the Section itself.	None
The words which follow, namely, fromwhatever source derived, show how wide the net is spread.	None
So also in S.6.	None
After setting out the various heads of taxable income it brings in the allembracing phrase income from other sources.9.	None
There is, however, a distinction between income and taxable income.	None
The Act does not purport to subject all sources of income to tax, for the liability is expressly made subject to the provisions of the Act and amoung the provisions are a series of exception and limitations.	None
Most of them are set out in S.4 itself but none of them apply here.	None
The nearest approach for present purposes is S. 4(3) (vii)Any receipts not being receipts arising from business which are of causal and nonrecurring nature.	None
But the sting, so far as the assessee is concealed, lies in the words not being receipts arising from business.10.	None
The assesses is a business company.	None
Its aim is to make profits and to insure against loss.	None
In the ordinary way it does this by buying raw material, manufacturing goods out of them and selling them so that on balance there is a profit or gain to itself.	None
But it also has other ways of acquiring gain, as do all prudent businesses, namely by insuring against loss of profits.	None
It is indubitable that the money paid in such circumstances is a receipt and in so far as it represents loss of profits, as opposed to loss of capital and so forth, it is an item of income in any normal sense of the term.	None
It is equally clear that the receipt is inseparably connected with the ownership and conduct of the business and arises from it.	None
Accordingly, it is not exempt.11.	None
This question was considered by the Supreme Court of Canada which decided that a receipt of this nature is not a profit and so is not taxable.	None
B. C. Fir and Cedar Lumber Co. v. The King, 1931 Canada L. R. 435.	None
But the Court did not examine the wider position whether it is income and in any event the decision was reversed on an appeal to the Privy Council.	None
Their Lordships held, it is income.	None
This was followed later by the Court of Appeal in England and endorsed by the House of Lords in Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Williams Executors, 26 Tax Cases28.	None
In so far as these decisions do not turn on the special wording of the Acts with which they are respectively concerned and deal with the more general meaning of the word income, we prefer the view taken in England.12.	Reasoning
It is true the Judicial Committee attempted a narrower definition in Commissioner of Income tax v. Shaw Wallace and CO., 59 I. A. 206, by limiting income to a periodical monetary return coming in with some sort of regularity, or expected regularity, from definite sources but, in our opinion, those remarks must be read with reference to the particular facts of that case.	Reasoning
The nonrecurring aspect of this kind of receipt was considered by the Privy Council Co., The King v. B. C. Fir and Cedar Lumbar and Co., 1932 A. C. 441 at p. 448 and we do not think their Lordships had in mind a case of this nature when they decided Shaw Wallace and Companys case, 59 I. A. 206.13.	Reasoning
The learned SolicitorGeneral relies Strongly on a clause which appears in three of the four policies with which we are concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
That is a clause which states that the insured must do all he can to minimise the loss in profits and until he makes an endeavour to restart the business the moneys will not be paid.	Reasoning
This, he argued, shows that the money was paid as an indemnity against the loss of profits and was neither Income nor profits, nor was it again within the meaning of the section.	Reasoning
We are unable so see how these receipts cease to be income simply because certain things must be done before the moneys can be claimed.14.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the High Court was right in holding that the Rs. 14,00,000 is assessable to tax.	Decision
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.15.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
