 P. JEEVAN REDDY, J. Two groups of appeals are placed before us for hearing.	None
The first group involves the interpretation of identical words occurring in Section 80HH and Section 84 viz., manufacture or produce articleswhereas the second group is concerned with the words construction, manufacture or production of any article or thing in Section 32A of the Income Tax Act.	Facts
Civil Appeal Nos. 42384240 of 1983 can be said to be representative of the first group whereas the second group of appeals comprise Civil Appeal Nos. 4239 to 4248 of 1992.2.The first group of appeals is directed against the Judgment of a Division Bench of Orissa High Court answering the question referred to it under Section 256(2) in favour of the assessee.	Facts
The question referred is to the following effect Whether on the facts found by the Appellate Tribunal, the assessee is entitled to the benefit provided under Section 80HH of the Income Tax Act, 1961?	Issue
The assessment years concerned are 197475 and 197576.	Issue
The respondent assessee is a firm of contractors constituted for the purpose of construction of a dam in Orissa.	Issue
It was constituted under a partnership deed dated January 14, 1972.It was given the contract of constructing a dam in Dhenkanal District which is a notified backward district for the purpose of Section 80HH.	Facts
In proceedings for assessment of its income for the relevant years, the respondent claimed the relief under the said provision.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer allowed the same.	Facts
The Commissioner of Income Tax however revised the order of the ITO to the extent of grant of relief under Section 80HH.	Facts
He was of the opinion that the assessee, engaged in construction of a dam cannot be said to be engaged in manufacture or production of an article inasmuch as a dam is constructed and not manufactured.	Facts
It would be absurd to say that the assessee is manufacturing dam or the dam is capable of being sold.	Facts
In short, the firm cannot be held as an industrial undertaking merely because it has to undertake certain manufacturing process in the course of construction of the irrigation project.	Facts
He also referred to the fact that the assesseefirm was constituted only for the purpose of constructing a particular dam, on the completion of which work the firm would cease to exist automatically.	Facts
The assessee preferred an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal which was allowed on the following reasoning and findings The activity of constructing a dam can be characterised as an industrial activity.	Facts
The work undertaken by the assesseefirm can, therefore, be called an industrial undertaking.(b)	Facts
The word articles occurring in clause (i) of subsection (2) of Section 80HH is not confined to moveables nor to small things produced in large quantities.(c)	Facts
The activity of construction of a dam can be characterised as processing as well as manufacturing.	None
At the instance of the Revenue the aforesaid question was referred for the opinion of the High Court.	None
The High Court agreed with the Tribunal that the assesseefirm constituted for the purpose of constructing a dam for storing water can be called an industrial undertaking.	Facts
The High Court opined that the definition of industry in the Industrial Disputes Act can well be relied upon to ascertain the meaning of the expression industrial undertaking, inasmuch as the said expression has not been defined in the Act or the Rules.	Facts
The High Court also agreed with the Tribunal that the word article need not be confined to mere moveables and that there would be no justification to hold that a dam is not an article in that sense of the term.	Facts
The correctness of the said view is questioned in these appeals.4.	Facts
The learned counsel for the Revenue, Shri J. Ramamurti attacked mainly the opinion of the High Court with respect to the meaning attached by it to the word article.	Facts
He submitted that the activity of constructing a dam cannot and does not fall within the words manufacture or produce articles in Section 80HH(2)(i).	Facts
He relied upon the decisions in CIT v. N. U. C. Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. CIT v. Shah Construction Co. Ltd.2 Chowgule Co. Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India3 and Delhi Cold Storage Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.	Reasoning
v. CIT4 in support of his submission.	Facts
He submitted that the contrary view, taken in some of the decisions of the High Courts, does not represent the correct view.	Facts
On the other hand, Shri B.B. Ahuja and Shri B. Sen, learned counsel appearing for the respondentassessee supported the reasoning and conclusion of the High Court and the Tribunal.	Facts
They relied upon and commended for our acceptance the reasoning in the order under appeal as well as the reasoning in CIT v.Pressure Piling Co. (India) Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.5 Shankar Construction Co. v. CIT6 and in CIT v. Tiecicon Pvt.	Facts
Ltd.75.	Facts
Section 80HH occurs in Chapter VIA, which provides for deductions to b e made in computing the total income.	Facts
Sub section (1) of Section 80HH provides that Where the gross total income of an assessee includes any profits and gains derived from an industrial undertaking, or the business of a hotel, to which this sect ion applies, there shall, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, be allowed, in computing the total income of the assessee, a deduction from such profits and gains of an amount equal to twenty per cent thereof .	Facts
Subsection (2) says that Section 80HH applies to any industrial undertaking which fulfills all the four conditions prescribed therein.	Facts
It would be appropriate to set out sub section (2) in its entirety Th is section applies to any industrial undertaking which fulfills all the following conditions, namely(i)it has begun or begins to manufacture or produce articles after the 31 st day of December, 1970 (but before the 1st day of April, 1990), in any backward area (ii)it is not formed by the splitting up, or the reconstruction, of a business already in existence in any backward areaProvided that this condition shall not apply in respect of any industrial undertaking which is formed as a result of the reestablishment, reconstruction or revival by the assessee of the business of any such industrial undertaking as is referred to in Section 33B, in the circumstances and within the period specified in that section(iii)it is not formed by the transfer to a new business of machinery or plant previously used for any purpose in any backward area (iv) it employs ten or more workers in a manufacturing process carried on with the aid of power, or employs twenty or more workers in a manufacturing process carried on without the aid of power.	Facts
Explanation.	Facts
Where any machinery or plant or any part thereof previously used for any purpose in any backward area is transferred to a new business in that area or in any other backward area and the total value of the machinery or plant or part so transferred does not exceed twenty per cent of the total value of the machinery or plant used in the business, then, for the purposes of clause (iii) of this subsection, the condition specified therein shall be deemed to have been fulfilled.	Facts
Subsection (4) provides that the deduction specified in subsection (1) shall be allowed for a period of ten years beginning with the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which the industrial undertaking begins to manufacture or produce articles.	Facts
Subsection (1) thus confers a substantial benefit.	Facts
It provides for deduction for a period of ten years of an amount equal to 20 per cent from the profits and gains of an industrial undertaking which fulfills all the four conditions specified in sub section (2).	Facts
All the four conditions must be satisfied simultaneously.	Facts
We are, however, concerned in these appeals with the first of the four conditions.	Facts
It says that the industrial undertaking must have begun or begins to manufacture or produce articles after the 31 st day of December 1970 in any backward area.	Facts
(By the Finance Act, 1990, the words but before the 1st day of April, 1990 were inserted in the said clause, thus limiting the operation of the section till that date only.)7.Both the Tribunal and the High Court have held that the work undertaken by the assessee, or to put it differently, the assessee, which has undertaken the work of construction of a dam, can be characterised as an industrial undertaking.	Facts
The counsel for the Revenue has not addressed any arguments on this aspect.	Facts
We shall, therefore, express no opinion on the question whether the assessee respondent or the work undertaken by it constitutes an industrial undertaking.	Facts
We shall proceed on the assumption for the purpose of these cases that it does.	Facts
The only question, therefore, is whether the assessee, has begun to manufacture or produce articles after the specified date in an area notified as a backward area.	Facts
It is not in dispute that the assessee commenced its work after 31 stday of December 1970 and that the work carried on by it is in a notified backward area.	Facts
In short, the limited question is whether the construction of a dam to store water (reservoir) can be characterised as amounting to manufacturing or producing an article or articles, as the case may be.	Issue
The words manufacture and production have received extensive judicial attention both under this Act as well as Central Excise Act and the various Sales Tax Laws.	None
The word production has a wider connotation than the word manufacture.	None
While every manufacture can be characterised as production, every production need not amount to manufacture.	None
The meaning of the expression manufacture was considered by this Court in Deputy CST v. Pio Food Packers8 among other decisions.	None
In the said decision, the test evolved for determining whether manufacture can be said to have taken place is, whether the commodity which is subjected to the process of manufacture can no longer be regarded as the original commodity but is recognised in the trade as a new and distinct commodity.	None
Pathak, J. as he then was, s tated the test in the following words (SCC p. 176, para 5) Commonly manufacture is the end result of one or more processes through which the original commodity is made to pass.	None
The nature and extent of processing may vary from one case to another, and indeed there may be several stages of processing and perhaps a different kind o f processing at each stage.	None
With each process suffered, the original commodity experiences a change.	None
But it is only when the change, or a series of changes, take the commodity to the p oint where commercially it can no longer be regarded as the original commodity but instead is recognised as a new and distinct article that a manufacture can be said to take place.	None
The word production or produce when used in juxtaposition with the word manufacture takes in bringing into existence new goods by a process which may or may not amount to manufacture.	None
It also takes in all the byproducts, intermediate products and residual products which emerge in the course of manufacture of goods.	None
The next word to be considered is articles, occurring in the said clause.	None
What does it mean?	None
The word is not defined in the Act or the Rules.	None
It must, therefore, be understood in its normal connotation the sense in which it is understood in commercial world.	None
It is equally well to keep in mind the context since a word takes its colour from the context.	None
The word articles is preceded by words it has begun or begins to manufacture or produce.	None
Can we say that the word articles in the said clause comprehends and takes within its ambit a dam, a bridge, a building, a road, a canal and soon?	None
We find it difficult to say so.	Reasoning
Would any person who has constructed a dam say that he has manufactured an article or that he has produced an article?	None
Obviously not.	None
If a dam is an article, so would be a bridge, a road, an underground canal and a multistoried building.	None
To say that all of them fall within the meaning of word articles is to overstrain the language beyond its normal and ordinary meaning.	None
It is equally difficult to say that the process of constructing a dam is a process of manufacture or a process of production.	None
It is true that a dam is composed of several articles it is composed of stones, concrete, cement, steel and other manufactured articles like gates, sluices etc.	None
But to say that the end product, the dam, is an article is to be unfaithful to the normal connotation of the word.	None
A dam is constructed it is not manufactured or produced.	None
The expressions manufacture and produce are normally associated with moveables articles and goods, big and small but they are never employed to denote the construction activity of the nature involved in the construction of a dam or for that matter a bridge, a road or a building.	None
The decisions of the Bombay High Court in CIT v. N. U. C. Pvt.	None
Ltd.	Reasoning
I and in CIT v. Shah Construction Co. Ltd.2 relied upon by Shri Murti are no doubt not decisions rendered under Section 80HH or under Section 84 they arose under the relevant Finance Acts, the question being whether the assessees were industrial companies they do contain observation s which tend to support the stand of the Revenue.	None
It may be that the petitioner is himself manufacturing some of the articles like gates, windows and doors which go into the construction of a dam but that makes little difference to the principle.	None
The petitioner is not claiming the deduction provided by Section 80HH on the value of the said manufactured articles but on the total value of the dam as such.	None
In such a situation, it is immaterial whether the manufactured articles which go into t	None
he construction of a dam are manufactured by him or purchased by him from another person.	None
We need not express any opinion on the question what would be the position, if the petitioner had claimed the benefit of Section 80HH on the value of the articles manufactured or produced by him which articles have gone into consumed in the construction of the dam.	None
In the Judgment under appeal, the Orissa High Court has relied upon the meaning assigned to the word article in Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, to the effect a commodity a piece of goods or property.	None
Since article means a piece of property, the learned Judges said, it can as well mean immovable property.	None
Accordingly, they held, a dam is also an article.	None
In our opinion, the High Court was not right in dissociating the said word from its context viz.	None
, the preceding words  which has led them to attach an unnatural meaning to the said word.	None
Mr Sen relied upon the decision of the House of Lords in Longh urst v. Guildford Godalming and District Water Board9 to support the view taken by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question in that case was whether the pump house wherein water was stored under pressure after being filtered and chlorinated in the filter house can be called a factory within the meaning of Factories Act, 1937.	Arguments of Petitioner
Factory was defined in the said Act in the following wordsSubject to the provisions of this section, the expression factory means any premises in which, or within the close or cartilage or precincts of which, persons are employed in manual labour in any process for or incidental to any of the following purposes, namely ( a) the making of any article or of part of any article or (b) the altering, repairing, ornamenting, finishing, cleaning, or washing, or the breaking up or demolition of any article or (c) the adapting for sale of any article being premises in which, or within the close or cartilage or precincts of which, the work is carried on by way of trade or for purpose s of gain and to or over which the employer of the persons employed therein has the right of access or control12.It was argued that the water which was filtered and chlorinated and then put under pressure in t he pump house is an article.	Arguments of Petitioner
The House of Lords held that though the water in the filter beds was an article for the purpose of the definition of the factory and the filter house can thus be called a factory, yet the pump house which pumped water to the consumers was not a part of the factory.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to see how the principle of the said decision is of any help to the assessee herein.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted by the counsel for the respondent assessee that since Section80HH is intended t o encourage establishment of industrial undertakings in backward areas for the reason that such establishment leads to development of that area besides providing employment, we must adopt a liberal interpretation which advances the purpose and object underlying the provision.	Arguments of Respondent
The said principle, however, cannot be carried to the extent of doing violence to the plain and simple language used in the enactment.	Arguments of Respondent
It would not be reasonable or permissible for the Court to rewrite the section or substitute words of its own for the actual words employed by the legislature in the name of giving effect to the supposed underlying object.	Arguments of Respondent
After all, the underlying object of any provision has to be gathered on a reasonable interpretation of the language employed by the legislature.	None
For all the above reasons, we are of the opinion that it is not possible to accede to the contention that the activity of construction of a dam can be characterised as manufacture or producing of article or articles, as the case may be, within the meaning of Section 80HH(2)(i) of the Act.15.Another set of appeals in the first group (Civil Appeal Nos. 58655866 of 1983) are preferred against the j udgment of the Bombay High Court in CIT v. Pressure Piling Co. (India) Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd.	Reasoning
The respondentassessee in these appeals is engaged in the business of laying foundations for buildings and other structures by a specialised patented meth od known as pressure piling.	Reasoning
For the assessment years 196364 and 196465, it claimed the benefit under Section 84 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 on the ground that it is a newly established industrial undertaking within the meaning of the said provision.	Reasoning
The ITO denied the said relief on the ground that the assessee did not satisfy the condition in Section 84(2)(iii).	Reasoning
In other words, he was of the opinion that the assessee was not engaged in manufacture or production of articles.	Reasoning
The assessees appeal to AAC was dismissed, whereupon he carried the matter in further appeal to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
There, a difference of opinion arose between the Accountant Member and Judicial Member who heard the appeal.	Reasoning
The Accountant Member was for allowing the appeal whereas the Judicial Member was for its dismissal.	Reasoning
The matter was referred to a third member, who agreed with the Accountant Member.	Reasoning
Thereupon the Revenue applied for and obtained reference of the following question under Section 256(1) of the Income Tax Act Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee company was engaged in the manufacture or production of articles within the meaning of Section 84(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, for the assessment year 196364, and relief under Section 84(1) and Section 101 for the assessment year 196465?	Reasoning
The High Court examined the process by which the assessee carried out its worked held that it can be characterised as manufacture or production of an article.	Reasoning
Accordingly it answered the question referred in the affirmative i.e., in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	Reasoning
The correctness of the said view is questioned in these appeals.17.The process adopted by the assessee for laying pressure piles has been set out in the statement of the case in the following words Pressure piles are cast in site and piles are formed in bore holes previously excavated by suitable boring plant at each pile position.	Reasoning
The borings are sunk to suitable bearing stratum and concrete is then introduced into the holes under applied air pressure.	Reasoning
This, when set, forms a permanent pile giving a very high surface friction in addition to the bea ring value obtained at the foot of the pile.	Reasoning
The method adopted of sinking pressure piles is as under A boring is first made for each pile, the hole being bored with steel tubes.	Reasoning
As the boring proceeds, these steel tubes are sunk in the ground, the soil being excavated through the tube itself in the manner employed by well bores.	Reasoning
In this way the underlying soil is thoroughly explored, samples of the succeeding strata being obtained as each hole is sunk.	Reasoning
This permits the correct depth of boring to be determined in every case.	Reasoning
If necessary, steel reinforcements of any required design can then be lowered down the casing and fixed in a correct position so that the rods will be properly embedded when concrete is added.	Reasoning
If the bore hole is dry, concrete is introduced to the casings and compressed air is admitted.	Reasoning
The air pressure forces the concrete down the casing and presses it into t	Reasoning
he interstices of the bottom part of the bored hole from which the casing is withdrawn.	Reasoning
In this way, the actual diameter of the pile is made to exceed that of the casing itself and it also forms a rough surface that bonds into the strata penetrated by the pile.	Reasoning
As each section of the tube is raised above ground, it is unscrewed and further batch of concrete is added.	Reasoning
This process is continued until the pile is completed.	Reasoning
Section 84 insofar as it is relevant for our purpose reads thus Income of newly established industrial undertakings or hotels.	Reasoning
(1) Save as otherwise hereinafter provided, Income Tax shall not be payable by an assessee on so much of the profits or gains derived from any industrial under taking or hotel to which this section applies as do not exceed six per cent per annum on the capital employed in the undertaking or hotel, computed in the prescribed manner.(2)Th is section applies to any industrial undertaking which fulfills all the following conditions, namely(i) it is not formed by the splitting up, or the reconstruction of, a business already in existence (ii)it is not formed by the transfer to a new business of a building, machinery or plant previously used for any purpose (iii)it has begun or begins to manufacture or produce articles in any part of India at any time within a period of eighteen years from the 1st day of April, 1948, or such further period as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify with reference to any particular industrial undertaking It would be noticed that the language of Section 84(2)(iii), insofar as it is relevant, is identical with the relevant language in Section 80HH.	Reasoning
In the light of our discussion hereinbefore, can it be said that the assessee herein is engaged in manufacture or production of articles?	Reasoning
We find it difficult to say so.	Reasoning
According to the statement of case, the process adopted by the assessee, in short, is this in the first instance holes are bored into earth at the site of construction with steel tubes as the boring proceeds, these steel tubes are sunk into the ground the soil is excavated through the tube itself after reaching the correct depth, concrete is poured into the casings and compressed air is admitted the air pressure forces the concrete down the casing and presses it into interstices if necessary, steel reenforcements are also provided to keep the rods in correct position.	Reasoning
In this manner a strong foundation is laid.	Reasoning
Upon that foundation further construction whether it is a building, bridge, dam or any other structure is raised.	Reasoning
Can it be said t hat the said activity is one of manufacturing or producing articles?	Reasoning
If the construction of a dam, a bridge or a building as a whole does not amount to manufacture or production of an article, it is difficult to see how the laying of foundation or foundations for such dam, bridge or building can be characterised as manufacturing or production of articles.	Reasoning
The process of laying foundation is an integral part of the construction of a dam, bridge or building.	Reasoning
Each such structure requires a foundation.	Reasoning
The assessee does no more than lay the foundation(s) by a technologically innovative method, which lends to the strength of the foundation.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that if a person constructs the entire dam including the foundation, he is not manufacturing or producing an article but where he merely lays the foundation for such dam he is manufacturing or producing an article.	Reasoning
The piles, which the assessee lays by his particular method become a fixture in the earth.	Reasoning
It ultimately becomes an integral part of the dam, bridge or building, as the case may be.	Reasoning
It is not as if the assessee supplies prefabricated piles, which are bored into the earth by the contractor or owner, as the case may be.	Reasoning
The work is done on the spot and it is a workscontract.	Reasoning
It is no different from any other works contract which is done on the spot and becomes a part and parcel of a larger construction.	Reasoning
In such matters one has to look to the precise activity and decide whether it can be said to amount to manufacturing or producing an article.	Reasoning
For the above reasons and those given hereinbefore in Budharaja, these appeals are also liable to succeed.20.We may now take up the second group of appeals comprising Civil Appeal Nos. 42394248 of 1992.	Reasoning
These appeals are preferred by the Commissioner of Income Tax against the decision of the Karnataka High Court in CIT v. Shankar Construction Co.6 Shankar Construction Company is the respondentassessee in all these appeals.	Reasoning
For the relevant assessment years, the respondent claimed deduction on account of investment allowance in terms of Section 32A. Subsection (1) of Section 32A provides inter alia that in respect of machinery or plant specified in subsection (2), owned by the assessee and wholly used for the purposes of the business carried on by him, he shall be allowed a deduction in respect of the previous year in which the machinery or plant was installed a sum equal t o 25 per cent of the actual cost of the machinery or plant by way of investment allowance.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) provides for such an allowance even in the case of a ship or aircraft.	Reasoning
Sub section (2) specifies the ship or aircraft or machinery or plant referred to in subsection (1).	Reasoning
Having regard to its relevance, subsection (2) may be set out hereinbelow submitting the portions not necessary to be noticed for the purpose of these appeals The ship or aircraft o r machinery or plant referred to in subsection (1) shall be the following, namely(a) a new ship or new aircraft acquired after the 31 st day of March, 1976, by an as sessee engaged in the business of operation of ships or aircraft (b) any new machinery or plant installed after the 31st day of March, 1976,  (i) for the purposes of business of generation or distribution of electricity or any other form of power or (ii)in a smallscale industrial undertaking for the purposes of business of manufacture or production of any article or thing or (iii)in any other industrial undertaking for the purposes of business of construction, manufacture or production of any article or thing, not being an article or thing specified in the list in the Eleventh Schedule The claimfor the said allowance was disallowed by the Assessing officer.	Reasoning
On appeal, the CIT appeals accepted the assessees claim against which the department went up in appeal to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The Tribunal allowed the Revenues appeal following the decision in I.T.A. No. 715/Bang/1982 (pertaining to Shankaranarayana Construction Company).	Reasoning
The assessee thereupon applied for and obtained a reference under Section 256 of the Income Tax Act.	Reasoning
The question referred for the opinion of the High Court reads thus Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal is justified in law in upholding the disallowance of investment allowance?	Reasoning
With a view to pinpoint the controversy, the High Court reframed the question in the following terms Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the allowance provided for under subclause (iii) of clause (b) of subsection (2) of Section 32A of the Act will enure to the benefit of the assesses?	Reasoning
Respondentassessee is a registered firm, carrying on business in the manufacture and sale of tiles and in construction work on a large scale.	None
It has specialised in the construction of dams and canals.	Reasoning
The question before us is whether the assessee is entitled to investment allowance on the actual cost of the machinery and plant installed for the purpose of its business pertaining to construction of dams and canals.	Reasoning
In other words , the question is whether such machinery or plant can be said to have been installed for the purposes of business of construction, manufacture or production of any article or thing and further whether the assessee or the work undertaken by it ca n be called an industrial undertaking within the meaning of subclause (iii) of clause (b) of subsection (2).	Reasoning
The subclause specifies three requirements which must have been satisfied viz.	Reasoning
, (1) The new machinery or plant must be installed in an industrial undertaking after the 31 st day of March 1976.	Reasoning
(2) The machinery on plant must have been installed for the purposes of business of construction manufacture or production of an article or thing and (3) the article or thing should not be one of those specified in the Eleventh Schedule to the Act.23.There is no dispute about the third requirement.	Reasoning
The controversy is only about the first and second requirements.	Reasoning
Even here, the learned counsel for Revenue, Shri Murti concentrated only upon the second requirement.	Reasoning
He did no address any arguments with respect to the first, for which reason we do no propose to express any opinion thereon.	Reasoning
We shall confine ourselves to the question whether the new machinery or plant installed by the assessee for the purpose of construction of a dam or irrigation canals is entitled to investment allowance.	Reasoning
It would be noticed immediately that subclause (iii) of clause (b) on subsection (2) of Section 32A employs certain words which are not found in Section 80HH(2)(i) or in Section 84(2)(ii).	Reasoning
The relevant words in those two sections are manufacture or produce articles whereas the relevant words in Section 32A are construction, manufacture or production of any article of thing.	Reasoning
Because the subclause in Section 32A employs the additional words construction and thing, it is argued for the assessee that the scope of the subclause is wider than the relevant subclauses in Section 80HH and Section 84.	Reasoning
It is submitted that the subclause concerned in these appeals speak expressly of the construction of a thing.	Reasoning
The expression thing, it is argued, wider than the expression article and takes in immovable properties like dams, bridges, roads and canals.	Reasoning
If it is not so construed, it is argued, the words construction and thing in this sub clause would be rendered super flour Learned counsel brought to our notice the meanings given to the said word various dictionaries , namely from the Lexicon Webster Dictionary, The Conci, Oxford Dictionary of Current English, Blacks Law Dictionary and Strouds Judicial Dictionary.	Reasoning
So far as the first two dictionaries are concerned, the said word does not take in immovable property like buildings etc.	Reasoning
within its ambit.	Reasoning
However, in Blacks Law Dictionary, the following meanings are assigned to the expression things Things.	None
The objects of dominion or property as contradistinguished from persons.	None
Gayer v. Whelan10.	Reasoning
The object of a right i.e., whatever is treated by the law as the object over which one person exercises a right, and with reference to which another person lies under a duty.	Reasoning
Such permanent objects, not being persons, as are sensible, or perceptible through the senses.	Reasoning
Things are distributed into three kinds (1) Things real or immovable, comprehending lands, tenements, and here determents (2) things personal or moveable, comprehending goods and chattels and (3) things mixed, partaking of the characteristics of the two former, as a title deed, a term for years.	Reasoning
The civil law divided things into corporeal (tangi possunt) and incorporeal (tangi non possunt).	Reasoning
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary the following meanings are assigned to the word thing Thing.	None
(1) Thing in such a phrase as building, erection, or thing, in a statutory prohibition, will generally be read ejusdem generis thus, a lot of stones placed one upon another in the bed of a river but not fastened or cemented together was not a thing within suc h a phrase (Colbran V. Barnes11).	None
(2)Other matter or thing see Winsborrow v. London Joint Stock Bank12.	None
Learned counsel for the assessee, Shri Mohan Vellapally, relies particularly upon the meanings assigned in Blacks Law Dictionary and contends that in the sub clause concerned herein construction of a thing does certainly mean and take in construction of dams, irrigation canals, buildings, bridges and roads.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr Murti, learned counsel for t he Revenue, disputes the correctness of the assessees submission.	None
According to him subsection (2) of Section 32A must be interpreted and understood in the following manner Clause (a) speaks of acquisition of a new ship or aircraft while clause (b) speaks of new machinery or plant installed (i) for the purposes of business of generation or distribution of electricity or any other form of power, (ii) in a small scale industrial undertaking for the purposes of business of manufacture or production of any article or thing, and (iii) in any other industrial undertaking for the purposes of business of construction, manufacture or production of any article or thing if an assessee installs any new machinery or plant for the construction of ships he can claim investment allowance only under clause (b)(iii) he cannot claim it under clause (a) for the reason that clause (1) is confined only to an assessee who acquires i.e., who purchases a new ship o r a new aircraft after the specified date and the investment allowance is granted on the actual cost of ship or aircraft the meaning of the word construction as well as the word thing0	Arguments of Petitioner
59	Arguments of Petitioner
Cal App 2d 255 138 P. 2d 763, 768 1 (1861) 11 CB (NS) 246 142 ER 791 2 (1903) 88 LT 803 19 TLR 500must be determined having regard to the context in which the said words occur viz., machinery or plant installed in an industrial undertaking for production of any article or thing the word construction in the subclause is thus akin to manufacture or production similarly the expression thing is used as interchangeable with the expression article a perusal of the list in the Eleventh Schedule reinforces this submission inasmuch as the articles and things mentioned in the Eleventh Schedule are all moveables it would not be correct to associate the word construction with the word thing the appropriate way to read them is in the order in which they occur in the subclause says the learned counsel.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though at first sight, the use of the words construction and thing appear to lend some substance to the contention of the learned counsel for the assessee, a deeper scrutiny and in particular the legislative history of the relevant provisions militates against the acceptance of his submission.	None
Subclauses (ii) and (iii) of clause (b) of subsection (2) of Section 32A were substituted by Finance Act (No. 2) of 1977 with effect from April 1, 1978.	None
Prior to the said amendment, the subclauses read as follows for the purposes of business of construction, manufacture or production of any one or more of the articles or things specified in the Ninth Schedule or (iii)in a small scale industrial undertaking for the purposes of business of manufacture or production of any other articles or things.	None
The unmended subclause (ii), which corresponds to present subclause (iii), was thus confined to the articles and things in the IXth Schedule.	None
The IXth Schedule, since omitted, contained as many as 33 items.	None
Item 15 therein related to ships.	None
All the items referred only to moveables none of them refers to an immovable object like a building, factory or bridge.	None
Since the appropriate word in the case of ships is construction in common parlance one speaks of construction of ships and not manufacture of ships the legislature used the expression construction in unamended subclause (ii).	None
The said subclause also referred to articles or things, which is the heading of the IXth Schedule After amendment, subclause (ii), which became subclause (iii) underwent a certain change.	None
Not only were the words in any other industrial undertaking were added at the beginning of the subclause, the applicability of the sub. clause was extended to al l articles and things except those articles and thing.	None
,mentioned in the Xlth Schedule.	None
The heading of Xlth Schedule is again list of articles or things, but the list does not include ships.	None
In other words, sub clause (iii), after amendment, continues to apply to ships.	None
Ships are among the articles or things to which the present subclause (iii) applies.	None
And that in precisely the reason the word construction is retained in amended subclause (iii) the subclause corresponding to unamended subclause (ii).	None
So far as the use of the word thing is concerned, it has no special significance inasmuch a the IXth Schedule and the Xlth Schedule both contain a list of articles or thing, , Both the IXth Schedule, to which alone the unamended sub clause (ii) applies as well as the Xlth Schedule, the articles and things wherein are excluded from the purview of amended subclause (iii), refer only to moveable objects called articles or things.	None
In this background, it is not possible or permissible to read the word construction as referring to construction of dams, bridge, , buildings, roads or canals.	None
The association of words in former subclause (ii) and the present subclause (iii) is also no t without significance.	None
The words are construction, manufacture or production of any one or more of the articles and things and construction, manufacture or production of any articles and things respectively.	None
It is equally evident that in these sub clauses as well as in the IXth Schedule and Xlth Schedule, the words articles and things are used interchangeably.	None
In the scheme and context of the provision, it would not be right to isolate the word thing , ascertain its meaning with reference to Law Lexicons and attach to it a meaning which it was never intended to bear.	None
A statute cannot always be construed with the dictionary in one hand and the statute in the other.	None
Regard must also be had to the scheme, context and as in this case to the legislative history of the provision.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that subclause (iii) of clause (b) of subsection (2) of Section 32A does not comprehend within its ambit construction of a dam, a bridge, a building, a road, a canal and other similar constructions.	None
So far as the decision of the High Court under appeal is concerned, it appears to have concentrated more upon the meaning of the word industrial undert aking and answered the question in favour of the assessee, holding that the assessee is an industrial undertaking within the meaning of the said subclause.	Decision
Unfortunately, it has not adverted to the other requirement of the said subclause even t hough the Tribunal had referred to this aspect and had disagreed with the view taken by the Orissa High Court in N.C.	Decision
Budharaja Company.	Decision
It must be remembered that the subclause is attracted only if all the requirements therein are satisfied be sides the other requirements in other provisions of the section.30.So far as the question whether the assessee herein or the work undertaken by it can be characterised as an industrial undertaking as held by the High Court is concern ed, we may reiterate that no arguments have been addressed by the learned counsel for the Revenue questioning the view taken by the High Court.	Decision
We do not, therefore, propose to express any opinion on the said aspect.31.SLP No. 16839 of 1992 is p referred against the Judgment of the Karnataka High Court extending the benefit of Section 32A to the new machinery employed in digging bore wells.	Decision
For the reasons given hereinabove, leave is granted and the appeal is allowed.32.For the above reason s we allow Civil Appeal Nos. 4238 to 4240 of 1983, C.A. No. 4881 of 1993 (arising from SLP No. 3219 of 1993) (wherein leave is granted herewith) and Civil Appeal Nos. 58655866 of 1983.	Decision
No costs.33.Similarly, Civil Appeal Nos. 42394248 of 1992 (CIT v .	Decision
Shankar Construction Co.), C.A. No. 3859 of 1992, (CIT v. Mysore Construction Co.), C.A. No. 3405 of 1991 (CIT v. Suresh Malpani Co.) and C.A. No. 2685 of 1992 (CIT v. Buildment Pvt. Ltd.) are allowed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
C.A. No. 5381 of 1992 de linked.	Decision
SLP (C) No. 16838 of 1992 also delinked.	Decision
Post separately after 4 weeks.	Decision
