 Khanna, J.1.	None
This judgment would dispose of four civil appeals Nos. 471 to 474 of 1969 which have been filed on certificate granted by the Madras High Court and are directed against the common judgment of that court, whereby petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution of India filed by the appellants were dismissed.	Issue
The crucial question which arises for determination in these appeals is whether the provisions of Madras General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act. 1967 (Act No. 19 of 1967) are invalid on the ground that they seek to impose sales tax with retrospective effect in an unreasonable manner.2.	Issue
According to entry 47 of First Schedule to the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Madras Act 1 of 1959) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), the sale of lubricating oils and greases was liable to sales tax at the point of first sale in the State at 6 per cent.	Facts
With effect from April 1, 1964 entry 47 was amended by Madras Act 7 of 1964 and instead of the words lubricating oil and greases in that entry the following words were substitutedLubricating oils, all kinds of mineral oils (not otherwise provided for in this Act) quenching oils and greases.	Facts
Till September 30, 1965, it is stated, the assessments were made on the assumption that the amendment of entry 47 had made no difference to sales of furnance oil and they were liable to multipoint tax at 2 per cent.	None
The dealers paid and collected tax on that basis and the department accepted it.	Facts
The Boards of Revenue, on being moved by a dealer, passed a resolution on August 28, 1965 wherein it expressed the view that entry 47, as amended, included furnance oil and transformer oil.	Facts
The dealers thereafter from September 14, 1965 started charging tax on furnace oils at the rate of 6 per cent on the first sale of those oils and the assessment orders were made accordingly.	Facts
Furnance oil, it my be stated, is a nonlubricating mineral oil.	Facts
The view expressed by the Board of Revenue that entry 47 as amended included furnance oil was challenged in a writ petition before the Madras High Court.	Facts
The High Court gave its decision on August 2, 1967.	Facts
The title of the case is Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distributing Co. of	Facts
India Ltd.	Facts
Madras v. State of Madras, and it is reported in (1968) 21	Facts
S.T.C. 227 (Mad).	Facts
The High Court held that having regard to the objects and reasons appended to Madras Act 7 of 1964 and the association of words which preceded and followed the words all kinds of mineral oils the words all kinds of mineral oils had only a limited meaning namely, mineral oils which were lubricants.	Facts
Entry 47 as amended was, therefore, held not to include furnace oil.	Facts
Appeal against the said judgment, we have been told, is pending in this Court.3.	Facts
The above decision of the Madras High Court led to the enactment of the Madras General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1967 (Act No. 19 of 1967) (hereinafter referred to as the amending Act).	None
The amending Act received the assent of the Governor on December 29, 1967 and was published in the Fort St. George Gazette, Extraordinary on January 5, 1968.	None
Section 2 of the amending Act has recast entry 47 in the First Schedule to the principal Act and has also inserted a new entry 47A. Section 2 reads as under 2.	None
Amendment of First Schedule to Madras Act 1 of 1959.In the first Schedule to the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Madras Act 1 of 1959) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), (a) during the period commencing on the 1st April 1964 and ending with the 30th November 1965, for item 47 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be deemed to have been substituted, namely47 Lubricating oils (not otherwise provided for in this Act), quenching oils and greases.	None
Do647A All kinds of mineral oils (other than those falling under item 47 and not otherwise provided for in this Act) including furnace oil.Do6(b) during the period commencing on the 1st December 1965 and ending with the 17th June 1967, for item 47 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be deemed to have been substituted, namely 47 Lubricating oils (not otherwise provided for in this Act), quenching oils the greases.	None
Do6 1/247A All kinds of mineral oils (other than those falling under item 47 and not otherwise provided for in this Act) including furnace oil.Do6 1/2(c) with effect on and from the 18th June 1967, for item 47 and the entries relating thereto, the following shall be deemed to have been substituted, namely47 Lubricating oils (not otherwise provided for in this Act), quenching oils and greases.	None
Do747A All kinds of mineral oils (other than those falling under item 47 and not otherwise provided for in this Act) including furnace oil.	None
Do7.It would thus appear that according to the amendment the sales tax would be payable during the period from April 1, 1964 to November 30, 1965 on items mentioned in entries 47 and 47A at the rate of 6 per cent.	None
The rate for the period from December 1, 1965 to June 17, 1967 has been fixed at 6 1/2 per cent and with effect from June 18, 1967 the rate has been fixed at 7 per cent.	None
Section 4 of the amending Act is the validating section and reads as under 4.	None
Validation  Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any court or other authority, all taxes levied or collected or purporting to have been levied or collected under the principal Act on the sale of the goods specified in item 47A of the First Schedule to the principal Act as amended by this Act for the period commencing on the 1st April 1964 and ending with the date of the publication of this Act in the Fort St. George Gazette shall for all purposes be deemed to be, and to have always been validly levied or collected in accordance with law and if S. 2 had been in force at all the material times when such tax was levied or collected and accordingly, (a) all acts, proceedings or things done or taken by any authority, officer or person in connection with the levy or collection of such tax shall, for all purposes be deemed to be and to have always been done or taken in accordance with law(b) no suit or other proceeding shall be maintained or continued in any court for the refund of any tax so paid(c)	None
no court shall enforce any decree or order directing the refund of any tax so paid.4.	None
The appellants, who are dealers in mineral oils including furnace oils, filed writ petitions in the High Court to challenge the validity of the amending Act.	None
It was contended on their behalf that retrospective imposition of a single point tax on furnance oil and other nonlubricating oils for the period prior to January 5, 1968 was illegal inasmuch as it violated articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution.	None
This contention of the appellants was repelled by the High Court and their writ petitions, as mentioned earlier, were dismissed.5.	None
Mr. Setalvad in appeal before us has assailed the validity of the provisions of sections 2 and 4 of the amending Act on the ground that the retrospective operation of those provisions is violative of article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution inasmuch as it constitutes unreasonable restriction on the right of the appellants to carry on their trade and business.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against that, Mr. Desai on behalf of the respondents contends that there has been no unreasonable restriction on the exercise of the right of the appellants and the impugned provisions cannot be struck down on the ground that the legislature has given retrospective operation to those provisions.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the contention of Mr. Desai is well founded.6.	Arguments of Respondent
We may at the outset state that though the legislature can pass a law and make its provisions retrospective, it would be relevant to consider the effect of the said retrospective operation of the law both in respect of the legislative competence of the legislature and the reasonableness of the restriction imposed by it.	None
It would thus be open to a party affected by the provisions of an Act to contend that the retrospective operation of the Act so completely alters the character of the tax imposed by it as to take it outside the limits of the entry which gives the legislature competence to enact the law or it may be open to the party to contend in the alternative that the restrictions imposed by the Act are so unreasonable that they should be struck down on the ground that they contravene the fundamental rights granted under article 19 (1) (f) and (g) of the Constitution.	None
At the same time, we have to bear in mind that the legislative power conferred on the appropriate legislatures to enact laws in respect of topics covered by the several entries in the three lists can be exercised both prospectively and retrospectively.	None
Where the legislature can make a valid law, it may provide not only for the prospective operation of the material provisions of the said law, it can also provide for the retrospective operation of the said provisions.	None
The legislative power in addition, includes the subsidiary or auxiliary power to validate laws which have been found to be invalid.	None
If a law passed by a legislature is struck down by the court as being invalid for one infirmity or another, it would be competent to the appropriate legislature to cure the said infirmity and pass a validating law so as to make the provisions of the said earlier law effective from the date when it was passed (see Rai Ramkrishna v. State of Bihar, (1964) 1	None
SCR 897 (AIR 1963 SC 1667 ).)7.	None
In the light of what has been stated above, we can find no legal infirmity in the provisions of the amending Act.	None
As a result of the amendment made by Madras Act 7 of 1964 in entry 47 of the First Schedule to the principal Act, sales tax, it appears, was intended to be levied on all kinds of mineral oils.	None
The Madras High Court, however, took the view in the case of (1968) 21	None
STC 227 (Mad) (supra) that the words all kinds of mineral oils took colour from the words which preceded and followed them and, as such, the mineral oils mentioned in the entry had a limited meaning, namely, mineral oils which were lubricants.	None
Entry 47 was, therefore, held not to include furnance oil which was a nonlubricant mineral oil.	None
It was with a view to get over the defect of that decision and to prevent the refund of sales tax already realised on the assumption that the words all kinds of mineral oils also covered mineral oils of nonlubricating nature that the amending Act was passed.	None
It would be pertinent in this context to reproduce the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Madras General Sales Tax (Third Amendment)	None
Bill, 1967as underIn Tax Case Nos. 108 to 110 of 1967 the Madras High Court held that the expression all kinds of mineral oils (not otherwise provided for in this Act) occurring in entry 47 of the First Schedule to the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (Madras Act 1 of 1959) as amended by the Madras General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1964 (Madras Act 7 of 1964) will cover only such of the mineral oils as are lubricants and not furnace oil, etc., which are not lubricants.	Facts
It is, therefore, proposed to make a separate entry in the First Schedule to the Act so as to cover all kinds of mineral oils (other than those falling under entry 47 and not otherwise provided for in the Act) including furnace oil the rate being the same as for entry 47 and to validate the past levy and collection of tax in respect of all kinds of mineral oils (other than lubricating oils, quenching oils and greases) including furnace oils with effect from the 1st April, 1964.	None
Existing entry 47 is also proposed to be amended to cover only lubricating oils (not otherwise provided for in the Act), quenching oils and greases.8.	None
It would thus appear that the amending Act was intended to cure an infirmity as revealed by the judgment of the High Court and to validate the past levy and collection of tax in respect of all kinds of nonlubricating mineral oils, including furnace oils, with effect from April 1, 1964.	None
The legislature for this purpose split the original entry 47 into two entries, 47 and 47A. The new entry 47 related to lubricating oils (not otherwise provided for in the Act), quenching oils and greases, while entry 47A covered all kinds of mineral oils (other than those falling under item 47 and not otherwise provided for in the Act) including furnace oil.	None
The tax levied by entry 47A, in our opinion, was not a fresh tax.	None
It seems, as mentioned earlier, that the legislature had intended as a result of the change made in entry 47 by Act 7 of 1964 to levy tax on sale of mineral oils of all kinds, including nonlubricants, at the rate mentioned in that entry.	None
As the language used by the legislature in that entry was found by the High Court to be not appropriate for levying tax on sale of nonlubricant mineral oils, the amending Act was passed by the legislature to rectify and remove the defect in the language found by the High Court, so that the tax on sale of nonlubricant mineral oils might be levied at the rate specified in entry 47 from April 1, 1964 when Act 7 of 1964 came into force.	None
It is axiomatic that the Government needs revenue to carry on the administration and fulfil its obligation to the citizens.	None
For that purpose it resorts to taxation.	None
The total amount needed is apportioned under different heads.	None
The fiscal enactments brought on the statute book in that connection are sometimes challenged by the tax payer in courts of law.	None
The courts then scrutinise the legal provision to decide whether the levy of tax is legally valid or suffers from some infirmity.	None
In case the court comes to the conclusion that the levy of tax is not valid as the legal provision enacted for this purpose does not warrant the levy of tax imposed because of some defect in phraseology or other infirmity, the legislature quite often passes an amending and validating Act.	None
The object of such an enactment is to remove and rectify the defect in phraseology or lacuna of other nature and also to validate the proceedings, including realisation of tax ,which have taken place in pursuance of the earlier enactment which has been found by the Court to be vitiated by an infirmity.	None
Such an amending and validating Act in the very nature of things has a retrospective operation.	None
Its aim is to effectuate and carry out the object for which the earlier principal Act had been enacted.	None
Such an amending and validating Act to make small repairs is a permissible mode of legislation and is frequently resorted to in fiscal enactments.	None
As observed in 73 Harvard Law Review 692 at p. 705It is necessary that the legislature should be able to cure inadvertent defects in statutes or their administration by making what has been aptly called small repairs.	None
Moreover, the individual who claims that a vested right has arisen from the defect is seeking a windfall since had the legislatures or administrators action had the effect it was intended to and could have had, no such right would have arisen.	None
Thus, the interest in the retroactive curing of such a defect in the administration of government outweighs the individuals interest in benefiting from the defectThe Court has been extremely reluctant to override the legislative judgment as to the necessity for retrospective taxation, not only because of the paramount governmental interest in obtaining adequate revenues, but also because taxes are not in the nature of a penalty or a contractual obligation but rather a means of apportioning the costs of government among those who benefit from it.	None
The above passage was quoted with approval by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Assistant Commr. of Urban Land Tax v. The Buckingham and Carnatic Co. Ltd. (1970) 1	None
SCR 268 (AIR 1970 SC 169 ).9.	None
The period from April 1, 1964 to September 13, 1965 during which the sales tax authorities charged multipoint tax on sale of furnace oil at the rate of 2 per cent was, in our opinion, very short and did not give rise to some kind of vested right in favour of the appellants.	None
It may well be that them matter had not till then been examined by the higher authorities.	None
It was only when the board of Revenue was moved that the opinion was expressed by the Board as per resolution dated August 28, 1965 that entry 47 covered furnace oil.10.	None
In the case of Rai Ramkrishna (1964)	None
SCR 897 (AIR 1963 SC 1667 )	None
(supra) this court dealt with the validity of Bihar Taxation of Passengers and Good (Carried by Public Service Motor Vehicles) Act, 1961 in the following circumstances.	None
The Bihar Legislature passed the Bihar Finance Act, 1950 on March 30, 1950.	None
That Act levied a tax on passengers and goods carried by public service motor vehicles in Bihar.	None
The appellants challenged the validity of the Act and its provisions were struck down by this Court.	None
The respondent then issued the Bihar Ordinance on August 1, 1961.	None
By that Ordinance, the provision of the Act of 1950 which had been struck down by this Court were validated and brought into force retrospectively from the date when the earlier Act purported to come into force.	None
Later on, the provisions of the said Ordinance were incorporated in the Bihar.	None
Taxation on Passengers and Goods (carried by Public Service Motor Vehicles) Act, 1961, As a result of the retrospective operation of the Act of 1961, its material provisions were deemed to have come into force from April 1, 1950.	None
The validity of the Act of 1961 was challenged on the ground that the retrospective operation of the provisions of the Act changed its character and took it outside the legislative competence of the legislature.	None
It was further argued that the retrospective operation was so unreasonable that it could not be saved under clauses (5) and (6) of article 19 of the Constitution.	None
Both these contentions were repelled and it was held that the test of the length of time covered by the retrospective operation could not by itself be treated as a decisive test.11.	None
In the case of Emari Chinna Krishna Moorthy v. State of Orissa, (1964) 7	None
SCR 185 (AIR 1964 SC 1581 )	None
this Court dealt with the validity of the Orissa Sales Tax Validation Act, 1961.	None
The petitioner in that case was a merchant carrying on business in bullion and specie and gold and silver ornaments.	None
He was a registered dealer under the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947.	None
The petitioner claimed exemption from payment of sales tax in respect of certain gold ornaments on the basis of a notification issued on July 1, 1949 under Section 6 of that Act.	None
The sales tax authorities disallowed the petitioners claim who thereupon filed writ petitions in the High Court.	None
The High Court upheld the petitioners claim and issued writs directing the sales tax officer to allow the petitioners claim for exemption.	None
After the judgment of the High Court, the impugned Act was passed by the legislature on August, 1, 1961 and was published on September 18, 1961.	None
Section 2 of the impugned Act sought to put a meaning on the notification of July 1, 1949 and stated that the notification shall always be deemed to have meant like that.	None
One of the contentions raised in that case was that the retrospective operation of the impugned section should be struck down as unconstitutional because it imposed unreasonable restrictions on the petitioners fundamental right under article 19 (1) (g).This contention did not find favour with this Court and it was observed that a legislation could not be struck down although the retrospective operation might operate harshly in some cases.12.	None
In the case of J. K. Jute Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (1962) 2	Reasoning
SCR 1 (AIR 1961 SC 1534 )	None
this Court referred to the earlier case of Union of India v. Madan Gopal Kabra, 1954 SCR 541 (AIR 1954 SC 158 ) and held that the power to make retrospective legislation in cases relating to tax on sale of goods was the same as in the case of income tax.	None
It was observedThe power of a legislature to enact a law with reference to a topic entrusted to it, is, as already stated, unqualified subject only to any limitation imposed by the Constitution.	None
In the exercise of such a power, it will be competent for the legislature to enact a law, which is either prospective or retrospective.	None
In the Union of India v. Madan Gopal (supra) it was held by this Court that the power to impose tax on income under entry 82 of List I in Schedule VII to the Constitution, comprehended the power to impose incometax with retrospective operation even for a period prior to the Constitution.	None
The position will be the same as regards laws imposing tax on sale of goods.13.	None
Mr. Setalvad has referred to the fact that the appellants did not realise the sale tax on the sale of furnance oil at the rate of 6 per cent during at least some part of the period for which retrospective operation had been given to the amending Act.	None
It is contended that this fact should weigh with this Court in striking down the provisions of the amending Act.	None
There is, in our opinion, no force in this contention.	None
The fact that a dealer is not in a position to pass on the sales tax to others does not affect the competence of the legislature to enact a law imposing sales tax retrospectively because that is a matter of legislative policy.	None
A similar argument was advanced in the case of M s. J. K. Jute Mills Co. Ltd. (1962) 2	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1961 SC 1534 ) (supra).	None
and was repelled in the following wordsAnd then it is argued that a sales tax being an indirect tax, the seller who pays that tax has the right to pass it on to the consumer, that a law which imposes a sales tax long after the sales had taken place deprives him of that right, that retrospective operation is, in consequence, an incident inconsistent with the true character of a sales tax law, and that the Validation Act is, therefore, not a law in respect of tax on the sale of goods, as recognised, and it is ultra vires entry 54.	None
We see no force in this contention.	None
It is no doubt true that a sales tax is, according to accepted notions, intended to be passed on to the buyer, and provisions authorising and regulating the collection of sales tax by the seller from the purchaser are a usual feature of sales tax legislation.	None
But it is not an essential characteristic of a sales tax that the seller must have the right to pass it on to the consumer, nor is the power of the legislature to impose a tax on sales conditional on its making a provision for sellers to collect the tax from the purchasers.	None
Whether a law should be enacted, imposing a sales tax, or validating the imposition of a sales tax, when the seller is not in a position to pass it on to the consumer, is a matter of policy and does not affect the competence of the legislature.	None
This question is concluded by the decision of this Court in The Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar, (1958)	None
SCR 1355 (AIR 1958 SC 452 ).14.	None
In the case of Jaora Sugar Mills (P) Ltd. v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1966) 1	Reasoning
SCR 523 (AIR 196 SC 416) this Court dealt with the validity of S. 3 of the Sugar Cane Cess (Validation ) Act, 1961 (Central Act 38 of 1961).	Reasoning
The said section concerned the levy of sugar cane cess and provided that all cesses imposed, assessed or collected under any State Act before the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have been validly imposed, assessed or collected in accordance with law as if the provisions of the said Act and of notifications, orders and rules issued or made thereunder in so far as such provisions relate to the imposition, assessment and collection of such cess had been included in and formed part of the section and this section had been enforced at all material times when such cess was imposed, assessed or collected.	Reasoning
Earlier the State Act under which the sugar cane cess had been levied was found to be invalid on the ground of want of legislative competence to deal with topics covered by it.	Reasoning
The attack on the validity of Section 3 of that Act was repelled and it was held that the Parliament could, in exercise of its legislative competence, pass a law retrospectively validating the collections made under the State statutes.	Reasoning
The present case is on a stronger footing from the point of view of the respondents because we are dealing in this case with retrospective legislation made by the same legislature which had enacted the earlier law.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the impugned provisions are a valid piece of legislation and do not contravene article 19 of the Constitution.15.	Reasoning
The appeals consequently fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.16.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
