 Dwivedi, J. 1.	None
The appellant is the owner of 32, Balrampur House, Mumfordganj, Allahabad.	Facts
After residing therein for some time, he started living in 33 Pan Dariba, Allahabad with his mother.	Facts
His own house he let out on September 9, 1964 to the State Government for a period of five years on a monthly rent of Rs.	Facts
300/.	Facts
The State Government obtained the lease for the purposes of residence or office of the Directorate of Geology and Mining, U.P.	Facts
The lease was signed by Shri P. N. Singh, Geologist, on behalf of the State Government.	Facts
In 1967 the appellant had shifted from the house No. 33, Pan Dariba to house No. 398/5, Meerapur, Allahabad.	Facts
In Meerapur he was living as a tenant.	Facts
2.	None
The period of lease with respect to his own house expired on September 9, 1969.	Facts
The District Magistrate, Allahabad passed an order under Section 3 of the U.P. (Temporary) Accommodation Requisition Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The order was made on October 4, 1969.	Facts
By the order the District Magistrate requisitioned the house to provide accommodation to Shri P. N. Singh, Geologist, Directorate of Geology and Mining, U.P.	Facts
The appellant was directed to hand over possession of the house within 24 hours after the expiry of 15 days from the date of the service of the order on him.	Facts
3.	None
The appellant filed a writ petition in the Allahabad High Court challenging the validity of the order.	Facts
One of the grounds of challenge was that the order was made without issuing any notice to him and without giving him a hearing.	Facts
The petition was dismissed summarily by a Division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
The argument of want of notice and hearing was not accepted by the High Court.	Facts
Feeling aggrieved with the decision of the High Court, the appellant has filed this appeal by special leave.	Facts
4. for the appellant has submitted before us that the requisitioning order is invalid for want of notice and hearing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the District Magistrate says that we should not entertain the argument as it was not raised of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
But we are satisfied on a reading of the judgment of the High Court that the point was raised by the appellant before the High Court.	None
Rejecting the argument, the High Court said Where a person is being deprived of his property, it can be said that he should be given an opportunity before the land is acquired but by requisition the property is taken away from his use for a temporary period and for such requisition such a detailed procedure is not necessary.	None
We are of opinion that the order of requisition is not invalid, nor can Section 3 of the Act be said to be ultra vires simply because it does not provide for a showcause notice to be served on the owner before the order of requisition can be passed.	None
5. Coming to the argument, Section 3 of the act read If in the opinion of the District Magistrate it is necessary to requisition any accommodation for any public purpose, he may, by order in writing, requisition such accommodation and may direct that the possession thereof shall be delivered to him within such period as may be specified in the order provided that the period so specified shall not be less than 15 days from the date of the service of the order Provided also that no building or part of a building exclusively used for religious worship shall be requisitioned under the section Provided further that no accommodation which is in the actual occupation of any person shall be requisitioned unless the District Magistrate is further of the opinion that suitable alternative accommodation exists for his needs or has been provided to him.	None
6.	None
The section consists of three part the main part and the two provisos.	None
Evidently it does not contain an express provision for notice and hearing before the making of the requisitioning order.	None
But it appears to us that such a provision is to be read there by necessary implication.	None
The object of the provision is to requisition an immovable property.	None
Requisitioning of the property deprives the owner of the property of the right to hold and enjoy the property as he likes.	None
The right to hold and enjoy the property is a cherished right.	None
It is true that the Act is a temporary measure, but it has remained on the statute book for 25 years.	None
There is acute scarcity of accommodation in the State, and an accommodation once requisitioned is ordinarily not excepted to be restored early to the owner.	None
We find it difficult to assume that the Legislature would have intended to deprive him to his cherished right without notice and hearing.	None
7.	None
The District Magistrate may requisition an accommodation if he is of opinion that it is necessary to requisition it for any public purpose.	None
He is accordingly to make up his mind on two matter (1) there exists a public purpose to warrant the making of an order of acquisition and (2) in view of that public purpose it is necessary to requisition a particular accommodation.	None
On the second aspect he shall have to consider whether the particular accommodation is adequate for the public purpose for which the requisitioning order is sought to be made.	None
For instance, if a particular accommodation is sought to be requisitioned for any public office, the District Magistrate has to satisfy himself whether it is sufficient for the needs of the public office and whether its location and structure are suitable for that office.	None
He should also consider whether any other equally good or better accommodation may be requisitioned for that public office on payment of a lesser amount of compensation than the one which will be payable for the particular accommodation proposed to be requisitioned.	None
These are objective factors, and there is no reason why the District Magistrate should not hear the owner of the accommodation proposed to be requisitioned on these matters.	None
The owner may suggest to him equally good accommodation for the public office for which the Government will be required to pay a lesser amount of compensation than the one which will be payable for his accommodation.	None
8.	None
The first proviso to Section 3 provides that no building or part of a building specially used for religious worship shall be requisitioned by the District Magistrate.	None
Whether a building or part of a building is being exclusively used for religious worship, is a question of fact.	None
In some cases it may become a hotly disputed question.	None
The District Magistrate may be informed by his subordinates that the building is not being used at all or is being used partially for religious worship the owner, on the other hand, may assert that the building is being used exclusively for religious worship.	None
Fairness demands that the District Magistrate should hear the owner of the accommodation sought to be requisitioned by him, so that the owner may be able to satisfy him in any particular case that the building is being exclusively used for religious worship.	None
It seems to us that the first proviso strongly suggests the implication of notice and hearing in the main part of Section 3. 9.	None
The second proviso also seems to support that inference.	None
It provides that no accommodation which is in the actual possession of any person shall be requisitioned unless the District Magistrate is of opinion that suitable alternative accommodation exists for his needs or has been provided to him.	None
Here the District Magistrate has to consider two things (1) the accommodation sought to be requisitioned is in the actual possession of any person and (2) a suitable alternative accommodation exists for his needs and has been provided to him.	None
If the accommodation sought to be requisitioned is actually not occupied by any person, it is not necessary to consider the second matter.	None
But whether the accommodation proposed to be requisitioned is in the actual occupation of any person or not is a question of fact and cannot satisfactorily be determined unless the person claiming to be occupying it is given a hearing by the District Magistrate.	None
So in every case where the District Magistrate proposes to requisition any accommodation for he may set up a claim that he is actually occupying it.	None
10.	None
It is necessary to bear in mind that the Act does not provide for any appeal or revision from the order of the District Magistrate under Section 3.	None
The District Magistrate in constituted the plenary authority.	None
It seems seems reasonable to think that the legislation intended that an order under section 3 should be made after notice and hearing, so that no unfairness is done to anyone.	None
11.	None
The High Court rejected the argument of the appellant simply on the ground that the order of requisition deprives the owner of the property of the use thereof for a temporary period.	None
It is not easy to follow what the high Court meant when it said that it was not necessary to follow a detailed procedure.	None
An elaborate procedure like the one provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure should undoubtedly be not followed.	None
The dimension of hearing will vary according to the circumstances of each case.	None
The barest minimum, however, is a fair hearing.	None
Notice should be given to the person who will be affected by the order of requisitioning asking him to show why his accommodation should not be requisitioned.	None
He should be given reasonable time to file his reply to the notice.	None
In some cases it may be necessary to give him an opportunity of producing his oral and documentary evidence.	None
As for instance, where he pleads that he needs the accommodation for his own residence.	None
The High Court disposed of the point without examining the scheme and setting of Section 3.	None
In our view the scheme and setting of Section 3 imply a notice and hearing to the person who will be affected by the proposed requisitioning order.	None
12.	None
Counsel for the District Magistrate has submitted that the District Magistrate acts in an administrative capacity under Section 3.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him it is not necessary to hear the affected party in an administrative proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
He has relied on Province of Bombay v. Kusaldas S. Advani and Others, ((1950)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 621 AIR 1950 SC 222 1950 SCJ 451 1951 SCA 1) Ram Chandra v. The District Magistrate of Aligarh and Others, (AIR 1952	Arguments of Respondent
ALL 520 1952 ALJ 114 1952 AWR (HC) 576)	Arguments of Respondent
The State of Bombay v. Bhanji Munji and Another, ((1955) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 777 AIR 1955 SC 41 1955 SCJ 10 1954 SCR 1286) and Collector of Akola and Others v. Ramchandra and Others.	Arguments of Respondent
((1968) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 401 AIR 1968 SC 244 (1968) 1 SCJ 525)	Arguments of Respondent
In none of these cases the issue of notice and hearing directly arose for consideration.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	None
In the first case, certain property was requisitioned under Section 3 of the Bombay Land Requisition Ordinance, 1947, by an order of the Government, dated February 6, 1948.	Reasoning
The order was made before the commencement of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It was challenged by a petition in the High Court of Bombay.	Reasoning
The petitioner prayed for the issue of a writ of certiorari to quash the order.	Reasoning
The Bombay High Court issued the writ of certiorari.	Reasoning
The argument on behalf of the Government in this Court was that as the Government was acting in an administrative capacity and not in a judicial or quasijudicial capacity, the writ of certiorari could not be issued.	Reasoning
This Court held that the act of requisitioning was administrative in nature and not quasijudicial.	Reasoning
The argument that the existence of a public purpose required judicial consideration was negatived.	Reasoning
In the second case, the High Court held that the decision of the District Magistrate that there existed a public purpose and a particular accommodation was needed for that purpose was final and could not be questioned in a court of law.	Reasoning
In the third case, an accommodation was requisitioned under the Bombay Land Requisition Act, 1948.	Reasoning
It was held that it was for the Government to decide whether there existed a public purpose to justify the requisitioning of accommodation.	Reasoning
In the last case, this Court held that the expression public purpose was wide enough to include temporary as well as a durable purpose.	Reasoning
Section 5 of the Bombay Land Requisition Act, 1948 placed no limitation on the competent authority as to what kind of purpose would justify the exercise of power.	Reasoning
14.	None
Counsel for the appellant has relied on A. K. Kraipak and Others v. Union of India, ((1970) 1	Reasoning
SCR 457 (1969) 2 SCC 262 (1970) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 475) Daud Ahmad v. The District Magistrate, Allahabad and Others, (AIR 1972 SC 896 (1972) 1 SCC 655 ) and State of Punjab v. K. R. Erry and Sobhag Rai Mehta.	Reasoning
(C. As.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nos. 18931894 of 1967, decided on 2191972 1973 SCC (Lab) 63) Kraipak (supra), certain Government employees of the State of Jammu and Kashmir felt aggrieved with the selection of persons for appointment to the Indian Forest Service.	Reasoning
The selections were made solely on the basis of the record of officer.	Reasoning
Their suitability was not decided by oral or written examination, nor were they interviewed.	Reasoning
A. K. Kraipak (supra), contended before this Court that the selections were bad as they were made without following the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
The contrary argument was that the principles of natural justice would not apply to the administrative act of selection of officers for appointment to the Indian Forest Service.	Reasoning
Hegde, J., said that the dividing line between an administrative power and a quasijudicial power is quite thin and is being gradually obliterated.	Reasoning
At Pages 465 and 466 of the report, the learned Judge added With the increase of the power of the administrative bodies it has become necessary to provide guidelines for the just exercise of their power.	Reasoning
To prevent the abuse of that power and to see that it does not become a new despotism, courts are gradually evolving the principles to be observed while exercising such powers.	Reasoning
In matters like these, public good is not advanced by a rigid adherence to precedents.	Reasoning
New problems call for new solutions.	Reasoning
Assuming that the committee making selection of officers for appointment to the Indian Forest Service was exercising administrative power, the learned Judge said The aim of the rules of natural justice is to secure justice or to put it negatively to prevent miscarriage of justice.	Reasoning
These rules can operate only in areas not covered by any law validly made.	Reasoning
In other words, they do not supplant the law of the land but supplement it If the purpose of the rules of natural justice is to prevent miscarriage, one fails to see why those rules should be made inapplicable to administrative enquiries.	Reasoning
Often times it is not easy to draw the line that demarcates administrative enquiries from judicial enquiries.	Reasoning
Enquiries which were considered administrative at one time are now being considered as quasijudicial in character.	Reasoning
Arriving at a just decision is the aim of both quasijudicial enquiries as well as administrative enquiries.	Reasoning
An unjust decision in an administrative enquiry may have more far reaching effect than a decision in a quasijudicial enquiry.	Reasoning
15.	None
In K. R. Erry case (supra), this Court held that the pensionary right of a superannuated Government Servant is property and that this pension cannot be reduce without giving him a hearing even though the relevant service rules do not expressly provide for a hearing.	Reasoning
Daud Ahmad case (supra) is a direct authority for the point before us.	Reasoning
There the Court was concerned with an order under Section 3 of the Act.	Reasoning
Daud Ahmad was occupying a certain accommodation of which he was the owner.	Reasoning
The accommodation was requisitioned by the District Magistrate without notice and hearing.	Reasoning
This Court quashed the order of requisition for want of notice and hearing.	Reasoning
One of us (A. N. Ray, J.) said The principle of natural justice has been applicable to administrative enquiries or quasijudicial enquiries.	Reasoning
It is the nature of the power and circumstances and conditions under which it is exercised that will occasion the invocation of the principle of natural justice.	Reasoning
Deprivation of property affects rights of a person.	Reasoning
If under the Requisition Act the petitioner was to be deprived of the occupation of the premises the District Magistrate had to hold an enquiry in order to arrive at an opinion that there existed alternative accommodation for the petitioner or the District Magistrate was to provide alternative accommodation.	Reasoning
16.	None
Counsel for the District Magistrate has submitted that Daud Ahmad case (supra), is distinguishable from the present case, for there the Court was concerned with interpreting the second proviso to Section 3.	Reasoning
Daud Ahmad and K. R. Erry case (supra), hold that in an enactment which deprives a person of his property, there is necessarily implied the prerequisite of hearing.	Reasoning
These cases support our construction that notice and hearing to the affected party is necessarily implied in Section 3.	Reasoning
It is not disputed on behalf of the District Magistrate that the requisitioning order was made by him without giving notice and hearing to the appellant.	Reasoning
So we hold that his order is illegal.	Reasoning
17.	None
The appeal is allowed with costs.	Decision
The order of the District Magistrate, dated October 4, 1969 requisitioning the accommodation is quashed.	Decision
