 Hegde, J.1.	None
The principal question that arises for decision in this appeal by certificate is as to the vires of Rule 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Registration Subordinate Service Special Rules, to be hereinafter referred as the rules.	Issue
The High Court has struck down this rule on the ground that it is violative of Art.	Issue
14 of the Constitution.	Issue
As a result of that conclusion, it has also quashed the recruitment of some of the respondents made in March, 1965 for being posted as SubRegistrar Grade II.2.	None
The petitioners as well as respondent No. 3 onwards in the writ petition were serving as clerks, either in the upper division or in the lower division, in the registration and Stamps Department including the office of the Registrar General of Births, Deaths and Marriage and the office of the Registrar of the Firms.	Facts
Some of the respondents had been recruited by the InspectorGeneral of Registration and Stamps, Andhra Pradesh for being appointed as SubRegistrars.	Facts
The petitioners challenged the validity of their recruitment on various grounds, by means of a writ petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution.	Facts
But that petition was summarily dismissed by a single Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court.	Facts
Thereafter, the matter was taken up in appeal to a Division Bench of that Court.	Facts
The Division Bench rejected all the contentions of the petitioners except one viz., that rule 5 of the rules is ultra vires Art.	Facts
14 of the Constitution.	Issue
As a result of that conclusion it struck down the impugned recruitments.	Facts
Only two questions were presented before us for decision, viz (i) whether rule 5 of the rules is ultra vires Art.	None
14 of the Constitution and(ii)	Issue
whether the recruitments made or not in accordance with the rules	Issue
.	Issue
At this stage, it may be mentioned that the High Court has held that the impugned recruitments were made in accordance with the rules.	Issue
In other words, the second question was decided against the petitioners.3.	Issue
We shall first take up the question as to the vires of rule 5.	None
The rules provide for the promotion to the posts of SubRegistrar as well as for recruitment to those posts.	Reasoning
Rule 2 provides that a post of GradeI SubRegistrar should be filled by promotion from GradeII SubRegistrar.	Reasoning
So far as Grade II SubRegistrars are concerned, they are to be appointed either by promotion from reserve SubRegistrars or by recruitment by transfer from the clerks of the Registration and Stamps Department including the office of the Registrar General of Births, Deaths and Marriages and the office of the Registrar of the Firms.	Reasoning
Rule 5 deals with qualifications for being recruited as GradeII SubRegistrars.	None
That rule reads Qualifications  No person shall be eligible for appointment to the category mentioned below unless he possesses the qualification shown.	None
Category and qualifications.1.	None
SubRegistrars, II Grade  (i) Must be a permanent clerk and must have served for a period of not less than seven years on duty as clerk in the Registration and Stamps Department including the office of the Registrar General of Births, Deaths and Marriages and the office of the Registrar of firms(ii) Must have passed the Registration Test and(iii)	None
(1) Must have taken at the final examination at the end of his school or college course, one of the following language, namely Telugu, Hindi, Oriya, Kannada, Tamil, Urdu or Marathi, or(2) Must have passed the Government Translation Test or the Second Class Language TestFull Test.(iv) Must have passed the Second Class language Test  Full Test  in a language other than that taken for S.S.L.C. or University.	None
Preference shall be given to persons who, in addition to the qualifications specified in items (i) to (iii) possess a degree in Law of a University in the State or any other equivalent qualification or a leadership certificate in the first category or Upper Division Clerks in the Registration Department.	None
It was urged that this rule is violative of Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution because though among the clerks there are U.D.Cs.	Reasoning
as well as L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
yet all of them had been put in one class for the purpose of recruitment.	Reasoning
As per the Ministerial Service Rules the U.D.Cs. had to be selected from the L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
after the L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
had put in certain number of years of service and after they had passed the Accounts Test as well as the Registration Test.	Reasoning
A.U.D.C. holds superior post to that of an L.D.C.	Reasoning
His salary is higher and his conditions of service are better than that of an L.D.C.	None
Hence it was urged that as rule 5 treats U.D.Cs.	None
as well as L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
as equal for the purpose of recruitment for the post of a Grade II Sub Registrar, the rule violates the doctrine of equality.	Reasoning
According to the petitioners the equality doctrine is attracted not only when equals are treated as unequals but also where unequals are treated as equals.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended on behalf of the petitioners that a statutory provision may offend Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution both by finding differences where there are none and by making no difference where there is one.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proposition of law advanced on behalf of the petitioners is unexceptionable.	None
This Court ruled in Kunnathat Thathunni Moopil Nair v. The State of Kerala and another, (1961) 3 S.C.R. 77, that when the statute obliged every person who held land to pay tax at the flat rate prescribed, whether or not he made any income out of the property, or whether or not the property was capable of yielding any income, there being no attempt at classification in the provisions of the statute, the statute denied equality before law because of lack of classification.	None
Similar views have been expressed by this Court in other decisions.	None
It is not necessary to refer to those decisions.4.	None
On the other hand it was argued on behalf of the contesting respondents that before considering the vires of rule 5 we must first ascertain the reason behind the rule to find out whether in fact there is discrimination.	Arguments of Respondent
The contesting respondents do not deny that the position of an U.D.C. is superior to that of an L.D.C.	Arguments of Respondent
But according to them it became necessary for the State to pool together the U.D.Cs.	Arguments of Respondent
as well as the L.D.Cs.	Arguments of Respondent
for the purpose of recruitment in question for the following reasons 5.	None
The Grade II SubRegistrars are in a state wise cadre whereas the U.D.Cs.	Reasoning
and L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
belong to a districtwise cadres.	Reasoning
Promotion from L.D.C. to U.D.C. is made districtwise.	Reasoning
The chances of promotion from L.D.C. to U.D.C. in one district materially differs from another district.	Reasoning
It depends on the number of posts available in a particular district.	Reasoning
In one district an L.D.C. may be promoted as a U.D.C. as soon as he puts in a service of 5 years, whereas in another district an L.D.C. possessing the same or better qualifications as well as efficiency may not be promoted as a U.D.C. for 15 years or more.	Reasoning
That being so while making recruitment to a Statewise cadre it was not possible for the State to make distinction between the L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
and the U.D.Cs.	Reasoning
The only reasonable basis that could have been adopted was to treat the U.D.Cs.	Reasoning
and L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
as one class for the purpose of recruitment.	Reasoning
But at the same time the rule provides for giving preference to the U.D.Cs. who had put in a service of 5 years or more.	Reasoning
There is force in these contentions though there may be some anomaly in the case of L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
and	Reasoning
U.D.Cs.	Reasoning
serving in the same district.	Reasoning
But that anomaly cannot be avoided.	Reasoning
The validity of a rule has to be judged by assessing its overall effect and not by picking up exceptional case.	Reasoning
What the court has to see is whether the classification made is a just one taking all aspects into consideration.6.	Reasoning
On the facts before us we are unable to agree that for the purpose of recruitment with which we are concerned herein the State should have classified the U.D.Cs.	Reasoning
and L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
separately.	Reasoning
If the State had treated the U.D.C. as being superior to the L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
for the purpose of that recruitment it would have resulted in a great deal of injustice to a large section of the clerks.	Reasoning
The fortuitous circumstances of an officer in a particular district becoming a U.D.C. would have given him an undue advantage over his seniors who might have been as efficient or even more efficient than himself, merely because they chanced to serve in some other district.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above, we do not think that in the present case the State can be said to have treated unequals as equals.	Reasoning
The rule of equality is intended to advance justice by avoiding discrimination.	Reasoning
In our opinion the High Court by overlooking the reason behind rule 5 came to the erroneous conclusion that the said rule violated Art.	Reasoning
14 of the Constitution.7.	Reasoning
We agree with the High Court that there is no substance in the petitioners contention that the impugned recruitments were not made in accordance with rule 5.	Reasoning
It is clear from the affidavit filed on behalf of the State and the Registrar that the Registrar had considered the case of all the qualified clerks, but the Registrar though that the best basis for recruitment was to prepare a list of all the clerks, U.D.Cs.	Reasoning
as well as L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
arranging the names in the order of seniority as L.D.Cs.	Reasoning
and thereafter consider each name and reject the unfit.	Reasoning
In other words, the selection was made on the basis of senioritycummerit.	Reasoning
The seniors among the clerks were selected subject to suitability.	Reasoning
Those persons who were entitled to be given preference under the rules were considered separately and recruited at the first instance.	Reasoning
Only thereafter the other recruitments were made.	Reasoning
The rules do not prescribe that the recruitment should be made on the basis of merit and merit alone.	Reasoning
Bearing in mind the fact that the recruitment with which we are concerned in this case is a recruitment by transfer which means recruitment from among the ministerial officials, the method adopted by the Registrar appears to us to be the most reasonable one.8.	Reasoning
In the result this appeal is allowed, the order of the Division Bench of the High Court is set aside and that of the single Judge restored.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, we direct the parties to bear their own costs in all the courts.	Decision
