 M. Panchal, J. By filing this petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the ten petitioners which are Private Limited Companies have prayed to issue a writ in the nature of mandamus or any other appropriate writ or order declaring notification No. 1208/HC UPPCLV1974/1204/2000 dated 07.08.2000 issued by the UP Power Corporation Limited, which was formerly known as U.P. State Electricity Board as illegal, arbitrary and violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution in so far as it denies the petitioners, the Hill Development Rebate of 33.33 on the total amount of electricity bills issued by the respondents for the remaining unexpired period of five years from the date of commencement of supply of electricity to the industrial units of the petitioners.	Facts
The petitioners have also prayed to issue an appropriate writ in the nature of mandamus or any other appropriate writ, order of direction commanding the respondents to restore give Hill Development Rebate of 33.33 to the industrial units of the petitioners on the total amount of the electricity bills for the remaining unexpired period of five years.	Facts
The facts giving rise to the filing of this petition are as under The petitioners are industrial units carrying on business of manufacturing iron rods, ingots, strips in furnaces rerolling mills in hill are known as Kotdwar, State of Uttar Pradesh, now State of Uttarakhand.	Facts
The industrial units of the petitioners were connected with power loads in the year 199697 by U.P. State Electricity Board which is now known as U.P. Power Corporation Limited.	Facts
The claim made by the petitioners is that from the year 1986, the State Government, in order to develop hill areas and particularly Zero Industrial Zones of hill areas as well as for inducing, encouraging and alluring new entrepreneurs declared various exhaustive industrial policies with the consent of UP State Electricity Board, Sales Tax Department and Industrial Department granting various incentives including rebate of 33.33 on total amount of electricity bills to industrial units to be established in hill areas of UP.	Facts
The petitioners have averred that a new industrial policy dated April 30, 1990 was declared by the State Government assuring grant of 33.33 rebate on total amount of electricity bills to new entrepreneurs for a period of five years.	Facts
The case of the petitioners is that the Government of UP, pursuant to the aforesaid policy issued an order dated 16101990 to UPSEB to implement all the instructions contained in the said industrial policy.	Facts
The said policy, according to the petitioners was to remain in operation till March 31, 1995.	Facts
The record shows that the UPSEB by Notification dated June 28, 1996 modified the earlier notifications and extended the Hill Development Rebate which was to expire on March 31, 1995 for a further period of next five years to be made available to the new industrial units which would be set up till 3131997.	Facts
The petitioners have claimed that the five years period for which the petitioners were entitled to the Hill Development Rebate of 33.33 on the total amount of electricity bills was to be over in the year 200102.	Facts
What is asserted by the petitioners is that in view of the promises, assurances and guarantees given by the Government of UP through various industrial policies declared from time to time and accepted, operated as well as implemented by UPSEB through different gazette notifications, the industrial units of the petitioners were established in Kotdwar, District Pauri in the year 199697.	Facts
According to the petitioners on January 3, 1997 the Respondent No.2 Corporation, brought out its electricity tariff to be levied on the consumers and it was interalia stipulated that the promises made in the industrial policy declared by the UP Government on April 30, 1990 and gazette notification dated June 28, 1996 would continue to be available to the new entrepreneurs as before.	Facts
The petitioners have mentioned that 33.33 rebate promised to industrial units established in the hill areas was accordingly granted to the petitioners who had established their industrial units in the year 199697.	Facts
Explaining as to why the respondents had promised to grant rebate of 33.33, it is stated that, the rebate was meant to meet out extra expenditure incurred by the industrial units set up in hill areas in comparison to the industrial units set up in hill areas in comparison to the industrial units established on plain and developed areas on account of various factors such as labour charges, maintenance cost, transportation of raw material, transportation of finished goods, availability of water, establishment charges etc.	Facts
The petitioners have averred that vide Notification dated 18061998 25011999, issued by the respondent Corporation, uniform tariffs were introduced, which were seemingly innocuous but in fact had reduced the rebate from 33.33 to 17 and the result was that hill area units became less competitive and unviable in comparison to the units situated in developed areas.	Facts
The petitioners have mentioned that the two Notifications dated June 18, 1998/25011999 levying the tariffs, were challenged by the petitioners before High Court of Allahabad by way of filing C.W.P. Nos. 15292 and 15293 of 1999.	Facts
The High Court vide judgment dated 25052000 had allowed the writ petitions and struck down clause 9(a) of the Notification dated 25011999 and clause 8(a) of the Notification dated 18061998 holding that the petitioners were entitled to get H.D.R. of 33.33 on the total bill till the period of five years from the date of commencement of supply of electricity to them was to come to an end.	Facts
The record shows that the final Judgment dated 25.05.2000 rendered by the High Court of Allahabad was challenged by U.P. Power Corporation Limited before this Court by way of filing SLP No. 1066510666 of 2000 and this Court had initially passed an Interim Order dated July 28, 2000 directing the present industrial units of the petitioners to make payments of electricity bills as per tariff notification dated 25.01.1999.	Facts
The claim made by the petitioners is that after passing of the above mentioned interim order dated 28.07.2000 the respondent had issued a new tariff by notification dated 07.08.2000 and had increased exorbitantly the rate of charges and had completely withdrawn the Hill Development Rebate which was made admissible under the industrial policy declared by the then Chief Minister in the year 1996 and continuously allowed by the respondent No.2 till 180698/25.01.99.	Facts
It is relevant to notice that the notification granting rebate was issued under Section 49 of the Electricity Supply Act, 1948, whereas the notification dated 07.08.2000 whereby the rebate was completely withdrawn was issued under Section 24 of the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 which came into force with effect from 14.01.2000.	Facts
The grievance made by the petitioners was that because of the interim order dated 28.07.2000 passed in S.L.P. Nos. 1066510666 of 2000, the respondents were not entitled to issue and introduce a new tariff by a notification dated 07.08.2000 increasing the rate of charges and completely withdrawing the Hill Development Rebate but were entitled to levy tariff according to the notification dated 25.01.99.	Facts
Therefore, they filed IA No. NIL of 2000 in SLP Nos. 1066566 of 2000 seeking appropriate directions from the Court.	Facts
The claim advanced by the petitioners is that the said IA was listed before the Court on 29.09.2000 and after hearing the parties, while adjourning the said IA for a period of two weeks the Bench hearing the I.A. had opined that the petitioners, if so advised, should file writ petition challenging the new tariff revised rates of power made applicable with effect from 09.08.2000 by the notification dated 07.08.2000.	Facts
The petitioners have claimed that taking hint from the opinion expressed by this Court on 29.09.2000, the instant petition was filed.	Facts
The petitioners have mentioned that by new tariff notification dated 07.08.2000, the respondents have completely withdrawn the assured, promised and guaranteed Hill Development Rebate which has made it impossible for the petitioners to run their industrial units located in the hill areas and therefore the notification dated 07.08.2000 should be regarded as illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of provisions of Article 14, 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution as well as contrary to the principles of promissory estoppel.	Facts
The assertion made by the petitioners is that the respondents are bound to act as per their promise, solemnly made to the petitioners while inviting them to establish the industrial units in completely remote and underdeveloped areas of U.P.	Facts
The petitioners have further claimed that because of the tariff introduced by notifications dated 18.06.98/25.01.99 out of 28 industrial units which were established on assurances given by the respondents, 15 industrial units were closed down and now only 13 industrial units of the petitioners are operating at present.	Facts
It is mentioned that the new tariff introduced by notification dated 07.08.2000 is contrary to the suggestions recommendations made by Uttar Pradesh Regulatory Commission established under the provisions of Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998.	Facts
Under the circumstances, the petitioners have filed the instant petition and claimed the reliefs to which reference is made earlier.	Facts
On service of notice Mr. N.N.Srivastava, Deputy General Manager (Com.), U.P. Power Corporation Limited, i.e., the respondent No.2 herein, has filed affidavit in opposition on behalf of Respondent Nos. 2 3 taking preliminary objections that the petition is not maintainable as no fundamental right of the petitioners, which are the companies, is violated.	Facts
The respondent No.2 has stated that since tariff was framed in exercise of statutory powers by a statutory body, the petition is not maintainable against exercise of this statutory power.	Facts
In the reply it is mentioned that there is a provision of filing review before the Commission in case the petitioners feel aggrieved but they are not justified in making grievance directly before this Court regarding introduction of new tariff rates and or withdrawal of rebate by filing a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Facts
After mentioning that the agreement entered into by the petitioners with the Respondent No.2 Corporation contains a clause that the rates tariff fixed revised by the supplier i.e. the replying respondent, from time to time, would also be applicable to the petitioners, from time to time, would also be applicable to the petitioners, it is asserted that in view of the said clause, the petitioners are estopped from challenging the revision of the tariff made under statutory exercise of powers for greater public interest.	Facts
In the reply, clause seven of the agreement has been reproduced and it is claimed that the petition which is mainly based on the principle of promissory estoppel being thoroughly misconceived, should be dismissed at once.	Facts
So far as, merits of the matter is concerned, it is stated that the notification dated 07.08.2000 is neither illegal nor arbitrary nor discriminatory nor hit by the principle of promissory estoppel and the reliance placed upon the decision dated 25.05.2000 rendered by the High Court in Writ Petition No. 1529293 of 1999 is misconceived as the same is subject matter of challenge in the pending SLPs.	Facts
According to the reply, during the pendency of SLP filed by the respondent UP Power Corporation Limited, the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission framed a new tariff in exercise of statutory powers and directed the respondents to enforce the same and therefore the respondents to enforce the same and therefore the respondents who are bound to enforce the tariff, have enforced the same vide notification dated 07.08.2000.	Reasoning
It is claimed that tariff revision made under the statutory powers has nothing to do with the interim order dated 28.07.2000 passed by this Court in the SLPs filed by the U.P. Power Corporation Limited and the High Court is wrong in allowing the Writ Petitions and directed that 33.33 rebate should be given to the petitioners, when the entire tariff is changed and total financial burden on the petitioners is less than 5 of tariff.	Reasoning
After asserting that the Kotdwar is practically situated in plain area and very near to to Najibabad, it is stated that the claim of high cost advanced by the petitioners is not genuine.	Reasoning
In the reply it is emphasized that the tariff was revised to minimize the theft of electricity which was prevalent amongst large and heavy consumers like petitioners and in fact rates enforced with effect from 18.06.1998 were more favourable to the petitioners but they were not satisfied with the said tariff and therefore had filed writ petition in the High Court from which the SLP No. 1066566 of 2000 have arisen.	Reasoning
Another affidavit dated 26.12.2000 is also filed by Mr. N.N. Srivastava clarifying certain aspects of the matter.	Reasoning
In the additional reply, different provisions of U.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission Act and U.P. Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 are adverted to and it is claimed that in view of Section 7(a) of the Act, the tariff as framed by the U.P. State Electricity Board is applicable to the petitioners and they having undertaken to pay the electricity charges as per the rules tariff determined by UP State Electricity Board from time to time, the petition is not maintainable.	Reasoning
It is also asserted in the reply that when the Regulatory Commission has held that no development rebate is to be given to a consumer, the Corporation has no authority at all to grant any development rebate and, therefore, the petitioners are not entitled to the reliefs claimed in the petition.	Facts
The petitioners have filed rejoinder to the counter affidavits dated 03.11.2000 and 26.12.2000 filed on behalf of Respondents No. 2 and 3.	Facts
In the rejoinder, they have reiterated their stand taken in the petition.	Facts
It may be mentioned that Civil Appeal Nos. 12151216 of 2001 arising out of SLP Nos. 1066510666 of 2000 with the instant Writ Petition No. 537 of 2000 were notified for final disposal before the Court on 20092007.	Facts
On the said date the appeals and the writ petition were called out for hearing and after hearing the parties at length following order was passed by the Court on 20.09.2007 Heard the parties at length.	Facts
Hearing concluded.	None
Judgment reserved.	None
Mr. A.M.Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants shall file a detailed affidavit showing the consumption of the units in hill areas getting this incentive up to 1997 and after that when the new tariff was introduced in 1998.	Decision
He may file the affidavit to this effect within two weeks from today.	Decision
It will be open for the respondents to file their reply within two weeks thereafter.	Facts
WRIT PETITION (C) NO.	None
537 OF 2000 Let this matter be listed after the disposal of Civil Appeal No. 12151216 of 2001.	Facts
Thus the instant writ petition was detagged and directed to be listed after the disposal of civil appeal Nos. 12151216 of 2001.	Facts
The decision in Civil Appeal No. 12151216 of 2001 was pronounced on December 10, 2007 and it is reported in U.P. Power Corporation Ltd. and another vs. Sant Steels and Alloys (P) Ltd. and others (2008)	Facts
2 S.S.C. 777.	Facts
This Court by the said decision held that notifications dated 28.06.1996 and 03.01.1997 wherein rebate was given were issued under Section 49 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 and they were in the nature of delegated legislation.	Facts
It was further held that on the basis of principle of promissory estoppel, the respondent No.2 i.e. UP Power Corporation Limited was not entitled to take away benefit given to the industries.	Facts
However, the Court made reference to Uttar Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 wherein no such benefit of rebate is recognized and held that the benefit of rebate cannot be extended after coming into force of Uttar Pradesh Regulatory Reforms Act, 1999, i.e., after 14.01.2000 because estoppel cannot be claimed against the statute.	Facts
The findings recorded by this Court while disposing of Civil Appeals No. 12151216 of 2001 made in Paragraph 34 and 36 of the decision, read as under Dr. Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant Corporation submitted that now the Act of 1999 has come into force and that Act does not recognize the concessions given to the hill areas and that this is a primary legislation i.e. the Act passed by the State Legislature.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, to this extent we can accept the submission of Dr. Singhvi that since the Act of 1999 does not recognize such Hill developmental benefits, therefore, from the date of passing of the Act of 1999 the said benefit cannot be accepted.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have stated above that there cannot be estoppel against the statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since such benefits have not been recognized by the Act of 1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
therefore, up to the date of coming into force of the Act of 1999, all the benefits which were being given to the respondent entrepreneurs shall be protected by invoking the principle of Promissory Estoppel but after coming into force of the Act of 1999, which is a primary legislation enacted by the State Legislature the benefits from the date the Act has come into force, cannot be made available to the respondents.	Facts
xxx	None
xxx xxx	None
Therefore, as a result of our above discussion, we hold that the view taken by the Allahabad High Court on revoking (sic invoking) the principle of Promissory Estoppel is correct and the respondents units will be entitled to such benefits till the UP Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 came into force.	Facts
Since after coming into force of the Act of 1999 no such concession has been granted, therefore, the concession shall survive till the Act of 1999 came into force.	Facts
The appeals are accordingly disposed of with no order as to cost.	Facts
On 20.01.2009 Division Bench of this Court heard W.P. No. 537 of 2000, and referred the matter to larger Bench on the question as to whether the rebate concession granted to the petitioners from 1997 to 2002 should continue till 2002 or will cease to have effect after 14.01.2000, as was directed by the Division Bench in C.A. No. 12151216 of 2001 decided on 10.12.2007.	Facts
Pursuant to the said direction the petition is placed before the present larger Bench.	Facts
The proceedings of the case indicate that the writ petition was listed for hearing on 03.02.2010, when the Court directed the learned Counsel for the State of Uttarakhand to seek instructions from the Government whether the State Government was inclined to extend the benefit of Hill Development Rebate of 33.33 on total amount of electricity bills to the industrial units as was done by the erstwhile State Government of U.P.	Issue
In response to the same, Mr. Nitish Kumar Jha, Additional Secretary to the Government of Uttarakhand, has filed affidavit dated April 19, 2010 mentioning that the concession rebate by way of incentive was part of the policy framed by the then State Government of UP and the same was enforceable till the year 1997, but consequent upon enforcement of the UP Reorganization Act, 2000, the hill areas of the erstwhile State of UP were carved out which now form part of the new State known as State of Uttarakhand.	None
According to the affidavit, to accelerate the pace of industrial development in remote and backward hill region and to remove economic backwardness of the hill region, by generating the employment opportunities with the possibility to check the brain drain from these areas and keeping in view the uneven geographic situation, environmental and social conditions, the Government of Uttarakhand has framed Special Integration Industrial Development Policy for hills and remote areas of Uttarakhand.	None
The affidavit proceeds to state that the policy formulated by the State of Uttarakhand is an attempt to help and promote the establishment of industries based on the locally available resources with the coordinated and integrated industrial growth but so far as the power concession to new industrial units is concerned, the aforesaid policy does not provide for any concession to the steel industries established in the State as it is not considered necessary by the State to grant subsidy to the steel industries in the larger public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Along with the affidavit, the relevant extract of the aforesaid policy is produced as Annexure R1 and it is mentioned that in view of lack of provision in the industrial development policy, the concession of Hill Development Rebate of 33.33 granted earlier by UP Government cannot be extended to the steel industries located in the State of Uttarakhand.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court has heard the learned Counsel for the parties at length and in great detail.	None
This Court has also considered the documents forming part of the petition and the authorities cited at the bar for the guidance of the Court.	None
Though several authorities have been cited at the bar on both the sides, this Court proposes to refer to only those decisions which in fact helped the Court in resolving the dispute raised in the petition.	None
The respondents have contended that the petitioners are companies incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 and as companies do not have Fundamental Right under Article 19, the petitions filed under Article 32 should not be entertained by the Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the question which needs to be answered is whether the instant petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution is maintainable.	Arguments of Respondent
A company not being a citizen has no Fundamental Right under Article 19.	Arguments of Respondent
When a law infringes the Fundamental Right of a company, a shareholder cannot normally apply under Article 32 for enforcement of companys	Reasoning
Fundamental Right as in the eye of law two are distinct entities.	Reasoning
A corporation in law is equal to a natural person and has legal entity of its own.	Reasoning
The entity of a corporation is entirely separate from that of its shareholder applying the doctrine of piercing or lifting of veil and it cannot be said that the petition by corporation is a petition by the shareholder.	Reasoning
It is important to mention that the petitioners are the companies registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	Reasoning
It is well settled that a company cannot maintain a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution for enforcement of Fundamental Rights guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
A company, being not a citizen, has no Fundamental Rights under Article 19 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Nonetheless the companies would be entitled to claim right under Article 14 of the Constitution and, therefore, it would be relevant to examine whether the respondents have committed breach of Article 14 by withdrawing the concession in electricity rates given granted earlier.	Reasoning
The short question which now falls for decision of this Court is whether the Hill Development Rebate of 33.33 on total amount of electricity bills under industrial policy of the erstwhile State Government of U.P. granted to the writ petitioners will cease to have effect after 14.01.2000 when U.P. Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 came into force or should continue thereafter, as can be seen from the decision in U.P. Power Corporation Limited Anr.	Issue
vs. Sant Steels and Alloys (P) Ltd.	Issue
Ors.	Issue
(Supra).	None
Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned Senior Counsel for the writ petitioners submitted that the concessions in the bills for power supply were given to the industries set up in the hill areas in view of the direction given by the State Government in exercise of power under Section 78A of the Act of 1948, pursuant to which necessary notifications granting concessions were issued and as acting upon the promises contained in those notifications, the private entrepreneurs had made huge investments and acted to their detriment and, therefore, now the respondents cannot wriggle out from those promises and are estopped from withdrawing those concessions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Placing reliance on the observations made in para 30 of the reported decision in U.P. Power Corporation Ltd. and another vs. Sant Steel and Alloys (P) Ltd. (Supra) it was emphasized that therein the Court took the notice of the fact that in the UP Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 which came into force with effect from January 14, 2000 the benefit granted under the previous Act was neither specifically withdrawn nor it was stipulated that the said benefit would not be available after coming into force of the said Act with effect from 14.01.2000.	Arguments of Petitioner
Based on these observations, it was argued that in such a situation the principle of promissory estoppel which has been evolved by the Courts which is based on public policy would not permit the State to revoke withdraw he benefits already granted to the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
As noticed earlier, the Civil Appeals arising out of SLPs filed by UP State Power Corporation were notified for hearing with the instant writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is difficult to fathom the reason, which prompted detagging of the writ petition when Civil Appeals were heard on merits.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners could neither offer any plausible explanation nor could they point out the relevant circumstances which resulted into the detagging of the instant writ petition from the civil appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no manner of doubt that certain observations made in paragraphs 34 and 36 quoted above from the reported decision are against the present petitioners but the Court also held that all the benefits which were being given to entrepreneurs shall stand protected before coming into force of the Act of 1999 on the principle of promissory estoppel.	Reasoning
Therefore, this Court will have to consider the question whether the reasoning adopted by the Division Bench for coming to the said conclusion is legal, though it was made clear to all the learned counsel for the parties that the instant Writ Petition cannot be treated as an appeal against the decision dated December 10, 2007 rendered by the two learned Judges of this Court in Civil Appeal Nos. 12151216 of 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the observations made by the Division Bench of this Court in the reported decisions, the questions that fall for consideration of this larger Bench are whether a benefit given by a statutory notification can be withdrawn by the Government by another statutory notification and whether the principles of promissory estoppel would be applicable in a case where concessions rebates given by a statutory notification are subsequently withdrawn by another statutory notification.	Reasoning
It is an admitted position that the notification dated June 28, 1996, granting rebate to the industries set up in hill areas, was issued in exercise of powers conferred by Section 49 of Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.	Reasoning
By the said notification rebate in electricity charges to the extent of 33.33 was given to the industries, which were set up in the hill areas during the specified period.	Reasoning
It is also an admitted position that thereafter, by notifications dated June 18, 1998 and January 25, 1999, issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 49 of the Act of 1948, the percentage of rebate granted by the earlier notification was reduced to 17.	Reasoning
However, by notification dated August 7, 2000 the benefit, which was granted to the industries set up in the hill areas regarding rebate in the electricity charges, was completely withdrawn.	Reasoning
What is relevant to notice is that it is not in dispute that the notification dated August 7, 2000 withdrawing the benefits granted earlier, was issued in exercise of powers conferred by Section 24 of the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1999.	Reasoning
The above mentioned fact makes it evident that the benefits, which were granted and or curtailed in exercise of statutory powers, were subsequently withdrawn in exercise of another statutory power conferred by another statute, namely, Uttar Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1999.	Reasoning
In the light of above mentioned facts, the question whether principle of promissory estoppel would apply to exercise of statutory powers will have to be considered.	Reasoning
The doctrine of promissory estoppel is by now well recongized and well defined by catena of decisions of this Court.	Reasoning
Where the Government makes a promise knowing or intending that it would be acted on by the promisee and, in fact, the promisee, acting in reliance on it, alters his position, the Government would be held bound by the promise and the promise would be enforceable against the Government at the instance of the promisee notwithstanding that there is no consideration for the promise and the promise is not recorded in the form of a formal contract as required by Article 229 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The rule of promissory estoppel being an equitable doctrine has to be moulded to suit the particular situation.	Reasoning
It is not a hard and fast rule but an elastic one, the objective of which is to do justice between the parties and to extend an equitable treatment to them.	Reasoning
This doctrine is a principle evolved by equity, to avoid injustice and though commonly named promissory estoppel, it is neither in the realm of contract nor in the realm of estoppel.	Reasoning
For application of doctrine of promissory estoppel the promisee must establish that he suffered in detriment or altered his position by reliance on the promise.	Reasoning
Normally, the doctrine of promissory estoppel is being applied against the Government and defence based on executive necessity would not be accepted by the Court.	Reasoning
However, if it can be shown by the Government that having regard to the facts as they have subsequently transpired, it would be inequitable to hold the Government to the promise made by it, the Court would not raise an equity in favour of the promisee and enforce the promise against the Government.	Reasoning
Where public interest warrants, the principles of promissory estoppel cannot be invoked.	Reasoning
Government can change the policy in public interest.	Reasoning
However, it is well settled that taking cue from this doctrine, the authority cannot be compelled to do something which is not allowed by law or prohibited by law.	Reasoning
There is no promissory estoppel against the settled proposition of law.	Reasoning
Doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be invoked for enforcement of a promise made contrary to law, because none can be compelled to act against the statute.	Reasoning
Thus, the Government or public authority cannot be compelled to make a provision which is contrary of law.	Reasoning
Having noticed salient features of the principle of promissory estoppel it would be relevant to refer to certain observations made by the two Judge Bench of this Court in U.P. Power Corporation Ltd. and another vs. Sant Steel and Alloys (P) Ltd. (supra).	Reasoning
In the said decision the Court has observed in paragraph 33 of the reported decision as under 33 But, after survey of all these cases on the subject, the judicial consensus that emerges is that whenever the State has made a representation to the public and the public has acted on that representation and suffered economically or otherwise, then in that case the State should be estopped from withdrawing such benefit to the detriment of such people except in public interest or against the statute.	None
So far as the public interest as involved in the present case is concerned, we have found that there was no overwhelming evidence to revoke the benefit granted to the industrial units in the hill areas.	None
So far as the statute is concerned, the notification was issued under Section 49 of the Act of 1948 and the same was revoked under Section 49 of the Act of 1948 though there was no such provision contained in Section 49 that it will be open to the Corporation to revoke the same but could be possible by invoking the principle of General Clauses Act.	Reasoning
But in (sic case of) such delegated legislation such withdrawal could only be permitted if larger public interest is invoked or if the Act is passed by the legislature.	None
A critical analysis of the above quoted passage makes it evident that the two Judge Bench was of the view that notification issued under Section 49 of the Act of 1948 can be revoked modified only if express provision was made for the revocation modification of the said notification under Section 49 itself and the Court found that as there was no such provision contained in Section 49, it was not open to the Corporation to revoke the same.	Reasoning
Further, though the Court made reference to General Clauses Act, it added that the provisions of General Clauses Act would be applicable in case of delegated legislation if withdrawal curtailment of benefit was in larger public interest or if the legislation was enacted by the Legislature authorizing the Government to withdraw curtail the benefit granted by a notification.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances the two notifications curtailing the benefit to 17 were treated as contrary to Section 49 of the Act of 1948.	Reasoning
On review of the law on the subject and the relevant statutory provisions, this Court finds that, for the reasons mentioned hereinafter, the above statement of law is not an accurate proposition of law.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 was enacted by the Parliament to provide for the rationalization of the production and supply of electricity and generally for taking measures conducive to electrical development.	None
The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 being a Central Act, the provisions of Sections 14 and 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 would be applicable.	None
Section 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 reads as under Powers conferred to be exercisable from time to time.  	None
(1) Where, by any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of this Act, any power is conferred, then unless a different intention appears that power may be exercised from time to time as occasion requires.	None
This section applies also to all Central Acts and Regulations made on or after the fourteenth day of January, 1887.	None
Whereas Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 reads as under Power to issue, to include power to add to, amend, vary or rescind notifications, orders, rules or byelaws.  	None
Where, by any Central Act or Regulations a power to issue notifications, orders, rules or byelaws is conferred, then the power includes a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like sanction and conditions, if any, to add to, amend, vary or rescind any notifications, orders, rules or byelaws so issued.	None
Section 14 deals with the exercise of a power successively and has no relevance to the question whether the power claimed can at all be conferred.	None
By Section 14 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, any power conferred by any central enactment may be exercised from time to time as occasion arises, unless a different intention appears in the Act.	None
There is no different intention in the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.	None
Therefore, the power to issue a notification under Section 49 of the Act of 1948, can be exercised from time to time if circumstances so require.	None
Section 21 is based on the principle that power to create includes the power to destroy and also the power to alter what is created.	None
Section 21, amongst other things, specifically deals with power to add to, amend, vary or rescind notifications.	None
The power to rescind a notification is inherent in the power to issue the notification without any limitations or conditions.	None
Section 21 embodies a rule of construction.	None
The nature and extent of its application must be governed by the relevant statue which confers the power to issue the notification, etc.	None
However, there is no manner of doubt that the exercise of power to make subordinate legislation includes the power to rescind the same.	None
This is made clear by Section 21.	None
On that analogy an administrative decision is revocable while a judicial decision is not revocable except in special circumstances.	None
Exercise of power of a subordinate legislation will be prospective and cannot be retrospective unless the statute authorizes such an exercise expressly or by necessary implication.	None
The principle laid down in Section 21 is of general application.	None
The power to rescind mentioned in Section 21 is without limitations or conditions.	None
It is not a power so limited as to be exercised only once.	None
The power can be exercised from time to time having regard to the exigency of time.	None
When by a Central Act power is given to the State Government to give some relief by way of concession and or rebate to newly established industrial units by a notification, the same can be curtailed and or withdrawn by issuing another notification under the same provision and such exercise of power cannot be faulted on the ground of promissory estoppel.	None
It would be profitable to remember that the purpose of the General Clauses Act is to place in one single statute different provisions as regards interpretations of words and legal principles which would otherwise have to be specified separately in many different Acts and Regulations.	None
Whatever the General Clauses Act says whether as regards the meaning of words or as regards legal principles, has to be read into every statute to which it applies.	None
Further, power to curtail and or withdraw the notification issued under Section 49 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 giving rebate is implied under Section 49 itself on proper interpretation of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act.	None
Therefore, this Court is of the firm opinion that, power to curtail and or withdraw the notification issued under Section 49 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, granting certain benefits, was available to the respondents.	None
By virtue of Sections 14 and 21 of the General Clauses Act, when a power is conferred on an authority to do a particular act, such power can be exercised from time to time and carry with it power to withdraw, modify, amend or cancel the notifications earlier issued, to be exercised in the like manner and subject to like conditions, if any, attached with the exercise of the power.	None
It would be too narrow a view to accept that chargeability once fixed cannot be altered.	None
Since the charging provision in the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 is subject to the State Governments power to issue notification under Section 49 of the Act granting rebate, the State Government, in view of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, can always withdraw, rescind, add to or modify an exemption notification.	None
No industry can claim as of right that the Government should exercise its power under Section 49 and offer rebate and it is for the Government to decide whether the conditions are such that rebate should be granted or not.	None
There being nothing repugnant to raising of public revenue in exercise of sovereign power of State of impose and collect taxes including electricity duty, in any provision of the Act of 1948 or the policy statement made in the notification granting rebate, the raising of public revenue by withdrawing or reducing exemption, cannot be said to be against the provisions of any statute.	Reasoning
It is relevant to notice that the new industrial units, which were being established in the hill areas, could not have compelled the Government to exercise power under Section 49 of the Act of 1948 in their favour, for grant of rebate concession in electricity tariff.	Reasoning
Powers under Section 49 normally would be exercised by the State Government for industrial growth of an area and to generate employment opportunities for those who are residing in the area.	Reasoning
However, on change in the circumstances, the Government can always reconsider the matter and can either curtail or withdraw the benefit granted earlier.	Reasoning
This Court finds that the proposition of law laid down by the two Judge Bench in the decision mentioned above is too wide and has tendency to make Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, inoperative.	Reasoning
The concept of the larger public interest introduced, before invocation of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, in fact, amounts to amendment of the said provision, as notifications dated June 18, 1998 and January 25, 1999, issued under Section 49 of the Act of 1948, as well as notification dated August 7, 2000, issued under Section 24 of the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Reforms Act, 1999, are in the nature of legislations and, therefore, the principle of promissory estoppel would not apply to them.	Reasoning
At this Stage, it would be relevant to notice certain principles which have emerged from the reported decisions of this Court.	None
In State of Rajasthan and Another vs. J.K. Udaipur Udyog Ltd. and Another (2004) 7SCC 673, pursuant to its Fourth New Industrial Policy, the State of Rajasthan had framed and notified the Rajasthan Sales Tax Central Sales Tax Exemption Scheme for Industries, 1998 under Section 15, Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1994 and Section 8(5) of the Central Sales Tax Act.	None
The Scheme was brought into force w.e.f.	None
1.4.1998.	None
The Scheme inter alia provided for grant of exemption to industrial units from payment of sales tax on intraState and interState sale of goods and byproducts manufactured within the State of Rajasthan.	None
The cement plants and units were also entitled to exemption at the flat rate of 25 for eleven years.	None
Sick units were also granted such benefits.	None
The respondents before this Court were the Companies manufacturing cement in different units in Rajasthan and were sick industrial companies.	None
They had applied for exemption under the Scheme claiming benefits.	None
On 2021999, the Director of Industries had certified that the application of the respondents was complete.	None
During the pendency of the application of the respondents for sanction, a corrigendum dated 30.9.1999 was issued by the Government replacing the words new units at Sl.	None
No. 1 in respect of the units covered by Sl.	None
No. with new units at Sl.	None
Nos. 1,2 and 3 as the case may be.	None
The result of the corrigendum was that sick cement units were placed under Sl.	None
No. 4(a) on a par with new cement units under Sl. No.3.	None
The respondents submitted a representation to the Screening Committee that the corrigendum should not affect their case.	None
The Screening Committee permitted the respondents to avail of the benefits available under the corrigendum.	None
Consequently, no sanction and no eligibility certificate was ever issued to the respondents.	None
Since the respondents had been availing of the higher rates of exemption against Sl. No.1, provisional assessment orders and notices were issued to the respondents over the differential sales tax.	None
The respondents then approached the Rajasthan High Court.	None
Their grievance was that their rights under the Scheme had crystallized w.e.f.	None
the date of certification of their applications and could not have been taken away by the corrigendum with retrospective effect.	None
A learned Single Judge of the High Court held that the respondents were right in contending that the impugned corrigendum amounted to amendment but further held that the Government was competent to modify the Scheme.	None
However, it was held that the corrigendum would be applicable from 7.1.2000 i.e. the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.	None
A Division Bench, while upholding the said decision, further held that the rights available to the respondents under the original Scheme were substantive rights and could not be affected adversely unless the subsequent notification clearly manifested an intention to do so.	None
The Division Bench held that no such intention was manifested by the corrigendum and that the amendment was arbitrary and violative of Article 14 being discriminatory visavis other sick industries.	None
It was also held that the amendment could not discriminate against sick cement plants which had not availed of benefits of tax exemption earlier.	None
It was concluded by the Division Bench that the benefits available to the respondents under the original Scheme were not affected by the corrigendum.	None
This court while allowing the appeal has held as under in paragraph 25 of the reported decision An exemption is by definition a freedom from an obligation which the exemptee is otherwise liable to discharge.	None
It is a privilege granting an advantage not available to others.	None
An exemption granted under a statutory provision in a fiscal statute has been held to be a concession granted by the State Government so that the beneficiaries of such concession are not required to pay the tax or duty they are otherwise liable to pay under such statute.	None
The recipient of a concession has no legally enforceable right against the Government to grant of a concession except to enjoy the benefits of the concession during the period of its grant.	None
This right to enjoy is a defeasible one in the sense that it may be taken away in exercise of the very power under which the exemption was granted.	Reasoning
(See Shri Bakul Oil Industries v. State of Gujarat (1987) 1 SCC 31 , Kasinka Trading v. Union of India (1995) 1 SCC 274 and Shrijee Sales Corpn.	None
V. Union of India (1997) 3 SCC 398 .)	None
From the principle enunciated in the above mentioned decision there is no manner of doubt that the rebate which was granted to the petitioners, was, by definition, a freedom from an obligation which the appellants otherwise were liable to discharge.	Reasoning
The rebate was a privilege granting an advantage which was not made available to others.	Reasoning
The rebate granted under Section 49 of the Electricity Supply Act of 1948 was, therefore, a concession granted by the State Government so that the beneficiaries of such concessions were not required to pay the electricity tariff, they were otherwise liable to pay under the said Act during the period of its grant.	Reasoning
The petitioners, as recipients of concession, accepted to enjoy the benefits of the concession during the period of its grant.	Reasoning
This right to enjoy was a defeasible one in the sense that it was liable to be taken away or withdrawn in exercise of the very power under which the exemption was granted.	Reasoning
Again in Arvind Industries and others vs State of Gujarat and others, AIR 1995 SC 2477 , Government had withdrawn a concession given to a new industry.	None
The claim of the industry was that such a course was not open to the Government.	None
It was claimed by the Government that notification giving concession did not contain any promise that the benefits given to new industry would not be altered from time to time.	None
While rejecting the claim of the Government is entitled to grant exemption to industries having regard to the industrial policy of the Government, but it is equally free to modify its industrial policy and grant, modify or withdraw fiscal benefits from time to time.	None
What is important to notice is that this Court has held that in such circumstances the principle of promissory estoppel would not be attracted.	None
What this Court finds is that several reported decisions some of which are rendered by the larger Bench were not considered by Division Bench of this Court while delivering judgment dated 10.12.2007 in Civil Appeal No. 1215 to 1216 of 2001.	None
The legal effect would be that the finding recorded by the Division Bench of this Court, in the above mentioned case that the notification dated 18.6.1998 and 25.1.1999 reducing the rate of rebate from 33.33 to 17 were bad in law will have to be regarded as not laying down correct proposition of law.	None
Thus, the petitioners in the present writ petition are not entitled to claim promissory estoppel against the Government and would not be entitled to any benefit on the basis of two Judge Bench judgment of this Court referred to earlier.	None
From the above discussion, it is clear that the petitioners cannot raise plea of estoppel against the notification dated August 7, 2000 reducing Hill Development Rebate to 0 as there can be no estoppel against the statute.	Reasoning
The next question, which falls for determination of this Court is whether the term stipulated in the contract entered into between the petitioners and the U.P. State Electricity Board (now the Corporation) stipulating that the respondent No.2 would give 33.33 rebate to the petitioners, is legally enforceable and whether in view of the said term the respondent No.2 precluded from changing the tariff rates.	Issue
It is pertinent to notice that before starting the industrial units, the petitioners had entered into agreement units, the petitioners had entered into agreement with the then U.P. State Electricity Board.	Reasoning
Clause 7 of this agreement provided that the rates tariff fixed revised by the supplier, i.e., the respondent No.2 from time to time, will be applicable to the petitioners.	Reasoning
Clause 7 of the agreement reads as under (7) a.	None
The consumer shall pay for the supply of electric energy at the rates enforced by the supplier from time to time as may be applicable to the consumer.	None
The rate schedule applicable to the consumer at the time of execution of this agreement is annexed hereto as Annexure2 H.V.1.	None
The Rate Schedule above mentioned may, at the discretion of the supplier be revised by the supplier from time to time and in the case of revision the rate schedule so revised shall be applicable to the consumer.	None
Any levy such as sales tax, excise duty, electricity duty or any other charges by whatsoever name called by Central, State Government or other competent authority on the electricity, supplied to the consumer shall also be paid by the consumer.	None
Subclause (a) of Clause 7 of the agreement in most clear terms provided that the consumer, i.e., the present petitioner shall pay for the supply of electric energy at the rates enforced by the supplier, i.e., the respondent	None
No.2 herein from time to time.	None
Though the rate schedule applicable at the time of execution of the agreement between the petitioners and the respondent No.2 was annexed to the agreement, it was provided specifically again in subclause (c) of Clause 7 that the rate schedule above mentioned may, at the discretion of the supplier, be revised by the supplier from time to time and in case of revision the rates schedule so revised shall be applicable to the consumer.	None
It was also provided in the agreement that any levy such as sales tax, excise duty, electricity duty or any other charges by whatsoever name called by Central or State Government or other competent authority on the electricity supplied to the consumer shall also be paid by the consumer.	None
Therefore, in view of the terms and conditions stipulated in Clause 7 of the agreement, this Court is of the firm opinion that the petitioners are precluded from challenging revision of the tariff in exercise of statutory powers conferred on the respondent No.2 in the larger public interest.	None
This Court does not find any prohibition in the agreement by which the respondent No.2 was bound to give 33.33 rebate to the petitioners in all the circumstances or was precluded from changing the tariff rates.	None
The petitioners being parties to the agreement now cannot turn around and argue that the respondent No. 2 is bound to give 33.33 Hill Development Rebate and can never change the tariff rates to the detriment of the petitioners.	None
On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, therefore, this Court holds that the respondent No. 2 is not bound to give 33.33 Hill Development Rebate to the petitioners for the period specified in the notification irrespective of change in the tariff rates.	None
Another question, which needs to be answered, is whether the Court of law would be justified in interfering with the policy decision of the Government either to grant or not to grant rebate to certain industrial units.	Issue
From the record of the case, it is evident that before August 8, 2000, the U.P. State Electricity Board had power to frame fix tariff under Section 49 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.	None
However, thereafter tariff was determined and is being determined by U.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission under the provisions of U.P. Electricity Reforms Act, 1999.	Reasoning
What is relevant to notice is that earlier the U.P. State Electricity Board had power to make fix a tariff other than the uniform tariff contemplated under Section 49(3) of the Act of 1948 for the electricity to be supplied to its consumers having regard to the geographical position of any area.	Reasoning
However, this power was not conferred on U.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission under the Act of U.P. Electricity Reforms Act, 1999.	Reasoning
As the power to fix prescribe the different rates of tariff in relation to geographical area is not provided and or is not available under Section 24 of the Act of 1999, this Court is of the opinion that the Regulatory Commission could not have issued such differential tariff giving rebate to certain industries set up having particular geographical location.	Reasoning
Mr. Shanti Bhushan, learned counsel for the petitioners, argued that under Section 12 of the Act of 1999 the State Government was entitled to issue policy directions to the Regulatory Commission just as it had earlier power to issue policy directions to the U.P. State Electricity Board under Section 78 of the Act of 1948.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that the State Government has power to issue policy directions to the Commission under the new Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the next question which arises for consideration is whether such a policy direction in fact was given by the State Government to the Regulatory Commission and the answer is obviously No.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no manner of doubt that the State Government could have issued direction regarding subsidy to be made available by the State Government to the licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, on February 3, 2010, when the Special Leave Petition was listed for hearing before this Court, the Court had directed the learned counsel for the State of Uttarakhand to seek instructions from the Government whether the State Government was still willing to extend subsidy of development rebate of 33.33 to the industrial units set up in hill area, as was done by the erstwhile State Government of Uttar Pradesh.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accordingly, the learned counsel for the State of Uttarakhand had taken appropriate instructions and as mentioned earlier, filed a short affidavit on April 19, 2010 for consideration of the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said affidavit it is specifically mentioned that with an objective to accelerate the pace of industrial development in remote and backward hill region and to remove economic backwardness of the hill region by generating the employment opportunities with the possibility to check the brain drain from this area and keeping in view the uneven geographical situation, the environmental and social conditions, the Government of Uttarakhand has framed Special Integration Industrial Development Policy for hills and remote areas of Uttarakhand, but as far as power concession to new industrial units is concerned, the aforesaid policy does not provide for any concession to the steel industries established in the State because it was not considered necessary in the larger public interest to grant such subsidy.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the said affidavit it is mentioned that in view of lack of provision in the industrial development policy, the concession of Hill Development Rebate of 33.33 earlier granted by the Uttar Pradesh Government cannot be extended to the steel industries in the State of Uttarakhand.	Arguments of Petitioner
Whether to grant rebate to certain industrial units located in an area is basically and essentially a policy decision.	Arguments of Petitioner
The policy decision as reflected in the affidavit dated April 19, 2010 filed by Nitesh Kumar Jha, Additional Secretary, Government of Uttarakhand, Department of Energy, is neither found to be unreasonable nor found to be arbitrary in any manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Special Integration Policy introduced by the State of Uttarakhand for hills and remote areas of Uttarakhand is not subjectmatter of challenge by the petitioners in the present writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Grant of power concession to new industrial units is not found by the State Government to be in larger public interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court, while exercising powers under Article 32 of the Constitution, cannot substitute the opinion and or view of the Government and come to the conclusion that power concession to new steel industries is in the larger public interest and, therefore, should be made available to the new steel industries.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a course is not permissible at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
The policy having not been found either arbitrary, capricious or unreasonable, this Court cannot interfere with the policy decision of the State Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
As observed earlier, there is nothing on record to show that any policy direction was given by the State of Uttarakhand to the Electricity Regulatory Commission to provide for rebate to industrial units situated in the hill area.	Arguments of Petitioner
The policy of the State Government in not granting rebate to industrial units situated in a particular area is basically a fiscal decision and in absence of arbitrariness of unreasonableness in the said policy, it cannot be a subjectmatter of judicial review of this Court while exercising powers under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, this Court holds that no case is made out by the petitioners to interfere with the said policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will not be out of place to mention that in view of Section 29 of the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998, the licensee, i.e., the respondent No.2 has no authority to enforce any tariff other than the approved by the Commission.	Decision
In view of Section 24 of the U.P. Electricity Reforms Act, 1999 the licensee, i.e., the respondent No.2 lacks power authority to modify the tariff determined by the Commission and in case of any violation, the licensee would be exposing itself to the punishment prescribed under Section 28 of the Act of 1999.	Decision
This Court in Association of Industrial Electricity Users vs. State of U.P. and others (2002) 3 SCC 711 as well as in West Bengal Electricity Regulatory Commission vs. CESC (2002) 8 SCC 715 , and in BSES vs. Tata power Company Limited (2004) 1 SCC 195 , has held that the licensee has no power to amend and or modify the tariff determined by the Regulatory Commission.	Decision
Grant of reliefs claimed by the petitioners would amount to compelling them to act against the statute.	Decision
Such a course is not permissible while exercising powers under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Decision
Thus the respondent No.2 Corporation cannot be directed to amend or modify the tariffs determined by the Commission nor the petitioners would be entitled to seek any direction against the licensee to amend or modify the tariff determined by the Commission.	Decision
What is relevant to notice is that if the power to reduce the rebate to 17 is assumed to be available, then power to reduce the rebate to 0, as is done by the notification dated August 7, 2000, is also available.	Decision
The petitioners have not challenged previous judgment of the High Court wherein this Court has held that the rebate would not be available cannot be given after coming into force of the U.P. Electricity Reforms Act, 1999.	Decision
The petitioners have also not challenged the tariff rates made applicable from September 16, 2001 to March 31, 2002 vide order dated September 1, 2000 by the U.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission, wherein no rebate based on geographical area has been provided.	Decision
The discussion made above makes it very clear that the petitioners have not been differently treated nor the tariff is sought to be recovered in any illegal or arbitrary manner.	Decision
Under the circumstances, this Court does not find breach of the salutary provisions of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Decision
As no right guaranteed to the petitioners under Article 14 of the Constitution is found to have been breached, the present petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution cannot be entertained and the petitioners are not entitled to the reliefs claimed in the instant petition.	Decision
Therefore, the petitioners are precluded from challenging notification dated August 7, 2000 withdrawing the rebate in electricity rates.	Decision
For the foregoing reasons, the petition fails and is hereby dismissed.	Decision
Rule is discharged.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
