 Sikri, J.1.	None
This appeal by certificate granted by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh is directed against its judgment and decree setting aside the decree passed by the Trial Court and dismissing the suit filed by the plaintiff, Hakim Mir Anwar Ahmed, now deceased.	Issue
The appeal is by the plaintiffs legal representatives.2.	Issue
The plaintiff filed a suit for the recovery of O. S. Rs. 1,40,000 on the allegation that the defendant, the Hyderabad State Government had agreed to take over a concern being run by the plaintiff and a book of prescriptions named TohfaeOsmania, and in pursuance of that agreement Rs. 50,000 had been paid to the plaintiff but the balance had remained outstanding.	Facts
He further claimed arrears outstanding.	Facts
He further claimed arrears of allowance which was due to him under the agreement.	Facts
The State Government made a counterclaim and prayed for a decree for O. S. Rs. 50,000, the money which had been already paid in pursuance of the alleged agreement.3.	Facts
The Trial Court passed a decree for a sum of O. S. Rs. 70,000 and dismissed the counterclaim preferred by the defendant.	Facts
The High Court, as mentioned earlier, dismissed the plaintiffs suit in toto and decreed the counterclaim of the defendant.4.	Facts
The Trial Court had framed a number of issues but we are only concerned with issues 6, 7 and 8, which are to the following effect6.	None
Was there a completed and concluded contract enforceable under law and has the Plaintiff any cause of action?	None
What is the effect on this case of payment of a lump sum of Rs. 50,000 and a salary of Rs. 500 per month to Anwar Ahmad by the Government?7.	Facts
Is the defendant Government entitled to receive the amounts paid to the Plaintiff.	Facts
If so to what extent?8.	Facts
Is the Plaintiff entitled to any amounts or damages and if so to what extent?5.	Facts
The relevant facts for the determination of these issues are as follows.	None
It is common case that H. E. H. the Nizam visited Delhi in or about 1936 and there he happened to meet the plaintiff and invited him to Hyderabad.	Facts
The plaintiff had been working with the late famous Hakim Ajmal Khan Saheb.	Facts
The idea of H. E. H. the Nizam was that the plaintiff would be a great asset in the field of Unani medicine in the State of Hyderabad.	Facts
The plaintiff accordingly went to Hyderabad and started his Dawakhana.	Facts
On 1st Safar 1355 H, the Chief Secretary wrote to the plaintiff that H. E. H. the Nizam would inaugurate the plaintiffs factory to be called Mukzanul Advia Majeediya.	Facts
It appears that H. E. H. the Nizams grandson was known as Majeedi Pasha.	None
H. E. H. the Nizam also promised to give sufficient grant to the Dawakhana when the question of reorganisation of Dawakhana was decided.	Facts
Arrangements were made for the inauguration and the list of persons to be invited settled.6.	Facts
On 26th II Jami 1361 H, H. E. H. the Nizam issued an order suggesting that something be done for Hakeem Anwar Ahmed who had suffered loss on account of dearness of articles etc.	None
H. E. H. finally concludedFinally I think it necessary to say some thing more that is, this person is an expert in the art of medicine from the period of the late Hakim Ajmal Khan who had full confidence in his work and no doubt the medicines prepared by him are rare and unavailable in our days which were prepared in specified medical way.	None
In this order H. E. H. the Nizam also suggested that a Committee be appointed constituting one member of the Finance Department, the other from the Military Department and the third from the Nazim Medical Service and this Committee be ordered to submit its report within one month to the concerned department in the Council considering all the aspects how to save this Makhasan from the devastations of time.7.	None
In pursuance of this directive the Committee met on July 29, 1942, and suggested a certain scheme.	Facts
These suggestions were further modified in a meeting dated July 31, 1942.	Facts
The suggestions were conveyed to the plaintiff and he was asked to submit his own proposals for the consideration of the Committee.	Facts
In a meeting on August 19, 1942, the Committee decided that a company should be floated and the name of the proposed company would be Magzen Majeedia Advia Limited.	Facts
We may reproduce para 2 of this proposalThe issued capital of the concern shall be rupees two lakhs, out of which the Government shall purchase 55 of the shares and the remaining 45 of the shares shall be earmarked for the public and out of latter shares for Rs. 10,000 shall be allotted to Moulvi Anwar Ahmed Saheb which shall be deemed to be the compensation for the technical services which he may render and he shall give all his medical formulas to the company.	Facts
We need not mention the other details regarding the management.	Facts
It was also suggested that the samans (articles) present in the Dawakhana of the plaintiff would be taken into possession after ascertaining their value and the shares of the same value would be allotted to him which shall be in addition to the shares of Rs. 10,000.	Facts
It was also provided that the plaintiff would get a sum of Rs. 375 per mensem towards his remuneration.8.	Facts
The plaintiff agreed to these proposals but suggested that experts be consulted in connection with the scheme, and he expressed preference for the Makhasan being nationalised.	Facts
A memorandum was submitted to H. E. H. the Nizam and he was pleased to issue the following order in September, 1943In view of the opinion of the council the proposals submitted by the committee appointed for the purpose of receiving the Makzam Advia Majeedia which is part and parcel of the Sadar Shafakhana Nizamia from the Dusthburd Zamana (i.e. from the vicissitudes of time) are hereby approved.	Facts
Action may be taken accordingly.	Facts
It is further ordered that the said Dawakhana (Makzan Advia Majeedia Limited) should always be run on commercial lines under the supervision of the Government.	Facts
Arrangements may be made for the purchase of the medicines prepared by the said Dawakhana, not only by the Government Hospitals but also by the public both in the State and outside the State and all the formulas of Hakim Anwar Ahmed should be obtained for the said Limited Company and I may be informed of the compensation to be paid to the said Hakim Ahmed for the same and the case may be completed after the end of Ramzan because it is highly necessary that this matter be decided during the lifetime of the said Anwar Ahmed since he has been of infirm health most of these days.9.	Facts
In compliance with the above orders a committee was appointed for determining the compensation for goodwill, compensation for the formulas and an assessment of the value of the existing assets of the Factory.	Facts
The Committee, considering that the prescriptions were being purchased for a company, fixed the compensation at Rs. 1,20,000.	Facts
This compensation was computed by considering the profits which used to be derived annually.	Facts
The total compensation determined was two lakhs and the method of payment was recommended as followsOut of this amount Hakim Meer Anwar Ahmed will be paid in cash a sum of rupees forty thousand as per the orders of the H. E. H. the Nizam and the balance of rupees one lakh and sixty thousand will be paid to him in the shape of shares in the proposed company.	Facts
In view of the circumstances stated above the new company i. e.	Facts
Magzan Advia Majeedia (Limited) will be started with a proposed capital of rupees ten lakhs.	Facts
Out of which the issued capital will be rupees five lakhs and out of the same shares worth rupees one lakh and sixty thousand shall be allotted to Hakim Meer Anwar Ahmed and the shares for the balance of the capital shall be allotted to the public.	None
The Finance Minister remarked that all the payments to Hakim Anwar Ahmed should be made in cash except those representing the purchase price of stock for which shares of the same value will be allotted to him out of the companys share capital.	Facts
The Council of Ministers suggested that the Government should purchase onethird of the issued capital shares of the proposed company.	Facts
All these proposals were submitted to H. E. H. the Nizam for orders.	Facts
H. E. H. the Nizam issued the following Firman, on July 2, 1945In this matter the proposals of the council submitted in the regard are appropriate.	Facts
Action may be taken accordingly.	Facts
However Hakeem Anwar Ahmed shall be paid Rs. 500 instead of Rs. 400 per month (from 1st of Sharawar) subject to the condition proposed and out of the compensation agreed to be paid to him a sum of rupees fifty thousand in cash instead of rupees forty thousand may be paid to him and a receipt obtained.	Facts
The remaining sum of rupees one and half lakh should be invested on his behalf in the capital of the company.	Facts
In any way all the matters should be settled within two weeks and the result should be intimated to me.	Facts
Nowadays Hakeem Anwar Ahmed is bedridden with heart trouble.	Facts
Hence it is highly necessary to decide these matters in his lifetime since this matter has been pending for a long time.10.	Facts
In obedience to this Firman, on August 1, 1945, a cheque for Rs. 50,000 was sent to the plaintiff and he was asked to send the book TohfaeOsmania.	Facts
On August 3, 1945, the plaintiff sent the book in a sealed cover.	None
However, nothing further happened regarding the floating of the company.11.	Facts
On April 6, 1948, the plaintiff wrote to the Secretary to the Government, Medical Department, suggesting that the cash compensation which was to be paid to him be increased.	Facts
He also wanted the compensation for the medicines and the goodwill to be revised.	Facts
He suggested that the entire compensation may be paid in cash.	Facts
In the course of this letter he saidThus there are some practical difficulties in the way of the business of Makhzan which it is impossible to overcome in the near future.	Facts
Apart from this there is no likelihood of the availability of capital.	Facts
I had, on the basis of the promises made by my friends assured that at least shares of the value of (5) lakhs would be sold through me and as such I had filed a list of the expected purchasers but I regret to say That cup is broken and that cup bearer is no more.12.	Facts
It is on this passage that the defendant rests his alternative case that the whole contract fell through because the plaintiff was not able to fulfill his part of the contract.13.	Facts
On June 15, 1948, the Secretary to Government, Medical Department, submitted an Arazdasht to H. E. H. the Nizam for information.	Facts
In this he submitted that the conditions were not favourable for converting the Magzan Advia Majeedia into a limited factory and the matter may be postponed for the present and the status quo maintained.	Facts
It appears that one Syed Ahmed Mohiuddin was appointed Managing Director of the proposed limited company and in this Arazdasht it was suggested that he be relieved of the post.14.	Facts
On June 15, 1948, the plaintiff wrote saying that Moulvi Syed Ahmed Mohiuddin, Managing Director, Maksan Adviya Majeedia (Limited) had not obtained any formal charge because the Company had not taken any separate existence till then.15.	Facts
The defendant continued to pay the allowance of Rs. 500 to the plaintiff till 1953.	Facts
On June 25, 1953, the Secretary to Government, Medical and Health Department, directed that (I) steps to recover the sum of Rs. 50,000 paid to Hakeem Anwar Ahmed may be dropped (2) the book of prescriptions and other papers received from him in consideration of the amount of Rs. 1,20,000 proposed to be paid to him may also be returned and (3) the payment of an allowance of Rs. 500 per month which is now being made may be stopped forthwith.	Facts
On July 6, 1953, the book was returned to the plaintiff but the plaintiff refused to receive it.16.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellant, Mr. Danial Latifi, contends that there was an outright sale of the book and the defendant could not unilaterally return the book after the property in the goods had vested in the defendant.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent, Mr. Reddy, contends that(I) there was no contract between the plaintiff and the Government(2) assuming that there was a contract it was a contingent contract, the contingency being the formation of the company and(3)	Arguments of Respondent
the contract was a package deal and the integrated scheme provided for compensation for the book, goodwill and stock on the condition that it would be the business of the plaintiff to float the company and as he failed to sell shares of the company to the extent of Rs. 5 lakhs, the scheme fell through due to plaintiffs default.18.	Arguments of Respondent
It seems to us that the Government definitely entered into an agreement with the plaintiff.	Reasoning
The terms of the agreement are contained in the proposals as modified by H. E. H. the Nizam in the Firman dated July 2, 1945.In short, the agreement was that the Government would buy the book of prescriptions (TohfaeOsmania), goodwill and existing assets of the factory for Rs.2 lakhs for a company to be floated by it.	Reasoning
It was not a part of the agreement that the plaintiff had to float the company.	Reasoning
The Government had in pursuance of the scheme appointed a Managing Director of the proposed company.	Reasoning
Further the Government in pursuance of the agreement purchased the book (TohfaeOsmania) and the property in it passed to the Government.	Reasoning
It is true that the book was bought for the company to be floated, but we are unable to appreciate how this makes the contract contingent.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that the contract was at one stage a package deal but the Government chose to carry out the contract piecemeal and proceeded to buy the book and make an advance of Rs. 50,000.	Reasoning
The balance of Rs. 1,50,000, according to the Firman dated July 2, 1945, had to be invested on his behalf in the capital of the company.	Reasoning
But if the company could for some reason not be floated the plaintiff did not lose his right to enforce the contract.	Reasoning
We are not concerned with the value of goodwill and other assets in this case now, but as far as the book TohfaeOsmania is concerned it is clear that the Government in part performance of the agreement took delivery of the book and accordingly must pay the price mentioned in the agreement.19.	Reasoning
Regarding the third point urged on behalf of the respondent, there is no material to show that the statement contained in plaintiffs letter dated April 6, 1948,that he had assured that he would sell shares for Rs. 5 lakhs was part and parcel of the original agreement.	Reasoning
He may have stated this in order to speed up the formation of the company, but it in no way can be said to form part of the agreement which had nearly three years earlier been partly performed.20.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal is allowed, the decree of the High Court set aside and the decree of the Trial Court restored.	Decision
The appellants will have their costs in this Court but the parties will bear their own costs in the High Court.21.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
