 Kapur, J.1.	None
These are three appeals pursuant to a certificate under S. 66A(2) of the Indian Incometax Act (hereinafter called the Act) against the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay in Incometax Reference No. 36 of 1957.2.	None
The appeals though directed against the same order are three in number because each partner of the firm has brought a separate appeal.	Facts
The firm was carrying on the business of wine merchants at Bombay and came into existence prior to April 1, 1939.	Facts
The firm had been assessed to incometax under the provisions of the Incometax Act of 1918.	Facts
The firm which was registered under the provisions of the Incometax Act of 1922 (hereinafter termed the Act) was dissolved on March 24, 1945, and from the day following that, i.e., March 25, 1945, a private limited company i.e., S. S. Miranda and Co. Ltd. succeeded to the business of the firm.	Facts
A claim made under S. 25(4) of the Act to the effect that no tax was payable on the profits of the registered firm for the period between April 1, 1944 to March 24, 1945, was allowed.	Facts
In respect of the chargeable accounting period April 1, 1944 to March 24, 1945, the registered firm was taxed to Excess Profits Tax under the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940.	Facts
It also deposited as required certain sums of money under S. 10 of the Finance Act, 1942, read with S. 2 of the Excess Profits Tax Ordinance, 1943.	Facts
In accordance with those provisions the firm became entitled to repayment of a portion of the Excess Profits Tax amounting to a sum of Rs. 2,35,704/	Facts
The shares of the three partners who are respective appellants in the three appeals were James Miranda Rs. 58,926/, Donald Miranda Rs. 58,926/ and Mrs. N. Q. Miranda Rs. 1,17,854/.	Facts
It was submitted that the amount refunded was business profit and therefore exempt from tax under S. 25(4) of the Act.	Facts
The Incometax Officer rejected that submission and the share of each of the appellants was assessed to incometax and supertax and the balance after deducting the same he repaid to each of the partners but he computed the rate applicable to the tax by including the appellants total business income which was exempt under S. 25(4) of the Act.	Facts
On appeal this assessment was confirmed but on further appeal the Incometax Appellate Tribunal held that the sum which was refunded was income from business and was therefore exempt from incometax under S, 25(4) of the Act.	Facts
At the instance of the Commissioner of Incometax, the Tribunal referred the following question of law for the opinion of the High Court.	None
Whether the repayment of excess profits tax made by the Central Government in pursuance of S. 10 of the Indian Finance Act 1942, or S. 2 of the Excess Profits Tax Ordinance, 1943, is profits from business for the purposes of S. 25(4) of the Indian Incometax Act?3.	Issue
The High Court held that the amount so refunded was income from other sources taxable under S. 12 of the Act and the appellants were, therefore, not entitled to the benefit of S. 25(4) of the Act.	None
In dealing with the nature of the tax the learned Chief Justice said Clearly the view of the Legislature was that this income should be treated as a statutory income with the consequence that must necessarily follow by reason of its being a statutory income.4.	Facts
It was argued on behalf of the appellants that the amount refunded was income, profits and gains from business and fell under S. 10 of the Act and was therefore exempt under S. 25(4) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the determination of this question it is necessary to refer to the relevant provisions of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940, and the Finance Act, 1946.	None
Section 12(1) of the Excess Profits Tax Act was as follows S. 12 (1)	None
The amount of the excess profits tax payable in respect of a business for any chargeable accounting period diminished by any amount allowable by way of relief under the provisions of S. 11 or S. 11A shall, in computing for the purposes of incometax or supertax the profits and gains of that business, be allowed to be deducted as an expense incurred in that period.5.	None
The relevant part of S. 11(11) of the Finance Act 1946, provided Any sum being excess profits tax repaid in respect of any chargeable accounting period under the provisions of S. 10 of the Indian Finance Act, 1942, or of S. 2 of the Excess Profits Tax Ordinance, 1943 (XVI of 1943), shall be deemed to be income for the purposes of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, and shall, notwithstanding the provisions of S. 34 of that Act, be treated as income of the previous year which constitutes or includes the chargeable accounting period in respect of which the said sum is repayable Provided that any such sum repaid in respect of any profits which are also assessable to excess profits tax under the law in force in United Kingdom shall be treated, for the purpose of assessment to incometax and supertax, as income of the previous year during which the repayment is made.6.	None
It is not necessary to quote S. 10(1) of the Finance Act, 1942, or the relevant provisions of the Excess Profits Tax Ordinance, 1943.	None
Section 12(1) of the Excess Profits Tax Act shows that the amount of Excess Profits Tax payable in respect of a business for any chargeable accounting period was an allowable expenditure.	None
Under S. 11(11) of the Indian Finance Act, 1946, any excess profits refunded under the provisions of Indian Finance Act, 1942, or of S. 2 of the Excess Profits Tax Ordinance, 1943, were deemed to be income and were to be treated as income of the previous year which constituted or which included the chargeable accounting period in respect of which the said sum was repayable.	Issue
Thus the sum repaid was to be treated as income for the purposes of the Act for the previous year, notwithstanding S. 34 of the Act.7.	None
The preamble of the Excess Profits Tax Act shows that the object of that Act was to impose a tax on profits arising out of certain businesses.	None
Therefore when any portion of the tax collected on Excess Profits was refunded under the provisions of the Finance Act, 1942 or the Excess Profits Tax Ordinance, 1943, it necessarily had the same quality which it had before the amount which was charged with the payment of tax had under the provisions of those acts.	None
In a judgment of this Court, McGregor and Balfour Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, West Bengal, 195936 ITR 65 (AIR 1959 SC 771 ) the amount received as a refund by the assessee was held to be income for the purpose of the Act and for assessment it was treated as income of the previous year.	None
After reference in that case to R. 4(1) of the Rules applicable to Cases I and II of Schedule D of the English Incometax Act, 1918 (8 and 9 Geo.	None
V. c. 40), it was observed The object and purpose of the legislation in each case is the same, and though the two provisions are not ipsissima verba, they are substantially in the same words and also in There can be no doubt that the intention underlying the two provisions is the same and the language is substantially similar.8.	None
Thus this Court was of the opinion that the intention of the legislature in S. 11(14) of he Finance Act, 1946, which was the section applicable in that case and of R. 4(1) of the English Incometax Act was the same.	None
The operative words of S. 11(11) of the Finance Act, 1946, and S. 11(14) of that Act are almost identical.9.	Reasoning
It would thus appear that the amount of excess profits tax was an allowable deduction for the purpose of computation of the business profits of an assessee under S. 12(1) of the Excess Profits Tax Act and when it or a portion of it was refunded it had to be treated as income of the assessee.	Reasoning
When it was deposited with the Central Government it was a portion of the profits of the business of the assessee and when it was returned to the assessee it must be restored to its character of being apart of the profits of a business.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that its nature changes merely because it is refunded as a consequence of some provisions in the Finance Act or the Excess Profits Tax Ordinance.	Reasoning
Its nature remains the same.	Reasoning
The effect of the deposit under the Acts abovementioned was as if a slice of the business profits was taken and deposited with the Central Government Treasury and then when it was found that a larger amount had been deposited than was exigible a portion of it was returned.	Reasoning
By being out in a Government Treasury it does not cease to be what it was before, i.e., profits of a business.	Reasoning
As we have said it is significantly clear form the very preamble of the Excess Profits Tax Act, i.e., it was a tax imposed on profits arising out of certain business.	Reasoning
An argument was raised on behalf of the Commissioner that the tax was not paid out of the profits of the business, but in respect of the profits.	Arguments of Respondent
That is immaterial it was charged, levied and paid on the amount by which the profits during any chargeable accounting period exceeded the standard profits.	None
It would be mere quibbling with words if one were to say that it was not a slice taken out of the profits of a business.10.	Reasoning
In the case 195936 ITR 65 (AIR 1959 SC 771 ) this Court quoted with approval the observation of the Master of the Rolls in A. and W. Nesbitt Ltd. v. Mitchell, (1926)	None
11	None
Tax Cas 211 (217, 218) where it was said	None
But in respect of what is that payment made ?	None
It is not a legacy, it is not a sum which has fallen from the skies it is a sum which is repaid because there was too large a sum paid by the company to the revenue authorities over the whole period during which Excess Profits Duty was paid, and that sum means and is intended to represent a repayment of a sum which was paid by them in respect of the duty charged upon the excess profits of their trading.	None
It comes back, therefore, not having lost its character but being still the repayment of a sum  too much, it is true,  but a sum taken out of the profits which were made by the company in the course of its trading, profits which at the time they were made were subject to excess profits duty, and that is the character of the repayment that has been made.	None
The amount deposited comes back without losing its character.	None
No doubt the words in the English Rule are shall be treated as profits for the year in which the payment is received and in S. 11(11) of the Finance Act, 1946, such sum has to be treated as income of the previous year but as pointed out by this Court in Balfour and McGregor case, 195936 ITR 65 (AIR 1959 SC 771 ) the intention underlying the two provisions is the same and even the language used in the two provisions is substantially the same.11.	None
Counsel for the Commissioner drew out attention to Kirkes Trustees v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1926) 11 Tax Cas 323 and it was submitted that the Lord Chancellor held at page 329 that for the amount so received the assessment falls to be made under Case VI of Schedule D. Lord Shaw of Dunfermline at page 332 said that the repayment was to be treated as trading profits, for the year of repayment and therefore assessable as such under Schedule D.	Arguments of Respondent
He was also of the opinion that the charge was to be one under Case VI.	None
Lord Summer said that it became a minor matter to decide whether the charge was to be made under Case I or Case VI but this is little consolation to the respondent (the Commissioner of Incometax), because Case VI was also dealing with taxes in respect of annual profits and gains which do not fall in one of the other cases.12.	None
In our opinion the amount refunded did not lose its character which it had before the deposit and therefore it is an erroneous view to take that the income was assessable under S. 12 of the Act and not under S. 10.	Reasoning
If it was income falling under S. 10 as in out opinion it was, then the appellants were entitled to get the benefit of S. 25 (4) of the Act and the amount was not liable to taxation.13.	Reasoning
The appeals are therefore allowed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.14.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
