Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan, J. I have had the privilege of perusing the judgment proposed by my learned Brother Justice B.N. Agrawal.	None
However, with respect, I express my inability to agree with the same and I propose to writ a separate judgment in the following terms.	None
As facts and provisions of the relevant law have been set out in the judgment of my learned Brother Justice B.N. Agrawal, I do not propose to extract them again.	None
Civil Appeal No. 3017 of 1997 was filed by the State of Punjab against the judgment of the Division Bench of the Punjab Haryana High Court dated 17.1.1997 in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 5358 of 1996.	None
The said writ petition was filed by Respondent No.1 in this appeal, namely, M s. Devans Modern Brewaries Ltd., Ludhiana praying for issuance of a writ in the nature of Certiorari quashing the imposition of import fee on Beer vide Order 1D (iii) of the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932 amended from time to time, latest being notification dated 27.3.1996 which is impugned in the writ petition and for other consequential prayers.	None
Civil Appeal Nos. 2696 and 2697 of 2003 were filed by Penguin Alcohols (P) Ltd. and Another etc. against the State of Kerala and others against the common judgment of the High Court of Kerala dated 6.4.2001 in Writ Appeal Nos. 3 and 10 of 2001 dismissing the appeal filed by them.	None
The original petitions were filed by appellants against Exhibit P1 notification issued by the State of Kerala enhancing the rate of import fee from Rs.2/ per proof litre of Rs. 5/ on Indian Made Foreign Liquor (hereinafter referred to as IMFL).	None
The import fee was initially levied under Government Order, G.O. (MS) No. 57/92/TD dated 31.12.1992.	None
The learned Single Judge upheld the levy holding that it is a fee and regulatory in nature.	None
The appellants preferred writ appeals, which were dismissed by the Division Bench by the impugned common order in Writ Appeal Nos. 3 and 10 of 2001.	None
In both the appeals, common questions arise for consideration and hence they have been heard together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	None
The points for consideration in both the appeals are Whether the import fee levied in the price for parting with the privilege given to the respondent to import liquor into the State and, therefore, the same is within the competence of the State to impose import feeb)	None
Whether the imposition of import fee does not, in any way, restrict trade, commence and intercourse among the States.	None
It is well settled by a catena of decisions that the trade in liquor is not a fundamental right.	Reasoning
It is a privilege of the State.	Reasoning
The State parts with this privilege for revenue consideration.	Reasoning
In Punjab, the Excise Policy of the State is formulated every year.	Reasoning
It is also made known to the licensees much before their licences for the year comes to an end.	Reasoning
It is also a matter of fact that the licensees have paid the fee on demand.	Reasoning
The fee was first levied in the year 1992.	Reasoning
The licensee, in the Punjab case, had been holding the licence all though this period and never challenged or protested against levy of the fee.	Reasoning
The licensees having paid the fee without any protest all though is not entitled to challenge the same, which does not suit them.	Reasoning
The licensee cannot aprobate and reprobate.	Reasoning
In Punjab, the grant of licences are governed by the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (for short the Act) and various rules and orders framed under It.	Reasoning
In the Punjab case, the challenge of the appellants is limited to the imposition of import fee in addition to the countervailing duty on Beer.	Reasoning
It is not disputed by the appellant that the State is competent and is entitled to impose duty or countervailing duty besides there is no bar on the State to charge any other fee on account of consideration of the privilege provided to the licensee to provide them the right to trade in liquor.	Reasoning
A perusal of the impugned notification shows that the State Government substituted the existing provision with regard to import fee and increased the rate of this fee.	Reasoning
It is part of the privilege price i.e. consideration amount on account of which the licence was granted to the licensee.	Reasoning
Further, the licensee had an option to opt out of the business field if such levies were detrimental to their interest or where to their disadvantage.	Reasoning
The respondent in Civil Appeal No. 3017 of 1997 carries on wholesale trade in the State of Punjab.	None
Under the rules, the licensee is required to obtain a licence in Form L1 which is valid for one year.	None
In addition to this under this Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932, the respondent is liable to pay duty fee at the rates mentioned therein.	None
As a result of this, the respondent has to pay excise duty import fee as the case may be.	None
Over and above this, there is an import fee which is levied by the State Government in exercise of its powers under Section 58 of the Act.	None
According to learned counsel for the State of Punjab all these charges and levies are really a price for the privilege of carrying on the trade the L1 license as far as the privilege of importing alcohol into the State of Punjab.	None
The impugned levy is under the Punjab Excise act, 1914, which is a preConstitution Act.	None
It is this Act which provides that no intoxicant shall be imported, exported or transported except after the payment of duty to which it may be liable under the Act.	None
The words duty to which it may be liable under this Act were substituted by the words duty of customs or excise to which it may be liable.	None
This change was also brought about by the Government of India on adaptation of Indian Laws order 1937.	None
It was, therefore, argued by the State that the power is conferred under Section 58(2)(b) of the regulate the import, transport and possession of any intoxicant.	None
Therefore, the different imposts have to be construed in this background.	None
There is, therefore, an excise duty socalled which is provided for under Rule 5 of the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932, not only on locally produced beer also on imported beer.	None
The Statutory Authority for this imposition can be found from the provisions including Section 16 read with Section 32 of the Act.	None
In addition to the excise duty under Rule 5, there is also a provision for grant of licence for sale of intoxicants.	None
To carry on the trade in wholesale, a person has to obtain a L1 licence for which an annual predetermined sum is payable.	None
Similarly, in addition there are licences for production and for manufacture each of which licence has its own predetermined fee which has to be paid for obtaining such a licence.	None
The modalities of the levy of fees or the quantum of the fees has no bearing on its legal pedigree which is that of consideration for the permission to carry on an activity in the noxious articles.	None
Thus, if a person wants to carry on a wholesale trade in liquor in Punjab, he will have to (a) obtain a L1 licence for which he would pay the fees in accordance with the policy carried on for the period (b) On the liquor purchased by him, he will have to pay duty on all purchases irrespective of the source of the product.	None
This duty is the duty under Rule 5 of the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932, in relation to beer read with Rule 1 of the said Orders in case of IMFL.	None
In case, the licensee seeks a permit to bring in imported alcohol, he would have to pay as a condition of the permission to import under Section 16(b) read with Section 19 an import pass fee at such sum fixed by the Government.	None
The respondent in this case writ petitioner has mixed up these different imposts and has referred to the duty paid under Rule 5 which is an amount equivalent to the excise duty and the fee under Rule 1(d) of Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932.	None
As already noticed, on imported goods there are two independent imposts, namely, duty equal to the local excise duty under Rule 5 and an import fee under Rule 1(d) of the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932.	None
On 31.1.2002, this Court passed an order which read as under In the course of the argument, it was noticed that the principal argument on behalf of the respondents before the High Court, which was upheld by the High Court, was that the import fee, which is the subject matter of these proceedings, had been imposed by the State of Punjab without authority of law.	None
The response on behalf of the State of Punjab before the High Court was that the right of respondents to import beer into the State was privilege conferred by the State upon the respondents to which Article 301 had no application because the respondents had no right to trade in liquor de hors that privilege and that the import fee was the price for the privilege.	None
In the course of the argument before us, we asked Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned counsel for the State, to tell us what the source of power for the imposition of the import fee was.	None
Mr. Venugopal referred in reply to Sections 18, 19, 34, 58 and 59 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914.	None
In other words, the contention of the State before us is that the import fee is a fee and the respondents are required to pay such fee to bring beer into the State.	None
In compliance with the aforesaid order, a detailed affidavit was filed on behalf of the State of Punjab by quoting the relevant provisions of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, namely, Section 3(9)  	None
Excise Revenue Section 3(10)  	None
Export, Section 3(12)  	None
Import, Section 16  Import, export and transport of intoxicant, Section 17  Power of State Government to prohibit import, export and transport of intoxicant.	None
Section 18  Passes necessary for import, export and transport, Section 19 Grant of passes for import, export and transport, Section 31  Duty on excisable articles, Section 32  Manner in which duty may be levied, Section 33  Payment for grant of leases,	None
Section 34  Fees for terms, conditions and form of, and duration of licences, permits and passes, Section 35 Grant of license for sale, Section 58  Power of State Government to make Rules, Section 59  Powers of Financial Commissioner to make rules.	None
Along with the additional affidavit, a copy of the Notification No. 5998 called the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders and prescribed levy of rates of duty etc. was filed and marked as Annexure A1.	None
It is seen from the additional affidavit that this notification was republished by the State of Punjab in the year 1965.	None
The State vide notification dated 24.3.1986 introduced amendment to the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1986 and as per Clause 5 of the notification, Order 1D was added after Order 1C levying an import fee of Rs. 3.20 per proof litre on all imports of IMFL and rectified spirit into the State of Punjab.	None
Vide notification dated 31.3.1992, the Government of Punjab made further amendment in the Fiscal Order and issued Punjab Excise Fiscal (10th amendment)	None
Orders, 1992 and substituted Order 1D stating the All imports of liquor and spirit shall be subject to the levy of an import fee as prescribed.	None
By further amendment vide notification dated 27.3.1996, the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932 was amended and the Order 1D item (iii) was substituted.	None
In exercise of powers conferred under the Act, the State Government framed rule which have been marked as Annexure P2.	None
Thus, it is been from the Punjab Liquor Import, Export Order, 1932, the State Government is competent and empowered to regulate the import and export of liquor.	None
Under the Punjab Liquor Licence Rules, 1956, there are 21 types of licences which are prescribed and are given.	None
The respondent in this appeal is holding L1 licence i.e. Wholesale and retail vend of foreign liquor to trade only.	None
The said licence is given on fixed licence fee, which is subject to variation as per excise policy of the Government based on year to year.	None
The State Government has incorporated as one of the terms and conditions on the L1 holders to pay import fees also at the prescribed rate as per the Punjab Excise Fiscal Order, 1996.	None
The respondent has been accepting the terms and conditions from 1992 onwards and acted on the same, the licence was renewed on yearly basis.	None
Similarly, under the provisions of the Punjab Liquor Permit Pass Rules, 1932, the State Government issued permit in form L32, in the case of import and the licensees are liable to pay permit fee at the prescribed rate.	None
As already stated, the respondent has mixed up two different imposts.	None
The respondent has referred to the duty paid under Rule 5 i.e. equivalent to Excise duty and fees under Order (1) (D) of the Punjab Fiscal Orders, 1932.	None
As stated above, on imported goods by L1 holder, there are two different and independent imposts in the shape of Excise duty under Rule 5 and import fee under Rule (1)(D) of Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932.	None
In addition he has to pay licence fee under the Punjab Liquor Licence Rules, 1956, which is fixed on yearly basis.	None
Thus, it is seen that as per provisions of Section 58(D) as well as Section 59(D) the State Government, in my opinion, has power to regulate the import and price of any description of bottle and the scale of the fee and the manner of the fee payable by any licensee.	None
It is stated in the additional affidavit that the word fee is not used in the strict sense to attract the doctrine of quid pro quo.	Reasoning
This is the price or consideration which the State Government charges for parting with this privilege and granting the same to the vendors.	Reasoning
Therefore, in my opinion, the amount charged is not a fee nor a tax but it is in the nature of price of a privilege which the purchaser has to pay in any trading and business in noxious article goods.	Reasoning
The collection of such amount in the shape of import fee does not form part of the general revenue of the State.	Reasoning
As stated above, it is one of the terms and conditions of the Excise Policy applicable to all L1 holders including the respondents herein.	Reasoning
In my view, respondents cannot be permitted to challenge the terms and conditions of the policy if they want to avail the benefit of the same.	None
This Court, in a number of judgments, has held that the State Government has unfettered powers to regulate the Export Import sale of intoxicants and in exercise of its regulatory powers, the import fee has been incorporated as one of the terms of the Excise Policy on yearly basis.	None
We will refer to the relevant judgments in the later part of this judgment.	None
The learned counsel for the respondent submitted that there is no source of power for imposition of import fee over and above the countervailing duty and that the appellantState was not able to show that under which Authority or provision of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, they can impose the import fee over and above the countervailing duty.	None
It is further submitted that a combined reading of Section 33A of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, Articles 301 and 304 of the Constitution and Entry 51 of List II of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution makes it clear that the State of Punjab has no authority to impose the import fee over and above the countervailing duty.	None
This contention in my opinion, has no force for the reasons stated and the discussions made in paragraphs supra.	None
In my opinion, Articles 302 and 304A of the Constitution of India are not attracted to the present case as the imposition of import fee does not, in any way, restrict trade commerce and intercourse among the States.	None
In my opinion, the permissive privilege to deal in liquor is not a right at all.	None
The levy charged for parting with that privilege is neither a tax nor a fee.	None
It is simply a levy for the act of granting permission or for the exercise of power to part with the privilege.	None
In this context, we can usefully refer to Har Shankar and others etc. etc.	None
vs. The Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner and others etc.	None
AIR 1975 SC 1121 and Panna Lal and others vs. State of Rajasthan and others (1975) 2 SCC 633.	None
As noticed earlier, dealing in liquor is neither a right nor is the levy a tax or a fee.	None
Articles 301304 will be rendered inapplicable at the threshold to the activity in question.	None
Further, there is not even a single judgment which upholds the applicability of Articles 301304 to the liquor trade.	None
On the contrary, numerous judgments expressly hold these Articles to be inapplicable to trade, commerce and intercourse in liquor.	None
We can beneficially refer to the judgments in The State of Bombay vs. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (1957)	None
SCR 874 , Har Shankars case (supra), M s. Sat Pal and Co. and others vs. Lt. Governor of Delhi and others (1979) 4 SCC 232 and Khodays case.	None
The learned counsel for the respondent submitted that Articles 301304 are violated or transgressed.	None
In view of discussions in paragraphs above, it is clearly demonstrated as to how and why Articles 301304 are inapplicable to liquor trade in any from.	None
We shall now deal with the Kerala matter in Civil Appeal Nos. 2696 and 2697 of 2003.	None
The learned counsel for the licensee appellant in this case also contended that Part XIII of the Constitution interdicts Parliament and State Legislatures from enacting laws containing discriminatory measures taxation in respect of interstate trade and commerce and that the said articles in Part XIII impose a constitutional limitation on the power of the Parliament and the Legislatures of the States and that the said Part XIII of the Constitution enshrines a principle of paramount importance that the economic unity of the country cannot be interfered with by economic protectionism and creation of trade barriers, fiscal or otherwise.	None
He would further submit the restriction in Part XIII of the Constitution also apply to Taxation Laws and the provisions of Part XII of the Constitution are subject to the limitations set out in Part XIII and such regulatory measures also do not impede the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse and compensatory taxes for the use of trading facilities are not hit by the freedom declared by Article 301.	None
He would also urged that Article 303(1) prohibits Parliament and the Legislature of a State from enacting any law giving a preference to one State over another or from making any discrimination between one State and another by virtue of any entry relating to trade and commerce in any of the lists in the Seventh Schedule and that the obstructions or impediments to the free flow of trade would be violative of the freedom declared by Article 301.	None
In this context, he referred to the case in The Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. vs. The State of Rajasthan and others (1963) 1	None
SCR 491.	None
It is further submitted that the limitation upon the Legislative power stipulated in Article 303(1) and Article 304A will apply to trade in liquor.	None
It is further contended that the discriminatory levy of import fee is violative of Articles 303(1) and 304A of the Constitution.	None
According to the learned counsel for the appellant licensee, the power of the State to levy a tax or a fee should be traceable to the entries in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
Entry 51 of List II provides for a levy of duty or excise on alcoholic liquor for human consumption manufactured or produced in the State and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates of similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India and, therefore, the State Legislature has no power to levy any countervailing duty on imported liquor in excess of the excise duty on liquor manufactured within the State.	None
The State of Kerala imposes a countervailing duty on imported liquor which is equivalent to the excise duty paid by the manufacturers within the State.	None
The State imposes an import fee in addition to the countervailing duty and the direct and immediate effect of the import fee is to favour local manufacturers by making the imported liquor costlier.	None
He would further contend that Article 303(1) prohibits the State Legislature from taking discriminatory measures and Article 304A also prohibits the State from imposing such discriminatory levies.	None
It is also submitted that the State Legislature has no competence to levy an import fee in addition to countervailing duty.	None
The argument advanced by learned counsel for the licensee was countered by learned senior counsel appearing for the State of Kerala.	None
The learned counsel submitted that the import of liquor into State of Kerala is prohibited under Section 6 of the Abkari Act and, therefore, liquor can be imported only after obtaining permission from the Government in the form of permit issued under Section 24 of the Abkari Act.	None
As a matter of fact, it was submitted that the State has not issued any licence to anybody including the Kerala State Beverages Corporation to import liquor.	None
The Kerala State Beverages Corporation has licence only for wholesale and retail of liquor which will not authorise them to import liquor and that the only licence issued to import liquor into the State is the permit issued on payment of the import fee and, therefore, it is seen that the levy of import fee is authorized by Sections 6 and 24 of the Abkari Act, 1977.	None
It is not excise duty or countervailing duty referable to Entry 51 of List II.	None
It is a collection falling under Entry 8 of List II.	None
It is the price paid to the State for parting with its exclusive privilege of dealing in liquor which includes every fact or it including its import.	None
In my view, the State has the right to prohibit every form of activity in relation to intoxicants including its import.	None
Though it is alleged by the appellant that the State has discriminated against, the same has not been substantiated or established by any material.	None
The State, in this case, has granted such permit to the Beverages Corporation on their paying the fee fixed for the purposes as per notification enabling the Corporation to import liquor from the petitioner licensees and others.	None
The import fee so paid is passed on to the consumers.	None
Even in the Punjab case, we have already noticed, that the right to import liquor is dependant on the issue of the import permit on payment of the import fee as consideration for parting with the States exclusive privilege to import the liquor.	None
It is purely a contractual dealing between the State and the importer and, therefore, no question of violation of Article 301 can arise.	None
The importer had no anterior right to import liquor and hence cannot complain of any violation of Article 301 at that stage as right to trade in liquor is not a fundamental right.	None
His right to import is referable to the import permit which he acquired on payment of the import fee.	None
No further impediment has been created in the import of the liquor so that Article 301 is not attracted in relation to the payment of the import fee which was prior to getting his privilege of importing.	None
The appellant licensee having entered into a contractual relationship with the State obtained the privilege and enjoyed the benefit of it.	None
It is not open to the petitioners to turn round subsequently and repudiate the objections subject to which they obtained the privilege.	None
Regulation in the interest of public health and order takes the case out of Article 301 and regulation for purpose of Article 301 is not confined to such regulations alone which will facilitate the trade.	None
An affidavit was also filed on behalf of the State of Kerala dated 16.4.2003 stating that the collection of import fee in the State of Kerala while issuing permit to import IMFL is referable to Sections 6 and 24 of the Abkari Act, 1977, and that it is the price payable by the grantee to the State for parting with the privilege of importing IMFL which is exclusively that of the State.	None
Along with the affidavit, Annexure R1 (photocopy of permit issued) and Annexure R2 (yearwise statement showing the amount of import fee collected by the State) was filed.	None
It is not in dispute that the Kerala State Beverages Corporation is the exclusive wholesale distributor of IMFL within the State of Kerala.	None
Previously, the retail distribution of IMFL in the State was done by 14 shops of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation and 231 shops by private individuals to whom licences were granted by auction conducted every year.	None
However, the scheme has been changed and the retail distribution of IMFL in the State is now being carried on by a few shops of the Kerala State Consumer Federation and the rest of the shops by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation.	None
This is apart from the sales in bars, clubs, etc. under licences issued in relevant Forms under the Foreign Liquor Rules.	None
The Kerala State Beverages Corporation gets its supply of IMFL from distributors within the State as also from manufacturers and distributors outside the State.	None
The Kerala State Beverages Corporation calls for tenders fixing a floor price for the supply with a view to ensure quality as also to prevent unhealthy competition and loss of revenue.	None
Based on these tenders, the Kerala State Beverages Corporation enters into contracts with the manufacturers distributors.	None
After entering into contracts with the manufacturers distributors, to enable the import of IMFL to the State, the Kerala State Beverages Corporation applies to authorized officer for grant of permit for import of specified quantity of IMFL after depositing in advance, the countervailing duty and the import fee payable on the quantity of IMFL sought to be imported.	None
Details of the payments so made are entered in Column No. 6 of the import permit issued.	None
The name of the outside manufacturer distributor from whom the IMFL is being procured is also mentioned in the permit for identification of the product.	None
The import fee paid by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation is ultimately passed on to the consumers by adding to the final selling price of the product.	None
The State has to deploy its officers at all the checkposts to monitor import of IMFL.	None
Every consignment, on crossing the border has to be escorted till it reaches the warehouse of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation to check diversion and misuse and the State is incurring heavy expenses for regulating import of liquor into the State.	None
Therefore, the import fee was increased from Rs.	None
2/ per proof litre to Rs. 5/ per proof litre in 1995.	None
Even after the increase in the import fee, the import of liquor to the State was steadily increasing till 19992000.	None
The affidavit now filed along with the Annexures gives us a clear picture of the levy of import fee while issuing permit to import IMFL.	None
Before the High Court, the learned counsel for the appellants therein have raised only one contention that the imposition of import fee is not in the nature of regulatory fee.	None
It was contended on behalf of the State that the levy is permissible and authorized under Sections 6, 7, 17 and 18 of the Act and that the import fee is the only fee realized from a firm which supplies liquor to the Kerala State Beverages Corporation to be supplied to other licensees in the State and that the levy of import fee is also well founded under the Act basically referable to the legislative Entries 8 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
The learned Single Judge and also the learned Judges of the Division Bench rejected the contention of the licensee and upheld the levy on import.	None
At the time of hearing, many judgments were cited by both sides in regard of their respective contentions.	None
I feel it is not necessary to deal with or refer to all the judgments cited, as in my opinion, the real questions in this case as contended by the licensees are that the State has no authority to impose the import fee and that it is violative of Articles 301 and 304 of the Constitution.	None
The real question, in my opinion, is whether Articles 301 and 304 at all apply.	None
In the alternative, it was submitted by learned senior counsel for the State of Punjab that compensatory or regulatory levies have always been held to be valid and permissible under Articles 301 and 304.	None
In this context, he referred to the decisions in the cases of Atiabari Tea Co. Ltd. vs. The State of Assam and others (1961) 1	None
SCR 809 the Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. case (supra), State of Bihar vs. Chambers of Commerce (1996) (103) STC 1, Godfrey Ltd. vs. State of Rajasthan (2001) (121) STC 54 , Jindal Strips Limited and others vs. State of Haryana (2002) 19	None
PHT 299.	None
If that be so, it is undeniable that regulations deemed necessary and apposite are liable to be imposed on liquor trade made than any other activity since the former is considered inherent are noxious, pernicious and res extra commercium.	None
Regulation is thus the hallmark of the State action in respect of liquor and that regulation can be and indeed normally is through the mode of imposition of levies which levy is also necessary to regulate by keeping out and excluding persons entering the liquor trade.	None
We have already extracted the provisions of 1914 Act.	None
The contention of the licensee is that once a L1 wholesale liquor licence is issued to him, the States permissive privilege in respect of liquor stands permanently parted with and thereafter no additional or further levy of any kind even in respect of activities other than wholesale selling under L1 licence can be raised.	None
This argument, in my opinion, is completely fallacious and exfacie unsustainable.	None
This contention ignores the wellestablished legal statutory and operational distinction demarcating and dealing separately with several distinct activities in relation to liquor, namely, manufacture, possession, sale, transport, import, export consumption on premises of hotel restaurant etc.	None
Each activity is separately defined and separately itemized and separately dealt with in statute as also in the rules and involves a diverse range of separate licences, passes, permits and applications each of differing contained format and ambit.	Reasoning
The import fee levied in the instant case is fully authorized by the 1914 Act and delegated legislation thereunder and is clearly intra vires.	Reasoning
I have already listed in paragraphs above all the provisions authorizing the levy in question in the instant case which is mentioned in the additional affidavit of the State of Punjab.	Reasoning
The provisions summarized above confer ample regulatory power upon the excise authority to regulate several activities related with liquor in any reasonable manner and in particular to regulate its import.	Reasoning
The regulatory power includes power to levy a monthly fee in that regard such as the impugned import fee.	Reasoning
Indeed levy for such fee to exclude and to keep out certain people from the liquor trade and to keep the number of persons participating in this trade within reasonable limits has been recognized by this Court in Har Shankars case (supra) relying upon and quoting American decisions.23.	Reasoning
The statutory provision in question must be interpreted and read broadly and not narrowly.	Reasoning
The approach must be to uphold the validity of the impugned delegated legislation by a process of fair and broad reading of the statutory mandate.	Reasoning
Even if the Act does not specifically provide for the levy in question by name to provide statutory authority for its imposition by delegated legislation and the levy is actually imposed by the delegated legislation made under the Statute, the same would be valid and not ultra vires.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the levy has been imposed by the Punjab Fiscal Orders as amended from time to time under specific statutory authority to issue such orders under Sections 58 and 59 of the Act, in particular, and other provisions of the Act as itemized in paragraphs supra.	Reasoning
Since the rule making power has not been shown to be bad, the Punjab Fiscal Orders, once made have the effect of the Statute itself and become part of the Statute since they have been made under valid rule making power.	Reasoning
The statutory provisions of the Punjab Act and the Rules itemized in paragraphs above amply delineate that regulatory power and the impugned import fee is nothing but a facet and manifestation of that regulation by the State.	Reasoning
Hence, in my view, the levy in question is valid as a regulatory levy which has consistently been held on the touchstone of Article 304.	None
The conduct of the respondent licensee in attempting to wriggle out of his contractual obligations is contrary to the clear and unequivocal principle laid down in Har Shankars case (supra).	None
The issuance of liquor licence constitutes a contract between the parties i.e. between Excise Authorities on the one hand and the individual applicant contractor on the other.	None
The respondent having accepted the contracts licences, having fully exploited the advantage flowing from the contract to the exclusion of others and having reaped rich commercial benefits from that activity it is not open to the contractor to wriggle out from the contract by challenging, inter alia, any particular condition of that contract licence.	None
The respondent herein seeks to do exactly that by challenging the condition requiring him to pay import fee.	None
Har Shankars case (supra) clearly disentitle the liquor contractor from wriggling out of contractual obligations solemnly undertaken.	None
Likewise, in Panna Lals case (supra), this Court in the specific context of liquor licence had this to say.	None
The licenses in the present case are contracts between the parties.	None
The licensees voluntarily accepted the contracts.	None
They fully exploited to their advantage the contracts to the exclusion of others.	None
The High Court rightly said that it was not open to the appellants to resile from the contracts on the ground that the terms of payment were onerous.	None
The reasons given by the High Court were that the licenses accepted the license by excluding their competitors and it would not be open to the licensees to challenge the terms either on the ground of inconvenient consequence of terms or of harshness of terms.	None
As a matter of fact, the respondent is the only and the sole challenger of the instant levy of import fee.	None
It is stated that no other liquor contractor or beer manufacturer or importer has challenged the import fee in Punjab at any point of time at any forum.	None
The import fee on IMFL on rectified spirit was levied from the Year 1986 and at no time the respondent challenged the levy of import fee from 1986 onwards on IMFL and continued to import large quantities of beer and paid larges sums of fee as per the prescribed rates.	None
The writ petition was filed only in April, 1996.	None
The respondent accepted the burden of this contract and obviously did so because he enjoyed the benefits flowing from this contract.	None
Having done so, in my view, he cannot and should not be allowed to wriggle out of his contractual and licence obligation.	None
In the case of Government of Maharashtra others vs. M s. Deokars Distillery (V.N. Khare, CJI and Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan, J. concurring) reported in (2003) 5 SCC 669 , this Court, in para 32, observed thus The order of the High Court is bad in law.	None
The High Court, in our view, has erred in not appreciating that the impugned demand notice was also in the nature of demanding balance of the price of the exclusive privilege which would become final only on issue of the notification, order under Article 309, the bulk of which has already been recovered in advance, which privilege exclusively vests with the Government considering the effect of provisions especially Section 49 and Section 143(2)(u) of the Prohibition Act.	None
In our opinion, the establishment charges demanded are in the nature of price for parting with the privilege to permit manufacture and sale of liquor, and the privilege exclusively vests with the Government.	None
Again in para 40, this Court observed thus As pointed out by Y.V. Chandrachud, C.J., as he then was, what the respondents agreed to pay was the price of an exclusive privilege which the State parted with in their favour.	None
They cannot, therefore, avoid their liability by contending that the payment which they were called upon to make is truly in the nature of excise duty and no such duty can be imposed on liquor not lifted or purchased by them.	None
The respondents, in our view, must fail in their contention both on account of the objection to the maintainability of the appeals and on merits concerning the nature of the payment which they are liable to make.	None
In the above case, the power of the State Government under Section 58A to recover cost of supervision was challenged.	None
Per majority, this Court held that the power of the State Government extends to recovering the differential amount consequent to upward revision of payscales and allowances with retrospective effect and that such differential amount can be demanded even in exercise of residuary powers of the State Government and that the liquor licensees having given undertaking in the application in Form PLA prescribed under the Rules to abide by the orders made under the Act and the rules could not escape their contractual liability.	None
This Court also further held that the establishment charges demanded are in the nature of price for parting with the privilege to permit manufacture and sale of liquor and the privilege exclusively rests with the Government.	None
The same effect is the judgment of this Court in the case of Assistant Excise Commissioner others vs. Issac Peter others, (1994) 4 SCC 104.	None
In the context of a liquor contract, this Court held as under We are, therefore, of the opinion that in case of contracts freely entered into with the State, like the present ones, there is no room for invoking the doctrine of fairness and reasonableness against one party to the contract (State), for the purpose of altering or adding to the terms and conditions of the contract merely because it happens to be the State.	None
In such cases, the mutual rights and liabilities of the parties are government by the terms of the contracts (which may be statutory in some contracts are entered into pursuant to public auction, floating of tenders or by negotiation.	None
There is no compulsion on anyone to enter into these contracts.	None
It is voluntary on both sides.	None
There can be no question of the State power being involved in such contracts.	None
It bears repetition to say that the State does not guarantee profit to the licensees in such contracts.	None
There is no warranty against incurring losses.	None
It is a business for the licensees.	None
Whether they make profit or incur loss is no concern of the State.	None
In law, it is entitled to its money under the contract.	None
It is not as if the licensees are going to pay more to the State in case they make substantial profits.	None
We reiterate that what we have said hereinabove is in the context of contracts entered into between the State and its citizens pursuant to public auction, floating of tenders or by negotiation.	None
It is not necessary to say more than this for the purpose of these otherwise than by public auction, floating of tenders or negotiation, we need not express any opinion herein.	None
Kalyani Stores vs. The State of Orissa and others (1966) 1	None
SCR 865 case was heavily relied on by the respondents licensee.	None
The Constitution Bench has not in that cases adverted to the issue of liquor trade being res extra commercium and has simply considered whether Articles 301/304 are violated or not.	None
The case, in my opinion, would have no relevance to the instant case.	None
The following judgments can be usefully referred for the proposition that the rights are vested in the State which it may part with for a consideration.	None
In the case of Har Shankar and others etc. etc. vs. The Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner and others etc.	None
(AIR 1975 SC 1121 (paras 44, 46, 47, 50, 51, 53, 55, 57 and 58 dealt with the rights of the State in this regard).	None
In the case of Nashirwar and others vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and others 1975 (1) SCC 29 , this Court held that by virtue of Entry 8 of List II, the Government can hold a public auction to grant lease, the amount representing the consideration for the grant of such right or privilege.	None
In the case of State of Orissa and Others vs. Harinarayan Jaiswal and others (1972) 2 SCC 36 , this Court held that the Government is the exclusive owner of the privilege to sell the right to sell liquor, reliance on Article 19(1)(g) or Article 14 of the Constitution becomes irrelevant.	None
33. .	None
In the case of State of Andhra Pradesh vs. Prabhakara Reddy AIR 1987 SC 933 held that all rights in regard to manufacture and sale of intoxicants vest in the State and its and it is open to the State to part with those rights for a consideration and that the consideration for parting with the privilege of the State is neither excise duty nor licence fee	None
but it is the price of the privilege.	None
In the case of State of U.P. and others vs. Sheopat Rai and others 1994 Supp.	None
(1) SCC 8 held that the term licence fee in the context of the U.P. Excise Law connotes the idea of it being the consideration in money received by the Government from a private person by grant of a licence (contract) for parting in such persons favour, its exclusive privilege or right of carrying on certain activities in respect of country liquor or drugs under action system in public auctions.	None
In the case of State of Haryana and others vs. Lal Chand and others, AIR 1984 SC 1326 this Court has held that the licence fee is a price for acquiring such privilege and one who makes a bid for the grant of such privilege with a full knowledge of terms and conditions attaching to the auction cannot be permitted to wriggle out of the contractual obligations arising out of the acceptance of his bid, by a petition under Article 226.	None
State of Punjab vs. M s. Dial Chand Gian Chand Co.	None
AIR 1983 SC 743 is also a case arising under the Punjab Intoxicants Licence and Sale Order, 1956.	None
This Court held that the writ jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 of the Constitution is not intended to facilitate avoidance of obligations voluntarily incurred.	None
In the case of Khoday Distilleries Ltd. and others vs. State of Karnataka and others (1995) 1 SCC 574.	None
The Constitution Bench of this Court held that a citizen has a fundamental right to trade or business in liquor as a beverage and that the activities which are res extra commercium cannot be carried on by any citizen and the State can prohibit completely trade or business in potable liquor since trade or business in liquor as a beverage is res extra commercium and that the State may also create monopoly in itself for trade or business in such liquor.	None
It is further held that the State can further place restrictions and limitations on such trade or business and such restrictions and limitations can be placed by subordinate legislation as well.	None
It is also further held that the State is not precluded from regulating the trade and business in potable liquor merely because it imposes tax or fee on purchase or sale and income is derived from such liquor.	None
In the case of Solomon Antony and others vs. State of Kerala and Others, (2001) 3 SCC 694 , the contractors are required to pay the consideration payable to the State for sale of liquor for importing designated quantify of rectified spirit in respect of which the consideration payable is equivalent to excise duty.	None
This Court justified the order passed by the High Court in holding that the contractors are bound to pay the amount which is a measured excise duty payable on the designated quantum of rectified spirit in terms of Rule 8 of the Rules and which the contractors had undertaken in the agreements executed by them to pay.	None
This Court further held that the power of the Government to enhance the rate of excise duty from Rs. 5/ per bulk litre to Rs. 10/ per bulk of arrack could not be assailed.	None
The Division Bench of the Kerala High Court to which I was a member has also taken the same view in Kerala Distilleries and Allied Products Limited vs. Assistant Commissioner (Assessment) (I), Commercial Tax, Special Circle, Palakkad and others reported in 2000 (Vol.117) STC page 553), in the following terms The manufacture and sale of liquor are the exclusive privilege of the State and the State, by the process of licensing, is parting with the said privilege and what is charged by the State is only the privilege price through the process of licensing and its is not excise duty.	None
The concept of excise duty on production and manufacture as understood in the Central Excise Act cannot be equated in the case of excise duty under the Abkari Act since the manufacture and the sale of liquor are the exclusive privilege of the State and the State, by the process of licensing, is parting with the said privilege and what is charged by the State is only the privilege price through the process of licensing the price and it is not excise duty.	None
The above rulings are amongst the catena of cases on the point that the rights are vested in the State which it may part with for consideration.	None
I have already dealt with the concept of contractual relationship between the State and the licensee whereunder the licensee having obtained a privilege and enjoyed the benefit of it, it is not open to the licensees to turn round subsequently and repudiate the obligations attaching with the obtained privilege.	None
The following are the cases on the point.	None
In the case of State of Haryana and others vs. Jage Ram and Others AIR 1980 SC 2018 , this Court held that the bids in respect of country liquor vends at an annual auctions and the amounts which bidders agree to pay to State Government under auction terms is neither fee nor excise duty on undrawn liquor but price of privilege which State parted in their favour.	None
In the case of State of Haryana and others vs. Lal Chand and others (1984) 3 SCC 634 , this Court held that after making bid for grant of exclusive privilege of liquor vend with full knowledge of terms and conditions of auction, the bidder cannot wriggle out of the contractual obligations arising out of acceptance of his bid by filing writ petition.	None
In the case of State of Punjab vs. M s. Dial Chand Gian Chand and Company (1983) 2 SCC 503 , this Court held that a licensee who participates in the auction voluntarily and with full knowledge is bound by the bargain and the writ petition filed under Article 226 by such licensee in an attempt to dictate terms of the licence without paying the licence fee must fail.	None
The higher bidder after acceptance of his bid cannot challenge the second auction on ground of adverse effect on his business.	None
We shall now consider the cases on the freedom guaranteed by Article 301 which is not available to liquor because it is a noxious substance injurious to public health order and morality.	None
The following cases can be usefully referred In the case of M s. Sat Pal and Co. and others vs. Lt. Governor of Delhi and others (1979) 4 SCC 232 , this Court held that Ordinance does not infringe any right under Article 19(1)(g) or Article 301 there being no fundamental right to trade in liquor and that the ordinance was both a fiscal measure and one for safeguarding public health and public morals and hence it could validly be made retrospective and that the test of reasonable restrictions has to be judged in the light of the purpose for which the restriction is imposed, that is, as may be required in the public interest and restrictions that may validly be imposed under Article 304(b) are those which seek to protect public health, safety, morals and property within the territory and the present levy under the amended provisions of the Act in its application to Delhi could certainly be said to be one enacted both with the object of regulating the trade or business in intoxicants and with a view to realising the goal fixed in Article 47 of the Constitution.	None
In the case of The State of Bombay vs. R.M.D. Chamargaugwala (1957)	None
SCR 874 , this Court held as under Gambling activities were in their very nature and essence extracommercium although they might appear in the trappings of trade.	None
They were considered to be a sinful and pernicious vice by the ancient seers and lawgivers of India and have been deprecated by the laws of England, Scotland, United States of America and Australia.	None
The Constitutionmakers of India, out to create a welfare State, could never have intended to raise betting and gambling to the status of trade, business, commerce or intercourse.	None
The petitioners, therefore, had no fundamental right under Art. 19(1)(g) or freedom under Art.	None
301 of the Constitution in respect of their prize competitions that could be violated and the validity of the impugned act, in pith and substance an Act relating to gambling, did not fall to be tested by Arts.	None
19(6) and 304 of the Constitution.	None
In the case of M s. Fatehchand Himmatlal and others etc. vs. State of Maharashtra (1977) 2 SCC 670 , this Court held as follows A meaningful, yet minimal analysis of the Debt Act, read in the light of the times and circumstances which compelled its enactment, will bring out the human setting of the statute.	None
The bulk of the beneficiaries are rural indigents and the rest urban workers.	None
These are weaker sections for whom constitutional concern is shown because institutional credit instrumentalities have ignored them.	None
Money lending may be ancillary to commercial activity and benignant in its effects, but moneylending may also be ghastly when it facilitates no flow of trade, no movement of commerce, no promotion of intercourse, no servicing of business, but merely stagnates rural economy, strangulates the borrowing community and turns malignant in its repercussions.	None
The former may surely be trade, but the latterthe law may well say  is not trade.	None
This narrow, deleterious pattern of moneylending cannot be classed as trade.	None
Hence Article 301 does not apply.	None
In the case of B.R. Enterprises etc. vs. State of U.P. and others etc.	None
(1999) 9 SCC 700 , this Court held that this case relates to lottery which is gambling in nature.	None
This Court held that merely because a lottery transaction is run by State itself will not change its character as res extra commercicum and that merely because lottery tickets are goods, transaction of sale thereof cannot constitute trade and while trade contains skill with no chance, gambling contains the element of chance with no skill and, therefore, ban by any State on the sale of lotteries of other States within its territory does not violate Articles 301 and 303.	None
We have already noticed that the regulation in the interest of public health and order takes the case out of Article 301, and Regulation for the purpose of Article 301 is not confined to regulations which will facilitate the trade.	None
In the case of M s. Bishamber Dayal Chandra Mohan etc.etc.	None
vs. State of U.P. and others etc. etc., AIR 1982 SC 33 , this Court in paras 36 and 37 observed as under The word free in Art.	None
301 does not mean freedom from laws or from regulations.	None
Art.	None
301 guarantees freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the country from any State barriers.	None
It declares that subject to the other provisions of Part XIII, trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free.	None
The whole object was to bring about the economic unity of the country under a federal structure, so that the people may feel that they are members of one nation is to guarantee to every citizen the freedom of movement and residence throughout the country.	None
That is achieved by Art.	None
19(1)(d) and (e).	None
No less important is the freedom of movement or passage of commodities from one part of the country to another.	None
The progress of the country as a whole also requires free flow of commerce and intercourse as between different parts, without any barrier.	None
This freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the country without any State barriers is not confined to interState trade as well.	None
In other words, subject to the provisions of Part XIII, no restrictions can be imposed upon the flow of trade, commerce and intercourse, not only between one State and another, but between any two points within the territory of India whether any State border has to be cross or not.	None
It is now well settled that the regulatory measures or measures imposing compensatory taxes do not come within the purview of the restrictions contemplated by Art.	None
301.	None
The regulatory measures should, however, be such as do not impede the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
It cannot be said that the instructions conveyed by the State Government by the impugned teleprinter message imposing the requirement for the making of an endorsement by the Deputy Marketing Officer or the Senior Marketing Officer or the physical verification of stocks of wheat during the course of transit, are a restriction on the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse within the country, i.e., across the State or from one part of the State to another.	None
These are nothing but regulatory measures to ensure that the excess stock of wheat held by a wholesale dealer, commission agent or a retailer is not transported to a place outside the State or from one district to another.	None
Even if these requirements are construed to be a restriction on the interState or intraState trade the limitation so imposed on the enjoyment of the right cannot be considered to be arbitrary of or an excessive nature.	None
Nor can it be said that such restrictions do not satisfy the test of reasonableness.	None
The case of State of Tamil Nadu vs. M s. Hind Stone etc. etc. reported in AIR 1981 SC 711 relates to nonrenewal of mining lease for black granite.	None
It was submitted by the counsel in this case, that the impugned rule offends Articles 301 and 303 of the Constitution.	None
This Court rejected the same as without force.	None
This Court held as under The Mines Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, is without doubt a regulatory measure.	None
Parliament having enacted it for the express purpose of the regulation of mines and the development of minerals.	None
The Act and the rules properly made thereunder are, therefore, outside the purview of Article 301.	None
Even otherwise, Article 302, which enables Parliament, by law, to impose such restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse between one State and another or within any part of the territory of India as may be required in the public interest also furnishes an answer to the claim based on the alleged contravention of Article 301 The case of State of Tamil Nadu others vs. M s. Sanjeetha Trading Co.	None
others (1993) 1 SCC 236 relates to prohibition of export of timber outside the State to prevent illicit felling.	None
This Court held that where goods are declared to be essential commodities articles and export thereof prohibited with a view to effect equitable distribution at a fair price the prohibition in the circumstances would not be an unreasonable restriction.	None
This Court further held as follows The power to impose restrictions conferred on the Parliament under Art. 302 is not qualified by the word reasonable while in Art. 304 (1)(b) which confers such power on the State legislature the expression reasonable proceeds restrictions and a further check is provided by the proviso thereto.	None
Therefore, before Art. 304 comes into play, it has to be held that the prohibition introduced by the amendment on movement and transport of any particular item amounts to a restriction.	None
Any prohibition on movement of any article from one State to another has to be examined with reference to the facts and circumstances of that particular case  whether it amounts to regulation only, taking into consideration the local conditions prevailing, the necessarily for such prohibition and what public interest is sought to be served by imposition thereof.	None
In the case of State of Bihar and others vs. Harihar Prasad Debuka etc. AIR 1989 SC 1119 , this Court observed thus In the instant case what is being insisted is a permit disclosing particulars of the goods to be transported.	None
Art 304(b) clearly permits the State legislature to impose such a reasonable restriction on the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse with or within that State as may be required in the public interest.	None
The word with involves as element having its sit us in another State.	None
It cannot be therefore said that the insistence on the disclosure in respect of goods entering Bihar from another State if otherwise legitimate would not be protected by Art. 304(b).	None
The High Court of Punjab proceeded to decide the case on a total wrong assumption that the import fee levied is in the nature of duty which cannot be imposed under the Excise Act, 1984 when, in fact, the import fee levied	Reasoning
is the price for parting with the privilege given to the licensee to import beer into the State and, therefore, the same is within the competence of the State to impose import fee.	Reasoning
I am of the view that the licensee besides the payment of duty etc. is to comply with such conditions as the State Government may impose while formulating the excise policy for the concerned year.	Reasoning
The State, in my view, is competent and entitled to impose excise duty or countervailing duty.	Reasoning
Besides there is no bar on the State to charge any other fees on account of consideration for the privilege provided to the licensee to trade in liquor which privilege he did not otherwise have.	Reasoning
Therefore, the licensee is liable to comply with the other conditions imposed by the State Government from time to time.	Reasoning
As held in many cases referred to supra the levy in dispute under challenge is an import levy.	Reasoning
It is neither duty nor countervailing duty.	Reasoning
It is part of the consideration money i.e. the price of the privilege given to the licensees for dealing in liquor.	Reasoning
The decision of this Court in the case of Kalyani Stores (supra) is not applicable to the facts of the present case and that the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 is an existing law under Clause 10 of Article 366 of the Constitution of India and its continued application is saved by Article 372 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
It is also saved by Article 305 of the Constitution from attack under Articles 301 and 303 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is well within the legislative competence of the State.	None
In the result, Civil Appeal No. 3017 of 1997 filed by the State of Punjab is allowed and the judgment of the High Court which is impugned in this Civil Appeal stands set aside.	None
Likewise, the appeals filed by the appellants in Civil Appeal Nos. 2696 and 2697 are dismissed and the common judgment of the High Court in Writ Appeal Nos. 3 and 10 of 2001 is affirmed.	None
However, there shall be no order as to costs.  	Decision
JUDGMENT N. AGRAWAL, J.1.	None
The question involved in this batch of appeals, arising out of an order of reference made by a three Judge Bench of this Court, is as to whether Article 301 of the Constitution of India (hereinafter referred to as the Constitution will have any application in relation to potable liquor the business whereof is said to be res extra commercium in view of the decisions of this Court in Cooverjee B. Bharucha vs. The Excise Commissioner	None
The Chief Commissioner, Ajmer, others, (1954)	None
SCR 873 )	None
The State of Bombay vs. R.M.D. Chambarbaugwala (1957)	None
SCR 874 )	None
Har Shankar others vs. The Deputy Excise Taxation Commissioner others (1975) 1 SCC 737 ) and Khoday Distilleries Ltd. others vs. State of Karnataka others (1995) 1 SCC 574 ).	None
These appeals arise out of judgments and orders passed by Punjab and Haryana High Court and Kerala High Court.	Facts
The State of Punjab imposed tax on import of potable liquor manufactured in other States.	Facts
The State of Kerala also imposed a similar levy.	Facts
The Punjab and Haryana High Court by its judgment dated 17.1.1997 passed in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 5358 of 1996 quashed the notification dated 27.3.1996 imposing levy of import duty by the State of Punjab in exercise of its powers conferred upon it under Sections 31, 32 and 58 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (hereinafter referred to as the Punjab Act) on two grounds viz (i) the State has no power to levy such tax under the Punjab Act and (ii) in view of the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Kalyani Stores vs. The State of Orissa and others (1966(1)	Facts
SCR 865), the imposition of duty is ultra vires Article 301 of the Constitution.3.	Facts
So far as challenge to imposition duty on potable liquor by the State of Kerala under Abkari Act, 1077 (hereinafter referred to as the Abkari Act) is concerned, the Kerala High Court has dismissed the writ application on grounds, inter alia, that such duty, being regulatory in nature, is not ultra vires the Abkari Act.	Facts
The High Court did not enter into the question of applicability of Article 301 of the Constitution visavis effect of imposition of such import duty on potable liquor.	Facts
Mr. P.N. Mishra, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantState of Punjab in the Punjab matter having regard to several provisions of the Punjab Act submitted that the High Court committed a manifest error in holding that the State has no power to impose such a tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards applicability of Article 301 of the Constitution, the learned counsel contended that as the State has the exclusive privilege to deal in potable liquor in any manner it likes, it has the concomitant requisite power to impose such tax by way of restriction on import.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel further contended that as no trader can claim any fundamental right in carrying on trade or business in potable liquor, question of applicability of Article 301 of the Constitution would not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may not be out of place to mention that at the stage of reply Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel filed written submissions on behalf of the State of Punjab more or less reiterating the contentions raised by Mr. P.N. Misra.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. T.L.V. Iyer, the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of State of Kerala submitted that it is within the province to the State to impose restrictions on import of potable liquor by imposing import duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel such a duty has not been imposed by the State in exercise of its statutory power conferred upon it in terms of Entry 51, List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution but regulatory powers as envisaged in Entry 8 thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, Mr. Iyer contended that the import duty has been levied not a measure of tax but as a part of regulation on the trade.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel further contended, although such a stand has not been taken by the State before the High Court, but having regard to the wellsettled principle of law as laid down by this Court and referred to hereinafter, the State can impose such duty as a price for parting with its exclusive privilege.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the contentions the learned senior counsel appearing for the State of Punjab and that of Kerala relied upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Har Shankar (supra), Nashirwar and others vs. State of Madhya Pradesh and others (1975) 1 SCC 29 , State of Orissa and others vs. Harinarayan Jaiswal and others (1972) 2 SCC 36 , State Bank of Haryana and others vs. Jage Ram and others (1980) 3 SCC 599 , State of Andhra Pradesh vs. Y. Prabhakara Reddy (1987) 2 SCC 136 , State of U.P. and others vs. Sheopat Rai and others (1994 Suppl.	None
(1) SCC 8) , State of Haryana and others vs. Lal Chand and others (1984) 3 SCC 634 , State of Punjab and M s. Dial Chand Gian Chand and Company (1983) 2 SCC 503 , Solomon Antony and others vs. State of Kerala and others (2001) 3 SCC 694 , Khoday Distilleries Ltd. and Others (supra) and Government of Maharashtra and others vs. M s. Deokars Distillery, JT 2003(3) SC 86 .	None
Mr. Mohan Jain, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondentslicensees of the State of Punjab and Mr. R. Venkataramani, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the intervenor, on the other hand, contended that power to impose tax by the State of Punjab is circumscribed by Subsection 3 of Section 33A of the Punjab Act.	None
It was submitted that power to impose countervailing duty being statutorily restricted, the State cannot be permitted to achieve the same object indirectly by taking recourse to exclusive privilege theory.	None
Mr. Ashok H. Desai and Mr. R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the licensees  appellants in the Kerala matter raised the following contentions Levy of import duty having been expressly conferred by the statute, the State cannot justify such a levy on the spacious ground of having exclusive privilege of dealing in potable liquor.(2)	Arguments of Respondent
The State of Kerala having specifically raised a plea that such a levy was justified by way of a fee and or as a regulatory measure cannot now turn round and contended that the levy was imposed by way of a price for parting with the exclusive privilege of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
As the State of Kerala has not granted any licence to the appellants, the question of parting of any privilege in their favour does not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
Pointing out to the admitted fact that Kerala State Beverages Corporation has been granted the monopoly to deal in liquor and the appellants and others traders having been selling liquor to the Corporation, the question of rendition of any service by the State of Kerala to the licensees so as to justify imposition of a fee or regulatory tax therefor does not arise.(3)	Arguments of Respondent
Any fee regulating trade by grant of a licence would amount to tax within the meaning of clause (28) of Article 366 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this connection has been placed on D.C. Gouse Co. Ltd. vs. State of Kerala and Another etc.	Arguments of Respondent
(1980) (1) SCR 804 ) and Corporation of Calcutta and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
vs. Liberty Cinema (1965)(2)	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 477.(4)	Arguments of Respondent
The applicability of the doctrine of res extra commercium and or the concept of privilege theory on the part of the State would be attracted only in a no right situation.	Arguments of Respondent
Once a right to trade has been conferred by the State, it cannot take umbrage under the privilege doctrine.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the State, at the time of grant of licence by way of exclusive privilege, is bound by its own action, which in a given case, may attract the wrath of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this behalf has been placed on State of M.P. others vs. Nandlal Jaiswal others (1986 (4) SCC 566 ).(5)	Arguments of Respondent
The Constitution Bench of this Court in Krishna Kumar Narula vs. The State of Jammu and Kashmir and others (1967 (3) SCR 50 ) having clearly laid down that trade in liquor would come within the purview of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, the State can only impose a reasonable restriction in terms of Clause (6) of Article 19 thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
In Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (supra) , this Court having clearly held that when a licence is granted, persons similarly situated cannot be discriminated against which would clearly lead to the conclusion that not only a fundamental right in terms of Article 14 of the Constitution but also other constitutional rights including those contained in Part XIII of the Constitution are available in relation to trade in liquor.(6)	Arguments of Respondent
In Kalyani Stores (supra), H. Anraj vs. Government of Tamil Nadu (1986) 1 SCC 414 and State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Bhailal Bhai and others (1964(6) SCR 261) this Court having clearly held that Article 301 of the Constitution would be applicable also in relation to obnoxious trade, there is no reason as to why the said decisions shall be departed from.(7)	Arguments of Respondent
Keeping in view the decisions of this Court in Atiabari Tea Company Limited vs. The State of Assamand others (1961)(1) SCR 809) and The Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. vs. The State of Rajasthan and others (1963 (1) SCR 491 ) the purpose of Article 301 of Constitution being to maintain economic unity of the entire country, the State cannot be imposition of a tax infringe upon the provisions contained in Part XIII of the Constitution which is a selfcontained part.(8)	Arguments of Respondent
The phraseology, used in Article 301 of the Constitution, namely, trade, commerce and intercourse being of wide amplitude, the right to carry on trade and business as envisaged in Article 19(1)(g) or Article 298 of the Constitution cannot restrict the scope and ambit thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the rival contentions, as noticed hereinbefore the following questions arise for consideration Where the impugned notifications issued by the State of Punjab and that of Kerala are illegal being fraud on the Constitution.(ii) Whether the import duty can be said to have been validly imposed having regard to the doctrine of exclusive privilege of the State to deal in obnoxious matters?(iii) Whether dealing in liquor which is said to be res extra commercium would nonetheless attract Part XIII of the Constitution?	Issue
Re Question (i)	None
The impugned notifications issued by the State of Punjab and that of Kerala read as under Government of PunjabDepartment of Excise and TaxationNOTIFICATIONThe 27th March, 1996No.	None
G.S.R. 28/P.A.I. /14/	None
Ss. 31, 32 and 58/Amd. (118)/96In exercise of powers conferred the sections 31, 32 and 33 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (Punjab Act 1 of 1914) and all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor of Punjab is pleased to make the following order, without previous publication, further to amend the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932, namelyORDERS1.	None
(1) These orders may be called the Punjab Excise Fiscal (Second Amendment) Orders, 1996.(2)	None
They shall come into force on and with effect from the first day of April, 1996.2.	None
In the Punjab Excise Fiscal Orders, 1932 (hereinafter referred to as the said Orders), in order 1, in the table, under column Rate of duty per proof litre.(a) in item (1), against sub item (c) for the figures, 4.00 the figures 3.00 shall be substitutedand(b) in item (3) against subitem (b) for the figures 3.50 the figures 3.00 shall be substituted.3.	None
In the said Orders in order 1B(a) for the words rupees three the words rupees two shall be substituted and(b) for clause (iii) to the proviso, the following clause shall be substituted namely(iii) the Indian Made Beer shall be at the rate of thirty  eight paise per bulk litre.4.	None
In the said orders in order 1D, for item (iii), the following item shall be substituted namely(iii) rupees four and sixty paise per bulk litre.	None
II.	None
S.R.O. No. 330/96.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 6, 7, 17 and 18 of the Abkari Act, 1 of 1077 and in modification of notification issued under G.O. (P) No. 24/94/TD dated 3rd March, 1994 and published as S.R.O. No. 256/94 in the Kerala Gazette Extraordinary No. 180 dated 3rd March, 1994, as subsequently amended, the Government of Kerala hereby direct that the import and export fees, the excise duty and luxury tax under the said sections shall be levied on the following kinds of liquors manufactured in the State and exported outside the State under bond in force or manufactured elsewhere in India and imported into the State by land, air, or sea under bond, at the rates mentioned against each kind of liquor.	None
The excise duty, import fee or luxury tax on liquor manufactured elsewhere in India and imported into the State by land, air or sea otherwise than under bond shall be equal to the duty to which such liquor manufactured in the State are liable under the Act such as import fee, excise duty or luxury tax namelyKind of LiquorRate of excise dutyRate of luxury taxRate of import feeRate of export fee1.	None
Indian Made Foreign Liquor including beer except those consumed by Defence Service.(1) When exported by distilleries Foreign Liquor (compounding, Blending and (Bottling) Units Breweries to other State and not reimpored into this State, in cases where the following terms and conditions are satistied namelyRs.	None
5 (Rupees five only) per proof litre in the case of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and Rs. 2	None
(Rupees two only) per bulk litre in the case of beer(i)	None
The export is under bond to cover the duty at the rate of an amount equal to 200 per cent of the value of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and gallonage fee at the rate of Rs. 3 per bulk litre in the case of beer.(ii)	None
No objection certificate for import certificate from the excise authorities of the importing State is produced by the Distilleries Foreign Liquor (Compounding, Blending and Bottling) Units breweries.(iii)	None
Excise duty, luxury tax and export fee paid to Kerala Government before export.(iv)	None
The verification certificate from the Excise Authorities of the importing State is produced before the Excise officers in charge of the Distilleries Foreign Liquor (Compounding, Blending and Bottling and Bottling) Units Breweries within 42 days of dispatch or within such further time as the Excise Commissioner may allow for sufficient cause.(v)	None
The duty at the rate of an amount equal to 200 per cent of the value of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and gallonage fee at the rate of Rs. 3 per bulk litre in the case of Beer is paid on all quantities unaccounted for and(vi)	None
Export is through air, rail road or ship.(2) in the case of  (a) Indian Made Foreign liquor other than beer imported (bond or under bond)Rs. 5 per proof litre(b) Beer imported (bond or under bond)Rs. 2 per bulk litre(c) wine imported (duty paid or under Bond)Rs.	None
2 per bulk litre(3)	None
In other cases (a) Indian Made Foreign Liquor (excluding beer and wine)An equal amount to the 100 per cent of its value(b) BeerRs. 3 per bulk litre(c) WineRs. 3 per bulk litreIV.	None
Medicated wine and similar preparations but not including preparations on which duty is leviable under the Medicinal and toilet preparations (Excise Duties) Act, 1955)Rs. 12 (Ruppes twelve only) per proof litrePublished in K.G. Ex.	None
No. 379 dt.	None
29.3.1997 as S.R.O. No. 210/97Explanation Where any liquor is chargeable with duty at a rate depending on the value of the liquor, such value shall be the value at which the Kerala State Beverages (Manufacturing and Marketing) Corporation Ltd., purchases such liquor from the suppliers and in case any such liquor is not purchased by the Kerala State Beverages (Manufacturing and Marketing) Corporation, such value shall be the value fixed by the Commissioner.	None
This notification shall come into force on 1st day of April, 1996.	None
Before embarking upon the questions raised in these appeals, the relevant provisions of the Punjab Act may be noticed which run thus S.3(9)	None
Excise revenue means revenue derived or derivable from any payment, duty fee, tax, confiscation, or fine imposed or ordered under the provisions of this Act, or of any other law for the time being in force relating to liquor or intoxicating drugs, but does not include a fine imposed by a court of law.S.3(12).	None
Import (except in the phrase import into India) means to bring into Punjab and Haryana otherwise than across a custom frontier as defined by the Central Government.	None
S.16 Import, export and transport of intoxicants No such intoxicant shall be imported, exported or transport except (a) after payment of any duty to which it may be liable under this Act or execution of a bond for such payment, and(b) in compliance with such condition as the State Government may impose.	None
S.17 Power of State Government to prohibit import, export and transport of intoxicants The State Government may be notification(a) prohibit the import or export of any intoxicant into or from Punjab, Haryana or any part thereof or(b) prohibit the transport of any intoxicant.	None
S.18.	None
Pass necessary for import, export and transport Except as otherwise provided by any rule made under this Act, no intoxicants exceeding such quantity as the State Government may prescribe by notification shall be imported or transported except under a pass issued under the provision of the next following sectionProvided that in the case of duty paid foreign liquor such passes shall be dispensed with unless the State Government shall be notification otherwise directProvided further, that no such conditions as may be determined by the Financial Commissioner, a pass granted under the excise law in force in another State may be deemed to be a pass granted under this Act.	None
S.19.	None
Grant of passes for import, export and transportPasses for the import, export and transport of intoxicants may be granted by the Collector.	None
Provided that passes for the import and export of such intoxicant as the Financial Commissioner may from time to time determine shall be granted only by the Financial Commissioner.	None
S.31.	None
Duty on excisable articles  An excise duty or a countervailing duty as the case may be at such rate or rates as the State Government shall direct, may be imposed either generally or for any specified local area, on any excisable article.(a) imported, export or transported in accordance with the provisions of section 16 or(b) manufactured or cultivated under any licence granted under section 23 or(c) manufactured in any distillery established or any distillery or brewery licensed under section 21.Provided as follows(i) duty shall not to be so imposed on any article which has been imported into India and was liable on importation to duty under the Indian Tariff Act, 1894, or the Sea Customs Act, 1878.Explanation Duty may be imposed under this section at different rates according to the places to which any excisable article is to be removed for consumption, or according to the varying strength and quality of such article.	None
S.32 Manner in which duty may be levied Subject to such rules regulating the time, place and manner as the Financial Commissioner may prescribed such duty shall be levied rateable, on the quantity of excisable article imported, exported, transported, collected or manufactured in or issued from a distillery brewary or warehouseProvided that duty may be levied(a) on intoxicating drugs by an acreage rated levied on the cultivation of the hemp plant or by a rate charged on the quantity collected.(b)	None
On spirit or beer manufactured in any distillery established or any distillery or brewery licensed, under this Act in accordance with such scale of equivalents calculated on the quantity of materials used or by the degree of attention of the wash or wort, as the case may be as the State Government may prescribed.(c)	None
On tari, by a tax on each tree from which the tari is drawnProvided further that, where payment is made upon issue of an excisable article for sale from a warehouse established or licensed under section 22(a)	None
it shall be made(a) If the State Government by notification so directs, at the rate of duty which was in force at the date of import of that article or(b)	None
In the absence of such direction by the State Government, at the rate of duty which is in force on that article on the date when it is issued from the warehouse.	None
S.33.	None
Payment for grant of leases Instead of or in addition to any duty leviable under this chapter the State Government may accept payment of a sum in consideration of the lease of any right under section 27.S.33A. Saving for duties being levied at commencement of the Constitution (1) Until provision to the contrary is made by Parliament, the State Government may continue to levy any duty which it was lawfully levying immediately before the commencement of the Constitution under this Chapter as then in force.(2)	None
The duties to which this section applies are(a) any duty on intoxicants which are not excisable articles within the meaning of this Act and(b) any duty on exciseable article produced outside India and imported into Punjab Haryana whether across a customs frontier as defined by the Central Government or not.(3) Nothing in this section shall authorize the levy by the State Government of any duty which as between goods manufactured or produced in the State and similar goods not so manufactured or produced discriminates in favour of the former or which in the case of goods manufactured or produced outside the State discriminates between goods manufactured or produced in one locality and similar goods manufactured or produced in another locality.	None
S.34 Fees for terms, conditions and form of, and duration of licences, permit and passes (1) Every licence, permit or pass granted under this Act shall be granted(a) on payment of such fees, if any,(b) Subject to such restrictions and on such conditions,(c) In such form and containing such particulars,(d)	None
For such period,as the Financial Commissioner may direct.(2)	None
Any authority granting a licence under this Act may require the licensee to give such security for the observance of the terms of his licence, or to make such deposit in view of security, as such authority may think fit.	None
S.58.	None
Power of State Government to make Rules(1) (2) in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, the State Government may make rules(d) regulating the import, export, transport or possession of any intoxicant or Excise bottle and the transfer, price or use of any tupe or description of such bottle.(e) regulating the period and localities for which and the persons or classes of persons to whom licenses, permits and passes for the vend by wholesale or by retail of any intoxicants may be granted and regulating the number of such licences which may be granted in any local area(f) prescribing the procedure to be followed and the matters to be ascertained before any licence is granted for the retail vend for consumption on the premises.	None
S.59.	None
Powers of Financial Commissioner to make rules The Financial Commissioner may by notification make rules(d) prescribing the the scale of fees or the manner of fixing the fees, payable in respect of any licence, permit or pass or in respect of the storing of any intoxicant12.	None
Apart from provisions of the Punjab Act, it would also be necessary to notice Sections 17 and 18 of the Abkari Act occurring in Chapter V dealing in Duties, Taxes and Rentals applicable in the State of Kerala which read thus Duty on liquor or intoxicating drugs  A duty of excise or luxury tax or both shall, if the Government so direct, be levied on all liquor and intoxicating drugs(a) permitted to be imported under Section 6 or(b) permitted to be exported under Section 7 or(c) permitted under Section 11 to be transported or(d) manufactured under any licence granted under Section 12 or(e) manufactured at any distillery, brewery, winery or other manufactory established under Section 14 or(f) issued from a distillery, brewery, winery or other manufactory or warehouse licensed or established under Section 12 or Section 14 or(g) sold in any part of the StateProvided that no duty or gallonage fee or vend fee or other taxes shall be levied under this Act on rectified spirit including absolute alcohol which is not intended to be used for the manufacture of potable liquor meant for human consumption.	None
Explanation For the purpose of this section and Section 18, the expression duty of excise, which reference to liquor or intoxicating drugs, include countervailing duty on such goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India and brought into the State.18.	None
How duty may be imposed  (1) Such duty on excise may be levied(a) in the case of spirits or beer, either on the quantity produced in or passed out of a distillery, brewary or warehouse licensed or established under Section 12 or Section 14 as the case may be or in accordance with such scale of equivalents, calculated on the quantity of materials used or by the degree of attenuation of the wash or wort or on the value of the liquor as the case may be, as the Government may prescribe(b) in the case of intoxicating drug on the quantity produced or manufactured or issued from a warehouse licensed or established under Section 14(c) xxx(d) xxx(e) in the case of toddy, or spirits manufactured from toddy, in the form of a tax on each tree from which toddy is drawn, to be paid in such instalments and for such period as the Government may direct or(f) by import, export or transport duties assessed in such manner as the Government may direct orxx xxx xxx(2)	None
The luxury tax on liquor or intoxicating drugs shall be levied(i) in the case of any liquor in the form of a fee for licence for the sale of the liquor and in the form of a gallonage fee or vending fee or in any one of such forms and(ii) in the case of an intoxicating drug, in the form of a fee for licence for the sale of the intoxicating drug.(3)	None
The duty of excise under subsection (1) and the luxury tax under subsection (2) shall be levied at such rates as may be fixed by the Government, from time to time, by notification in the Gazette, not exceeding the rates specified below(1)	None
Duty of exciseMaximum rates(i) Duty of excise on liquors (Indian made)Rs.	None
200 per proof litre or an amount equal to 200 per cent of the value of the liquor.(ii)	None
Duty of excise on intoxicating drugsRs. 1 per gram or Rs. 933.10 per seer.(iii) Duty of excise in the form of tax on tree tapped for toddyRs.	None
50 per tree per halfyear or part thereof(2)	None
Luxury tax(a) When levied in the form of a fee for licence for sale of foreign liquor (i)	None
For licence for sale of foreign liquor in wholesaleRs. 15,000 for a year or part thereof(ii) For licence for sale of foreign liquor in hotels or restaurantsRs. 12000 for a year or part thereof.(iii)	None
For licence for sale of medicated winesRs.	None
1000 for a year or part thereof(iv) For licence for sale of foreign liquor in nonproprietory clubs to membersRs.	None
1500 for a year or part thereof(v) xxx(b)	None
When levied in the form of gallonage feeRs.	None
10 per bulk litre or Rs. 45.46 per bulk gallon(c) When levied in the form of a fee for licence for the sale of foreign liquor(Foreign made)(i)	None
In wholesaleRs. 25,00,000 (Rupees Twenty Five lakhs) for a year or part thereof(ii) In retailRs. 10,00,000 (Rupees Ten lakhs) for a year or part thereof(iii)	None
In hotels or restaurantsRs.	None
25,00,000 (Rupees Twenty Five lakhs) for a year or part thereof.(iv)	None
In nonproprietory clubs to its membersRs. 10,00,000 (Rupees Ten lakhs) for a year or part thereof(v)	None
In Seamens and Marine Officers clubs to its membersRs. 10,00,000 (Rupees Ten lakhs) for a year or part thereof(d) When levied in the form of gallonage fee(i) Foreign Liquor (Foreign made) other than beer and wineRs. 200 (Rupees Two hundred) per bulk litre(ii) For foreign made beer and wineRs. 25 (Rupees Twenty Five) per bulk litre.	None
Provided that where there is a difference of duty of excise or luxury tax as between two licence periods, such difference may be collected in respect of all stocks of Indian made foreign liquor or intoxicating drugs held by licensees at the close of the former period.	None
Note The expression Foreign Liquor (Foreign made) means any liquor produced, manufactured, or blended and compounded abroad and imported into India by land, air or sea.	None
Explanation Where any liquor is chargeable with duty at a rate depending on the value of the liquor, such value shall be the value at which the Kerala State Beverages (Manufacturing and Marketing Corporation Limited purchases such liquor from the suppliers and in case any such liquor is not purchased by Kerala State Beverages (Manufacturing and Marketing) Corporation limited such value shall be the value fixed by the Commissioner.	None
Provision to grant licence is contained in Chapter VI of the Abkari Act, Section 24 whereof is as under Forms and conditions of licenses, etc Every license or permit granted under this Act shall be granted(a) on payment of such fees, if any(b) for such period(c) subject to such restrictions and on such conditions and(d) shall be in such form and contain particulars  as the Government may direct either generally, or in any particular instance in this behalf.	None
The State of Kerala raised a contention that the imposition of levy is referable to Entry 66 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
An additional affidavit was filed before the Kerala High Court wherein it was averred that such a levy has been imposed also by way of a regulatory fee.	None
No plea whatsoever has been raised that such a levy is towards a price or a part of price for parting with exclusive privilege.	None
The High Court accepted plea of the State that the levy is by way of regulatory fee in relation whereto doctrine of quid pro quo has no application.	None
Before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana although a plea was raised that the impost was by way of a price for parting with the exclusive privilege but in its impugned judgment the High Court rejected the same having regard to the provisions contained in Section 33A of the Punjab Act.	None
The Excise Acts referred to hereinbefore seek to regulate trade and business in liquor.	None
They have their origin before coming into force of the Government of India Act, 1935 or the Constitution and, thus, being preconstitutional laws, validity thereof thereof and or any statutory impost levied thereunder would be subject to Articles 372 and 305 of the Constitution visavis Article 13 thereof.	None
The statutory rights and obligations created by reason of the aforementioned Acts, after coming into force of the Constitution, would, therefore, be subject to the extent saved by the Constitution itself and, thus, the provisions thereof, the rules made thereunder and actions taken must conform to the limitations imposed thereby.	None
The said Acts, therefore, must be construed keeping in view Entries 8 and 51 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
Before dealing with the matter further, it may be noticed that in the instant case I am not concerned with validity or the interpretation of a preconstitutional law but a postconstitutional one.	None
The impugned levy, therefore, must be justified having regard to the relevant entries made in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
Section 6 of the Abkari Act permits import of liquor on payment of duties, taxes, fees and such other sums as are due to the Government and Section 7 thereof provides for export.	None
Section 17 provides for levy of a duty of excise or luxury tax or both on liquor permitted to be imported under Section 6 thereof.	None
Section 18 deals with the manner in which such duty should be imposed.	None
Sections 31 and 32 of the Punjab Act are in pari materia with Section 17 and Section 18 respectively of the Abkari Act.	None
A question arises as to what is excise duty.	None
An excise duty can be imposed on manufacturer of goods only in terms of statute made by the Parliament.	None
An exception thereto has been made in the case of liquor in terms whereof the State Legislature has been empowered to levy excise duty by reason of Entries 8 and 51 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which read thus Entry 8 Intoxicating liquors, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors.	None
Entry 51.	None
Duties of excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in the State and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India(a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption(b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics but not including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in subparagraph (b) of this entry.	None
Legislative competence of the State to levy any fee is, therefore, limited to levy of countervailing duty.	None
In other words, any levy on import can not exceed the excise duty levied on the manufacturers of the State.	None
The State, therefore, cannot levy any duty in addition to the countervailing duty.	None
The notification refers to excise duty and countervailing duty, which in terms of Section 3(6B) of the Punjab Act mean any such excise duty or countervailing duty as the case may be, as is mentioned in Entry 51 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
The State, therefore, cannot levy any import fee over and above the excise duty countervailing duty, having regard to the said definition.	None
Sections 17 and 18 of the Abkari Act, which are in pari materia with Sections 31 and 32 of the Punjab Act, are referable to Entry 51 alone.	None
As Entry 51 puts an embargo on the State to make a legislation, there cannot be any gainsaying that any levy in terms of Sections 17 and 18 of the Abkari Act would be subject thereto.	None
Can the levy be said to be valid if thereby regulatory licencee fees have been imposed?	None
The answer to the said question must be rendered in the negative.	None
Clause (28) of Article 366 read as under taxation includes the imposition of any tax or impost, whether general or local or special, and tax shall be construed accordingly A regulatory impost would, thus, come within the purview of the tax.	None
A fee in terms of the constitutional schemes may be either a regulatory licence fees or a fee in lieu of rendition of service.	None
When no service is rendered a fee can be justified only by way of licence fees.	None
Such impost, however, would be a tax and, thus, would clearly be referable to Entry 51 of List II to the Constitution and not Entry 66 thereof.	None
(See Liberty Cinema (supra), D.C. Gouse Co. (supra) and Hindustan Times others, vs. State of U.P. and others (JT 2002(9)	None
SC 317 ).	None
Indisputably, the State while imposing import duty has exercised its power under the statute.	None
The impugned notifications in no uncertain terms and unequivocally refer to the course of power therefor.	None
The functions of the State to impose a fee or tax in terms of the provisions of the statute is a legislative function.	None
Such legislative function must be attributed to the source of the States power in terms of Entry 51 of List II to the Constitution and not otherwise.	None
If the legislations in question are found to be unreasonable in nature or fraud on the Constitution, would it still be permissible for the State to State to turn round and contended that such imports are not being levied in exercise of its taxation power but attributable to its regulatory power?	None
In other words, can the State turn round and contended that what it sought to do was not in terms of legislative function but merely by way of executive action?	None
Answer to the said question again must be rendered in the negative.	None
It is a wellsettled principle of law that a thing which cannot be done directly cannot be done indirectly.	None
(See Priyanka Overseas Pvt. Ltd. and Another vs. Union of India and others, 1991 Supp (1) SCC 102) .	None
In relation to an administrative act, it is wellsettled that a statutory authority is not permitted to support its decision on a ground dhors the ground stated in the order.	None
(See Commissioner of Police, Bombay vs. Gordhandas Bhanji, AIR 1952 SC 16 and Mohinder Singh Gill and another vs. The Chief Election Commissioner, New Delhi and others, AIR 1978 SC 851 ).	None
On the same analogy, a legislation which is found to be fraud on the Constitution, cannot inter alia, be upheld on any other ground.	None
Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution does not permit the State to levy of a fee a fee on import of liquor.	None
It deals only with production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors and nothing else.	None
Entry 8 of List II, thus, does not speak of import or export.	None
Its purpose is to regulate and not impose any statutory impost.	None
The State in exercise of its delegated powers cannot do what would constitutionally be impermissible.	None
A subsidiary question which arises for consideration is as to whether the State of Punjab, having regard to Section 33A of the Punjab Act, could levy such duty.	None
In SubSection (1) 33A provision has been made permitting the State to continue to levy any duty which it had lawfully been levying immediately before the commencement of the Constitution.	None
The said provision is in tune with Article 305 of the Constitution, therefore, the same calls for a strict construction.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 33A is couched in negative language by reason whereof power of the State to levy any duty has been taken away in the event thereby any discrimination is made in favour of goods manufactured or produced in the State and similar goods manufactured or produced in another locality.	None
Clearly such a provision is in consonance with Article 304 of the Constitution.	None
If by reason of a statute an embargo has been placed on the States power to levy and fee, it is beyond any cavil of doubt that such a levy cannot be held to be justified by reason of an executive action or otherwise.	None
It is trite that even a term of the contract cannot be in violation of an express provision contained in a statute.	None
By reason of provisions of the Abkari Act or the Punjab Act, no power has been conferred upon the State to impose any import fee over and above the excise duty countervailing duty.	None
It is not disputed that such countervailing duty has been levied and the licensees pay the same.	None
The power to levy fee and the power to grant licences, permits and passes occur in different chapters of the Acts.	None
The powers under different chapters are required to be exercised for different purposes.	None
One is legislative in character and the other refers to executive action.	None
Furthermore, under the Punjab Act fees for grant of licences, permits and passes are required to be paid on the terms as the Financial Commissioner may direct.	None
Having regard to the fact that the Financial Commissioner is the statutory authority in relation thereto, the State cannot be said to have any jurisdiction thereover, particularly, in the matter of levy of import fee which clearly is referable to Chapter V of the Punjab Act and has nothing to do with grant of licence occurring in Chapter VI.25.	None
The matter may be considered from another angle.	None
Having regard to Article 265 of the Constitution at tax must be imposed by a statute.	None
Even such impost is impermissible by any byelaw or rule.	None
(See Bimal Chandra Banerjee vs. State of Madhya Pradesh etc. (1970) 2 SCC 467 A Venkata Subba Rao vs. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1965) 2	None
SCR 577 and Attorney General vs. Wilts United Dairies (1922) 91 Law Journal, KB 897.26.	None
In Synthetics and Chemicals Limited and others vs. State of U.P. and others (1990) 1 SCC 109 at page 158, a SevenJudge Bench of of this Court has equated excise duty with the price for privileges.	None
In the matter of interpretation of Constitution, the said decision has been referred to with approval in Welfare Assocn.	None
A.R.P., Maharashtra Anr.	None
vs. Ranjit P. Gohil and others (JT 2003(2)	None
SC 335 ).	None
In the said seven Judge Bench decision, this Court observed thus On an analysis of the various Abkari Acts and Excise Acts, it appears that various provinces States reserve to themselves in their respective States the right to transfer exclusive or other privileges only in respect of manufacture and sale of alcohol and not in respect of possession and use.	None
Not all but some of the States have provided such reservation in their favour.	None
The price charged as a consideration for the grant of exclusive and other privileges was generally regarded as an excise duty.	None
In other words, excise duty and price for privileges were regarded as one and the same thing.	None
Socalled privilege was reserved by the State mostly in respect of country liquor and not foreign liquor which included denatured spirit.	None
In view of the foregoing discussions, I am of the opinion that the impugned levy cannot be sustained.	None
Re Questions (ii) and (iii) What is ResExtraCommercium In Blacks Law Dictionary, Fifth Edition, Res has been defined as follows By res, according to the modern civilians, is meant everything that may form an object of rights, in opposition to persona, which is regarded as a subject of rights.	None
Res, therefore, in its general meaning, comprises actions of all kinds while in its restricted sense it comprehends every object of right, except actions.29.	None
In Trayners Latin Maxims, Fourth Edition, Extra Commercium is stated as Beyond Commerce.	None
This is said of things which cannot be bought or sold, such as public roads, rivers, title of honour, etc.	None
In Words and Phrases, Volume 15A, it has been stated Property once dedicated to public use in extra commercia, and inalienable by seizure and sale under execution against a municipal corporation, unless it is made affirmatively and clearly to appear that its use had been abandoned or lost by nonuser.	None
In Bouviers Law Dictionary , Volume I, Third Edition , at page 531, it is stated It has been frequently said by the Supreme Court that commerce includes intercourse, though usually the term is qualified as commercial intercourse, Gibbons vs. Ogden, 9 Wheat, (U.S.) 1, 6 L.Ed.	None
23 U.S. vs. E.C. Knight Co., 156 U.S. 1, 15 Sup.	None
Ct. 249, 39 L. Ed. 325, Welton vs. Missouri, 91 U.S. 275, 280, 23 L.Ed.	None
347 Pensacola Telegraph Co. vs. Western Telegraph Co., 96 U.S. 1, 9, 24, L.Ed., 708 Mobile County vs. Kimball, 102 U.S. 691, 702, 26 L.Ed.	None
238 (where the phrase is intercourse and traffic)	None
Addyston Pipe Steel Co. vs. U.S. 175, U.S. 211, 241, 20 Sup.	None
Ct. 96, 44 L.Ed.	None
136 Lindsay P. Co. vs. Mullen 176 U.S. 126, 20 Sup.	None
Ct. 325, 44 L.Ed.	None
400 Interstate Commerce Commission vs. Brimson, 154 U.S. 447, 470, 14 Sup.	None
Ct. 1125, 38 L.Ed.	None
1047 Lottery Case, 188 U.S. 321, 346, 23 Sup.	None
Ct. 321, 47 L.Ed.	None
492.	None
The first expression of this was by Marshall, C.J., in Gibbons vs. Ogden, 9 Wheat (U.S.) 1, 6 L.Ed.	None
23 quoted by Fuller, C.J., in U.S. vs. Knight Co., 156 U.S. 1, 15 Sup.	None
Ct. 249, 39 L.Ed.	None
325 and characterized by White, J., as a luminous definition in Northern Securities Co. vs. U.S., 193 U.S. 197, 24 Sup.	None
Ct. 436, 48 L.Ed.	None
679, to the effect It is intercourse it describes the commercial intercourse between nations and parts of nations in all its branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse.	None
This has been practically, if not literally, quoted in all the cases cited.	None
There is nothing in the decisions to define or limit so broad a term as intercourse, except the word commercial, usually attached to it.	None
As it is hardly likely that the courts intended to say that commerce is intercourse in the sense in which it is defined communication between persons or places, Cent, Dict.	None
it is probable that the word was not intended to be used to express more than such intercourse as is connected with traffic and transportation with foreign countries or between the States.	None
Dealing in liquor or for that matter in lottery, tobacco is not prohibited under the Constitution.	None
On the other hand, in the constitutional schemes itself Parliament or the State Legislature has been conferred power to regulate the said trade like any other trade.	None
In fact India has entered into trade agreements to deal in liquor with other sovereign countries.	None
India has entered into International treaties in the matter of foreign investment in liquor.	None
Trade in liquor finds place in World Trade Organization (WTO) and General Agreement on Trade and Tariff (GATT).	None
In terms of the WTO and GATT guidelines have been laid down as regards import and export of potable liquor.	None
India, as a signatory to WTO and GATT, is expected to follow the said guidelines.	None
It is expected to remove all trade barriers subject to the other provisions contained therein.	None
It is also supposed to levy taxes countervailing duties in terms of such international treaties.	None
No constitutional provision or statute prohibits trade in liquor.	None
Article 47 of the Constitution empowers the State to impose prohibition.	None
Once a prohibition is imposed by any State in exercise of said powers, indisputably no person will have any right to deal in potable liquor.33.	None
Applicability of Resextra commercium is a judge made law.	None
Constitution does not provide for it.	None
Even if Entries 8, 51 and 54 of List II, on the other hand, lead to the conclusion that the State has the legislative power to make regulatory enactment in the spheres provided for them, the State indisputably may exercise its right to prohibit dealings in liquor either wholly or partially but if it allows trade and business in liquor by parting with its exclusive privilege a presumption will arise unless contrary intention is shown in the statute or licence granted therefor that it has not retained unto itself a right to deal with a part of the trade itself or through its agency.	None
As has been noticed in the Kerala matter the State has given the monopoly to trade in liquor in favour of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation.	None
Nowhere it is stated either by way of counteraffidavit or under the statute that the State has reserved unto itself any right in the matter relating to carrying on trade or business in potable liquor.	None
As soon as a licence is granted upon receipt of a fee fixed by it, the State would be presumed to part with its entire privilege.	None
To say that while exercising its regulatory power for the purpose of controlling the trade and business in potable liquor, it has reserved unto itself a part of its exclusive privilege would not be correct unless the same is explicitly pleaded and proved.34.	None
Regulatory measures in the matter of trade and business in potable liquor have been taken by reason of a statute.	None
All regulations on the trade, thus, must be governed by the statute operating in the field and not by way of executive action.	None
The provisions of the statute or the contracts made thereunder must scrupulously be followed by all concerned as they are bound by the same.	None
When a legislation referable to Entries 8, 51 and 66 etc. had occupied the held, the State, in absence of any provision contained in the statute, cannot turn round and contend that it will exercise its power of exclusive privilege even though it had granted licence in terms of the statute.	None
Having regard to the constitutional scheme the power of the State to undertake trade and business in referable to Article 298 of the Constitution.	None
The duties, functions and responsibilities of a Government in a democracy are different from monarchism.	None
Rights and privileges of a monarch cannot be equated with an elected Government in a democratic setup.	None
If the power of the Government in other words to deal in trade or commerce, be it liquor or any other commodity, can only be traced to Article 298 of the Constitution, it goes without saying that the same would be subject to all constitutional limitations applicable in relation thereto.	None
The State while exercising its constitutional power under Article 298 of the Constitution cannot itself be an extra constitutional authority so as to violate the constitutional provisions.	None
It like any other trader must confine itself within the four corners of the statutes governing the field which are enacted in terms of one entry or the other made in any of the three lists to the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.35.	None
A State, therefore, made by entitled to either completely prohibit a trade or business in liquor and create monopoly either in itself or in any other agency and furthermore it can for the purpose of selling the licence adopt any mode with a view to maximize its revenue but while doing so it must, having regard to a large number of decisions of this Court, not act arbitrarily.	None
The State while carrying on business by way of parting with its privilege or distribution of larges must conform to the equality clause enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
It has been so held in Nandlal Jaiswal (supra) at pages 604605 in the following terms But, before we do so, we may at this stage conveniently refer to a contention of a preliminary nature advanced on behalf of the State Government and respondents 5 to 11 against the applicability of Article 14 in a case dealing with the grant of liquor licences.	None
The contention was that trade or business in liquor is so inherently pernicious that no one can claim any fundamental right in respect of it and Article 14 cannot therefore be invoked by the petitioners.	None
Now, it is true, and it is well settled by several decisions of this Court including the decision in Har Shanker vs. Deputy Excise Taxation Commissioner (1975)	None
3 SCR 254 (1975) 1 SCC 737 AIR 1975 SC 1121 ) that there is no fundamental right in a citizen to carry on trade or business in liquor.	None
The State under its regulatory power has the power to prohibit absolutely every form of activity in relation to intoxicants  its manufacture, storage, export, import, sale and possession.	None
No one can claim as against the State the right to carry on trade or business in liquor and the State cannot be compelled to part with its exclusive right or privilege of manufacturing and selling liquor.	None
But when the State decides to grant such right or privilege to others the State cannot escape the rigour of Article 14.	None
It cannot act arbitrarily or at its sweet will.	None
It must comply with the equality clause while granting the exclusive right or privilege of manufacturing or selling liquor.	None
It is, therefore, not possible to uphold the contention of the State Government and respondents 5 to 11 that Article 14 can have no application in a case where the licence to manufacture or sell liquor is being granted by the State Government.	None
The State cannot ride roughshod over the requirement of that article.	None
Privilege, thus, can be claimed by a State in a no right situation, namely, when citizen is not permitted to carry on trade.	None
But once the State takes a decision to part with its privilege, it cannot make any discrimination whatsoever.	None
Dealing in liquor by the persons in whose favour licences have been granted in terms of the statutory enactments derive a right therefor which cannot be said to be ResExtra Commercium.	None
Now comes the question as to how far and to what extent, if any, the fundamental and other rights of a citizen could be available in the matter of trade in potable liquor.	None
Article 19(1)(g) guarantees that all citizens shall have the right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.	None
However, in terms of Article 19(6) this right can be restricted by a statute imposing reasonable restrictions.	None
A combined reading of clauses (1) and (6) of Article 19 makes it clear that a citizen has a fundamental right to carry on any trade or business and the State can make a law imposing reasonable restrictions on the said right in the interest of the general public.	None
It is, therefore, obvious that unless dealing in liquor is excluded from trade or business, a citizen has a fundamental right to deal in that commodity.	None
This right was recognized in the State of Bombay and another vs. F.N. Balsara (1951)	None
SCR 682 ) where Fazl Ali, J., observed at page 717 that we hold that to the extent to which the prohibition Act prevents the possession, use and consumption of nonbeverages and medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol for legitimate purposes the provisions are void as offending against Art.	None
19(1)(f) of the Constitution even if they may be within the legislative competence of the provincial legislature.	None
But in Cooverjee B. Bharucha (supra) a Constitution Bench of this Court held that there is no inherent right in a citizen to sell intoxicating liquors.	None
This decision was rendered relying on P. Crowley, Chief of Police of the City and County of San Fancisco, California vs. Henry Christenses (1890) 34 Law.	None
Ed 620 (A).	None
However, this exclusive privilege theory was rejected by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Saghir Ahmad and Anr.	None
vs. State of U.P. and others (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) stating that this doctrine has no place under Indian Constitution.	None
It was observed that establishment of a monopoly does not create a reasonable restriction.	None
The observations made in Cooverjee B. Bharucha (supra) stating that the general observations occurring in the judgment have to be taken with reference to the facts of that case were duly explained.	None
It was reiterated that the State has a right to prohibit trade which is illegal or immoral or injurious to the health and welfare of the public by taking recourse to regulating legislation contemplated by Article 19(6).	None
The fundamental right to trade in intoxicant liquor was recognized in State of Kerala and others vs. P.J. Joseph (AIR 1958 SC 296 ).	None
There the Government of Travancore and Cochin imposed 20 commission for sanction of extra quota of Foreign Liquor to wholesale licencees.	None
The said impost was challenged before the High Court of Judicature for Travancore Cochin, which was struck down by said High Court.	None
On Appeal by State this Court while upholding the judgment of High Court observed an impost not authorised by law cannot possibly be regarded as a reasonable restriction and must, therefore, always infringe the right of the respondent to carry on his business which is guaranteed to him by Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	None
It was held that an impost in terms of an executive order having no authority of law would be illegal imposition.	None
This principle has been affirmed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Krishna Kumar Narula vs. State of Jammu and Kashmir and others, 1967(3)	None
SCR 50.	None
After discussing all previous decisions, Subba Rao, C.J., held that a scrutiny of these decisions does not support the contention that the court held that dealing in liquor was not business or trade.	None
They were only considering the provisions of the various Acts which conferred a restricted right to do business.	None
None of them held that a right to do business in liquor was not a fundamental right.	None
It was observed that If the activity of a dealer, say, in ghee is business then how does it cease to be business if it is in liquor.	None
Liquor can be manufactured, brought or sold like any other commodity.	None
It is consumed throughout the World though some countries restrict or prohibit the same on economic or moral grounds.	None
It was further held that dealing in liquor is business and a citizen has a right to do business in that commodity, but the State can make a law imposing reasonable restrictions on the said right, in public interests.	None
In R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (supra) S.R.	None
Das, C.J., observed that the American Congress have no power to control gambling and like spurious transactions under its power over interState commerce if they were not held to be commerce.	None
Even in Har Shankar (supra) Chandrachud, J., (as the learned Chief Justice then was) held that the right to trade in liquor is not absolute and it is to be treated as a separate class.	None
But therein also it has not been held that despite fulfilling the regulatory measures, the trade would be illegal.	None
The point that arose for consideration therein was the States power to prohibit trade.	None
In that case, this Court had no occasion to consider the question involved in the present one.	None
A large number of decisions, as noticed hereinbefore, have been cited at the Bar for the proposition that by reason of grant of licence, the licensee is merely granted a permissive privilege subject to the degree of regulatory control as may be deemed necessary and appropriate having regard to fact that nobody has any constitutional right to trade in liquor in view of its inherently pernicious and noxious nature.	None
I may deal with some of the decisions cited at the bar a little later but the principles which emerge from the various decisions of this Court and particular by Constitution Benches of this Court are Trade in liquor is against public morality and thus res extra commercicum.	None
No citizen has any Fundamentally Right to carry on business in liquor.	None
(See R.M.D. Chambarbaugwala (supra).	None
As there does not exist any right to carry on trade, Article 301 shall not apply.(ii)	None
Right to trade in liquor is a Fundamental Right within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution subject, of course, to the reasonable restrictions in terms of Clause (6) of Article 19.	None
(See Krishna Kumar Narula (supra).(iii)	None
Right of the State to deal exclusively in liquor is its own privilege.	None
It does not matter as to whether such right is restricted while parting with privilege by reason of a statute in terms of Article 19(6) of the Constitution.(iv)(a)	None
The equality clause even in the matter of carrying on trade is not available.	None
The right of the State to part with its privilege being a superior right, the inferior right of a citizen to carry on trade, shall give way to States superior right.(b)	None
The State while carrying on any trade or business itself cannot make any discrimination and its acts must be fair and reasonable.	None
(See Nandlal Jaiswal (supra).(v) The States right is absolute when a complete prohibition is imposed and at that stage the State can part with its exclusive privilege in any manner it likes	None
and it is also entitled to take any measures for having the best price.	None
(See Har Shankar (supra).	None
In Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (supra) at pages 608609, a Constitution Bench referred to some of decisions as referred to hereinbefore and summed up its findings Para 60(a)(b)(e)(f)(g).	None
The rights protected by Art. 19(1) are not absolute but qualified.	None
The qualifications are stated in cls.	None
(2) to (6) of art.	None
19.	None
The fundamental rights guaranteed in art.	None
19(1)(a) to (g) are, therefore, to be read along with the said qualifications.	None
Even the rights guaranteed under the Constitutions of the other civilized countries are not absolute but are read subject to the implied limitations on them.	None
Those implied limitations are made explicit by cls.	None
(2) to (6) of art.	None
19 of our Constitution.(b)	None
The right to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business does not extend to practising a profession or carrying on an occupation, trade or business which is inherently vicious and pernicious, and is condemned by all civilised societies.	None
It does not entitle citizens to carry on trade or business in activities which are immoral and criminal and in articles or goods which are obnoxious and injurious to health, safety and welfare of the general public, i.e. res extra commercium (outside commerce).	None
There cannot be business in crime.(e)	None
For the same reason, the State can create a monopoly either in itself or in the agency created by it for the manufacture, possession, sale and distribution of the liquor as a beverage and also sell the licences to the citizens for the said purpose by charging fees.	None
This can be done under Art. 19(6) or even otherwise.(f)	None
For the same reason, again, the State can impose limitations and restrictions on the trade or business in potable liquor as a beverage which restrictions are in nature different from those imposed on the trade or business in legitimate activities and goods and articles which are res commercium.	None
The restrictions and limitations on the trade or business in potable liquor can again be both under art.	None
19(6) or otherwise.	None
The restrictions and limitations can extend to the State carrying on the trade or business itself to the exclusion of and elimination of others and or to preserving to itself the right to sell licences to do trade or business in the same, to others.(g)	None
When the State permits trade or business in the potable liquor with or without limitation, the citizen has the right to carry on trade or business subject to the limitations, if any, and the State cannot make discrimination between the citizens who are qualified to carry on the trade or business.	None
The decisions of this Court including those rendered by the Constitution Benches struck different notes.	None
They at times stand poles apart.	None
Inconsistencies and contradictions in the said decisions are galore.	None
Some latter Constitution Bench decisions although took note of the earlier Constitution Bench decisions, but only sought to distinguish the same and not referred the matter to a larger Bench for consideration of correctness of one view or the other.	None
I may, therefore, proceed on the premise that some of the principles in Khoday (supra) are correct, although one may have strong reservations even in this behalf.	None
In Khoday (supra) expressly or by necessary implication fundamental right to deal in any goods is accepted.	None
Only exception which was made are those commodities, business of which is inherently noxious and pernicious and is condemned by the civilized society.	None
it has sought to lay down the law that there cannot be a business in crime.	None
Dealing in a commodity which is governed by a statute cannot be said to be inherently noxious and pernicious.	None
A society cannot condemn a business nor there exists a presumption in this behalf if such business is permitted to be carried out under statutory enactments made by the legislature competent therefor.	None
The legislature being the final arbiter as to the morality or otherwise of the civilized society has also to state as to business in which article(s) would be criminal in nature.	None
The society will have no say in the matter.	None
The society might have a say in the matter which could have been considered in a Court of law only under common law right and not when the rights and obligations flow out of statutes operating in the field.	None
Health, safety and welfare of the general public may again be a matter for the legislature to define and prohibit or regulate by legislative enactments.	None
Regulatory statutes are enacted in conformity with clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution to deal with those trades also which are inherently noxious and pernicious in nature and furthermore thereby sufficient measures are to be taken in relation to health, safety and welfare of the general public.	None
The courts while interpreting a statue would not take recourse to such interpretation whereby a person can be said to have committed a crime although the same is not a crime in terms of the statutory enactment.	None
Whether dealing in a commodity by a person constitutes a crime or not can only be subject matter of a statutory enactment.49.	None
The Excise Acts enacted by the States mandate the licensees to carry on their activities in terms of the conditions of licence and the provisions contained therein.	None
So long as the business activities of the licensees are within the fourcorners of the conditions of the licence and the provisions of the Licensing Act, they, without any obstruction whatsoever, are entitled to carry on their trade, business or commerce.	None
They would be liable to be proceeded against for commission of an offence only in the event they violate the statutory provisions whereof the statute itself provides for imposition.	None
of penalty.50.	None
Thus, when a person has been granted a licence strictly in conformity with the Excise Act to carry on his business activities in terms of the statute operating in the field, the same can neither be termed as pernicious, obnoxious and injurious to health, safety and welfare of the general public	None
No public interest can be inferred by any court of law by going beyond the statutory provisions.	None
Even monopoly of the State either in itself or in any agency created by it for manufacture, possession, sale and distribution of liquor can be created only a statute which must conform to the provisions of clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution, i.e., by making a valid law, by way of a regulatory legislative enactment.51.	None
From the analysis of decisions rendered by this Court in Cooverjee B. Bharucha, R.M.D. Chambarbaugwala, Har Shankar or Khoday Distilleries, it will appear that a person cannot claim any right to deal in any obnoxious substance on the ground of public morality.	None
The State, therefore, is entitled to completely prohibit any trade or commerce in potable liquor.	None
Such prohibition, however, has not been imposed.	None
Once a licence is granted to carry on any trade or business can it be said that a person is committing a crime in carrying on business in liquor although he strictly complies with the terms and conditions of licence and the provisions of the statute operating in the field?	None
If the answer to the said question is to be rendered in affirmative it will create havoc and lead to anarchy and judicial vagaries.	None
When it is not a crime to carry on such business having regard to the fact that a person has been permitted to do so by the State in compliance with the provisions of the existing laws, indisputably he acquires a right to carry on business.	None
Even in respect to trade in food articles or other essential commodities either complete prohibition or restrictions are imposed in the matter of carrying on any trade or business, except in terms of a licence granted in that behalf by the authorities specified in that behalf.	None
The distinction between a trade or business being carried out legally or illegally having regard to the restrictions imposed by a statute would have, therefore, to be judged by the fact as to whether such business is being carried out in compliance of the provisions of the statute(s) operating in the field or not.	None
In other words, so long it is not made impermissible to carry on such business by reason of a statute, no crime can be said to have been committed in relation thereto.	None
The doctrine of res extra commercium, thus, would not be attracted, whence a person carries on business under a licence granted in terms of the provisions of the regulatory statutes.52.	None
No case and in particular the decisions relied upon by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Punjab and that of Kerala had evolved a principle that despite paying a large amount of licence fees and despite fulfillment of terms and conditions of licence and other statutory provisions, the trade or business carried out by the licensee shall be at an eternal peril, which may at any point of time be determined or a new tax imposed or they be proceeded against at the whims or caprice of the executive wing of the State.	None
In our constitutional scheme such a situation is unthinkable.	None
The country is governed by rule of law and despite existence of a valid legislation operating in the field, executive whims or caprice cannot be permitted to have any role to play.	None
Validity of a tax imposed by the State Legislature, thus, must be determined on the constitutional anvil of the legislative competence and not on any other basis.	None
The decisions of this Court which had no occasion to consider these aspects of the matter can be of no assistance and would not constitute binding precedents.	None
(See Bhavnagar University vs. Palitana Sugar Mill (P) Ltd. and others  (2003) 2 SCC 111 ).	None
The right of the State to carry on trade or business under Article 298 of the Constitution would be subject to the same constitutional limitations in the matter of carrying on trade or business in liquor as in other cases.	None
The distinction being only that the State has a monopoly to do so.	None
Once the State does not exercise the said right and considers it expedient to allow the citizens to carry on the business or trade, it cannot be said that the licensees do not derive any right whatsoever.	None
Even when the State exercises such right by creating a monopoly in itself, it would be subject to the same constitutional limitations as envisaged, inter alia, under Articles 14 and 301 of the Constitution.	None
Articles 14 and 301 of the Constitution protect from the maladies of discrimination.	None
Such discrimination may be in between persons and persons, persons and State and State and State.	None
Can a State which exercises its right to create monopoly, prevent another State to export or import its products?	None
If in between two States such discriminations are not possible, a discrimination inter se between licensees of two States would also not be permissible.	None
Such discrimination would also not be permissible between a State and a person carrying on similar trade or commerce in one State visavis a person or State carrying on business in another State.	None
Once the regulations restricting the right to carry on business in potable liquor is attributed to reasonable restrictions and public interest clause, contained in clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution, the fundamental right to carry on trade under Article 19 is conceded.	None
Once such a right is conceded, it cannot be said that although a person has a Fundamental Right to carry on trade or business for the purpose of Article 19(1)(g), subject to imposition of reasonable restrictions by a law made in terms of clause (6) of Article 19, he does not have such a right in terms of Article 301 of the Constitution or for that matter Article 14 thereof.	None
Articles 303 and 304 of the Constitution also provide for imposition of restrictions and thus even a freedom guaranteed to a person under Article 301 is not an absolute one, but subject to the constitutional limitations provided therefor.	None
Article 301 confers freedom but not a licence.	None
The protection from discrimination as envisaged in Khoday Distilleries (supra) (Para 60(g) would not only operate against the State which is the licensor but having regard to the constitutional goals to be achieved by the commerce clause contained in Article 301, must be extended to another State which seeks to impose restrictions on import.	None
Let me raise a hypothetical question.	None
If some States intend to excise their right privilege monopoly in the trade in potable liquor can such imposition of tax be still justified?	None
Answer thereto must be rendered in the negative.	None
Now the question is with regard to the applicability of Article 301 of the Constitution in the matter of trade, commerce and intercourse in potable liquor.	None
The preamble to the Constitution speaks of unity and integrity of India in terms whereof India is required to be treated country as a whole.	None
This theory of unity and integrity of India may have to be found out while considering the economic integrity of the country visavis the economic barriers which may be put by the States.	None
For the purpose of considering the question as regards the interpretation of Article 301, one has to notice the sources thereof.	None
It is now beyond any cavil of doubt that except a part of Part XIII of the Constitution the major part of the concept thereof was borrowed from Sections 92 and 99 of the Australian Constitution as also Section 297 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
Clause 17 of the draft as introduced before the Drafting Committee by Sir.	None
B.N. Rau in October, 1947 is in the following terms Subject to the provisions of any Federal Law, trade, commerce and intercourse among the units shall, if between the citizens of the Federation, be freeProvided that nothing in this section shall prevent any unit from imposing on goods imported from other units any tax to which similar goods manufactured or produced in that unit are subject, so, however, as not to discriminate between goods so imported and goods so manufactured or producedProvided further that no preference shall be given by any regulation of trade, commerce or revenue to one unit over anotherProvided also that nothing in this section shall preclude the Federal Parliament from imposing by Act restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse among the units in the interests of public order, morality or health or in cases of emergency.	None
The marginal note appended to Sir B.N. Raus clause 17 to the effect Freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse among the units is clearly suggestive of the fact that Section 92 of the Australian Constitution provided for a comparable provision visavis other Constitutions.	None
It is also beneficial to notice that Sections 92 and 99 of the Australian Constitution confer different rights and the same are independent of each other.	None
Trade, commerce and intercourse as noticed hereinbefore are of wide amplitude.	None
The term commerce is wider than trade.	None
In United States vs. Patterson (55 Fed.	None
Rep. 605 at 639), it is held The word commerce is undoubtedly, in its usual sense, a larger word than trade, in its usual sense.	None
Sometimes commerce is used to embrace less than trade, and sometimes trade is used to embrace as much as commerce.	None
An inhibition by Article 301 has been provided to the effect that the Legislature shall not interfere in the commerce between the State and State as also to the effect that the Legislature of a State shall not give any preference to one State over the other.	None
Article 301 of the Constitution in no uncertain terms provides for a freedom in the matter of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
Such trade, commerce and intercourse are interState as also intraState.	None
By reason of Part XIII of the Constitution, the Constitution makers sought to evolve a high policy.	None
On a comparison made between Section 297 of the Government of India Act, 1935 with Part XIII of the Constitution, it will be found that the latter is wider than the former.	None
The said part of the Constitution is a selfcontained part.	None
Several improvements made in Part XIII of the Constitution as compared to Section 297 are worth taking note of.	None
By reason of the said provisions, the entire country has been considered to be one economic unit.	None
It now embraces within its fold both commerce and trade and not trade alone.	None
Commerce was provided for in Entry 27 of List II only under the 1935 Act.	None
Part XIII, however, refers to the relevant entries contained in all the Lists of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
The limitation of power as regards legislative competence of the State and the Parliament having regard to clause 2 of Article 303 and subclauses (a) and (b) of Clause (1) of Article 304 is clear pointer of the new dimension given to Article 301 of the Constitution.	None
Even if a comparison is made between the terminologies used in Article 301 on the one hand and Articles 19 and 298 on the other, it would be evident that whereas in the former trade, commerce and intercourse have been used but in the latter only the words trade or business have been used.	None
Such trade, commerce and intercourse is in relation to entire territory of India whether interState or intraState unlike Section 297 of the Government of India Act.	None
Article 301 makes a declaration that trade, commerce and intercourse throughout the territory of India shall be free which in turn must mean that it shall be free from control of Executive and Legislature.	None
I may, however, hasten to add that by reason thereof although a liberty has been granted but such liberty cannot be equated with a licence inasmuch it would be subject to restrictions.	None
Articles 302 and 303 categorically state that there shall be no discrimination between one State and the other but restrictions inhere in such liberty as would appear from clause 2 of Article 303 of Constitution, if a situation stipulated therein arises for consideration.	None
In other words, discrimination is at the heart of this Chapter.	None
By reason of the said provision, the State is prohibited from imposing a tax without making any discrimination whatsoever so as to impede free flow of interState or intraState trade.	None
The State, however, is entitled to impose reasonable restrictions as also levy tax in public interest.	None
But the same indisputably would be subject to the conditions laid down in Articles 303 and 304 of the Constitution.	None
The precise question which arises for consideration is as to whether a trade in liquor would come within the purview of trade, commerce and intercourse, within the meaning of Article 301 of the Constitution.	None
In the earlier part of this judgment I have considered the difference between a trade to which a citizen has an absolute right and a trade where no such absolute right exists being dangerous or obnoxious but once such trade is permitted in terms of a regulatory statute, the same cannot be said to be per se illegal.	None
Earlier I have considered the difference between a trade which is not prohibited under any law and a trade carrying whereof although is of dangerous or obnoxious subjects but is permitted in law and subject to the regulatory statute.	None
For the purpose of invoking Part XIII of the Constitution, one may safely proceed on the assumption that a citizen of India may not have a Fundamental Rights in terms of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution to carry on a trade or business but there could be little difficulty in upholding the right to carry on such trade on the ground that the same has been permitted by the State, although a citizen but for such permission would not have a right to deal in the commodity in question.	None
It may be noticed that in Article 303 of the Constitution the terminology used is relating to.	None
These words are of wide amplitude.	None
These expressions relate to all entries relating to trade or commerce and not one entry in one of the Lists.	None
It, thus, refers to all such entries which are referable to trade and commerce occurring in any of the three lists.	None
Tobacco is one of the goods which would otherwise come within the purview of the doctrine of Res extra commercium, if the meaning thereof as judicially defined is held to be good.	None
Dealing in tobacco is regulated by the Tobacco Act, a Parliamentary Act.	None
It is universally acknowledged that cigarettes cause cancer but having regard to the Tobacco Act and other statutes it cannot be contended that the State that the State can prohibit business in cigarette without any legislation, i.e. only through executive instructions.	None
In terms of Article 303 of the Constitution, Tobacco Act which is made in terms of Entry 52 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution would prohibit the States from making any discriminatory legislation.	None
It is, therefore, difficult to understand as to how a prohibition can be imposed in respect of liquor in relation whereto also a legislative power has been conferred upon the State specifically in terms of Entries 8 and 51 in List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
At this juncture, it is useful to refer to the decision of this Court in Atiabari Tea Company Limited (supra) wherein this Court in no uncertain terms laid emphasis upon the economic unity of the country.	None
In that case before the Constitution Bench an argument was advanced to the effect that Article 301 is circumscribed by Article 303 but the same was not accepted.	None
Gajendragadkar, J. (as he then was) held at pages 843844 as follows In drafting the relevant Articles of Part XIII the makers of the Constitution were fully conscious that economic unity was absolutely essential for the stability and progress of the federal policy which had been adopted by the constitution for the governance of the country.	None
Political freedom which had been won, and political unity which had been accomplished by the Constitution, had to be sustained and strengthened by the bond of economic unity.	None
It was realised that in course of time different political parties believing in different economic theories or ideologies may come in power in the several constituent units of the Union, and that may conceivably give rise to local and regional pulls and pressures in economic matters.	None
Local or regional fears or apprehensions raised by local or regional problems may persuade the State Legislatures to adopt remedial measures intended solely for the protection of regional interests without due regard to their effect on the economy of the nation as a whole.	None
The object of Part XIII was to avoid such a possibility.	None
Free movement and exchange of goods throughout the territory of India is essential for the economy of the nation and for sustaining and improving living standards of the country.	None
The provision contained in Art.	None
301 guaranteeing the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse is not a declaration of a mere platitude, or the expression of a pious hope of a declaratory character, it is not also a mere statement of a directive principle of state policy it embodies and enshrines a principle of paramount importance that the economic unity of the country will provide the main sustaining force for the stability and progress of the political and cultural unity of the country.	None
In Automobile Transport (Rajasthan) Ltd. (supra), the validity of the tax impugned therein was upheld only on the ground that it was compensatory in nature.	None
There had been a cleavage of opinion amongst the Honble Judges in the said matter, three Honble Judges holding that such impost was ultra vires and three Honble Judges holding the same to be intra vires.	None
Subba Rao, J. upheld the constitutionality of the impost by agreeing with other three Honble Judges on the ground that the impost was compensatory in nature.	None
The Bench not only accepted the constitutional principles laid down by this Court in Atiabari (supra) but made a clear distinction between the regulatory measures which can be adopted by a State and imposition of a tax.	None
It, further, struck a note of caution that a geographical barrier cannot be set up by a State for the purpose of earning revenue or for the benefit of the people thereof.	None
It was held that Article 301 covers a wide area.	None
Subba Rao, J., elaborated as to what is the nature of a compensatory tax.	None
The learned Judge, further, emphasized the concept of freedom in the following terms at pages 564565 of the Report Article 301 declares a right of free movement of trade without any obstructions by way of barriers, interState, or intraState or other impediments operating as such barriers.	None
(2) The said freedom is not impeded, but, on the other hand, promoted, by regulations creating conditions for the free movement of trade, such as, police regulations, provision for services, maintenance of leads, provision for aerodromes, Wharfs etc., with or without compensation.	None
(3) Parliament may by law impose restrictions on such freedom in the public interest and the said law can be made by virtue of any entry with respect where of Parliament has power to make a law.	None
(4) The State also, in exercise of its legislative power, may impose similar restrictions, subject to the two conditions laid down in Article 304(b) and subject to the proviso mentioned therein.	None
(5) Neither Parliament nor the State Legislature can make a law giving preference to one State over another or making discrimination between one State and another, by virtue of any entry in the Lists, infringing the said freedom.	None
(6) This ban is lifted in the case of Parliament for the purpose of dealing with situations arising out of scarcity of goods in any part of the territory of India and also in the case of a State under Article 304(b), subject to the conditions mentioned therein.	None
And (7) of The State can impose a nondiscriminatory tax on goods imported from other States or the Union territory to which similar goods manufactured or produced in that State are subject.	None
Commerce and intercourse include trade in all its manifestations.	None
Obstructions or impediments to the free flow of trade would be violative of the freedom declared by Article 301.	None
Subba Rao, J., in the said case held at page 548 as under The next question is, where is it free?	None
The second, expression throughout the territory of India demarcates the extensive field of operation of the said freedom.	None
The said intercourse shall be free throughout the territory of India.	None
The use of the words territory of India instead of among the several States found in the American Constitution or among the States found in the Australian Constitution, removes all interState or intraState barriers and brings out the idea that for the purpose of the freedom declared, the whole country in one unit.	None
Trade cannot be free throughout the territory of India, if there are barriers in any part of India, be it interState or intraState.	None
So long as there is impediment to that freedom, its nature or extent is irrelevant.	None
The difference will be in degree and not in quality.	None
The freedom declared under Article 301, may be defined as right to free movement of persons or things, tangible or intangible, commercial or noncommercial, unobstructed by barriers interState or intraState or any other impediment operating as such barriers.	None
To State it differently all obstructions or impediments whatever shape they may take, to the free flow or movement of trade, or noncommercial intercourse, offend Article 301 of the Constitution except in so far as they are saved by the succeeding provisions.	None
It is beyond any cavil of doubt that Part XIII of the Constitution contains a principle of importance as regards economic sovereignty and integrity of India by doing away the trade barriers as also an attempt by the State to provide economic protection to the States.	None
Once, it is held that the limitation upon the legislative power stipulated in Article 303(1).	None
304(a) would apply to trade in liquor, there cannot be any doubt in view of several Constitution Bench decisions of this Court that Article 301 will also apply thereto.	None
(See Kalyani Stores (supra), H. Anraj (supra) and Bhilal Bhai (supra).	None
In A.B. Abdul Kadir and others vs. State of Kerala, AIR 1976 SC 182 , this Court, when the validity of a luxury tax (in the nature of excise duty) on tobacco was challenged as violative of Article 304(b), proceeded on the basis that the business was protected by Article 301 but rejected the plea, on the merits, holding that the restrictions, imposed were reasonable and in the public interest.	None
In Anrajs case (supra) this Court considered Entry 34 of List II in terms whereof the State Legislature has been conferred power to enact Statutes on gambling.	None
In M s. Maruthi Agencies, Bangalore rep. by its Proprietor vs. The State of Tamil Nadu and others, (1997(1) MLJ 589, it was held that in the event lotteries are organized by a State, sale of tickets thereof cannot be prohibited in other States on the ground that it is gambling and prohibited by List II.	None
If trade in liquor like gambling or betting were not to be regulated by statutes it is difficult to comprehend as to why entries in respect thereof have been made in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
The American decisions relied upon before this Court may not be held to have any application having regard to the fact that trade in liquor in the United States of America was completely prohibited at one point of time but the same was modified by reason of Constitution Twentyfirst Amendment.	None
Let me now take the case of 21st Amendment in US Constitution.	None
In the Constitution of the United States, an express provision guaranteeing freedom from interState trade and commerce does not exist.	None
There only the Congress is empowered to regulate commerce.	None
In the States freedom on trade and commerce clause only provides for a limitation upon the power of the State Legislature but not Congress and the freedom is confined to the interState aspect.	None
In Southern Pacific Co. vs. State of Arizona (1945) 325 US 761, it is stated For a hundred years it has been accepted constitutional doctrine that the commerce clause, without the aid of congressional legislation, thus affords some protection from state legislation, inimical to the national commerce, and that in such cases, where Congress has not acted, this Court, and not the State legislature, is under the commerce clause the final arbiter of the competing demands of state and national interests.	None
It is further stated The Commerce Clause is a grant of authority to Congress, and not a restriction on the authority of that body.	None
In the United States, the interState restraint trade as such is prohibited but a State is not denuded of its power imposing general taxes under its taxing power.	None
The state has also the power to regulate such aspects of commerce which do not require a new form of national control.	None
(See BobLo Excursion Company vs. People of the State of Michigan (1948) 333 US 28).	None
Furthermore, in United States a complete prohibition was imposed.	None
The said prohibition was sought to be relaxed by 21st Amendment which is the following terms Section 1.	None
The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed.	None
Section 2.	None
The transportation or importation into any State, Territory, or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby prohibited.	None
Section 3.	None
This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several States, as provided in the Constitution within seven years from the date of the submission hereof the States by the Congress.	None
In the United States of America, the State has the requisite power to impose general taxes.	None
Despite the same, an exemption granted in favour of local manufacturers visavis the exporters was frowned upon by the American Courts.	None
In Bacchus Imports Ltd. vs. Herbert H. Dias (82 L.Ed. 2d 200), the challenge was to the following effect 1.a.	None
Appellants challenge the constitutionality of the Hawaii liquor tax, which is a 20 excise tax imposed on sales of liquor at wholesale.	None
Specifically at issue are exemptions from the tax for certain locally produced alcoholic beverages.	None
The Supreme Court of Hawaii upheld the tax against challenges based upon the Equal Protection Clause, the ImportExport.	None
Clause, and the Commerce Clause.	None
In re Bacchus Imports, Ltd., 65 Haw 566, 656 P2d 724 (1982).	None
We noted probable jurisdiction, 462 US 1130, 77 L.Ed 2 d 1365, 103 S Ct 3109 (1983), and now reverse.	None
White, J, speaking for the majority stated the law thus A cardinal rule of Commerce Clause jurisprudence is that no State, consistent with the Commerce Clause, may impose a tax which discriminates against interstate commerce by providing a direct commercial advantage to local business.	None
Boston Stock Exchange vs. State Tax Commn, 429 US 318, 329, 50 L Ed 2d 514, 97S Ct 599 (1977) (quoting Nortwestern States Portland Cement Co. vs. Minnesota, 358 US 450, 458, 3 L Ed 2d 421, 79 S ct 357, 67 ALR2d 1292 (1959).	None
Despite the fact that the tax exemption here at issue seems clearly to discriminate on its face against interstate commerce by bestowing a commercial advantage on okolehao and pineapple wine, the State argues and the Hawaii Supreme Court held  that there is no improper discrimination.	None
The Court noticed (4a, 5) Much of the States argument centers on its contention that okolehao and pineapple wine do not compete with the other products sold by the wholesalers.	None
The State relies in part on statistics showing that for the years in question sales of okolehao and pineapple wine constituted well under one percent of the total liquor sales in Hawaii.	None
It also relies on the statement by the Hawaii Supreme Court that we believe we can safely assume these products pose no competitive threat to other liquors produced elsewhere and consumed in Hawaii, In re Bacchus Imports, Ltd., 65 Haw, at 582, n 21, 656 P2d, at 735, n 21, as well as the courts comment that it had good reason to believe neither okolehao nor pineapple wine is produced elsewhere.	None
Id. at 582, n 20, 656 P 2d, at 735, n20.	None
However, neither the small volume of sales of exempted liquor nor the fact that the exempted liquors do not constitute a present competitive threat to other liquors is dispositive of the question whether competition exists between the locally produced beverages and foreign beverages instead, they go only to the extent of such competition.	None
It is well settled that we need not know how unequal the Tax is before concluding that it unconstitutionally discriminates.	None
Marryland vs. Louisiana, 451 US 725, 760, 68 L Ed 2d 576, 101 S Ct 2114 (1981).	None
The States position that there is no competition is belied by its purported justification of the exemption in the first place.	None
The legislature originally exempted the locally produced beverages in order to foster the local industries by encouraging increased consumption of their product.	None
Surely one way that the tax exemption might produce that result is that drinkers of other alcoholic beverages might give up or consume less of their customary drinks in favour of the exempted products because of the price differential that the exemption will permit.	None
Similarly, nondrinkers, such as the maturing young, might be attracted by the low prices of okolehao and pineapple wine.	None
On the stipulated facts in this case, we are unwilling to conclude that no competition exists between the exempted and the nonexempted liquors.	None
As regards the States right on economic protectionism it was said A finding that state legislation constitutes economic protectionism may be made on the basis of either discriminatory purpose, see Hunt vs. Washington Apple Advertising Commn, 432 US 333, 352353, 53 L Ed 2d 383, 97 S Ct 2434 (1977), or discriminatory effect, see Philadelphia vs. New Jersey, supra.	None
See also Minnesota vs. Clover Leaf Creamery Co., supra, at 471, n 15, 66 L Ed 2d 659, 101 S Ct 715.	None
Examination of the States purpose in this case is sufficient to demonstrate the States lack of entitlement to a more flexible approach permitting inquiry into the balance between local benefits and the burden on interstate commerce.	None
See Pike vs. Bruce Church, Inc., 397 US 137, 142, 25 L Ed 2d 174, 90 S Ct 844 (1970).	None
The Hawaii Supreme Court described the legislatures motivation in enacting the exemptions as followsThe legislatures reason for exempting ti root okolehao from the alcohol tax was to encourage and promote the establishment of a new industry, S.L.H. 1960, c. 26	None
Sen Stand Comm Rep. No. 87, in 1960 Senate Journal, at 224, and the exemption of fruit wine manufactured in the State from products grown in the State was intended to help in stimulating the local fruit wine industry.	None
S.L.H. 1976, c 39 Sen Stand Comm Rep No. 40876, in 1976 Senate Journal, at 1056.	None
In re Bacchus Imports, Ltd. supra at 573574, 656 P2d, at 730Thus, we need not guess at the legislatures motivation, for it is undisputed that the purpose of the exemption was to aid Hawaiian industry.	None
Likewise, the effect of the exemption is clearly discriminatory, in that it applies only to locally produced beverages, even though it does not apply to all such products.	None
Consequently, as long as there is some competition between the locally produced exempt products and nonexempt products from outside the State, there is a discriminatory effect.	None
The Learned Judge proceeded to observe No one disputes that a State may enact laws pursuant to its police powers that have the purpose and effect of encouraging domestic industry.	None
However, the Commerce Clause stands as a limitation on the means by which a State can constitutionally seek to achieve that goal.	None
One of the fundamental purposes of the Clause was to insure against discriminating State Legislation.	None
Welton vs. Missouri, 91 US 275, 280, 23 L Ed 347 (1876).	None
In Welton, the Court struck down a Missouri statute that discriminated in favour of goods, wares, and merchandise which are the growth, product, or manufacture of the State, and against those which are the growth, product or manufacture of other states or countries Id, at 277, 23 L Ed 347.	None
Similarly, in Walling vs. Michigan, 116 US 446, 455, 29 L Ed 691, 6S Ct 454 (1886), the Court struck down a law imposing a tax on the sale of alcoholic beverages produced outside the State, declaringA discriminating tax imposed by a State operating to the disadvantage of the products of other States when introduced into the first mentioned State, is, in effect, a regulation in restraint of commerce among the States, and as such is a usurpation of the power conferred by the Constitution upon the Congress of the United States.	None
See also I.M.	None
Darnell Son Co. vs. Memphis, 208 US 113, 52 L Ed 413, 28 S Ct 247 (1908).	None
It was held We also find unpersuasive the States contention that there was no discriminatory intent on the part of the legislature because the exemptions in question were not enacted to discriminate against foreign products, but rather, to promote a local industry.	None
Brief for Appellate Dias 40.	None
If we were to accept that jurisdiction, we would have little occasion ever to find a statute unconstitutionally discriminatory.	None
Virtually every discriminatory statute allocates benefits or burdens unequally each can be viewed as conferring a benefit on one party and a detriment on the other, in either an absolute or relative sense.	None
The determination of constitutionality does not depend upon whether one focuses upon the benefited or the burdened party.	None
A discrimination claim, by its nature, requires a comparison of the two classifications, and it could always be said that there was no intent to impose a burden on one party, but rather the intent was to confer a benefit on the other.	None
Consequently, it is irrelevant to the Commerce Clause inquiry that the motivation of the legislature was the desire to aid the makers of the locally produced beverage rather than to harm outofstate producers.	None
The learned Judge explained the application of 21st Amendment by posing the question Whether the interests implicated by a state regulation are so closely related to the powers reserved by the Tweneyfirst Amendment that the regulation may prevail, notwithstanding that its requirements directly conflict with express federal policies.	None
and answered the same Approaching the case in this light, we are convinced that Hawaiis discriminatory tax cannot stand.	None
Doubts about the scope of the Amendments authorization notwithstanding, one thing is certain The central purpose of the provision was not to empower States to favour local liquor industries by erecting barriers to competition.	None
It is also beyond doubt that the Commerce Clause itself furthers strong federal interests in preventing economic Balkanization.	None
SouthCentral Timber, Development, Inc. vs. Wunnicke, 467 US 82, 81 L Ed 2d 71, 104 S Ct 2237 (1984) Hughes vs. Oklahoma, 441, US 322, 60, L Ed 2d 250, 99 S Ct 1727 (1979) Baldwin vs. G.A.F. Seelig, Inc.	None
294 US 511, 79 L Ed 1032, 55 S Ct 497, 101 ALR 55 (1935).	None
State laws that constitute mere economic protectionism are therefore not entitled to the same deference as laws enacted to combat the perceived evils of an unrestricted traffic in liquor.	None
Here, the State does not seek to justify its tax on the ground that it was designed to promote temperance or to carry out any other purpose of the Twentyfirst Amendment, but instead acknowledges that the purpose was to promote a local industry.	None
Brief for Appellate Dias 40.	None
Consequently, because the tax violates a central tenet of the Commerce Clause but is not supported by any clear concern of the Twentyfirst Amendment, we reject the States belated claim based on the Amendment.	None
The minority opinion, however, proceeded on the basis that by reason of Twentyfirst Amendment, the State has the power to create a monopoly.	None
Such constitutional permissibility is absent from our constitutional scheme.	None
It may be noticed that the same principles as in Atiabari (supra) or Automobile (supra) have been applied by the Privy Council and the Australian Courts while interpreting Section 92 of the Australian Constitution to hold that even for any purpose for which the State has acted the legislation would not be relevant criteria for declaring it ultra vires if it is found that the same interferes with the right of trade.	None
(See James vs. Commonwealth of Australia (1936) A.C. 578, North Eastern Dairy Co. Ltd. vs. Dairy Industry Authority of New South Wales (19741975) 134 C.L.R. 559 at 581, The Commonwealth others vs. Bank of New South Wales others (1949) 79 C.L.R. 497).	None
Mason, J., Pilkington vs. Frank Hammond Pty. Ltd. (1974) 131 C.L.R. 124 interpreted Section 92 of the Australian Constitution in the following terms The section does not in terms speak of the private right of the individual to engage in trade, commerce, and intercourse among the States it refers to trade, commerce and intercourse among the State as an entire and total concept and provides that it is to be absolutely free in the sense in which this expression has been discussed in the decided cases.	None
In saying so much the section protects the right of the individual to engage in interState trade, commerce and intercourse but it needs to be recognized that this protection is incidental to, and in a sense consequential upon, the protection which is given to the entire concept of interState Trade, commerce and intercourse, including the various acts and transactions by which it is constituted.	None
Reference in this connection may also be made in North Eastern Dairy Co. Ltd. vs. Diary Industry Authority of New South Wales (19741975) 134 C.L.R. 559, at 615.)	None
In India, the constitutional guarantee under Article 301 of the Constitution is more extensive than either in United States or Australia.	None
The decisions of United State Supreme Court and Australian Supreme Court as also the Privy Council, as referred to hereinbefore, clearly demonstrate that in these countries, although States have more constitutional freedom but despite the same Commerce Clause received ample protection at the hands of the Judiciary.	None
Subba Rao, J. in Automobile case (supra) observed The freedom declared under Article 301 may be defined as a right to free movement of persons or things, tangible or intangible, commercial or noncommercial, unobstructed by barriers, interState or intraState or any other impediment operating as such barriers.	None
To state it differently, all obstructions or impediments, whatever shape they may take, to the free flow or movement of trade, or noncommercial intercourse, offend Article 301 of the Constitution except in so far as they are saved by the succeeding provisions.	None
The Public character theory although is an important, but has a limitation on the individual right which is guaranteed having regard to the fact that legislative restriction ultimately permits the individual State to go ahead, only subject to the reasonable restriction.	None
The rule against enacting protectionist measures has also been noticed by the High Court of Australia in Cole vs. Whitfield Anr.	None
(19871988) 165 CLR 360, settling a long debate.	None
In Shree Mahavir Oil Mills and Another vs. State of J K and Others (1996) 11 SCC 39 at pages 5354, this Court while rejecting argument of justification of exemption from sales tax of small scale industrial units within the State of J K on the ground that the commodity produced within the State and that produced in other States and sold in J K, constitute different classes, has held as under The States are certainly free to exercise the power to levy taxes on goods imported from other States Union Territories but this freedom, or power shall not be so exercised as to bring about a discrimination between the imported goods and the similar goods manufactured or produced in that State.	None
The clause deals only with discrimination by means of taxation it prohibits it.	None
The prohibition cannot be extended beyond the power of taxation.	None
It means in the immediate context that States are free to encourage and promote the establishment and growth of industries within their States by all such means as they think proper but they cannot, in that process, subject the goods imported from other States to a discriminatory rate of taxation, i.e. a higher rate of sales tax visavis similar goods manufactured produced within that State and sold within that State.	None
Prohibition is against discriminatory taxation by the States.	None
It matters not how this discrimination is brought about We find it difficult to appreciate how can the concept of classification be read into clause (a) of Article 304 to undo the precise object and purpose underlying the clause.	None
Shri Verma repeatedly stressed that the object underlying the impugned measure is a laudable one and that it seeks to serve and promote the interest of the State of Jammu and Kashmir which is economically and industrially an undeveloped State, besides being a disturbed State.	None
We may agree on this score but then the measures necessary in that behalf have to be taken by the appropriate authority and in the appropriate manner.	None
Part XIII of the Constitution itself contains adequate provisions to remedy such a situation and there is no reason why the necessary measures cannot be taken to protect the edible oil industry in the State in accordance with the provisions of the said Part.	None
It is thus evident that any manner of extension of protection to trade or business within the frontiers of State, at the cost of free interState trade or commerce will not stand the test of Article 301.	None
The scheme of compensatory taxes, operate in an entirely different sphere.	None
The cannot be confused with measures which are both in form and substance protectionist impositions.	None
In Brown vs. Maryland (1827) 12 Wheat 419, the US Supreme Court in the context of the competence of the States to enact and impose a duty on imports or exports has held that the power to regulate inter State commerce in nondiscriminatory fashion and to break down or to eliminate barriers to trade amongst the States is an essential federal power.	None
It has, therefore, been said that in the absence of such a power local interest exerting powerful influences in State Legislatures would, in the long run, prefer home industries over those that are out of state, establish tariff barriers, or employ other means tending to Balkanize the nation into hostile trade areas.	None
(See Also William O. Doughlas J From Marshall to Mukherjea Tagore Law Lectures 1956 P. 169).	None
In James vs. Commonwealth of Australia 1936 AC 578, referring to McArthurs case 28 CLR 530 it was held It is now convenient to examine the actual language of the Constitution so far as relevant, in order to ascertain its true construction.	None
The first question is what is meant by absolutely free in s. 92.	None
It may be that the word absolutely adds nothing.	None
The trade is either free or it is not free.	None
Absolutely may perhaps be regarded as merely inserted to add emphasis.	None
The expression absolutely free is generally described as popular or rhetorical.	None
On the other hand, absolutely may have been added with the object of excluding the risk of partial or veiled infringements.	None
In any case, the use of the language involves the fallacy that a word completely general and undefined is most effective.	None
A good draftsman would realize that the mere generality of the word must compel limitation in its interpretation.	None
Free in itself is vague and indeterminate.	None
It must take its colour from the context.	None
Compare, for instance, its use in free speech, free love, the dinner and free trade.	None
Free speech, does not mean free speech it means speech hedged in by all the laws against defamation, blasphemy, sedition and so forth it means freedom governed by law, as was pointed out in McArthurs case.	None
Free love, on the contrary, means licence or libertinage, though, even so, there are limitations based on public decency and so forth.	None
Free dinner generally means free of expense, and sometimes a meal open to any one who comes, subject, however, to his condition or behaviour not being objectionable.	None
Free trade means, in ordinary parlance, freedom from tariffs.	None
Free in s.92 cannot be limited to freedom in the last mentioned sense.	None
There may at first sight appear to be some plausibility in that idea, because of the startingpoint in time specified in the section, because of the sections which surround s.92, and because the proviso to s.92 relates to customs duties.	None
But it is clear that much more is included in the term customs duties and other like matters constitute a merely pecuniary burden there may be different and perhaps more drastic ways of interfering with freedom, as by restriction or partial or complete prohibition of passing into or out of the State.	None
Nor does free necessarily connote absence of discrimination between interState and intraState trade.	None
No doubt conditions restrictive of freedom of trade among the States will frequently involve a discrimination but that is not essential or decisive.	None
An Act may contravene s.92 though it operates in restriction both of intraState and of interState trade.	None
However, in India Part XIII of the Constitution relates both to interState trade and commerce as also intraState trade.	None
In Fox vs. Robbins (8 CLR 115), It was held See.	None
92 of the Constitution does not reframe State Acts by making the new affirmative legislation not contemplated by the State Parliament.	None
It prevents adverse discrimination from being lawful so far as the Act can be effectively worked in conformity with the constitutional requirement it still stands so far as it cannot be simply ceases to operate.	None
Once it is held that the principle of resextra commercium is not applicable, the decisions in Kalyani Stores (supra).	None
H. Anraj (supra) and Bhailal Bhai (supra) having been rendered by a Constitution Bench would constitute binding precedents.	None
Once it is held that the Legislature has no power to levy any excise duty on imported liquor in excess of the countervailing duty within the State, having regard to the constitutional limitation imposed in terms of Entry 51, List II of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, such discriminatory levy must be held to be violative of Article 303(1) and 304(a) of the Constitution.	None
As import fee is an impost, thus, levy thereof in addition to countervailing duty would clearly attract the wrath of Article 304(a) of the Constitution.	None
It has not been and could not have been contended that the tax is compensatory in nature as was the case in Automobile (supra).	None
I am, therefore, of the opinion that the impugned impost cannot be upheld.	None
Before parting, however, I may notice the submission made by Mr. Iyer on behalf of the State of Kerala that the licensees, having obtained a privilege and enjoyed the benefit out of it, cannot, turn round subsequently and repudiate the obligations subject to which they obtained the privilege.	None
The submission of Mr. Iyer is wholly misconceived for more than one reason.	None
The manufacturers of liquor outside the State of Kerala did not obtain any privilege from the State.	None
The decisions relied upon by the learned counsel, namely, Har Shankar (supra), Jage Ram (supra), Lal Chand (supra), M s. Dial Chand Gian Chand and Company (supra), thus, cannot be said to have any application in the instant case.	None
The decisions in these cases were rendered in the fact situation obtaining therein.	None
The licensees therein questioned the power of the State to hold auction by the State and or they refused to comply with the terms and conditions of licence.	None
In fact in Harshankar (supra) the Court on the factual matrix obtaining therein clearly came to the conclusion that the writ petition was not maintainable as thereby the licensees sought avoidance from compliance of contractual terms and licensing conditions and thus, thus, they were not entitled to any relief.	None
The writ petitions before the High Court had not questioned any of the terms and conditions of the licence.	None
In Kerala case they are not even licensees at all.	None
They are manufacturers of potable liquor, licences wherefor had been granted by other States.	None
The State of Kerala has not parted any privilege in their favour.	None
Even otherwise when the legislative competence of a State is in question, the same goes to the root of the jurisdiction.	None
Once it is found that the State Legislature has exceeded its jurisdiction in imposing the impugned levy, the same being a fraud on the Constitution cannot be sustained on the procedural doctrine of estoppel or waiver.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, Civil Appeal No. 3017 of 1997 is dismissed and impugned judgment rendered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing the Notification impugned before it is upheld.	None
On 23.7.1998 when prayer for grant of interim relief was being considered, a prayer was made by Shri Harish N. Salve, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the State of Punjab, to the effect that operation of impugned judgment rendered by the High Court may be stayed as the State was ready to undertake before this Court to refund the amount that would be realized by way of import duty together with interest thereon 15 per annum to the respondents in the event of dismissal of States appeal by this Court and the said prayer having been acceded to, this Court stayed the operation of the judgment rendered by the High Court upon the aforesaid undertaking.	None
In view of this, the State of Punjab is hereby directed to refund the amount that has been realized by it by way of import duty to the respondents together with interest thereon 15 per annum from the date of its realization till payment, which must be made within a period of three months.	None
Civil Appeal Nos. 26962697 are allowed and the Notification impugned before the Kerala High Court is quashed.	None
There shall be no order as to costs.  	Decision
JUDGMENT B. Sinha 1. , J. A threeJudge Bench of this Court has made a reference to the Constitution Bench for deciding as to whether, having regard to the decisions of the constitution Benches of this Court in State of Bombay vs. r.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (1957)	None
SCR 874 , Har Shankar ors.	None
etc. etc. vs. Deputy Excise Taxation Commissioner ors.	None
(1975) 3 SCR 254 and Khoday Distilleries Ltd. and others vs. State of Karnataka and others (1995) 1	None
SCC 574 , the principles laid down in Kalyani Stores vs. State of Orissa and others (1966) 1	None
SCR 865 , wherein Article 301 of the Constitution of India has been held to be applicable to trade in liquor, is correct.	None
PROPOSITIONS OF LAW The following questions inter alia are required to be answered for deductions of the propositions of law involved in the matter Whether the constitutional validity of a statute can be determined on the basis of the interpretation given to the maxim res extra commercium?2.	None
Whether the freedom to carry on trade or business as envisaged under Article 301 of the Constitution of India can be held to be inapplicable to the trade of liquor which is permitted by the State itself?	None
If Article 14 of the Constitution of India is applicable in the matter of grant of contract by the State, in exercise of its power under Article 298 of the Constitution, can it be said that another constitutional provision, namely, Article 301 would not be applicable?	None
Whether in interpreting a constitutional provision, the Court should tae into consideration international treaties and covenants covering the subjectmatter and having regard to the social milieu.	None
Whether Kalyani Stores (supra), having been rendered by a Constitution Bench, is it permissible for another coordinate bench to ignore the said decision relying on or on the basis of subsequent decisions which either had not discussed the said decision nor overruled the same?	None
The Punjab and Haryana High Court applied Kalyani Stores (supra) for striking down the provisions contained in Sections 16 and 31 of the Punjab Act, 1932.	None
The Kerala High Court, however, dismissed the writ petition upholding the validity of Section 17 of the Kerala Abkari Act, 1902 on the sole ground that by reason of the notification impugned in the writ petition a regulatory fee was imposed.	None
The Kerala High Court, therefore, had no occasion to deal with the questions involved herein.	None
LEGISLATIVE COMPETENCE	None
The Acts are preconstitutional ones but the impugned amendments thereto and or notifications issued thereunder are postconstitutional.	None
Such legislative power of the State admittedly must be traceable to any of the three Entries, viz., 8, 51 and 66 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, which read as under Intoxicating liquors, that is to say, the production, manufacture, possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors.51.	None
Duties of excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in the State and countervailing duties at the same or lower rates on similar goods manufactured or produced elsewhere in India(a) alcoholic liquors for human consumption(b) opium, Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics but not including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in subparagraph (b) of this entry.66.	None
Fees in respect of any of the matters in this List, but not including fees taken in any court.	None
Laws relating to imposition of duty of excise is within the legislative competence of the Parliament in terms of Entry 84, List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
One of the exceptions to the said field is imposition of duty on alcoholic liquor for human consumption, which is exclusively within the legislative competence of the State.	None
The States of Punjab and Kerala exercised its constitutional power is enacting the said Act, the sources whereof are referable to Entry 8 or 51 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
The validity of the impugned provisions of the said Acts, therefore, revolves round the question as to whether the same fulfil constitutional requirements.	None
Entry 8 of List II does not envisage any control over import.	None
Entry 51 of List II empowers the State to levy countervailing duty at the same or lower rates of excise duty levied on similar goods produced in that State.	None
Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India uses the expression that is to say which is descriptive, enumerative and exhaustive and circumscribes to great extent the scope of the said entry See Commissioner of Sales Tax, M.P. vs. Popular Trading Company, Ujjain, (2000) 5 SCC 511  para 3.	None
In Indian Aluminium Company Ltd. etc. vs. Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Appeals) and Another etc.	None
(2001) 2 SCC 201 the expression that is to say both in original Entry 11 and in the new Entry 67 has been held to have clearly indicated that the items mentioned therein were exhaustive.	None
It is, therefore, evident that import of liquor in terms of the licences granted under the provisions of a statute cannot be the subjectmatter of regulation within the purview of Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
Furthermore, on a plain reading of Entry 51 no duty can be imposed on import of liquor over and above the countervailing duty.	None
Exfacie, therefore, the imposition of import duty on liquor is unconstitutional.	None
For determining the legislative competence reference to Directive Principles contained in Part IV of the Constitution of India may be proper (as was done in Welfare Association ARP Maharashtra and others vs. Ranjit P. Gohil Ors. reported in 2003 (2) SCALE 288 ) but not when the constitutionality of a taxing statute is in question.	None
RIGHT OF STATE TO CARRY ON BUSINESS The right of a State to carry on business of liquor as being a part of its exclusive privilege must be traced to Article 298 of the Constitution of India.	None
See Kepila Hingorani vs. State of Bihar 2003 (6) SCC 1 .	None
While granting largess or licence in such trade, the State must exercise its functions under Article 298 within the parameters of the constitutional scheme, which would include imposition of such regulation and would not be violative of Article 301 of the Constitution of India.	None
RES EXTRA COMMERCIUM In R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (supra), Har Shankar (supra) and Khoday Distilleries Ltd. (supra), this Court relying on or on the basis of a maxim res extra commercium observed that trade in liquor is not a fundamental right within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India.	None
The Constitution Bench of this Court in those decisions had neither referred to nor discussed the dictionary or legal meaning of res extra commercium which means those things which had been dedicated to the public, such as public roads, rivers, title of owners etc.	None
The question, therefore, is whether the said maxim can be applied in relation to a trade the field whereof is covered by legislative enactments?	None
Answer to the said question, as would appear fro the discussions made hereinafter must be rendered in the negative.	None
As a sovereign prior to coming into force of the Constitution of India, the State may have exclusive privilege to the business in liquor but all postconstitutional statutes and actins taken thereunder must relate to a source of power under the Constitution of India.	None
Even if there is no express provision in the Constitution, principles of constitutionalism exist providing that, for the said purpose, the relevant statutes should also be looked into.	None
A statute is enacted by the State Legislature or the Parliament having regard to one or the other entry made in the three lists contained in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.	None
The Punjab Excise Act and the Kerala Abkari Act although preconstitutional Acts, the subsequent amendments which are impugned in these matters must, thus, be referable either to Entry 8 or Entry 51 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
When a statute governs the trade in a particular commodity, the provisions contained therein would only regulate the same.	None
The Constitution of India or the State Legislatures do not state that trade in liquor ipso facto is totally prohibited.	None
States of Punjab and Kerala have not adopted any policy of prohibition whether in whole or in part.	None
For imposing total prohibition the State must formulate a policy decision having regard to Article 47 of the Constitution of India, necessitating issuance of a declaration either through legislative process or through executive instructions.	None
For judging the validity of taxing statutes, Part IV of the Constitution or Article 47 will have no role to play.	None
Recourse to Part IV or Part IVA of the Constitution can only be taken as regard interpretation of a legislative enactment for giving effect to objects and purport thereof and not for any other purpose.	None
A statute imposing must not only satisfy the tests of Article 245 of the Constitution but also other provision of the Constitution.	None
Trade in liquor is regulated by statutes and, thus, if it is carried out within the parameters of the regulatory provisions and subject to observance of the terms and conditions of the licence, it would be legal.	None
All rights and obligations flowing from the grant of such licence being mutual would be binding on the parties.	None
If the Constitution or the relevant statutes do not prohibit carrying out a trade business, the courts cannot do so by taking recourse to interpretive process or on the supposed grounds of public morality.	None
Whereas lottery was looked down upon in Chambarbaugwala (supra) and B.R. Enterprises etc. vs. State of UP and Others etc.	None
(1999) 9 SCC 700 with reference to scriptures which are thousands years old, the Court did not make a similar attempt in case of Indian Made Foreign Liquor or Imported Liquor nor considered that sacramental wine has received statutory protection under the laws validly enacted.	None
As for example see Bombay Sacramental Wine Manufacturing Rules, 1950 framed under the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949.	None
Sacramental wine refers both a Christian and Hindu tenets.	None
In India Handicrafts Emporium and others vs. Union of India and others (2003) 7 SCC 589 , a threeJudge Bench of this Court had noticed how education was held to be outside the purview of occupation within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India in Unni Krishnan, JP and others vs. State of Andhra Pradesh (1993) 1 SCC 645 but stood overruled by an elevenJudge Bench of this Court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation and Others vs. State of Karnataka and others (2002) 8 SCC 481 following Sodan Singh and others vs. New Delhi Municipal Committee and others (1989) 4 SCC 155 .	None
The said view has been reiterated by a Constitution Bench in Islamic Academy of Education and anr.	None
vs. State of Karnataka and others JT 2003 (7) SC 1 .	None
In Indian Handicrafts Emporium (supra), this Court pointed out that judicial vagaries should not be permitted to have its play in such matters stating The High Court has referred to the decision in P. Crowley vs. Henry Christensen (1890) 34 Law.	None
Ed.	None
620 so as to hold that a citizen has no inherent right to deal in intoxicating liquors.	None
Therein the U.S. Supreme Court was dealing with a federal law imposing restrictions on a person dealing in retail trade in liquor without obtaining a due licence therefor.	None
The law was upheld negativing the contention that the restriction was unreasonable.	None
It was not held therein that trade of liquor is impermissible in all situations.	None
Restriction in trade, therefore, would depend upon the nature of the article and the law governing the field.	None
By reason of judicial vagaries, fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution cannot be further restricted.	None
(See Krishna Kumar Narula vs. The State of Jammu and Kashmir ors.	None
AIR 1967 SC 1368 ).24.	None
With respect, I am of the opinion that constitutionality of a statute could not determined solely relying on or on the basis of the said maxim without any reference to the limitations contained in the Constitution.	None
CASE LAWS  Analysing of(A) Case Law Where Res Extra Commercium was applied In Chamarbaugwala (supra), this Court applied the doctrine of res extra commercium having regard to the abnoxious nature of trade but in subsequent decisions the said principle had been extended mechanically to trade of liquor without tracing the history as to whether Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) or the other expensive liquors imported from foreign country would fall in that category.	None
No discussions have been made as to in which areas and in relation to which stratas of the society consumption of liquor was looked down upon.	None
The fact that at different ages, at least in respect of liquor in higher echelons of the society drinks became a part of culture was not taken into consideration.	None
For the purpose of determination of the issue, the Courts were required to take into consideration, the history, the social perceptions visavis the state policy and other relevant factors before arriving at a decision that it is necessarily a social evil.	None
Law is not to be laid down having regard to the perceptions of a Judge but on premises having a solid foundation therefor, both on facts as well as in law.	None
The question is required to be considered in todays scenario (which would be discussed a little later), but is suffice it to point out at this stage that what was frowned upon a few decades back, has received the acceptance of society today.	None
In R.M.D. Chambarbaugwala (supra), with highest respect, a wrong approach was adopted holding that the Constitutionmakers of India, out to create a Welfare State, could never have intended to raise betting and gambling to the status of trade, commerce or intercourse without taking into consideration the fat that there exists legislative entries therefor and thus the field is covered by Article 245 of the Constitution.	None
In M s. Fatehchand Himmatlal and others vs. State of Maharashtra (1977) 2 SCC 670 , this Court upheld the validity of the Maharashtra Debt Relief Act, 1976 holding that every systematic, profitoriented activity, however, sinister, suppressive or socially diabolic, cannot, ipso facto, exalt itself into a trade.	None
The validity of the Act was upheld on the touchstone of Article 304(b) of the Constitution of India.	None
The binding decision of Kalyani Stores (supra), unfortunately was not noticed.	None
In M s. Bishamber Dayal Chandra Mohan etc. vs. State of U.P. and others etc.	None
AIR 1982 SC 33 an order contained in a teleprinter message imposing the requirement for making of an endorsement by the Deputy Marketing Officer or the Senior Marketing Officer or the physical verification of stocks of wheat during the course of transit was held to be a restriction on the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse within the country, i.e., across the State or from one part of the State to another.	None
The same was held to be regulatory measures as compensatory tax was imposed thereby.	None
Such compensatory tax, as is wellsettled, is permissible.	None
(See The State of Himachal Pradesh Ors.	None
vs. Yash Pal Garg (Dead) by LRs.	None
ors.	None
2003 (3) Supreme 759 and Jindal Strips Ltd. anr.	None
vs. State of Haryana ors.	None
2003 (8) SCALE 206 ).	None
It is, however, relevant to note that it was categorically stated therein The regulatory measures should, however, be such as do not impede the freedom of trade, commerce and intercourse.	None
The said decision does go to show that validity of these regulatory measures are required to be considered on the constitutional anvil on its own force.	None
In State of Tamil Nadu vs. M s. Hind Stone etc. AIR 1981 SC 711 validity of rule 8C of the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1959 came to be questioned.	None
The said rule was made by the State in exercise of its power conferred upon it under Section 15 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957.	None
By reason of said rule lease of quarrying in respect of black granite was proposed to be granted only in favour of any corporation wholly owned by the State.	None
Such a power also exists in the Central Government under Section 17A of the 1957 Act.	None
As the said rule had nothing to do with interState trade or commerce, it was held that the same was outside the purview of Article 301 and in any event would come within the purview of Article 305.	None
We are not at all concerned with the said question, as therein the Court was dealing with question of State monopoly created under a statute.	None
We may notice that such monopoly has also been held to be permissible in terms of the provision of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.	None
In State of Tamil Nadu and others vs. M s. Sanjeetha Trading Co. and others (1993) 1 SCC 236 , a complete prohibition was issued on export of certain items from the concerned States.	None
The question which arose for consideration of the Court was whether such a complete prohibition on export was permissible.	None
It was held The framers of the Constitution neither wanted to ensure the freedom of trade and commerce on the pattern of the freedom guaranteed by Section 92 of the Australian Constitution nor they thought it proper that the different States should have unfettered and unrestricted power while imposing prohibitions on interState trade.	None
In the larger interest of the nation, there must be free flow of trade, commerce and intercourse both interState and intraState but at the same time the regional problems cannot be ignored altogether.	None
Whenever there is a clash between the national interest and the interest of the State because of which any crisis is created, the Union has power of intervention.	None
According to us, the expression free trade cannot be interpreted in an unqualified manner.	None
Any prohibition on movement of any article from one State to another has to be examined with reference to the facts and circumstances of that particular casewhether it amounts to regulation only, taking into consideration the local conditions prevailing, the necessity for such prohibition and what public interest is sought to be served by imposition thereof Such prohibition is permissible both under Clause (6) of Article 19 and Article 302 of the Constitution.	None
This decision is again an authority for the proposition that even in relation to essential commodities or goods over which prohibition is required to be imposed in larger public interest, the question must be tested on the anvil of Articles 19(1)(g) and 301 of the Constitution of India and not on applying an age old maxim.	None
Har Shankar (supra) was rendered in a situation where the licensee wanted to avoid the rigours of the licence.	None
Therein the appellants applied for and accepted licence to vend foreign liquor.	None
Licence granted to them was subject to the provisions of the Punjab Excise Act and the Rules framed thereunder.	Reasoning
Although, the parties entered into a concluded contract, the appellant therein filed a writ petition asking for a direction quashing the auction held on March 23, 1968 and secondly, they asked that the respondents be restrained from enforcing the obligations arising under the terms and conditions of the auction.	None
In the aforementioned backdrop, the Court distinguished K.K. Narula (supra) stating It was unnecessary in Krishna Kumar Narulas case (supra) to examine the question from this broader point of view, as the ony contention bearing on the constitutional validity of the provision impugned therein was not permitted to be raised as it was not argued in the High Court.	None
The discussion of the question whether a citizen has a fundamental right to do trade or business in liquor proceeded in that case, avowedly, from a desire to clear the confusion arising from the different views expressed by the two Judges of High Court.	None
This may explain why the Court restricted its final conclusion to holding that dealing in liquor is business and the citizen has a right to do business in that commodity.	None
The court did not say, though such an implication may arise from its conclusion, that the citizen has a fundamental right to do trade or business in liquor.	None
If we may repeat, Subba Rao, C.J. saidWe, therefore, hold that dealing in liquor is business and a citizen has a right to do business in that commodity but the State can make a law imposing reasonable restrictions on the said right, in public interests.	None
It is significant that the judgment in Krishna Kumar Narulas case does not negate the right of the state to prohibit absolutely all forms of activities in relation to intoxicants.	None
The wider right to prohibit absolutely would include the narrower right to permit dealings in intoxicants on such terms of general application as the State deems expedient.	None
It is relevant to note that in Har Shankar (supra) itself, it was stated Since rights in regard to intoxicants belong to the state, it is open to the Government to part with those rights for a consideration.	None
By Article 298 of the Constitution, the executive power of the State extends to the carrying on of any trade or business and to the making of contracts for any purpose.	None
In State of Bihar ors.	None
vs. Harihar Prasad Debuka etc. AIR 1989 SC 1119 the question was answered again on the anvil of Article 304(b) of the Constitution of India.	None
Government of Maharashtra and others vs. Deokars Distillery (2003) 5 SCC 669 has no application in the present case.	None
The question which arose for consideration therein was as to whether the exercise of power under Section 58A of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 so as to recover the arrears of salaries of the officers deputed for exercise supervision was permissible.	None
It was not a case where an executive action was under challenge on the touchstone of Articles 19(1)(g) and 301 of the Constitution of India.	None
Such a legislation was found to be within the purview of Entry 8, List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India stating Under Entry 8 List II in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India and thereby under Sections 49 and 143(2)(V) of the Prohibition Act, the State has the exclusive right privilege in respect of potable liquor and the State, in our opinion, can charge any reasonable expenses or even consideration for permitting such activity by grant of licence and that the respondents ought to comply with all reasonable orders, as undertaken by them while obtaining the licence.	None
In B.R. Enterprises (supra), lottery was not held to be a trade as there no skill was involved in the game.	None
It was held that therein there is only an element of chance in contrast to trade and commerce where there is an exchange of goods, production or properties or exchange of any article either by barter or money.	None
The said principle would not apply herein.	None
Even in B.R. Enterprises (supra) lotteries were held to be goods for the purpose of Article 298 being included in the expression trade and business.	None
Despite holding that Articles 301 and 304 of the Constitution of India were not applicable, it having realised that Section 5 of the Lotteries Act was without any guidelines read down the provisions thereof evidently to bring it within the purview of Articles 14 and 246 of the Constitution of India.	None
The reasoning in the aforesaid judgment in the case of B.R. Enterprises vs. State of UP (supra)  (2 Honble Judges) is contrary to and in conflict with the earlier decisions in the cases of (i) H. Anraj and others vs. State of Maharashtra (1984) 2 SCC 292 ) (ii) H. Anraj vs. State of Tamil Nadu (1986) 1 SCC 414 , (iii) State of Haryana vs. M s. Suman Enterprises and others (1994) 4 SCC 217 ).	None
The Court noticed that in Krishna Kumar Narula, a Constitution Bench has held that a right to trade in liquor was business but committed a manifest error in jumping to the conclusion that it was reversed in Khoday Distilleries (supra), which was neither in fact done nor could be done as both of the judgments were rendered by coordinate benches.	None
K.K. Narula (supra) was only sought to be explained in Khoday Distilleries (supra).	None
In M s. Sat Pal and Co. and others vs. Lt. Governor of Delhi and others (1979) 4 SCC 232 the question which arose for consideration was as to whether the Parliaments power to legislate in respect of Union Territory was plenary and unfettered by entries in the Lists of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India having regard to Entry 97, List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution.	None
It was held Accordingly, if excise or countervailing duty could be levied on country liquor manufactured or imported into Delhi, albeit other conditions for the levy of such duty being fulfilled, levy the same only because levy of such duty on alcoholic liquors for human consumption is within the competence of a State.	None
But it must be confessed that as country liquor is not manufactured in Delhi, the Parliament could not under Entry 51 of the State List levy either excise or countervailing duty on it.	None
Merely because Parliament could not levy countervailing duty on country liquor imported into Delhi because country liquor is not manufactured in Delhi, it does not exhaust the power of Parliament to levy some other duty on the import of liquor if it is otherwise constitutionally permissible.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thus, in that case also the Parliamentary competence as regard a legislation was considered.	None
The impugned duty therein, therefore, even in that case was tested on the anvil of the constitutional provisions.	None
Khoday Distilleries (supra) is to be read as a whole.	None
It does not say that no right can be claimed by a trader even after grant of licence.	None
Exclusive privilege theory in Khoday Distilleries (supra) if read in its entirety would lead to the conclusion that the same had been considered only in a no right situation.	None
In Khoday Distilleries (supra) inter alia validity of rules framed by various States was in question.	None
Sawant, J. analyzing several decisions stated The proposition of law laid down there has to be read in conformity with the proposition laid down in that respect by the other decisions of this Court not only to bring comity in the judicial conformity with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
The fundamental rights conferred by our Constitution are not absolute.	None
Article 19 has to be read as a whole.	None
The fundamental rights enumerated under Article 19(1) are subject to the restrictions mentioned in clauses (2) to (6) of the said article.	None
Hence, the correct way to describe the fundamental rights under Article 19(1) is to call them qualified fundamental rights.	None
To explain this position in law, we may take the same illustration as is given in K.K. Narula case.	None
The citizen has undoubtedly a fundamental right to carry on business in ghee.	None
But he has no fundamental right to do business in adulterated ghee.	None
To expound the theme further, a citizen has no right to trafficking in women or in slaves or in counterfeit coins or to carry on business of exhibiting and publishing pornographic or obscene films and literature.	None
The illustrations can be multiplied.	None
This is so because there are certain activities which are inherently vicious and pernicious and are condemned by all civilised communities.	None
So also, there are goods, articles and services which are obnoxious and injurious to the health, morals, safety and welfare of the general public.	None
To contend that merely because some activities and trafficking in some goods can be organised as a trade or business, right to carry on trade or business in the same should be considered a fundamental right is to beg the question.	None
The correct interpretation to be placed on the expression the right to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business is to interpret it to mean the right to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business which can be legitimately pursued in a civilised society being not abhorrent to the generally accepted standards of its morality.	None
Human perversity knows no limits and it is not possible to enumerate all professions, occupations, trades and businesses which may be obnoxious to decency, morals, health, safety and welfare of the society.	None
This is apart from the fact that under our Constitution the implied restrictions on the right to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business are made explicit in clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution and the State is permitted to make law for imposing the said restrictions.	None
In the present case, it will be clause (6) of Article 19 which places restrictions on the fundamental right to do business under Article 19(1)(g).	None
These restrictions and limitations on fundamental right are implicit and inherent even in the fundamental right spelt out in the American Constitution, although they are not explicitly stated as in our Constitution by clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19.	None
It was further observed Whether one states as in K.K. Narula case that the citizen has a fundamental right to do business but subject to the States powers to impose valid restrictions under clause (6) of Article 19 or one takes the view that a citizen has no fundamental right to do business but he has only a qualified fundamental right to do business, the practical consequence is the same so long as the former view does not deny the State the power to completely prohibit, trade or business in articles and products like liquor as a beverage, or such trafficking as in women and slaves.	None
This Court in K.K. Narula case has not taken such view.	None
Khoday Distilleries (supra), thus, does not suggest that there is no fundamental right to trade in liquor at all.	None
The Court explaining the doctrine of resextra commercium observed There cannot be a business in crime(b) What is resextra commercium would be trade or business in liquor when it is completely prohibited(c)	None
The State can create a monopoly to do the business itself or through an agency in terms of Article 19(6) or otherwise(d) Restrictions and limitations on the trade or business in potable liquor can be both under Article 19(6) or otherwise(e)	None
When the State permits trade or business in the potable liquor with or without limitation, the citizen has the right to carry on trade or business subject to the limitations, if any, and the State cannot make a discrimination between the citizens who are qualified to carry on the trade or business.	None
The various rights granted in favour of a citizen under the provisions of the Constitution must be considered to be an amalgam of rights.	None
Such rights are required to be given effect to and when a law is enacted or an executive instruction is issued prohibiting or regulating such rights, the conditions precedent therefor under the relevant Constitutional provisions individually and separately are required to be fulfilled.	None
See R.C. Cooper vs. Union of India, AIR 1970 SC 564 .	None
Case Laws where the said Doctrine was not applied In H. Anraj vs. State of Tamil Nadu (1986) 1 SCC 414 (2 Honble Judges) firstly this Court held (i) lotteries were goods in part and could be amenable to levy of Sales Tax and (ii) quashed and struck down the notification of the State of Tamil Nadu exempting the lotteries organized by the State of Tamil Nadu from levy of sales tax as violative of Articles 14, 301 and 304 since by such discrimination it affected the free flow of trade and commerce.	None
It was held that the lotteries would be covered under Articles 301 to 304 of the Constitution of India.	None
Secondly, this Court in the case of H. Anaraj vs. State of Maharashtra reported in (1984) 2 SCC 292 held that the subject lotteries organized by the Government of India or the Government of State is carved out the subject betting and gambling in Entry 34 List II to the 7th Schedule to the Constitution of India and Placed in Entry 40 List 1 to the 7th Schedule of the Constitution of India and as such Parliament alone can make law in respect of lotteries covered by Entry 40.	None
Thus if the legislative power relating to the lotteries organized by the Government of India or the government of State are especially carved out of the State List to the Union List then the power is consciously taken away from the States and Parliament alone will have the legislative power on the subject.	None
The Constitution Bench of this Court divided lotteries into five categories laying down the law that the State has no power to ban the sale of lottery tickets.	None
One of us (Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan, J.) in M s. Maruthi Agencies, Bangalore vs. The State of Tamil Nadu and others 1997 (1) MLJ 589 tested the validity of a statute holding that in the event lotteries are organized by the State, sale of tickets thereof cannot be prohibited in other States on the ground that the same is gambling having regard to the relevant entries in List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India.	None
Tobacco which is as harmful as liquor had also not been brought within the purview of doctrine of res extra commercium.	None
It had been given the protection of the Parliamentary Act known as Tobacco Act and thus was taken outside the purview of the State legislative competence.	None
Apart from Kalyani Stores (supra) and H. Anraj (supra), even in State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Bhailal Bhai and others 1964 (6) SCR 261 , this Court has clearly held that Article 301 shall be applicable in relation to tobacco holding There can be no doubt, therefore that even though it is the sale in Madhya Bharat of the imported goods that creates the liability to tax and not the import by itself, the trade and commerce as between Madhya Pradesh and other parts of India is directly impeded by this tax Some decisions where this Court enforced the rights of a grantee In State of Bihar and others vs. Industrial Corporation Pvt.	None
Ltd. and others reported in 2003 (9) SCALE 169, it was held Revenue being a subjectmatter of legislation in terms of Entry 8 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, the recovery thereof must be made in terms of the provisions of a legislative Act enacted pursuant thereto and not by reason of any executive fiat.	None
In Industrial Corporation Pvt. Ltd. (supra), it was further held In the present case, what we find is that before creating a demand of penal duty or penalty, there was no adjudication by any authority as regard to the breach committed by the respondents.	None
We also find that no opportunity of any kind was offered to the respondents before the demand as regard the penal duty was pressed against the respondents.	None
The matter was not even examined as to what was the reason for shortfall in the production of rectified spirit.	None
The Molasses Act does not provide for imposition of such penalty in the event of shortfall of spirit.	None
It must, therefore, necessary be held that the imposition of the impugned penalty being against the principles of natural justice is illegal and void.	None
The statutory authorities must act within the fourcorners of a statute.	None
They could take recourse to the proceedings for levy of penalty and the recovery thereof from the respondents only in the event there existed any agreement or statutory provision therefor.	None
Such a power did not exist in the Commissioner of Excise or the superintendents of Excise who had issued the impugned demand notices.	None
In that case, therefore, it was laid down that the executive authorities of the State in exercise of their purported regulatory power cannot hold the people who are legally carrying on their business in liquor in ransom.	None
They, on the ground of contractual power or otherwise, cannot be permitted to travel beyond the fourcorners of a statute by levying any penalty or any other amount which is not contemplated thereunder.	None
The aforementioned decision is also an authority for the proposition that rule of law must prevail.	None
The country is governed by the rule of law and not by whims and caprice of the executive authorities.	None
The court cannot be a party to such whims and caprices.	None
In State of U.P. Ors.	None
vs. Vam Organic Chemicals Ltd. Ors.	None
JT 2003 (8) SC 1 2003 (8) SCC 270 , this Court while examining the validity of fees levied on denatured spirit noticed that the principles laid down in Bihar Distillery were doubted in Deccan Sugar Abkari Co. Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Excise, A.P. (1998) (3) SCC 272 , and referred to a larger Bench but in its decision dated 13.2.2003 in C.A. No. 4355 of 1985  Deccan Sugar Abkari Co. Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Excise, A.P., although it followed Synthetics and Chemicals (supra) and State of UP vs. Modi Distillery (1995) 5 SCC 753 the decision in Bihar Distillery was not expressly overruled.	None
The Bench, thus following Synthetics and Chemicals (1990) 1 SCC 109 held that the levy of such fee was not justified in terms of Entry 66, List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India by striking down the same.	None
It was observed The question is (to borrow the language in Synthetics) whether in the garb of regulations a legislation which is in pith and substance, as we look upon the instant legislation, a fee or levy which has no connection with the cost or expenses administering the regulation, can be imposed purely as a regulatory measure.	None
Judged by the pith and substance of the impugned legislation, we are definitely of the opinion that these levies cannot be treated as part of regulatory measures Yet again in State of UP Ors.	None
vs. Jagjeet Singh Ors.	None
JT 2003 (8) SC 40 a threeJudge Bench of this Court while interpreting Rule 34 of U.P. Excise Licenses (TendercumAuction) Rules, 1991 visavis Para 179 of the Excise Manual enforced the right of the liquor vendors as regard remission of fees in terms thereof.	None
The said decision is, therefore, an authority for the proposition that the rights contained in the statutory rules can be enforced in a given situation.	None
Thus, it cannot said that the licensees have no enforceable right at all.	None
The statute lays down that the Acts regulating the trade would be lawful, if done in the manner and to the extent provided by the provisions thereof or any rules, regulations or orders made thereunder.	None
As the matter has been discussed by B.N. Agrawal, J. in some details, it is not necessary to notice other judgments herein.	None
APPLICATION OF THE CONSTITUTION PROVISIONS Part III of the Constitution of India, in general, and Articles 14 and 19, in particular, not only intend to confer very valuable rights to the citizens but also provides for protection from the legislative and executive vagaries.	None
The legislature as also the executive in terms of the provisions of the Constitution of India must not only act within the constitutional parameters but also act reasonably and in public interest.	None
I may, however, hasten to ad that the rights under Articles 14 and 19 are not absolute.	None
Article 19 provides for reasonable restrictions.	None
What is the meaning of reasonable restriction is the question.	None
Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution guarantees to all citizens to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.	None
Clause (6) of Article 19 empowers the State to make laws imposing reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right in the interest of general public.	None
Freedom under Article 19(1)(g), however, can be completely curtailed in certain circumstances but it would depend upon the nature of the mischief which is sought to be remedied.	None
For the aforementioned purpose dealing in liquor, trading in dangerous goods as explosives, trafficking in women, toutism, essential commodities and realisation of tax have been placed in the same category.	None
See Har Shankar vs. Dy Excise Commer.	None
of Taxation (supra), Cooverjee B. Bharucha vs. Excise Commissioner 1954	None
SCR 873 , State of UP vs. Synthetics and Chemical Ltd. (1980) 2 SCC 441 , State of Orissa vs. Harinarayan Jaiswal (1972) 2 SCC 36 , Synthetic and Chemicals Ltd. vs. State of UP (1990) 1 SCC 109 , In the matter of Phool Din AIR 1952 All 491 , Narender Kumar vs. Union of India (1960 (2) SCR 375 M.B. Cotton Association vs. Union of India AIR 1954 SC 634 and Hanif Quareshi Mohd.	None
vs. State of Bihar 1959 SCR 629 .	None
In Union of India Anr.	None
vs. International Trading Co. Anr.	None
2003	None
(4) Supreme 114 this Court held Reasonableness of restriction is to be determined in an objective manner and from the standpoint of interests of the general public and not from the standpoint of the interests of persons upon whom the restrictions have been imposed or upon abstract consideration Those, however, who fall in exceptional categories in relation to carrying on a business, total prohibition would not be regarded as unreasonable restriction.	None
It is also trite that in such a situation, the greater the restriction, the more would be the need of strict scrutiny by the courts.	None
See Narendra Kumar and others vs. The Union of India and others 1960 (2) SCR 375 .	None
As regard application of strict scrutiny test see also Saurabh Choudhary vs. Union of India 2003 (9) SCALE 272.	None
In Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad and others vs. Jan Mohammed Usmanbhai and another AIR 1986 SC 1205 (1986) 2 SCR 700 , this court held Before proceeding to deal with the points urged on behalf of the appellants it will be appropriate to refer to the wellestablished principles in the construction of the constitutional provisions.	None
When the validity of a law placing restriction on the exercise of a fundamental right in Article 19(1)(g) is challenged, the onus of proving to the satisfaction of the court that the restriction is reasonable lies upon the State.	None
If the law requires that an act which is inherently dangerous, noxious or injurious to the public interest, health or safety or is likely to prove a nuisance to the community shall be on under a permit or a licence of an executive authority, it is not per se unreasonable and no person may claim a licence or a permit do do that act as of right	None
It was observed Where, however, power is entrusted to an administrative agency to grant or withhold a permit or licence in its uncontrolled discretion the law ex facie infringes the fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g).	None
Imposition of restriction on the exercise of a fundamental right may be in the form of control or prohibition.20.	None
The tests of reasonableness have to be viewed in the context of the issues which faced the legislature.	None
In the construction of such laws and in judging their validity, courts must approach the problem from the point of view of furthering the social interest which it is the purpose of the legislation to promote.	None
They are not in these mattes functioning in vacuo but as part of society which is trying, by the enacted law, to solve its problems and furthering the moral and material progress of the community as a whole The matter has also received the attention of a twoJudge Bench of this Court in B.P. Sharma vs. Union of India 2003 (6) SCALE 498	None
wherein this Court upon noticing a catena of decisions observed On consideration of a catena of decisions on the point, this Court, in a case reported in 1998 (8) SCC p. 227, M.R.F. Ltd. vs. Inspector, Kerala Government and Ors., has laid certain tests on the basis of which reasonableness of the restriction imposed on exercise of right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) can be tested.	None
Speaking for the Court, Saghir Ahmad, J. (as he then was), laid such considerations as follows(1)	None
While considering the reasonableness of the restrictions, the court has to keep in mind the Directive Principles of State Policy.(2)	None
Restrictions must not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature so as to go beyond the requirement of the interest of the general public.(3)	None
In order to judge the reasonableness of the restrictions, no abstract or general pattern or a fixed principle can be laid down so as to be of universal application and the same will vary from case to case as also with regard to changing conditions, values of human life, social philosophy of the Constitution, prevailing conditions and the surrounding circumstances.(4)	None
A just balance has to be struck between the restrictions imposed and the social control envisaged by clause (6) of Article 19.(5)	None
Prevailing social values as also social needs which are intended to be satisfied by restrictions have to be borne in mind.	None
(See State of U.P. vs. Kaushaliya, AIR 1964 SC 416 (1964) 4 SCR 1002 ).(6)	None
There must be a direct and proximate nexus or a reasonable connection between the restriction imposed and the object sought to be achieved.	None
If there is a direct nexus between the restrictions and the object of the Act, then a strong presumption in favour of the constitutionality of the Act will naturally arise.	None
(See Kavalappara Akottarathil Kochuni vs. State of Madras and Kerala, O.K. Ghosh vs. E.x. Joseph, AIR 1960 SC 1080 (1960) 3	None
SCR 887 , AIR 1963 SC 812 1963 Supp (1) SCR 789.	None
The question has also been considered in Indian Handicrafts Emporium (supra) wherein this Court held In Narender Kumar and others vs. Union of India and others 1960 2	None
SCR 375 , this Court while interpreting the word restrictions held as followsIt is reasonable to think that the makers of the Constitution considered the word restriction to be sufficiently wide to save laws inconsistent with Art. 19(1), or taking away the rights conferred by the Article, provided this inconsistency or taking away was reasonable in the interests of the different matters mentioned in the clause.	None
There can be no doubt therefore that they intended the word restriction to include cases of prohibition also.	None
The contention that a law prohibiting the exercise of a fundamental right is in no case saved, cannot therefore be accepted.	None
(See also State of maharashtra vs. Mumbai Upnagar Gramodyog Sang 1969 2 SCR 392 ).	None
In Saurabh Chaudhri (supra), V.N. Khare, CJI speaking for the majority stated Constitutional interpretation is a difficult task.	None
Its concept varies from statute to statute, fact to fat, situation to situation and subject matter to subject matterIt was observed The courts shall also along strive hard for maintaining a balance.	None
While interpreting the Constitution, we must notice the following view of Justice Holmes expressed in Missouri vs. Holland 252 US 416 (433)When we are dealing with words that also are a constituent act like the Constitution of the United States, we must realise that they have called into life a being the development of which could not have been foreseen completely by the most gifted of its begetters.	None
It was enough for them to realise or to hope that they had created an organism, it has taken a century and has cost their successors much sweat and blood to prove that they created a nation.	None
The case before us must be considered in the light of our whole experience and not merely in that of hat was said a hundred years ago.	None
If by reason of judicial interpretation it is held that those trades which are obnoxious in nature would not fall within the purview of Article 19, what was the necessity of extending the meaning of reasonable restrictions to prohibition and in some cases even with the aid of the provisions contained in the Directive Principles of State Policy in Part IV of the Constitution of India?	None
If matters in relation to such trades which are said to be obnoxious in nature, no provisions of the Constitution of India were to be made applicable, where was the need of enacting statues prohibiting them either in whole or in part?	None
The Parliament or the State Legislature, it is trite, do not make legislation in vacuo.	None
The legislations are not enacted in futility.	None
The legislation are not only to be implemented, their constitutionality must also be judged on the touchstone of Part III and other provisions of the Constitution of India.	None
No shortcut can be adopted to do away therewith.	None
Concededly restrictions of trade in liquor within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India can be extended to prohibition.	None
Such prohibition may not be permissible in other cases, as noticed hereinbefore.	None
The decisions of this Court clearly show that such a prohibition can be imposed by laying down a law only in the event that the trade in relation thereto is noxious ones and not otherwise.	None
The distinction made by this Court in a large number of judgments is to be applied in proper perspective, insofar as the words trade in liquor will carry two different meanings  one in respect of trade which are noxious or pernicious and the others which are not.	None
If it is held that Article 19 of the Constitution of India and for that matter any other provision of the Constitution of India including Article 301 will not have any application in relation to pernicious or obnoxious trade, the State will not be entitled to issue an prohibitory order in relation thereto.	None
The very fact that this Court in no uncertain terms held that the trade in liquor can be prohibited being noxious or pernicious, it implicitly goes to show that prohibition of such a trading activity must be referable to legislations made in terms of clause (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India which is itself an indication of the fact that there exists a right to carry on the trade in terms of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India.	None
While making such a legislation the Parliament or the State Legislatures, as the case nay be impose prohibition either in whole or in part or may provide for regulatory measures.	None
There are decisions of this Court which have held that Article (19(1)(g) will not apply so long as the trade in liquor is prohibited.	None
The Constitution bench of this Court in Khoday Distilleries (supra) clearly held that a citizen will have no fundamental right to carry on such trade which is illegal and would lead to commission of penal offences.	None
The logical corollary of the said decision would be that a citizen will have a right including a fundamental right to carry on the said trade or business when the same would not lead to a penal or criminal offence or has not declared the same to be otherwise illegal.	None
REGULATORY POWER OF THE STATE In Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. (supra), this Court held Balsara case (1951 SCR 682 AIR 1951 SC 318 52 Cri LJ 1361) dealt with the question of reasonable restriction on medicinal and toilet preparations.	None
In fact, it can safely be said that it impliedly and subsilentio clearly held that medicinal and toilet preparations would not fall within the exclusive privilege of the states.	None
If they did there was no question of striking down of Section 12(c) and (d) and Section 13(b) of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 as unreasonable under Article 19(1)(f) of the Constitution because total prohibition of the same would be permissible.	None
In K.K. Narula case (K.K. Narula vs. State of J K, (1967) 3 SCR 50 AIR 1967 SC 1368 ) it was held that there was right to do business even in potable liquor.	None
It is not necessary to say whether it is good law or not.	None
But this must be held that the reasoning therein would apply with greater force to industrial alcohol.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thus, even therein although an occasion had arisen, a SevenJudge Bench did not expressly overrule K.K. Narula but applied the principles laid down therein in case of industrial alcohol.	None
In Ramana Dayaram Shetty vs. The International Airport Authority of India and others AIR 1979 SC 1628 1979 (3) SCR 1014 , this Court held We fail to see how the plea of contravention of Article 19(1)(g) or Article 14 can arise in these cases.	None
The Governments power to sell the exclusive privilege set out in Section 22 was not denied.	None
It was also not disputed that these privileges could be sold by public auction.	None
Public auctions are held to get the best possible price.	None
Once these aspects are recognised, there appears to be no basis for contending that the owner of the privileges in question who had offered to sell them cannot decline to accept the highest bid if he thinks that the price offered is inadequate.	None
It will be seen from these observations that the validity of clause (6) of the Order dated January 6, 1971 was upheld by this Court on the ground that having regard to the object of holding the auction, namely, to raise revenue, the Government was entitled to reject even the highest bid, if it thought that the price offered was inadequate.	None
The Government was bound to accept the tender of the person who offered the highest amount and if the Government rejected all the bids made at the auction, it did not involve any violation of Article 14 or 19(1)(g).	None
This is a selfevident proposition and we do not see how it can be of any assistance to the respondents.	None
In Har Shankar and Others vs. Dy.	None
Excise and Taxation Commissioner (supra), this Court held The state, under its regulatory powers, has the right to prohibit absolutely every form of activity in relation to intoxicants  its manufacture, storage, export, import, sale and possession.	None
In all their manifestations, these rights are vested in the State and indeed without such vesting there can be no effective regulation of various forms of activities in relation to intoxicants.	None
In American Jurisprudence, Volume 30 it is stated that while engaging in liquor traffic is not inherently lawful, nevertheless it is a privilege and not a right, subject to governmental control (page 538).	None
This power of control is an incident of the societys right to selfprotection and it rests upon the right of the state to care for the health, morals and welfare of the people.	None
Liquor traffic is a source of pauperism and crime (pp. 539, 540, 541).	None
In order to determine whether total prohibition would be reasonable the Court has to balance the direct impact on the fundamental right of the citizens thereby against the greater public or social interest sought to be ensured.	Reasoning
Implementation of Directive Principles contained in Part IV is within the expression of restriction sin the interest of the general public.	Reasoning
(See also Municipal Corporation of the City of Ahmedabad and others vs. Jan Mohammed Usmanbhai and another AIR 1986 SC 1205 (1986) 2	None
SCR 700 .	None
In Rustom Cavasjee Cooper Ors.	None
vs. Union of India AIR 1970 SC 564 , the law is stated in the following terms If this be the true view and we think it is, in determining the impact of State action upon constitutional guarantees which are fundamental, it follows that the extent of protection against impairment of a fundamental right is determined not by the object of the Legislature nor by the form of the action, but by its direct operation upon the individuals rights.	None
We are of the view that the theory that the object and form of the State action determine the extent of protection which the aggrieved party may claim is not consistent with the constitutional scheme.	None
Each freedom has different dimensions86.	None
In certain cases even in relation to the grant of contract in liquor, Article 14 of the Constitution has been held to be applicable.	None
Once it is held that a person, in certain situation is entitled to invoke the equality clause contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India, there is absolutely no reason as to why Article 301 will not be applicable.	None
A 11Judge Bench of this Court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra), observed The question of whether there is a fundamental right or not cannot be dependent upon whether it can be made the subjectmatter of controls.	None
It is relevant to note that two of the Honble Judges were parties to Kalyani Stores (supra) as also to Krishna Kumar Narula (supra) which again being a Constitution Bench judgment wherein it has been held that a person has a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(g) to carry on trade or business in liquor.	None
K.K. Narula (supra) has not been overruled.	None
The same holds the field.	None
In that view of the matter, we cannot ignore K.K. Narula (supra).	None
Furthermore, there exists a distinction between a fundamental right of a citizen to carry on business in noxious or pernicious trade under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India and freedom to carry on such trade through out the country without any hindrance or obstruction except in terms of reasonable regulations which may be made under Article 304(b) of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
ARTICLE 14  SOME FACETS OF COUNTRY AND FOREIGN LIQUOR, DIFFERENCE BETWEEN The equality clause contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India recognizes that reasonahle classification is permissible.	None
Article 14 has been held to be applicable at all stages for grant of a contract.	None
It is interesting to note that Rule 39 of the Maharahtra Country Liquor Rules, 1973 and Rule 17 of the Maharashtra Foreign Liquor (Sale on Cash, Register of Sales etc.)	None
Rules, 1969 prohibits the vendors from selling foreign liquor or the country liquor Rule 17 of the Maharashtra Foreign Liquor (Sale on Cash, Register of Sales etc.)	None
Rules, 1969 prescribes that no vendor is to sell foreign liquor to the following class of persons A Police Officer in uniform A Prohibition and Excise Officer on duty A Railway servant on duty An insane person or A person who is intoxicated.	None
Rule 39 of the Maharahtra Country Rules, 1973 provides that a retail licence shall not sell country liquor to the following categories of persons, namely A lunatic insane person Person who is in an intoxicated State Person known or suspected to be participating in any rioting or disturbance of peace and The Armed Forces of the Union, Member of the Police Force, the Prohibition and the Excise Department, State Transport and Railway Department or driver of a motor vehicle, when on duty or in uniform, or both.	None
The comparison of these two lists reveals that the categories of persons are different for country liquor and foreign liquor.	None
The vendor is not allowed to sell country liquor to certain categories of persons, who are not specified thereunder and whereas Rule 17 of 1979 Rules categories a different list of persons.	None
A vendor can sell foreign liquor to the driver of a vehicle but is prohibited from doing so in respect of country liquor.	None
Foreign liquor can be sold to a railway servant on duty but not country liquor.	None
In Cooverjee Bharucha vs. Excise Commissioner and Chief Commissioner, Ajmer AIR 1954 SC 220 and Harinarayan Jaiswal (supra), this Court held that the State has exclusive right to sell liquor and to sell the said right.	None
Both rights are, thus, different and distinct.	None
REGULATION OF THE TRADE IN RELATION TO FOREIGN LIQUOR In State of Bombay vs. F.N. Balsara AIR 1951 SC 318 , this Court held A provision of law, which provided for permitting certain persons to drink and prohibited certain others from drinking, would not violate Article 14, provided such classification was reasonable.(ii)	None
Permitting the use or consumption of foreign liquor among members of the Military and Naval Officers does not offend Article 14, as the members of such Force could be regarded as a class by themselves, and such classification was reasonable.(iii)	None
Restrictions, which are imposed for securing the objects, which are enjoined by the Directive Principles of State Policy in the Constitution, may be regarded as reasonable restrictions within the meaning of clauses (2) and (6) of Article 19 of the Constitution of India.(iv) When restrictions imposed by a law on the exercise of Fundamental Rights are reasonable in respect of certain items and unreasonable in respect of certain other items, the law as a whole will not be void when the offending provisions are severable the provisions of the law imposing unreasonable restrictions alone would be void, and those provisions which impose reasonable restrictions will be valid.(v) Prohibition of possession, consumption, buying or selling of wines by a law is a reasonable restriction upon the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property conferred by Article 19(1)(f) having regard to the Directive Principles in Article 47.	None
In Fatehchand (supra), also a distinction was made between moneylending amongst commercial community as integral to trade which was held to be trade and a narrow noxious category of moneylending where there is no flow of trade, no movement of commerce, no promotion of intercourse, no servicing of business, but merely stagnates rural economy, strangulates the borrowing community and turns malignant in its repercussions.	None
Italics is mine for emphasis A similar distinction was noticed in Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd. vs. State of U.P. (1990) 1 SCC 109 in the following terms In other words, excise duty and price for privileges were regarded as one and the same thing.	None
Socalled privilege was reserved by the State mostly in respect of country liquor and not foreign liquor which included denatured spirit.99.	None
The sevenJudge Bench, therefore, made a distinction between a country liquor and a foreign liquor.	None
ARTICLE 301	None
The Constitutional Assembly Debates It is trite that in interpreting constitutional provisions, reference to constitutional debates is permissible.	None
See T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra).	None
This Article was introduced in its final form by B.R. Ambedkar on 8th September 1949.	None
See Constitutional Assembly Debates, 8th September, 1949, Vol. 9, p. 1124	None
Ambedkars esteemed view was not to make interstate commerce and trade absolutely free.	None
He contemplated a certain amount of legislative restrictions that could be imposed in public interest.	None
While this vie was widely supported by T.T. Krishnamachari and Alladi Kuppuswami, it was contested by Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava who advocated several amendments to promote absolute free trade as well as Dr. P.S. Deshmukh who felt that a policy should be kept very broad, for the Parliament to fill in the details at the relevant time, for the relevant place.	None
Realizing the need for some level of State regulation of trade and commerce, in the interest of the public, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar stated it is not the intention to make trade and commerce absolutely free, that is to say, deprive both the Parliament as well as the States of any power to depart from the fundamental provision that trade and commerce has been made subject to certain limitations which may be imposed by the Parliament or the Legislatures of various states subject to the fact that the limitation contained in the power of Parliament to invade the freedom of trade and commerce is confined to cases arising from scarcity of goods in any part of the territory of India in any part of the territory of India and in the case of states, it must be justified on the grounds of public interest the action of the states in invading the freedom of trade and commerce in the public interest is also made subject to the condition that any bill affecting the freedom of trade and commerce shall have previous sanction of the President otherwise the State would not be in a position to undertake such a legislation See Constitutional Assembly Debates, 8th September, 1949, Vol. 9, pp.	None
112425	None
This point of view was supported by T.T. Krishnamachari who is reply to the strong stand taken by Pandit Bhargava stated that the entire Chapter provides the maximum possible amount of liberty for trade and commerce.	None
It provides the maximum amount of concession that can be given to maintain consistency with the future economic improvement of the country.	None
But he strongly emphasized that, the world has wellhigh come to the position when trade and commerce cannot run without control and some kind of direction by the government.	None
He realized that the restrictions cannot be whittled down, if there is to be economic progress, when he stated, A certain amount of freedom of trade and commerce has to be permitted.	None
No doubt restrictions by the State have to be prevented so that particular idiosyncrasies of some people in power or narrow provincial policies of certain states should not be allowed to come into play and effect the general economy of the country.	None
That I think is amply covered certain amount of powers in regard to restriction on trade is necessary and has been provided for.	None
See Constitutional Assembly Debates, 8th September, 1949, Vol. 9, p. 1139	None
He also believed that the State should be given the right and the Centre should only interfere if the economic and fiscal policy of the Centre is unduly interfered with.	None
While justifying why a certain level of restrictions were required, T.T. Krishnamachari drew largely from the Australian experience wherein it was believed that absolute freedom of trade and commerce was running contrary to the purpose of the State and in turn the citizens.	None
However, in sharp contrast to these views, Pandit Thakur Das Bhargava wanted interstate trade and commerce to be almost absolutely free.	None
The only restrictions to this absolute freedom would be in emergencies.	None
Any other restrictions would be considered as derogatory to the very concept of freedom.	None
He further wanted the restrictions to be qualified with the term reasonable so as to enable the judiciary to adjudicate upon the reasonableness of the restrictions in public interest.	None
See Shiva Rao, B., Supra, p. 704.	None
Taking a slightly tangential position, Dr. P.S. Deshmukh stated that, Trade and commerce are not things which are decided once and for all they are things that arise and grow from day to day there may be circumstances when the whole thing may have to be revised.	None
He thus advanced the view that amendments be made to give Parliament a completely blank cheque and let them determine the policy, bearing in mind the differential levels of advancement in various states.	None
However, all the amendments proposed to be inflicted on BR Ambedkars Draft provisions were negatived and the Chapter was passed in its exact form.	None
Thus, the position, as it lies, is to grant the maximum possible freedom of interstate trade and commerce.	None
This is however, subject to a certain level of legislative restrictions in order to ensure that the greater economic interests of the country are not hampered, to make provision for public interest, and to make way in times of emergencies.	None
However, it was the very obvious intent of the Constitutional Framers to place only this minimum level of restrictions on the freedom of trade and business.	None
Any restriction, not falling within these categories will be bad in law and will run contrary to the intention behind its presence in the Constitution.	None
External aids such as the Constitution Assembly Debates are an able guide for discerning the meaning behind a particular provision and in exactly what light their interpretation should take place.	None
The debates in the Constitution Assembly would show how Article 301, on the one hand, is more near the Australian Constitution provisions contained in Sections 92 and 99 and different in material particulars from the American Constitution.110.	None
Sections 92 and 99 of the Australian Constitution along with Section 297 of the Government of India Act, 1935 served as a source for Article 301.	None
These provisions in the Australian Constitution serve to guarantee an omnibus right of interstate trade and commerce.	None
Being so absolute, they acted as barriers to many measures of economic reform undertaken by the government.111.	None
The Commerce Clause in the American Constitution is in sharp contrast.	None
Referred to as the dormant clause it simply states that, the Congress shall have power to regulate commerce among the several states.	None
See U.S. Constitution Article 1, p.8 Cl.3.112.	None
The interpretation of this ambiguous clause has been equally varied.	None
The courts have held that the very silence in these words delimits an implied negative against unduly burdensome or discriminatory state or local interferences with free trade across state lines.	None
See Tribe, Lawence H. Constitutional Choices, p. 34.	None
This was primarily the view taken in Leisy vs. Hardin See 135 US 100 at pp 109110 by Justice Fuller who was in the majority while striking down an Iowa statute prohibiting sale of intoxicating liquor.	None
He said that, the Congress silence with respect to an area of interstate commercethat is, its nonenactment of any law either regulating that area or allowing states to do so  indicates its will that such commerce shall be free and untrammeled.113.	None
However, the minority did not agree.	None
They read into the silence and inaction precisely the opposite  that Congressional intent that the law shall remain as it had been.	None
See 135 US at p. 160Gray, J. joined by Justices Harlan and Brewer.	None
Thus, as stated by Thomas Powell Reed in an essay in 1938, The congress has the power to keep silent.	None
The Congress can regulate interstate commerce simply by just not doing anything about it.	None
State laws in conflict with valid Congressional enactments are inoperative so long as the national legislation remains unchanged.	None
If the Constitution makes the commerce power of the Congress an exclusive one over subjects for which a single uniform rule is preferable, it must be the Constitution that prohibits the states from exercising any kind of commerce power over that type of commerce as it prohibits the states form taxing the first sale of an import before bulk is broken.	None
(See Powell, Thomas Reed, Vagaries and Varieties in Constitutional Interpretation, p. 156).	None
The power of the Congress is concurrent with that of the states the power of the states is concurrent with that of the Congress.	None
The exercise of state power, however, is subject to several restrictions.	None
It must not impose regulation in conflict with regulations of Congress.	None
It must not, even in the absence of conflict, impose regulations if the Congress is deemed to have occupied the field.	None
The states may not tax interstate and foreign commerce (See Powell, Thomas Reed, Vagaries and Varieties in Constitutional Interpretation, p. 180).	None
There is no Cooley law governing state taxation.	None
Marshall, J. in Brown v. Maryland, a case involving state tax on selling imported goods wholesale, wherein the tax discriminated against selling goods of foreign origin, but Marshall did not base condemnations on that ground.	None
He held that the Constitutional ban on state taxation of imports keeps the state from subjecting them to a general nondiscriminatory tax, so long as they remain imports.	None
(See Powell, Thomas Reed, Vagaries and Varieties in Constitutional Interpretation, p. 181).	None
As regard whether state laws regulating commerce could be valid, there was a series of tests evolved.	None
The first was the dichotomy evolved by Marshall, J. between commerce and police powers.	None
This evolved primarily because states had waged destructive wars on each other.	None
A common diagnosis was that state governments had been too responsive to local economic interests with the result that interstate economic competition was more though political processes than through the marketplace.	None
So while one set of views asked for complete state freedom to regulate (successors of Marshall), others asked for the Central power instead.	None
Soon evolved a new dichotomy of local and national.	None
This came about in Cooley vs. Board of Wardens of the Port of Philadelphia, See 53 US (12 How) 299 (1851) which claimed that even though the Pennsylvania statute concerned manifestly and predictably affected interstate commerce, the subject being regulated was local and not national.	None
119.	None
119.	None
Later the debate moved from here to the test of direct and indirect  State regulations affecting interstate commerce were struck down by the Court if the regulatory impact upon interstate commerce was deemed so substantial to be a direct burden.	None
Thus, from an overview of all the above views in the American and Australian Constitutions one can conclude that the Indian provisions for free trade and commerce are more explicit.	None
While the Australian Constitution failed to expressly define restrictions, the American Constitution defined the clause in an extremely ambiguous manner.	None
The Indian Constitution provides for freedom of trade and commerce, but puts the minimum required restriction in terms of public interest.121.	None
The upshot of the discussions made hereinbefore would be that whereas in terms of Article 19(6) as also Article 302 of the Constitution of India in relation to a trade which is noxious in nature a complete prohibition would be permissible, the same would not mean that while permitting the trade to go on the States action whether legislative or executive need not undergo the constitutional tests in terms of Articles 14, 19 or 301 of the Constitution of India.	None
The argument that the relationship between State and the licensee is contractual in nature but the same would not mean that any legislative interference thereupon as a result whereof the contract becomes more burdensome would not be a subjectmatter of challenge.	None
There is no estoppel against statute.	None
There cannot be any waiver of fundamental right.	None
Freedom of Trade and Commerce A very brief Trade of History.	None
Freedom of trade was the established practice in India during the reign of the British.	None
There were no existing interprovincial duties or trade barriers.	None
However, with the advent of provincial autonomy, it was considered necessary to have a statutory basis.	None
Accordingly, Section 297 of the Government of India Act, 1935 prohibited Provincial governments from imposing barriers on trade within the country.	None
They also could not levy tax, cess, toll or other due which discriminated between goods manufactured in one locality and similar goods manufactured elsewhere.	None
See Shiva Rao, B. The Framing of Indias Constitution, p. 699.	None
This trend of thought prevailed even at the stage of the framing of the Constitution.	None
In the historical backdrop of the formation of an AllIndia Union, It was felt that such a Union would be meaningless and devoid of purpose if trade and commerce throughout India were not free.	None
Thus, from a single glance at the documents and debates that went into the framing of the Constitution, one can discern that this strand of thought was still extremely prevalent during the drafting of the Constitution.	None
However, it was met with a worthy and able opponent  one that warned of the danger behind the taking such and absolute view.	None
Constitutional Intent Behind Article 301 Article 301 of the Constitution of India provides that trade, commerce and intercourse throughout India shall be free and subject only to the provisions of Part XIII of the Constitution.	None
This Article seeks to limit the legislative powers of the State in matters relating to interstate commerce, trade and intercourse.	None
The object behind Article 301 is to ensure that the economic unity of India may not be broken up by internal barriers.	None
See Atiabari Tea Co. vs. State of Assam  AIR 1961 SC 232 .	None
Further, unlike the Fundamental right provided to citizens only under Article 19(1)(g), Article 301 seeks to extend its benefits to all individuals.	None
This is the basis of operation of Article 301.	None
The essence of Article 301 is a right of free movement of trade without any barrier whether interState or intraState.	None
It is also not in dispute that the taxes which have direct impact on the flow of trade and commerce constitute a violation of Article 301 unless the legislation is brought within the scope of Article 302, 304 and 305.	None
See Jindal Strips Ltd. and Ors.	None
vs. State of Haryana and Ors.  JT 2003 (8) SC 62 .	None
LEVY OF TAXES Imposition of tax is a constitutional function.	None
No tax can be levied except in terms of Article 265 of the Constitution of India.	None
It is one thing to say that tax levied is constitutionally valid but it is another thing to say that tax although levied in exercise of its constituent power by a State Legislature, it need not undergo the test of constitutional requirement at all.	None
The latter proposition, with utmost respect, would be totally against the letter and spirit of the Constitution of India as also constitutionalism.	None
In Saghir Ahmed and another vs. State of U.P. and others AIR 1954 SC 728 , B.K. Mukherjea, J. speaking for the Constitution Bench noticed that after the Constitution Amendment Act, 1951 in terms of Article 19(6) a threefold provision by way of exception to or limitation upon clause (1)(g) of the Article 19 was made stating In the first place it empowers the State to impose reasonable restrictions upon the freedom of trade, business, occupation or profession in the interests of the general public.	None
In the second place it empowers the State to prescribe the professional and technical qualifications necessary for practising any profession or carrying on any occupation, trade or business.	None
Thirdly,  and this is the result of the Constitution (First) Amendment Act of 1951  it enables the State to carry on any trade or business either by itself or through a corporation owned or controlled by the State to the exclusion of private citizens wholly or in part.	None
It was observed As has been held by this Court in the case of Cooverjee vs. The Excise Commissioner, etc. (1954 S.C.R. 873) whether the restrictions are reasonable or not would depend to a large extent on the nature of the trade and the conditions prevalent in it.	None
It was categorically held With regard to the second point also we do not think that the learned Judges have approached the question from the proper stand point.	None
There is undoubtedly a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of a legislation.	None
But when the enactment on the face of it is found to violate a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution, it must be held to be invalid unless those who support the legislation can bring it within the purview of the exception laid down in clause (6) of the article.	None
If the respondents do not place any materials before the Court to establish that the legislation comes within the permissible limits of clause (6), it is surely not for the appellants to prove negatively that the legislation was not reasonable and was not conducive to the welfare of the community.	None
The Court clearly held that impost not authorized by law cannot be a reasonable regulation.	None
The submission of Mr. P.N. Mishra and Mr. Iyer could have been appreciated had the State in terms of Article 47 of the Constitution of India imposed a total prohibition or even a partial prohibition.	None
The State of Punjab and Kerala have not only imposed no prohibition, they, not only, with a view to encourage industrial development had been encouraging establishment of all types of industries including those producing IndianMade Foreign Liquors.	None
India is also importing liquor manufactured in other countries.	None
It will appear from the order dated 31.1.2002 passed by his Court that on a query made by this Court, Mr. K.K. Venugopal for the State of Punjab categorically stated that the source of power for imposition of the import fee was Sections 18, 19, 34, 58 and 59 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1944.	None
Even before this Court, at that stage, the validity of the said fee was not referred to the right of exclusive privilege irrespective of the provisions of the Punjab Excise Act.	None
It is also undisputed that the State of Kerala at no stage took such a stand at all.	None
Despite the said fact, stand had now been taken that the import duty levied on beer is a part of the exclusive privilege.	None
Revenue is necessary to be raised for development of the State but the same must be done in terms of the Constitution.	None
For raising revenue, the State itself cannot take a stand which would be immoral to some of us, besides being unconstitutional.	None
A taxing statute is either constitutional or unconstitutional.	None
If a statute fails to pass the constitutional test  can it be permitted to succeed on moral or ethical values of some of us?	None
Is there no distinction between an alcohol for industrial or alcohol for human consumption?	None
Can the State be permitted to make any legislation even on industrial alcohol?	None
There are certain questions which are required to be posed and answered.	None
In S.K. Pattanaik (Dead) through LRs.	None
vs. State of Orissa and others (2000) 1 SCC 413 in which one of us (Hon. CJI) was a member, this Court held Excise duty and Countervailing duty are wellknown concepts and are attracted in different situations.	None
Excise duty is essentially a duty on manufacture of goods, and the taxable event is the manufacture of the excisable goods.	None
Countervailing duty, on the other hand, is imposed when excisable articles are imported into the State, in order to counterbalance the excise duty, which is leviable on similar goods if manufactured within the State.	None
So far as countervailing duty is concerned, the incidence of the imposed is on the import of the excisable articles, i.e., at the time of entry in to the State.	None
In our opinion, the demand of differential amount of countervailing duty from the appellant, under the circumstances, was perfectly justified since demand was made on the basis of the duty as in force on the date of import of the consignment into the State.	None
The duty was to be assessed and collected as in force at the time of obtaining the permit.143.	None
The terms Excise Duty, Countervailing Duty, import duty are not terms of art.	None
They are made part of the interpretation section contained in the respective Excise Acts.144.	None
Similarly, Licence Fee and Fixed Fee are also defined.	None
Each term must be held to have been used by the Legislature with a view to achieve a definite purpose.	None
One term should not be read as supplement to other.	None
In that view of the matter, import duty cannot be held to be a part of exclusive privilege and, thus part of a licence fee.	None
If this distinction is borne in mind the statutory injunction contained in Article 301 of the Constitution of India as also Section 33A of the Punjab Excise Act can be given an economic, purposive and textual meaning.	None
Import duty which is levied under Section 17 of the Kerala Abkari Act and Section 34 of the Punjab Excise Act can be read to be a part of the licence fee which is collected at the time of grant of licence that is by way of parting of its right of exclusive privilege.	None
(See Harinarayan Jaiswal (supra) and State of U.P. vs. Sheopat Rai, 1994 Supp (1) SCC 8).	None
PRINCIPLES GOVERNING INTERPRETATION OF INSTITUTION Constitution being the mot important legal document, presents the most trying construction problems.	None
(See Siegan, Bernard H., Economic Liberties and the Constitution, p. 8)	Reasoning
Interpretation of any document, from ordinary real estate contracts to the Constitution, is influenced by the circumstances, mores, conventions, and prevailing notions of contemporary society and clearly, the meanings given to words may change over the years.	Reasoning
That which was reasonable, proper and logical in one century may be unacceptable in another.	Reasoning
Many concerns of the yesteryear that promoted certain interpretations have now faded and been replaced with new attitudes.	Reasoning
Ideas and feelings about labour, property, producers and consumers interests, the environment and human rights do not remain static.	Reasoning
Inventions and discoveries have occurred that were beyond the contemplation of those who lived centuries ago.	Reasoning
The certainties of one period may appear as mistakes in another.	Reasoning
Nonetheless, the nation retains its commitment to a supreme legal document establishing the terms of the relationship between the governor and the governed.	Reasoning
(See Siegan, Bernard H., Economic Liberties and the Constitution, p9).	Reasoning
Many believe that the Constitution is a flexible and evolving document, always adaptable to changes in societys conditions and circumstances.	Reasoning
Others insist that judges be strictly bound by its words and by the historical record of what the framers of both the original text and the amendments intended.147.	Reasoning
Constitutional provision should always receive a fair, liberal and progressive interpretation so that its true objects might be promoted.	Reasoning
By this it can fulfil the aspirations of the people at large.148.	Reasoning
To achieve the above goal, the Organic method of interpretation which is now universally accepted, requires us to see the present social conditions and interpret the Constitution in a manner so as to resolve the present difficulties.	Reasoning
The social conditions existing at the time when the Constitution was made may be very different from the present conditions and hence if we interpret the Constitution from the angle of the Constitution makers we may arrive at a completely outdated and unrealistic view.	Reasoning
As Justice Marshall observed in McCulloch vs. Maryland, (1819) 4 Wheat 316 this provision is made in a Constitution, intended to endure for ages to come, and consequently to be adopted to the various crises of human affairs.	Reasoning
so a Constitutional provision will not be interpreted in the attitude of a lexicographer, with one eye on the provision and the other on the lexicon.	Reasoning
The meaning of the word or expression used in the Constitution often is coloured by the context in which it occurs, the simpler and more common the word or expression, the more meanings and shades of meanings it has.	Reasoning
It is the duty of the Court to determine in what particular meaning and particular shade of meaning the word or expression was used by the Constitution makers and in discharging the duty the Court will take into account the context in which it occurs, the object to serve which in war used, its collocation, the general congruity with the concept or object it was intended to articulate and a host of other consideration.149.	Reasoning
The interpretative changes in the Constitution must not only be considered from its plain language for the purport and object it seeks to achieve but also having regard to the international treaties and conventions but also principles of interpretation governing the same.150.	Reasoning
The necessity of interpretative changes having regard to the changing scenario has recently been noticed by this Court in its several decisions.151.	Reasoning
In order to determine whether total prohibition would be reasonable the Court has to balance the direct impact on the fundamental right of the citizens thereby against the greater public or social interest sought to be ensured.	Reasoning
Implementation of Directive Principles contained in Part IV is within the expression of restrictions in the interest of the general public.152.	Reasoning
In other words, there exists a distinction between a fundamental right of a citizen to carry on trade in obnoxious matters under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India and freedom to carry on such trade through out the country without any hindrance or obstruction except in terms of reasonabe regulations which may be made under Part XIII of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
INTERNATIONAL TREATIES AND COVENANTS With a view to interpret the constitutional provision, global changes and outlook in trade and commerce would be relevant factors.	None
The impugned notifications not only touch interstate trade, it affect international trade also.	None
Import of liquor envisages liquor imported both from outside the State as also outside India.	None
International treaties and covenants, therefore, would play a significant role.	None
The national policy of globalisation of trade leading to WTO has been noticed by a Constitution bench of this Court in Islamic Academy of Education (supra) stating The right of a minority is a human right so also the right of development.	None
Thus, subject to reasonable restrictions, any unaided institution imparting professional courses may although exercise greater autonomy in the matter of management and determination of the fee structure, it will have a limited right so far as the right to admit students in concerned.	None
T.M.A. Pai Foundation says that merit shall be the criteria.	None
Right of development finds place in WTO and GATT.	None
It takes into consideration globalisation and opening up of economy.	None
Excellence in professional education must be viewed from the economic interest in the country.	None
In order to complete with the other developed countries, GDP of India should be around 15 instead of present rate of 5.	None
This can be achieved only by producing students of excellence, which can be achieved only by encouraging institutions of excellence imparting professional education to those who are meritorious.	None
Giving encouragement to the students, having better merit will, thus have a direct nexus with the economic and consequently the national interests of the country.	None
The right of development from the human right point of view must be construed liberally.	None
It was further observed Having regard to globalisation and opening up of the market, the State expects various medical colleges and educational institutions and universities to move in.	None
Under WTO and GATT human development has taken its firm root.	None
A decent life to the persons living in the society in general is perceived.	None
GLOBALISATION Globalisation has brought a radical change in the economic and social landscape of the country.	None
Its impact on constitution and constitutionalism is significant.	None
As and when occasion arises the interfere between the gobalisation and constitutionalism whether from economic perspective or human rights perspective is required to be seriously gone into.	None
Often the economic changes in the country relating to regulation of markets brought about competition la leading to substantial erosion of administrative law by private law are mattes which eventually would fall for our decisions.	None
The Court will have to take a realistic view in interpretation of Constitution having regard to the changing economic scenario.	None
Can be shut our eyes to the fact that except the State of Gujarat, no other State has imposed a complete prohibition.	None
In fact, the States are encouraging liberalization to such an extent that in the near future alcohol beverages may be allowed to be sold in the small grocery shops.	None
The executive authorities are contemplating to grant permission to open liquor at the Airports.	None
The society has accepted pub culture in the metros.	None
A view in the matter, therefore, is required to be taken having regard to the changing scenario on the basis of ground reality and not on the basis of the centuries old maxims.	None
Subsidies and Countervailing Duties The WTO and GATT, inter alia, provides for subsidies and countervailing duties.	None
What is a countervailing duty?	None
It is defined as, a duty imposed on imports to offset the advantage to foreign producers, derived from a subsidy that their government offers for the production or export of any article taxed.	None
See Websters 3rd new International Dictionary, 1993	None
It has also been defined by Article VI of GATT as, a special bounty levied for the purpose of offsetting any bounty or subsidy bestowed directly or indirectly, upon the manufacture, production or export of any merchandise.	None
See WTO in the New Millenium, 5ed., p. 123.	None
What is the rationale behind the imposition of a countervailing duty?	None
The economic rationale is very doubtful, as the effect of a countervailing duty is to make the product more expensive in the importing country.	None
However, there has been some level of an explanation provided.	None
Every time a tariff barrier is negotiated and agreed on, WTO members have reasonable expectations that they can profit from the conditions of competition established in the market of the member, binding its tariff and gain market share.	None
Moreover, members have paid for the binding by promising to open up their market, that is, by binding their own tariffs.	None
WTO members may not frustrate their promises by subsidising their domestic industry producing the product for which a tariff binding has been previously offered.	None
If this were allowed WTO members might lose the incentive to make concessions in the future.	None
See The World Trade OrganisationLaw, Practice and Policy by Mitsuo Matsushita, Thomas J. Schoenbaum Petros C. Mavroidis p. 279.	None
We need not go into the question in details as regard the provisions of subsidies as found placed in GATT.	None
But it may be relevant to note the impact of subsidies on international trade.	None
(See Jackson, John J., in The Jurisprudence of GATt and WTO pp 4345.)	None
CHANGING SCENARIO Socialism might have been a catchword from our history.	None
It may be present in the Preamble of our Constitution.	None
However, due to the liberalization policy adopted by the Central Government from the early nineties, this view that the Indian society is essentially wedded to socialism is definitely withering away.	None
Although, the United States is guided by a capitalist philosophy unlike the socialist policy laid down in the Indian Constitution, the very fact that changes in society have to be reflected in the interpretation of the Constitution, while still preserving the core constitutional intent of the Constitution makers is a factor to be reckoned with.	None
This has never been more important than in the age of globalization when vast changes are taking place both at the social and political levels.	None
Constitution How should be interpreted in Present Day Scenario Legal history is a good guide for the purpose of appreciating the legal development across the world particularly in the field of inter9national law.	None
The judiciary cannot cling to ageold notions of any underlying philosophy behind interpretation.	None
It has to move with the times.	None
As Willes CJ once said, When the nature of things changes, the rules of law must change too.	None
(See Davies v. Powell (1737)	None
Willes 46 at 51)	None
This is a truism in that the legislature and, within limits, the courts should change rules to keep the law abreast of change.	None
(See Dias Jurisprudence, 5th Edition, page 147)	None
In Francis Bennion Interpretation of Statutes, Fourth edition at page 771, it is stated Changes in social conditions  Where relevant social conditions have changed since the date of enactment, what was then classed as a social mischief may not be so regarded today.	None
It is very difficult for the court to apply an enactment so as to remedy what is no longer regarded as a mischief.	None
The consequence is an interpretation that minimizes the coercive effect of the enactment and gives great weight to criteria such as the principle against doubtful penalisation.	None
While interpreting such a situation, one must take into consideration the flexibility in law as has been highlighted by this Court in M.V. Al Quamar vs. Tsavliris Salvage (International) Ltd.	None
others (2000) 8 SCC 278 wherein it was opined The two decisions noted above in our view deal with the situation amply after having considered more or less the entire gamut of judicial precedents.	None
Barker, Js judgment in the New Zealand case ((1980) 1 NZLR 104 (NZSC)) very lucidly sets out that the court has to approach the modern problem with some amount of flexibility as is now being faced in the modern business trend.	None
Flexibility is the virtue of the law courts as Roscoe Pound puts it.	None
The pedantic approach of the law court are no longer existing by reason of the global change of outlook in trade and commerce.	None
The observations of Barker, J. and the findings thereon in the New Zealand case ((1980) 1 NZLR 104 (NZSC)) with the longish narrations as above, depicts our inclination to concur with the same, but since issue is slightly different in the matter under consideration, we, however, leave the issue open, though the two decisions as above cannot be doubted in any way whatsoever and we feel it expedient to record that there exists sufficient reasons and justification in the submission of Mr. Desai as regards the invocation of jurisdiction under Section 44A of the Code upon reliance on the two decisions of the New Zealand and Australian Courts.	None
There cannot be any doubt whatsoever that a law which was at one point of time was constitutional may be rendered unconstitutional because of passage of time.	None
(See Kapila Hingorani (supra) and John Vallamattom and Anr.	None
vs. Union of India JT 2003 (6) SC 37 ).	None
In R. vs. Hughes 12 BHRC 243 (2002) UKPC 12, the Privi Council observed Under the Constitution the people of St. Lucia enjoy certain fundamental rights and freedoms.	None
The supremacy of those constitutional rights and freedoms is secured by s. 120 of the ConstitutionThis Constitution is the supreme law of Saint Lucia and, subject to the provisions of s. 41 of this Constitution, if any other law is inconsistent with this Constitution, this Constitution shall prevail and the other law shall, to the extent of the inconsistency be void.	None
The Constitution controls not only the statute law but any law in force in St. Lucia, including any unwritten rule of law (s. 124).	None
Therefore, unless para 10 applies, any law, whether written or unwritten, which is inconsistent with the constitution is to that extent void.	None
It was further observed Since para 10 introduces these exceptions to the rights and protection which people would otherwise have under the constitution, it must be construed like any other derogation from constitutional guarantees.	None
In State vs. Petrus 1985 LRC (Const) 699 at 720 in the Court of Appeal of Botswana, Aguda JA referred to Corey vs. Knight (1957) 150 Cal App 2d 671 and observed thatit is another well known principle of construction that exceptions contained in Constitutions are ordinarily to be given strict and narrow, rather than broad, constructions.	None
In case of doubt, para 10 should therefore be given a strict and narrow, rather than a broad, construction.	None
In Project GabcikovoNagymaros (Op. Ind. Weeramantry) the International Court in its judgment dated 25.9.1997 at page 114, albeit in the context of ecology observed As this Court observed in the Namibia case, an international instrument has to be interpreted and applied within the framework of the entire legal system prevailing at the time of the interpretation (Legal Consequences for States of the continu4ed Presence of South Africa in Namibia (South West Africa) notwithstanding Security Council Resolution 276 (1970), Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 1971, p. 31, para 53), and these principles are not limited to the rules of international law applicable at the time the treaty was concluded.	None
In Peoples Union for Civil Liberties and Anr.	None
vs. Union of India and Anr.	None
(2003) 4 SCC 399 at page 403 it held It is established that fundamental rights themselves have no fixed content, most of them are empty vessels into which each generation must pour its content in the light of its experience.	None
The attempt of the court should be to expand the reach and ambit of the fundamental rights by process of judicial interpretation.	None
The Constitution is required to be kept young, energetic and alive.	None
Public Policy	None
The matter is covered by statutory provisions.	None
The court cannot interpret on equality, freedom or commerce clauses of the Constitution in such a manner so as to take away the rights and obligations created under a statute on the ground of public morality or otherwise.	None
When a statute permits a trade, morality takes a back seat as legislature as contra distinguished from judiciary is supposed to be the authority to consider the morality or otherwise of certain things prevailing in the society.	None
This Court in Murlidhar Agarwal and Another vs. State of U.P. and others (1975) 1	None
SCR 575 while dealing with the concept of public policy observed thus Public policy does not remain static in any given community.	None
It may vary from generation to generation and even in the same generation.	None
Public policy would be almost useless if it were to remain in fixed moulds for all timeThe difficulty of discovering what public policy is at any given moment certainly does not absolve the judges from the duty of doing so.	None
In conducting an enquiry, as already stated, Judges are not hidebound by precedent.	None
The Judges must look beyond the narrow field of past precedents, though this still leaves open the question, in which direction they must cast their gaze.	None
The judges are to base their decision on the opinions of men of the world, as distinguished from opinions based on legal learning.	None
In other words, the judges will have to look beyond the jurisprudence and that is so doing, they must consult not their own personal standards or predilections but those of the dominant opinion at the given moment, or what has been termed customary morality.	None
The judges must consider the social consequences of the rule propounded, especially in the light of the factual evidence available as to its probable results The point is rather this power must be lodged somewhere and under our Constitution and laws.	None
It has been lodged in the Judges and if they have to fulfill their function as Judges, it could hardly be lodged elsewhere.	None
NEED TO HAVE AN ECONOMIC INTERPRETATION	None
The wave of privatization, multinationals influx into society, etc has lead to a very wide debate on the merits of such a scheme and the judiciary has a very wide role to play in discerning what the current position of the economic tend of the country is, bearing in min the Constitutional goals of our Founding Fathers.	None
Economic factors were by no means absent during the framing of the Constitution.	None
On the contrary, in several instances economic elements were of considerable importance.	None
However, the very nature of the playing field has changed with the changes taking place in an evolving society.	None
This is true of every society.	None
Thus, can we still say that the same economic interests that the Constitutional Framers sought to achieve exist in the same form even today, bearing in mind the changes that have taken place due to the onslaught of globalization in the last 2 decades?	None
All these factors have to borne in mind while an interpretation of the Constitution has to take place.	None
Opposition will rise to every conceivable change in sociopoliticaleconomic scenarios.	None
Some persons are by nature, conservative in their subconscious evaluation of change.	None
They refuse to acknowledge mans power to make his own history and they explicitly reject the notion that observed institutions of interaction are in themselves, products of intended human action.	None
(See Buchanan, James A., Sources of Opposition to Constitutional Reform, in McKenzie, Richard B., Constitutional Economics, at p. 22).	None
Thus any change proposed to be made by the lawmakers or the judiciary will meet with a certain level of opposition, but that does not mean that ageold notions are clung to.	None
The impact of changes in society also has to be reflected in the lawmaking process.	None
In interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution especially those provisions dealing with the regulation of economy of the nation must receive such interpretation which fosters economic growth.	None
The stagnatic economy of any nation has a bane for the world economy.	None
Keeping this in view the interpretation of the Constitution should receive such a treatment which would be in tune with the original intention of the Constitution makers.	None
The ultimate duty to achieve and maintain integrity of the nation visavis life lies on the Union.	None
It is for this reason though law and order is included in the List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India, national security, internal security and policy powers to regulate various aspects of social, political and economic conduct of human beings vested in the Union Parliament.	None
Further by reason of Article 352, it is the parliament which can take over the administration of any stage.	None
These are intended to maintain integrity and push economy forward.	None
A growing economy results in more industries and more jobs.	None
When people are employed the purchasing power will go up the per capita income will go up resulting in more payment for goods.	None
This again requires more industries.	None
In the long run, subject to providing congenial atmosphere results in foreign investment.	None
The Court having regard to globalisation should take notice of the futuristic though tin developed countries for interpretation of the Constitution in the ascertainment of meaning of the relevant provisions thereof with reference to everything which is logically relevant.	None
In An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution of the United States by Charles A. Beared in Chapter VI the Constitution of the United States has been read as an economic document.	None
Referring to Hamilton, it is stated that free trade over a wide range would be reciprocal and would give great diversity to commerce enterprise and will render stagnation less liable for offering more distant markets when local demands fall off.	None
Lawrence.	None
H. Tribe in his constitutional treatise American Constitutional Law, 3rd Edition emphasized upon the debate, at page 822, as regards courts new focus on economic activity citing Lopez 514 US at page 566 acknowledging that the determination whether an interstate activity is commercial or noncommercial may in some cases result in legal uncertainty.	None
The learned author states As long as the Court adheres to the principle that a limitless commerce power is inconsistent with the text and structure of the Constitution and believes that its role is to strike down legislation that exceeds the commerce power (rather than relying on Congress to exercise selfrestraint), it will need to apply some sort of administrable test to distinguish among classes of activities.	None
It could seek to limit congressional power through a highly sensitive test for measuring the existence of substantial effects on commerce, but the interconnectedness of our society and the fact that every act has economic consequences combine to suggest that, with respect to almost any activity, one could make a strong argument that its repetition all over the country probably will substantially affect commerce.	None
If any activity can meet the substantial effects test, then the only other possibility may be the one the courts pursued limiting the category of activities that can be aggregated in the first place  for example, by focusing on commercial activities as Lopez appears to have done.	None
If that proved unworkable in practice, then the Court may find itself unable, after all, to effectuate any substantive limits on Congress commerce power  unless the Court takes the truly dramatic step of rejecting entirely the substantial effects test and the aggregation principle that is its companion, as Justice Thomas urged in his solo concurrence, advocating the overruling of such foundational landmarks as Wickard v. Filburn, NLRB vs. Jones Laughlin Steel Corp., and Katzenbach vs. McClung.	None
The history of commerce power of the United States visavis the decisions of the Supreme Court is stated in The Oxford Companion to the Supreme Court of the United States edited by Kermit L. Hall, 1992 edition wherein under the heading Commerce Power	None
Today it is stated Commerce Power Today During the fifty years following the postNew Deal era Congress expanded national regulation into myriad aspects of the national life using the Commerce clause as the constitutional base all with the Supreme Courts approval.	None
One of the mot significant areas of national intervention was that of racial discrimination.	None
In 1964 Congress enacted a Civil Rights Act banning racial discrimination in hotels, motels, restaurants, theaters, and motion picture houses throughout the country, now based on the Commerce Clause rather than the Fourteenth Amendment.	None
In Heart of Atlanta Motel Inc. vs. United States (1964) and Katzenbach vs. McClung (1964), the Supreme Court found that racial discrimination had a deleterious effect on interstate commerce and was a proper object for congressional attention.	None
In National League of Cities vs. Usery (1976), the Court struck down legislation based on the Commerce Clause for the first time in forty years when it held that the minimum wagemaximum hour requirements of the amendment Fair Labour Standards Act of 1938 could not be extended to state and local government employees.	None
Such requirements, said the Court, involved a congressional intrusion into an attribute of state sovereignty (p. 845).	None
Less than a decade later the Court overruled the Usery case in Garcia vs. San Antonio Metropolitan transit Authority (1985).	None
Marshall, Taney and Waite (1937).	None
R.S. Myers, The Burger Court and the Commerce Clause An Evaluation of the Role of State Sovereignty, Notre Dame Law Review 60 (1985) 10561093.	None
In United States vs. Lopez 514 US 549 (1995) the United States Supreme Court struck down a statute as beyond the Congress Commerce power on the ground that the activity regulating was neither a part of nor at a substantial fact upon interstate commerce.	None
The decision recognizes a debate as regard Congress commerce power.	None
Commenting upon Lopez, the learned Author States It is by no means certain, of course, that future applications of Lopez will turn entirely, or even predominantly, on deciding whether a regulated activity is sufficiently commercial to qualify for the substantial effects test and the aggregation principle.	None
The Lopez Court did not expressly hold that only economic or commercial activities could be regulated by Congress whenever they meet these impact tests.	None
Lopez relied ultimately on the more general metaprinciple that upholding the GunFree School Zones Act as a regulation of activity substantially affecting commerce would require us to conclude that the Constitutions enumeration of powers does not presuppose something not enumerated This we are unwilling to do.	None
The American decisions are replete with conflicting views taken from time to time from Gibbons vs. Ogden (22 US 9 Wheat) 1 (1824) to NLRB vs. Jones Laughlin Steel Corp. (301 US 1 (1937) and Katzenbach vs. McClung (379 US 294 (1964) as to whether the Congress should be the sole authority to control of the commerce clause or not.	None
(See A Book of Legal Lists by Bernard Schwartz, A History of the Supreme Court by Bernard Schwartz and American Constitutional Law by Lawrence H. Tribe).	None
In Joseph Lochner vs. People of the State of New York (198 US 937) a question arose as to whether a legislation in limiting of employment in bakeries to sixty hours a week and ten hours a day is constitutional.	None
The law was struck down stating It is also urged, pursuing the same line of argument, that it is to the interest of the state that its population should be strong and robust, and therefore any legislation which may be said to tend to make people healthy must be valid as health laws, enacted under the police power.	None
If this be a valid argument and a justification for this kind of legislation, it follows that the protection of the Federal Constitution from undue interference with liberty of person and freedom of contract is visionary, wherever the law is sought to be justified as a valid exercise of the police power.	None
Scarcely any law but might find shelter under such assumptions, and conduct, properly so called, as well as contract, would come under the restrictive sway of the legislature.	None
It was observed It was further urged on the argument that restricting the hours of labour in the case of bakers was valid because it tended to cleanliness on the part of the workers, as a man was more apt to be cleanly when not overworked, and if cleanly then his output was also more likely to be so.	None
What has already been said applies with equal force to this contention.	None
We do not admit the reasoning to be sufficient to justify the claimed right of such interference.	None
The State in that case would assume the position of a supervisor, or pater families, over every act of the individual, and its right of governmental interference with his hours of labor, his hours of exercise, the character thereof, and the extent to which it shall be carried would be recognized and upheld.	None
In our judgment it is not possible in fact to discover the connection between the number of hours a baker may work in the bakery and the healthful quality of the bread made by the workman.	None
It was held that the legislations although claimed to have been made under the police power or really purported to be for the purpose of protecting the public health and welfare, in reality are passed through other motives.	None
Justice Holmes in the dissenting view, however, resented the economic theory governing the majority judgment.	None
In India even such a debate is necessary having regard to the provisions contained in Part XIII of the Constitution of India in terms whereof the State in relation to certain matters may have a regulatory or taxing power but the same would be subject to the commerce clause.	None
PRECEDENT Doctrine of precedent is a wellaccepted principle.	None
A ruling is generally considered to be binding on lower courts and courts having a smaller Bench structure.	None
A precedent influences future decisions.	None
Every decision is pronounced on a specific set of past facts and from the decision on those facts a rule has to be extracted and projected into the future.	None
No one can foresee the precise situation that will arise, so the rule has to be capable of applying to a range of broadly similar situations against a background of changing conditions.	None
It is has therefore to be in general terms and malleable.	None
No word has one proper meaning, nor can anyone seek to fix the meaning of words for others, so the interpretation of the rule remains flexible and openended.	None
(See Dias Jurisprudence, 5th Edition, page 136).	None
However, although a decision has neither been reversed nor overruled, it may cease to be law owing to changed conditions and changed law.	None
This is reflected by the principle cessante ratione cessat ipsa lex.	None
It is not easy to detect when such situations occur, for as long as the traditional theory prevails that judges never make law, but only declare it, two situations need to be carefully distinguished.	None
One is where a case is rejected as being no longer law on the ground that it is now thought never to have represented the law the other is where a case, which is acknowledged to have been the law at the time, has ceased to have that character owing to altered circumstances.	None
(See Dias Jurisprudence, 5th Edition, page 146 147.	None
It is the latter situation which is often of relevance.	None
With changes that are bound to occur in an evolving society, the judiciary must also keep abreast of these changes in order that the law is considered to be good law.	None
This is extremely pertinent especially in the current era of globalization when the entire philosophy of society, on the economic front, is undergoing vast changes.	None
In M.A. Murthy vs. State of Karnataka and others (2003) 7 SCC 517 )	None
This Court held The doctrine of binding precedent helps in promoting certainty and consistency in judicial decisions and enables an organic development of the law besides providing assurance to the individual as to the consequences of transactions forming part of the daily affairs.	None
HAD KALYANI STORES (SUPRA) BEEN RENDERED PER INCURIUM Kalyani Stores (supra) is a Constitution Bench judgment.	None
A Constitution Bench has unequivocally held that Article 301 of the Constitution of India shall apply to trade of liquor.	None
Once this Court comes to the conclusion that doctrine of res extra commercium was not applicable, Kalyani Stores must be applied in all fours.	None
In any event, the decision of a Constitution Bench cannot be brushed aside as having been passed sub silentio or on the basis of doctrine of per incurium Judicial discipline envisages that a coordinate bench follow the decision of earlier coordinate bench.	None
If a coordinate bench does not agree with the principles of law enunciated by another bench, the matter may be referred only to a larger bench.	None
(See Pradip Chandra Parija vs. Pramod Chandra Patnaik, (2002) 1 SCC 1 at paras 6 and 7 followed in State of Tripura vs. Roop Chand Das others (2002) 7 SCC 273 at para 2)	None
But no decision can be arrived at contrary to or inconsistent with the law laid down by the coordinate bench.	None
Kalyani Stores (supra) and K.K. Narula (supra) both have been rendered by the Constitution Benches.	None
The said decisions, therefore, cannot be thrown out for any purpose whatsoever more so when both of them if applied collectively lead to a contrary decision proposed by the majority.	None
In Halsburys Laws of England (Fourth Edition) Vol.26, at pages 297298, Para 578, it is stated A decision is given per incurium when the court has acted in ignorance of a previous decision of its own or of a court of coordinate jurisdiction which covered the case before it, in which case it must decide which case to follow Young vs. Bristol Aeroplane Co. Ltd., (1944) 1 KB 718 at 729 (1944) 2 ALI ER 293 at 300.	None
In Hudderfield Police Authority vs. Waton (1947) KB 842 (1947) 2 All ER 193.	None
or when it has acted in ignorance of a House of Lords decision, in which case it must follow that decision or when the decision is given in ignorance of the terms of a statute or rule having statutory force Young vs. Bristol Aeroplane Co. Ltd.	None
(1944) 1 KB 718 at 729 (1944) 2 All ER 293 at 300.	None
See also Lancaster Motor Col. (London Ltd. vs. Bremith Ltd. (1941) 1 KB 675 for a Divisional Court decision disregarded by that court as being per incuriam, See Nicholas vs. Penny (1950) 2KB 466, 1950 2 All ER 89.	None
A decision should not be treated as given per incuriam, however, simply because of a deficiency of parties, Morvelle Ltd. vs. Wakeling (1955) 2 QB 379 (1955) 1	None
All ER 708 C. or because the court had not the benefit of the best argument, Bryers vs. Candadian Pacific Streamphips Ltd. (1957) 1 QB 134, (1956) 3	None
All ER 560 CA Per Singleton LJ, affd Sub nom.	None
Candadian Pacific Streampship Ltd. vs. Bryers (1958)	None
AC 485, (1957) 3 ALL ER 572, and as a general rule, the only cases in which decision should be held to be given per incuriam are those given in ignorance of some inconsistent statute or binding authority A. and J. Mukclow Ltd. vs. IRC (1954)	None
Ch. 615, (1954) 2	None
All ER 508 CA, Morelle Ltd. vs. Wakeling (1955) 2 QB 379, (1955) 1	None
All ER 708 CA, SEe also Bonsor vs. Musicians Union (1954)	None
Ch. 479 (1954) 1	None
All ER 822 CA, where the per incuriam contention was rejected and on appeal to the house of lords although the House overruled the case which bound the Court of Appeal, the House agreed that court had been bound by it see (1956) AC 104.	None
(1955) 3	None
All ER 518 HL.	None
Even if decision of the Court of Appeal has misinterpreted a previous decision of the House of lords, the Court of Appeal must follow its previous decision and leave the House of Lords to rectify the mistake.	None
Williams v. l Glasbrook Bros Ltd. (1947) 2	None
All ER 884 CA	None
In Dr. Vijay Laxmi Sadho vs. Jagdish (JT 2001 (1) SC 382 )	None
it has been observed as follows As the learned Single Judge was not in agreement with the view expressed in Devilal Case AIR 1960 SC 936 (1960)	None
3 SCR 378 it would have been proper, to maintain judicial discipline, to refer the matter to a larger Bench rather than to take a different view.	None
We note it with regret and distress that the said course was not followed.	None
It is wellsettled that if a Bench of coordinate jurisdiction whether on the basis of different arguments or otherwise, on a question of law, it is appropriate that the matter be referred to a larger Bench for resolution of the issue rather than to leave two conflicting judgments to operate, creating confusion.	None
It is not proper to sacrifice certainty of law.	None
Judicial decorum, no less than legal propriety forms the basis of judicial procedure and it must be respected at all costs.	None
In State of Bihar vs. Kalika Kuer Kalika Singh and others (JT 2003 (4) SC 489 ), a Bench of this Court upon taking a large number of decisions into consideration observed Looking at the matter, in view of what has been held to mean by per incuriam, we find that such element of rendering a decision in ignorance of any provision of the statute or the judicial authority of binding nature, is not the reason indicated by the Full Bench in the impugned judgment, while saying that decision in the case of Ramkrit Singh (supra) was rendered per incuriam.	None
It was further opined The earlier judgment may seem to be not correct yet it will have the binding effect on the letter bench of coordinate jurisdiction.	None
Easy course of saying that earlier decision was rendered per incuriam is not permissible and the matter will have to be resolved only in two ways either to follow the earlier decision or refer the matter to a larger Bench to examine the issue, in case it is felt that earlier decision is not correct on merits.	None
It is also trite that the binding precedents which are authoritative in nature and are meant to be applied should not be ignored on application of the doctrine of sub silentio or per incurium without assigning specific reasons therefor.	None
I, for one, do not as to how Kalyani Stores (supra) and K.K. Narula (supra) read together can be said to have been passed sub silentio or rendered per incurium.	None
CONCLUSION	None
The propositions of law which emerge from the discussions made hereinbefore are The maxim res extra commercium has no role to play in determining the constitutional validity of a statute.	None
The State, in its discretion having regard to the provisions contained in Article 47 of the Constitution of India may part with its right of exclusive privilege but once it does so, the grant being subject to the terms and conditions of a statutes, the common law principles based on the maxim res extra commercium shall have no application in relation thereto.(2)	None
When the constitutionality of a taxing statute is questioned, the same has to be judged on the touchstone of the constitutional provisions including Article 301 thereof.	None
The freedom guaranteed under Article 301 of the Constitution of India may be considered in isolation having regard to the expression contained therein that such freedom is subject to Part XIII of the Constitution of India.(3)	None
The right to carry on trade in liquor is a fundamental right within the meaning of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India and the State may, however, legislate prohibiting such trade either in whole or in part in terms of clause (6) of thereof.(4) Article 14 is applicable in the matter of grant by the State and, thus, there is no reason as to why grantee would not be entitled to invoke the commerce clause contained in Article 301 of the Constitution of India.(5)	Arguments of Respondent
In interpreting the constitutional provisions, the court should take into consideration the implication of its decision having regard to the international treaties dealing with countervailing duty, etc.(6) The decision of Kalyani Stores (supra) being an authorities pronouncement, the same is binding irrespective of the fact as to whether therein the decisions of this Court in Chamarbaugwala (supra), Har Shankar (supra) and Khoday Distilleries (supra) have been referred to or not, keeping in view the fact that even in K.K. Narula (supra), another Constitution Bench has held that trade in liquor is a fundamental right.	None
Before, parting, I may observe that it had been my endeavour not to repeat the reasonings of B.N. Agrawal, J. with whom I respectfully agree and with utmost respect, I dissent from the views of the majority.  	None
ORDER	None
In view of the majority opinion rendered by Honble Dr. Justice AR.	None
Lakshmanan, on behalf of himself, Honble the Chief Justice and Honble Mr. Justice R.C. Lahoti, Civil Appeal No. 3017 of 1997 is allowed and Civil Appeal Nos. 26962697 of 2003 are dismissed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
