 M. Punchhi, C.J.	None
I have bestowed great care in reading the two elaborate but sharply cleaving draft Judgments prepared by my learned brethren, K.T. Thomas, J. and M. Srinivasan, J. resting on the provisions contained in the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution.	None
I need to emphasise at the outset, in the context above, the importance of recording of events which take place in the House, which means either House of Parliament or the Legislative Assembly or, as the case may be, either House of the Legislature of State, because Clause (b) of Paragraph 3 provides that from the time of such split, such faction shall deeming become the political party.	None
The Speaker Chairman in the nature of his role when informed of a spilt is administratively the time keeper and he has to be definite in respect of the time of such split.	None
Or is there any scope for procrastination?	None
He is the Tribunal undoubtedly for quasijudicial purpose.	None
In Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu and Ors., 1992 1	None
SCR 686 , the majority, in Paragraph 109, has summed up the nature of the function exercised by the Speaker Chairman under Paragraph 6(1) to be that of a Tribunal and the scope of judicial review under Articles 136, 226 and 227 of the Constitution in respect of an order passed by the Speaker Chairman under Paragraph 6 to be confining to jurisdictional errors only viz., infirmities based on violation of constitutional mandate, mala fides, noncompliance with rules of natural justice and perversity.	None
The question however as to whether a Member of the House has become subject to disqualification must arise for decision under Paragraph 6(1) of the Tenth Schedule only on its being referred for decision of the Speaker Chairman and not on his own, whose decision shall be final.	None
The defence against disqualification incurred on ground of defection under Paragraph 2 is separately provided in Paragraph 3 to say that such disqualification is not to apply to a case of split.	None
Is not the cognition of the Speaker Chairman of the occurrence of split not administrative in nature, unconnected with decision making on disqualification or is it an adjunct thereto?	None
Kihoto Hollohan is silent on this aspect.	None
If the act of cognising the time of such split is the administrative function of the Speaker Chairman, the scope of judicial review of the said administrative act would, to my mind, be qualitatively different than what it is when testing his quasijudicial order as a Tribunal.	None
Kihoto Hollohan, as is evident from Paragraph 111 of the report, apparently confines to decision making by the Speaker Chairman in Paragraph 6(1) on reference of the question of disqualification, inviting his decision, and leaves his role under Paragraph 3 untouched.	None
These determinations of importance, in my view, are necessary to be made before the matter can be examined as to the perversity or otherwise of the Speakers decision, obligating him at a point of time to record categorically when the split took place thereby pinning the time of such split.	None
I opine therefore that the matter be referred to the Constitution Bench for decision.	None
T. Thomas, J. Leave granted.	None
Twelve MLAs of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP for short) crossed floor of the House in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and voted in favour of a motion of confidence moved by the Chief Minister of the State.	Issue
Soon thereafter all those twelve MLAs were made Ministers in the State cabinet headed by Chief Minister Shri Kalyan Singh.	Issue
Appellant (Ms. Mayawati) who is the leader of BSP Legislature Party complained that the twelve MLAs who defected (they are arrayed as respondents in this appeal) have incurred disqualification for membership of the Assembly.	Issue
The Speaker of the Assembly, by the impugned order, exonerated the respondents from the tentacles of disqualification envisaged in the Xth Schedule to the Constitution of India.	Issue
Hence this appeal by special leave.	Issue
There is no need to elaborate on the facts as they, by themselves, are compendious.	Facts
Elections held to the Uttar Pradesh Vidhan Sabha (Legislative Assembly) in 1996 resulted in a hung Assembly as no political party secured absolute majority.	Facts
However, appellant Ms. Mayawati became Chief Minister of the State as her party consisting of 67 MLAs in the Assembly was supported by the MLAs belonging to Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP).	Facts
But she demitted the office of Chief Minister on 29.9.1997 as per an understanding between the aforesaid two parties.	Facts
On the next day Shri Kalyan Singh, leader of the BJP Legislature Party became Chief Minister on the assumption that BSP would support him.	Facts
But contrary to the said assumption BSP withdrew support to Kalyan Singh Government on 17.10.1997.	Facts
Kalyan Singh was thereupon directed by the Governor to prove that he enjoyed the support of majority MLAs in the Assembly.	Facts
On 20.10.1997 the appellant Ms Mayawati issued a whip to all the MLAs of her party in the following terms.	Facts
You are hereby informed that you should be present in the Session of the UP Legislative Assembly on 21.10.1997 from 11 A.M. till the end of the sitting and vote against the Motion of Confidence moved by the BJP Government.	Facts
On 21.10.1997 twelve MLAs from BSP (respondents) voted in favour of the motion of confidence moved by Shri Kalyan Singh.	Facts
A violent pandemonium broke out inside the House in which a number of MLAs were assaulted by some other members and consequently no business could be transacted.	Facts
On 24.10.1997 appellant filed a petition before theSpeaker Under Rule 7 of the Members of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on Grounds of Defection) Rules, 1987, which will hereinafter be referred to for convenience, as Disqualification Rules, for a declaration that the twelve respondents became disqualified as per Paragraph 2(1 )(b) of the Xth Schedule of the Constitution.	Facts
When respondents took up the plea that they, along with some more MLAs, the total of which reached 23 in number, have formed themselves into a new political party by name Janatantrik Bahujan Samaj Party (for short JTBSP).	Facts
Appellant thereupon moved for amendment of the petition on 5.12.1997 seeking incorporation of an additional ground for disqualification which is envisaged in Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Xth Schedule.	Facts
Additional written statement was filed by the respondents to the amended petition.	Facts
As the names of all the 23 MLAs who allegedly formed the split have not been furnished, the Speaker directed the respondents to file a list of such names by 29.1.1998.	Facts
As they failed to give names on that day also, the Speaker gave another date as a last chance and posted it to 09.02.1998.	Facts
But respondents failed to furnish the names of such MLAs even by that extended time, and instead again they pleaded for more time.	Facts
On 25.2.1998 a list of 26 MLAs was furnished to the Speaker claiming that they were the MLAs who formed a split on 21.10.1997.	Facts
The speaker passed the impugned order holding that (1) respondents are not liable to be disqualified under Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Xth Schedule on the syllogism that the person who issued the direction on 20101997 is not proved to be an authorised person.	Facts
(2) Such direction was superseded by another oral direction which was subsequently issued and hence no disqualification would visit on the ground of noncompliance with the former direction.	Facts
(3) At any rate the whip issued on 20101997 was ineffective since it was silent as to the consequences of its noncompliance.	Facts
(4) Nor are the respondents liable to be disqualified under Paragraph 2(1 )(a) of the Xth Schedule because they belong to a faction which came into being as sequel to a split which arose in the BSP on 21101997 consisting of not less than l/3rd of the total members of the Legislature Party of the BSP.	Facts
It would be advantageous to consider first whether the disqualification envisaged in subclause (a) of Paragraph 2(1) of the Xth Schedule should have visited the respondents because it is admitted by the respondents themselves that they ceased to be members of BSP from 21101997 as they had formed a new political party (JTBSP).	Issue
Such severance from BSP is sought to be protected from disqualification by seeking shelter under the umbrella of Paragraph 3 of the Xth Schedule which is extracted below Disqualification on ground of defection not to apply in case of split.	None
Where a member of a House makes a claim that he and any other members of his Legislature party constitute the group representing a faction which has arisen as a result of the split in his original political party and such group consists of not less than onethird of the members of such Legislature party (a) he shall not be disqualified under subparagraph(i) of paragraph 2 on the ground (i) that he has voluntarily given up his membership of his original political party or (ii) that he has voted or abstained from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by such party or by any person or authority authorised by it in that behalf without obtaining the prior permission of such party, person or authority and such voting or abstention has not been condoned by such party, person or authority within fifteen days from the date of such voting or abstention and (b) from the time of such split, such faction shall be deemed to be the political party to which he belongs for the purposes of subparagraph (1) of paragraph 2 and to be his original political party for the purposes of this paragraph.	Arguments of Petitioner
Two conditions are sine qua non for avoiding the disqualification when any member of the House voluntarily gives up membership of his original political party.	Reasoning
First is that the member concerned should have made a claim that the split in the original Political Party has arisen resulting in the Constitution of a group in its Legislature Party representing a faction thereof.	Reasoning
Second is that such group should consist of not less than l/3rd of the members of such Legislature Party.	Reasoning
In order to establish that the first condition has been fulfilled the first respondent (Shri Markandeya Chand) has made a statement in the House on 21101997 that the split of BSP Legislature Party had arisen consisting of a group which represents a faction of not less than l/3rd of the members thereof.	Reasoning
It appears that the Speaker has proceeded on the assumption that a claim has been made as provided in the said Paragraph.	Reasoning
Regarding the second condition the Speaker held that there was a split in the Bahujan Samaj Party on 21101997 and a faction had arisen as a result of the split in the BSP and a group consisting of 26 BSP MLAs was constituted on 211097 itself representing the faction which did arise and that group is known as Janatantrik BSP.	Reasoning
According to the respondents, the aforesaid finding being a finding of fact is not amenable to challenge as it was rendered by the Speaker of the Assembly on whom alone the jurisdiction is conferred to determine such disputed fact.	Arguments of Respondent
The scope of judicial scrutiny on matters pertaining to the decision of a Speaker passed under Paragraph 6 of the Xth Schedule has been elaborately considered by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu and Ors., 1992 1	None
SCR 686 .	None
One of the grounds urged before the Constitution Bench in support of the plea that Xth Schedule is liable to be struck down as violative of basic features of the Constitution was that the investiture of the determinative and adjudicative jurisdiction in the Speaker would, by itself, vitiate the provision on the ground of reasonable likelihood of bias and lack of impartiality and, therefore, denies the imperative of an independent adjudicatory machinery.	None
The Speaker is elected and holds office on the support of the majority party and is not required to resign his  membership of the political party after his election to the office of the Speaker.	None
Venkatachaliah, J (as the learned Chief Justice then was) has delved into the importance of the office of the Speaker and found that the Speaker holds a high, important and ceremonial office, he is the very embodiment of propriety and impartiality and he performs wide ranging functions including the performance of important functions of a judicial character, and observed thus It would, indeed, be unfair to the high traditions of that great office to say that the investiture in it of this jurisdiction would be vitiated for violation of a basic feature of democracy.	Reasoning
It is inappropriate to express distrust in the high office of the Speaker, merely because some of the Speakers are alleged, or even found, to have discharged their functions not in keeping with the great traditions of that high office.	Reasoning
The robes of the Speaker do change and elevate the man inside.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the contention that vesting of adjudicatory functions in the Speaker would vitiate the provision on the ground of likelihood of political bias was rejected.	Reasoning
Paragraph 6 of the Xth Schedule renders the decision of the Speaker final.	Reasoning
The Constitution Bench considered its validity in Kihoto Hollohan (supra).	Reasoning
In the majority judgment it was held that the finality clause in Paragraph 6 does not completely exclude the jurisdiction of the court under Articles 136, 226 and 227 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Ultimately the Constitution Bench upheld the validity of the Xth Schedule subject to the aforesaid rider.	Reasoning
However, the Bench further held that the scope of judicial scrutiny is limited to ascertain whether the decision of the Speaker is vitiated by jurisdictional errors viz.	Reasoning
infirmities based on violation of constitutional mandate, mala fides, noncompliance with rules of natural justice and perversity.	Reasoning
Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel who argued for the appellant focussed on the contention that the decision of the Speaker that on 21.10.1997 a split has arisen in the BSP comprising of more than 23 MLAs is vitiated by perversity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Of course learned counsel also contended that there was violation of constitutional mandate, and noncompliance with rules of natural justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
But ultimately the stress of the attack was confined to the ground of perversity.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the counsel no authority conferred with the jurisdiction would have come to such a conclusion on the facts of this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the above context it was submitted by the counsel that a split can be recognized by a Speaker only if it is followed up by the steps prescribed in Rule 3 of the Disqualification Rules, as per which the Leader of the split faction should have furnished to the Speaker, within thirty days from the date of its formation of the faction, the following particulars (a) a statement in writing in FormI containing the names of the members and other particulars of the faction (b) names and designations of such member of the faction who has been chosen its leader (c) the names and designations of such members who have been authorised for the purposes of the Rules to correspond with the Speaker (d) a copy of the Constitution and Rules of the new legislature party and of the political party to which its members are affiliated.	Arguments of Petitioner
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
Legislature Party is defined in Paragraph l(b) of the Xth Schedule.	None
It includes the group consisting of all members of the House for the time being, belonging to that political party, formed in accordance with Paragraph 3.	None
The definition applies, inter alia, to the faction formed as envisaged in Paragraph 3.	None
Hence the faction consisting of not less than l/3rd members of the parent legislature party which was constituted as a sequel to the split arisen therefrom is also deemed to be a legislature party.	None
The leader of such newly formed legislature party is also obliged to comply with the requirements contained in Rule 3 of the Disqualification Rules.	None
According to the learned senior counsel, noncompliance with the Rules would lead to the inevitable consequence that respondents cannot be heard to contend that there was a split in BSP as envisaged in Paragraph 3 of Xth Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
21.	None
Dr. L.M. Singhvi, learned senior counsel who argued for some of the respondents contended that noncompliance with the Rules would not by itself establish that the split pleaded by the respondents did not take place.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, Rules are only procedural and they cannot get the status of constitutional provisions and cannot be equated therewith.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied on the observations of a two Judge Bench of this Court in Ravi S Naik v. Union of India, 1994 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 754 that Disqualification Rules are procedural in nature and any violation of the same would only amount to an irregularity in procedure which is immune from judicial scrutiny.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Ashok Desai and Shri RK Jain, the other two learned senior counsel who also argued for some of the remaining respondents supported the aforesaid contention.	Arguments of Respondent
As against the plea made by Shri Kapil Sibal that the observation in Ravi S. Naik needed reconsideration all the other senior counsel pointed that the two learned Judges in Ravi S. Naik have only adopted the reasoning of the Constitution Bench in Kihoto Hollohan on that aspect and hence it is not liable to be disturbed.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Judges who decided Ravi S. Naik were considering the contention that petitions filed before the Speaker did not fulfil the requirements of Rule 6(5)(a)(b) and (6) of the Disqualification Rules inasmuch as those petitions were bereft of facts on which petitioner therein was relying and also for not appending copies of the documents and evidence in those petitions.	Reasoning
It was hence contended before the Bench that such petitions were liable to be dismissed on that count alone.	Reasoning
Learned Judges, while dealing with the above contention have observed thus The Disqualification Rules have been framed to regulate the procedure that is to be followed by the Speaker for exercising the power conferred on him under subparagraph (1) of paragraph 6 of the Xth Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The Disqualification Rules are, therefore, procedural in nature and any violation of the same would amount to an irregularity in procedure which is immune from judicial scrutiny in view of subparagraph (2) of paragraph 6 as construed by this Court in Kihoto Hollohan case.	Reasoning
In Kihoto Hollohan the Constitution Bench, while dealing with the deeming provision contained in Para 6(2) of the Xth Schedule, made the observation that the immunity adumbrated therein is only for the irregularities of the procedures.	Reasoning
In this context it is worthwhile to refer to the next observations made by the Bench in the succeeding portion in Kihoto Hollohan The very deeming provision implies that the proceedings of disqualification are, in fact, not before the house but only before the Speaker as a specially designated authority.	Reasoning
The decision under Paragraph 6(1) is not the decision of the House, nor is it subject to the approval by the House.	Reasoning
The decision operates independently of the House.	Reasoning
A deeming provision cannot by its creation transcend its own power.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no immunity under Articles 122 and 212 from judicial scrutiny of the decision of the Speaker or Chairman exercising power under Paragraph 6(1) of the Tenth Schedule.	Reasoning
We will not say that rules of procedure are on par with the constitutional mandate incorporated in the Xth Schedule of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Nonetheless, the procedure prescribed in the Disqualification Rules are meant to be followed for the purpose for which they are made.	Reasoning
It is by virtue of the authority conferred by the Xth Schedule that Disqualification Rules are formulated for giving effect to the provisions of this Schedule.	Reasoning
What would have happened if the Rules have not been formulated as enjoined by Paragraph 8 of the Xth Schedule?	Reasoning
The provisions of the Xth Schedule would remain ineffective.	Reasoning
So the Rules cannot be read in isolation from the provisions of the Xth Schedule, in stead they must be read as part of it.	Reasoning
Of course, mere violation of a Rule is not enough to constitute violation of the provisions of the Xth Schedule.	Reasoning
When a certain procedure is required by the Rules to be adopted for giving effect to the provisions of the Constitution, the nonadopted of the procedure cannot be sidelined altogether as a mere procedure and of no consequence.	Reasoning
Compliance or noncompliance with the Rules of procedure would very much help the authorities to decide whether there was violation of the constitutional provision envisaged in the Xth Schedule.	Reasoning
Before a claim is made by a member of the House under Paragraph 3 of the Xth Schedule a split in the political party should have arisen.	Reasoning
Such a split must have caused its reaction in the Legislature Party also by formation of a group consisting of not less than one third of the members of that Legislature party.	Reasoning
We have to bear in mind that Clause (b) of Paragraph 3 mandates that for the purposes of this paragraph such factions shall be deemed to be the original political party of the member concerned from the time of such split.	Reasoning
What is the overt act through which formation of such a group can be perceived by the Speaker?	Reasoning
It is in this context that Rule 3 of the Disqualification Rules assumes relevance and importance.	Reasoning
Unless the particulars required in the Rule are furnished how would the Speaker know, authoritatively, of the formation of such a group?	Reasoning
Ordinarily such information must be furnished as early as possible.	Reasoning
But there can be rare cases in which it may not be possible, due to situational reasons, to furnish the particulars soon after the formation of such a group.	Reasoning
But the 30 days time provided in the Rule is not to be understood as any indication to dispense with the promptitude in furnishing those particulars.	Reasoning
The time 30 days fixed in Rule 3 must be treated as the outer limit within which the Speaker should be informed of the particulars required.	Reasoning
So the need for compliance with Rule 3 is not a bare formality.	Reasoning
Insistence on compliance with the Rule is, therefore, to enable the Speaker to decide whether the protection envisaged in the 3rd Paragraph can be afforded to the members concerned.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that a Speaker has to consider the repercussions of noncompliance of a particular rule in the Disqualification Rules to ascertain how far it has affected the credibility of the case of a claimant who seeks protection under Paragraph 3 of the Xth Schedule.	Reasoning
The Speaker has accepted the plea of the respondents that there was a split as envisaged in Paragraph 3 of the Xth Schedule.	Reasoning
The said finding can be subjected to judicial scrutiny only in the limited sphere indicated in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) viz.	Reasoning
whether the infirmities are based on violation of constitutional mandate, mala fides, noncompliance with the rules of natural justice and perversity.	Reasoning
This is a case where appellant did not succeed in showing a case of mala fides or noncompliance with the rules of natural justice as for the conclusion arrived at by the Speaker.	Reasoning
As pointed out earlier the main endeavour of the learned counsel was to show that the finding of the Speaker is vitiated by perversity in the sense that the conclusion is so unreasonable that no tribunal would have arrived at it on the given facts.	Reasoning
It is suggested on behalf of the respondents that if the conclusion of the Speaker is based on some materials, it is immune from judicial interference because of two broad restrictions.	Arguments of Respondent
First is the extremely limited scope of judicial scrutiny which is permitted by law as indicated by the Constitution Bench in Kihoto Hollohan.	Arguments of Respondent
Second is the positional height of the Speaker as a constitutional functionary upon whom the jurisdiction is conferred to determine the disputes under the Xth Schedule.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Ashok Desai, learned senior counsel contended for the extreme position that if the conclusion reached by the said functionary is a possible conclusion it stands insulated from any outside interference including by judicial exercise.	Arguments of Respondent
The said extreme proposition may lead to the situation that, no matter, however illegal the order may be, it cannot be touched if its author is the Speaker.	Reasoning
I am unable to concede such an immunity to any constitutional functionary to be above law or to have unfettered jurisdiction to pass unreasonable orders with immunity.	Reasoning
The test cannot be whether it is possible for the Speaker to record such a conclusion, because the very fact that the Speaker passed an order itself is the instance to show that it is possible.	Reasoning
The test is whether the conclusion or the finding made by the Speaker is so unreasonable or so unconscionable that no tribunal should have arrived at it on the given materials.	Reasoning
Parameters for scrutinising what is unreasonable are, of course, nebulous.	Reasoning
What appears to be reasonable to one man may be unreasonable to another and vice versa.	Reasoning
It was perhaps that approach which made Lord Hailsham to make his quaint comment that two reasonable persons can reach diametrically opposite conclusion on the same set of facts without either of them forfeiting the credential to be reasonable.	Reasoning
However, the test of perversity has now bogged down to this No conclusion can be dubbed as perverse unless the unreasonableness is of such a dimension that no authority vested with the jurisdiction would have come to such a conclusion.	Reasoning
Even the oftquoted Wednesbury principle of reasonableness as propounded by Lord Greene MR Picture House v. Wednesbury Corporation, (1947) 2	Reasoning
All ER 680 has not changed the said approach.	Reasoning
Shri Ashok Desai, learned senior counsel made an endeavour to show that the aforesaid principle is a check on the courts from perceiving a decision reached by an authority (vested with power to decide) as unreasonable.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Master of Rolls (Lord Greene) has observed thus In the present case we have heard a great deal about the meaning of the word unreasonable.	Arguments of Respondent
It is true the discretion must be exercised reasonably.	Arguments of Respondent
What does that mean?	Arguments of Respondent
Lawyers familiar with the phraseology commonly used in relation to the exercise of statutory discretion often use the word unreasonable in a rather comprehensive sense.	Arguments of Respondent
It is frequently used as a general description of the things that must not be doneSimilarly, you may have something so absurd that no sensible person could ever dream that it lay within the powers of authorityTheoretically it is true to say  and in practice it may operate in some cases  that, if a decision on a competent matter is so unreasonable that no reasonable authority could ever have come to it, then the courts can interfere.	Arguments of Respondent
That, I think, is right.	None
No departure from the said principle is warranted, more so because the Wednesbury ratio has gained approval of this Court in a number of decisions vide Sitaram Sugar Company Limited v. Union of India, 1990 1	Reasoning
SCR 909 Tata Cellular v. Union of India, AIR1996SC11 Union of India v. Ganayutham, (2000) II LLJ 648 SC.	Reasoning
The Speaker has, in the impugned order, adverted to the following facts to support his conclusion In the affidavit filed by Shri Vansh Narain Patel (6th respondent) and others on 02.02.1998, it is mentioned that a split was formed on 21101997 at the lobby of the House when not less than 1/3rd of the total members of BSP MLAs discussed and decided to separate from BSP under the leadership of Shri Markandeya Chand (1st respondent).	Reasoning
The number of such MLAs is mentioned in the affidavit as 23.	None
Appellant and her followers did not file any reply to the said affidavits.	None
On 21101997 Shri Vansh Narain Patel (6th respondent) announced on the floor of the House that more than l/3rd MLAs of the BSP have come out of the party.	None
Even though the respondents failed to mention the names of the 23 MLAs who formed such a faction inspite of opportunities granted including the last opportunity on 9/2/1998, they disclosed the names of 26 MLAs of the BSP who formed the split, in the affidavit filed on 2521998.	None
The facts stated in the said affidavits have not been controverted despite opportunity having been given.	None
In substance the crucial circumstance which persuaded the Speaker to rely on the ipse dixit in the affidavit filed by Markandeya Chand and Vansh Narain Patel on 2521998 is that appellant has not controverted it.	Reasoning
It must be remembered that it is an undisputed fact that at no time the number of BSP MLAs who voted for Kalyan Singhs Government had reached the number 23 (which is the minimum number necessary to constitute the required percentage for forming a split as envisaged under the 3rd Paragraph of the Xth Schedule).	Reasoning
It must further be remembered that the number of individual MLAs who held out that they left BSP had never reached 23 either then or even now.	Reasoning
(Of course appellant had admitted that in addition to 12 respondents, who had defected on 21101997, some more MLAs subsequently crossed the floor and their number was only 5 and thus the total number of defectors reached 17).	Reasoning
If what the Speaker has pointed out is correct (that the assertion contained in the affidavit filed by Rl and R6 on 2521998 have not been controverted despite granting opportunity to do so)	Reasoning
it is not proper to question the conclusion arrived at by the Speaker that there was a split as envisaged in the Third Paragraph of the Xth Schedule.	Reasoning
If that is the position, this Court will not probe into all other criticisms made against the order passed by the Speaker.	Reasoning
But a scrutiny of the materials first shows that as a matter of fact no opportunity whatsoever was given to the appellant to controvert the assertions made in the affidavit of 2521998.	Reasoning
The observation of the Speaker to the contrary is without any foundation.	Reasoning
The proceedings minuted by the Speaker himself on 2521998 at 6.00 P.M. contained the following entries after referring to the two affidavits being filed by Shri Narendra Singh and	Reasoning
Markandeya Chand	None
The same was objected to by Shri Umesh Chand learned counsel for the petitioner on the ground that those affidavits have been filed after 921998 which was the last date to produce evidence.	Reasoning
Whether the above affidavits should be taken on record or not, or whether they should be read in evidence or not, will be considered presently during argument.	Reasoning
The second glaring feature which has winched to the fore during judicial scrutiny is that the appellant had in fact strongly controverted the stand of the respondents regarding formation of a split.	Reasoning
On the same day when 6th respondent filed the affidavit (i.e. 25.2.1998) specifying the names of 26 MLAs, the appellant had, on her own initiative, filed a petition at 7.40 P.M. pointedly repudiating the above claim of the respondents.	Reasoning
The relevant passage from the said petition is extracted below Today at about 4 P.M. I have been informed that Shri Narendra Singh submitted an additional list of 9 MLAs in addition to the above referred (257) MLAs before you, claiming that they were also with him and that they have not returned to the BSPI submit that the above referred claims of Shri Narendra Singh are totally false and baseless excepting the above referred 12 MLAs.	Reasoning
Other MLAs belong to the BSP and they are continuing in the BSP.	None
Appellant had produced affidavits of 9 MLAs along with the said petition.	None
AH such affidavits contained averments forcefully repudiating the claim of the first respondent that on 21101997 he got the support of 23 MLAs of BSP.	None
All those affidavits are identically worded and hence the following passage from one alone need be extracted below That the deponent was present in the session of U.P. Legislative Assembly held on 21.10.1997 under the Leadership of Ms. Mayawati and he had to leave the House because of chaos disorder in the House along with his Leader, otherwise he would have cast his vote against the Trust Motion moved by Sri Kalyan Singh Ministry in accordance with the whip dated 20.10.1997 issued by the leader of said Legislative party.	None
That the deponent has been a member of Bahujan Samaj Party U.P. and its Legislature Party and continues to be so even today.	None
That the deponent has been continuously opposing the statement given by Sri Markandey Chand on 21.10.1997 on the floor of the House and the statement of said Sri Markandey Chand in the House that he enjoys the support of 23 Members of Bahujan Samaj Party in the U.P. Legislature is wholly incorrect.	None
Now the contention is that the said affidavits were procured in November 1997 and hence they cannot be answers to the affidavits of the 1st respondent dated 25.2.1998.	Arguments of Petitioner
Explanation of the appellant for that is very important.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel for the appellant, she has been collecting affidavits of all the MLAs who loyally remained in the party since 1st respondent made a claim on 21.10.1997 that 23 MLAs have gone out of her party.	Arguments of Petitioner
She could get affidavits only one by one from all those MLAs who remained in the party so that she could show them whenever the need arose.	Arguments of Petitioner
Where was the opportunity for the appellant to produce the affidavits of 9 MLAs until 25.2.1998 when for the first time 1st respondent proclaimed the names of 26 MLAs who have defected on 21.10.1997?	Arguments of Petitioner
But when we perceived the promptitude with which appellant controverted it and supported her statement with the affidavits of all the 9 MLAs, we feel that it is very unfortunate that she is accused of the charge that she has not controverted the affidavits filed by the respondents on 25.2.1998.	None
Thus the basis of Speakers conclusion i.e. appellant has not denied the assertion of the respondents made in the affidavit dated 25.2.1998, is nonexistent.	Reasoning
If so, the Speaker must necessarily have other materials to decide that the number of deserters reached the crucial limit of 23.	Reasoning
Even on the day when 1st respondent announced in the Assembly (21.10.1997) that 23 BSP MLAs under his leadership have separated from the parent party and decided to support Kalyan Singhs Government, the fact remained that only 12 MLAs (who are the respondents) voted in favour of the Government.	Reasoning
The other MLAs who are alleged to have joined the faction repudiated the allegation in unmistakable terms.	Reasoning
Thus, when admittedly the number of BSP MLAs who supported Kalyan Singhs Government had never reached the figure 23 at any time, even subsequently, and when respondents could never even mention the names of those 23 MLAs at any time in spite of the Speaker granting opportunities to them for that purpose, including the last opportunity on 09.02.1998, it is a perverse conclusion, overlooking the aforesaid formidable circumstances that 23 MLAs had split from the BSP on 21.10.1997.	Reasoning
We have absolutely no doubt that no authority vested with jurisdiction to decide the question should ever have reached such a conclusion on the facts and materials made available to him.	Reasoning
The danger involved in upholding such a conclusion of the Speaker merely relying on the ipse dixit of the defectors can be illustrated thus From one Legislature Party (having a strength of say one hundred members) two MLAs, A and B, defected and when they were confronted with the consequence of disqualification, they sought protection under the Third Paragraph of Xth Schedule by saying that along with them 31 more MLAs of their party have also gone out of the Party and A and B mentioned their names also.	Reasoning
But all those 31 MLAs repudiated the allegations.	Reasoning
In such a case the Speaker holds that the two defectors have the protection of the 3rd Paragraph for the simple reason that the Speaker chose to believe their ipse dixit.	Reasoning
Such a syllogism, if adopted, would be preposterous and revolting to judicial conscience from any standard of reasonableness and would toll the death knell of the Constitutional philosophy enshrined in the Xth Schedule.	Reasoning
The finding in the impugned order is not materially different from the aforecited illustration.	Reasoning
I, therefore, unhesitatingly hold that the finding of the Speaker that a split arose in the BSP on 21.10.1997 forming a group representing a faction consisting of not less than 1/3rd of the members of the Legislature party of BSP is vitiated by perversity.	Reasoning
The corollary of it is that the 12 respondents who have defected from the BSP on the said date cannot escape from the consequence provided in subclause (a) paragraph 2(1) of the Xth Schedule.	Reasoning
In the light of our above finding, it is unnecessary to consider the next question relating to subclause (b) of Paragraph 2(1) of the Xth schedule because such a venture would only be of academic utility now.	Reasoning
Learned senior counsel for the respondents made an alternative contention that in the event this court holds that the finding of the Speaker is perverse, the next course to be adopted is to remit the matter to the Speaker for his final decision.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel cited some decisions of this Court which held the proposition that it is not the function of courts of law to substitute their wisdom and decision for that of the authority to whose judgment the matter in question is entrusted by law.	Arguments of Respondent
The Vice Chancellor, Utkal University v. S.K. Ghosh, 1954 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 883 and Mansukh Lal Vithal das Chauhan v. State of Gujarat, 1997 Cri LJ 4059 .	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel then invited our attention to the following passage from Frasers speech in Re Amin 1983 (2) All ER 864.	None
Judicial review is entirely different from an ordinary appeal.	None
It is made effective by the court quashing the administrative decision without substituting its own decision, and is to be contrasted with an appeal where the appellate tribunal substitutes its own decision on the merits for that of the administrative officer.	Arguments of Respondent
The above passage has been quoted with approval by a three Judge Bench of this Court in Tata Cellular v. Union of India, AIR 1996 SC 11 .	None
In cases where the authority vested with jurisdiction has to consider and reach a fresh decision, it is necessary that after exercising judicial scrutiny the matter must go back to such authority for fresh decision.	Reasoning
But in the present case the situation is different.	Reasoning
A remit to the Speaker will not serve any additional purpose because there is nothing further for him to decide.	Reasoning
As the respondents, having given up their membership from the parent political party voluntarily, have sought to insulate such severance with the cover provided in Paragraph 3 of the Xth Schedule, the only issue to be decided is whether the respondents are entitled to such protection.	Reasoning
When this Court found that the aforesaid protection is not available to them under law in substitution of the contra finding made by the Speaker, its inevitable sequester is that all the twelve respondents stand disqualified under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Xth Schedule of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The impugned order would stand thus altered.	Reasoning
I may point out, in this context, that the action of the Speaker, in allowing the 12 respondents to register their votes in a composite poll held by the Speaker on 26.2.1998 (as between Sri Kalyan Singh and Sri Jagdambika Pal  a rival claimant to the post of Chief Ministership) without deciding the complaint made by the appellant seeking their disqualification from the membership of the House, was criticised before this Court in Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 4495 of 1998.	Reasoning
This Court then noted in the Order dated 27.2.1998 that out of 225 MLAs who voted in favour of Sri Kalyan Singh as against 196 MLAs (who supported Sri Jagdambika Pal) the votes of 12 respondents were also counted.	Reasoning
However, the Court did not in that case pursue the said criticism made against the Speaker mainly for the following reasoning Even when those 12 members are taken to have voted in favour of Sri Kalyan Singh, their votes when subtracted from those polled, still leaves him to be the one having majority in the House.	Reasoning
Correspondingly, those 12 votes do not go to Sri Jagdambika Pal who would still be in minority.	Reasoning
Presumably on the above premise, it was submitted before us that disqualification of 12 respondents would not affect the government of Sri Kalyan Singh which even otherwise commands a majority in the House.	Reasoning
We make it clear that our decision, on the present issue, is not intended to disturb the government of Sri Kalyan Singh in any manner so long as he commands majority in the Legislative Assembly.	Reasoning
But that aspect cannot detract us from exercising power of judicial review of the impugned verdict.	Reasoning
In the result this appeal is allowed by declaring that the twelve respondents stand disqualified to be members of the U.P. Legislative Assembly under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Xth Schedule of the Constitution of India.	Decision
Srinivasan, J. Leave granted.	None
I have had the advantage of perusing the draft judgment prepared by learned brother Thomas, J. I am unable to agree with the same.	None
My judgment in this case is as follows PRELUDE	None
Though the Antidefection law contained in Articles 101, 102, 190 and 191 and the 10th Schedule of the Constitution was born after a very long period of gestation (from 1967 to 1985), it has not had the desired effect.	None
The need for scrapping it and ushering in a new law has been realized.	None
It is hoped that before a new law is enacted regard will be had to the following passage in Chawlas Election Law and Practice (6th Edn.)	None
p. 1589	None
Looked at from a more fundamental angle, inasmuch as the point of reference for every case of defection is a political party, no reforms in the And Defection Law would be meaningful without a deep analysis of the conception, structure, functioning and role perception of political parties in our polity.	None
Parties as they exist and operate today hardly deserve any protection against defection by their members.	None
If parties are not based on any principles, ideologies or programmes and if they are not democratically run, there can be no question of any principles being involved in either defecting or staying with a party.	None
The events in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Uttar Pradesh after the general elections in 1996 justify the above view.	None
While expressing my concurrence with the above view, I wish to point out with great dismay that those days of statesmen who rendered selfless service to the country are gone and alas these are days of politicians who want the country to serve them.	None
But the issues in this case have to be resolved by constitutional measurement, free of any predilection.	None
CHRONOLOGY.	None
In the general elections to the U.P. Legislative Assembly which took place in 1996 no political party obtained absolute majority.	Facts
There was an agreement between the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP for short) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP for short) to support each other for running the Government.	Facts
The BSP had 67 MLAs who were elected on its election symbol.	Facts
The BSP had 175 members in its fold.	Facts
Pursuant to the agreement the appellant belonging to BSP became the Chief Minister of the State on 21.3.97.	Facts
On 21.9.97, Kalyan Singh belonging to the BJP became the Chief Minister.	Facts
On 19.10.97 the appellant announced withdrawal of participation and support of BSP to the coalition government.	Facts
All the BSP Ministers resigned from the Government.	Facts
Immediately the Governor of the State convened a special Session of Assembly at 11.00 A.M. on 21.10.97 and told Kalyan Singh to prove his majority on the Floor of the House.	Facts
On 20.10.97 the appellant issued a whip directing all BSP MLAs to remain present in the House throughout the proceedings on the next day and vote against the Motion of Confidence to be moved by the Chief Minister.	Facts
On 21.10.97 there was pandemonium and violence in the Assembly and several MLAs went out of the House.	Facts
In the proceedings which followed, 222 Members of the Assembly voted in favour of the Government.	Facts
There was no vote opposing the Motion.	Facts
In the speeches which followed, Mr. Sardar Singh congratulated the speaker for being able to preside over the Assembly without getting hurt.	Facts
He narrated as to how instructions were given by the appellant to the members of BSP to indulge in violence and cause confusion including causing hurt to the Speaker.	Facts
Markandeya Chand another member told the Speaker that along with him 23 others had quit the BSP and supported the Government.	Facts
Respondents 1 to 12 had voted in support of the Motion.	Facts
On 24.10.97, 13 petitions were filed by the appellant seeking disqualification of respondents 1 to 12 as well as one Hari Krishan on the ground of violation of whip issued by her on 20.10.97.	Facts
The petitions invoked only Clause 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution.	Facts
On 27.10.97 respondents 1 to 12 became Ministers and joined the Cabinet.	Facts
On 11.11.97 o another set of 13 petitions similar to those filed by the appellant were filed by one Mr. R.K. Chowdhary claiming the same relief on the same ground.	Facts
After removal of defects by amendments, the petitions were taken on file and notice was ordered.	Facts
In these proceedings we are not concerned with the petition against Hari Krishan which was later dismissed as withdrawn.	Facts
On 25.11.97 respondents 1 to 12 filed written statement in which it was inter alia pleaded that a split took place between the Members of the BSP on 21.10.97 and more than l/3rd Legislators of the BSP got separated.	Facts
It was averred that the appellant had instructed the members of her Legislature Party to disturb the proceedings of the Assembly and cause hurt to the Speaker.	Facts
On the very next day i.e. 26.11.97 the appellant filed a replication statement in answer to the written statement of the respondents.	Facts
There was no denial whatever of the split referred to in the written statement.	Facts
The only plea in that replication pertained to the whip issued on 20.10.97 and the nonwithdrawal of the same by the appellant on 21.10.97.	Facts
On 5.12.97 the appellant filed an application for amendment of the petition in which disqualification of the respondents was sought under Clause 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule.	Facts
The relevant part of the pleading was as follows That it is clear from the perusal of the reply of the respondent filed on this petition on 25.11.97 that the respondent has voluntarily given up the membership of Bahujan Samaj Vidhan Dal.	Facts
That the respondent had contested and won the elections of Vidhan Sabha on the ticket of BSP and in this manner he is disqualified from the membership of the Vidhan Sabha.	Facts
There was also a denial of the correctness of the Statement made by Markandeya Chand on the Floor of the Assembly on 21.10.97 that 23 Legislators of BSP were supporting him.	Facts
Inspite of opposition by the respondents the amendment was allowed by the Speaker.	Facts
That order was challenged by the respondents in W.P. No. 348 of 1998 on the file of the High Court of Allahabad, Lucknow Bench.	Facts
That writ petition is said to be pending after notice.	Facts
Thereafter an additional written statement was filed by Vansh Narain Singh on 02.02.1998.	Facts
These was a narration of the split in BSP and formation of new group named as Jantantrik BSP (JBSP for short).	Facts
The reasons for such a split were set out in detail.	Facts
It was further stated that the members of JBSP were not less than l/3rd of the total number of BSP MLAs.	Facts
It was also averred that the appellant and a few other members of the BSP started terrorising and threatening the members of the JBSP with attack on their lives and also prevented their coming to and going from Lucknow.	Facts
There was also an allegation that signatures of some of those persons who had become members of JBSP were taken on blank papers by coercion.	Facts
The appellant did not file any reply statement.	Facts
On 24.2.98 the hearing of the matter started.	Facts
It continued on 25.2.98.	Facts
During the course of the hearing respondents 1 to 12 filed two affidavits containing a list of 26 names who formed part of the group on 21.10.97.	Facts
An explanation was given in the affidavits as to why there was delay in furnishing the names of those MLAs.	Facts
Some of the members mentioned in the list were present before the Speaker along with the respondents.	Facts
The appellant filed nine affidavits on the same day around 7.40 P.M.	Facts
The hearing concluded on 25.2.98 and orders were reserved.	Facts
Thereafter on 4.3.98 and 10.3.98 the respondents filed another set of affidavits repeating almost the case already put forward.	Facts
On 16.3.98 R.K. Chaudhary applied for certified copies of those affidavits.	Facts
When the said certified copies were furnished he was informed that if he had any submissions to be made in regard to those affidavits he could present the same on 19.3.98 at 1.00 P.M.	Facts
No further affidavits were filed by the appellant or R K Chaudhary.	Facts
The speaker pronounced the judgment on 23.3.98 dismissing the petitions for disqualification.	Facts
He recognized 19 MLAs as forming a separate political party by the name JBSP.	Facts
It is that judgment of the Speaker which is challenged in this appeal.	Facts
Originally S.L.P. was filed against respondents 1 to 12 only.	Facts
When the matter came before Court on 10.8.98, on the request of the appellants counsel the Speaker was added as a party (13th respondent) and the matter was adjourned to 25.8.98.	Facts
On the latter date the following order was passed Mr. Sibal, learned senior counsel for the petitioner states that the Speaker was got impleaded as a party because of the first respondent having raised an objection in his counter that the Speaker should have been made a party.	Facts
Mr. Sibal further states that the Speaker, otherwise, is a proforma party and he need not file a counter.	Facts
The matter was directed to be listed for final disposal on 8.9.98 and liberty was given to the counsel for respondents to file additional affidavits if necessary.	Facts
The case was heard on 8th to 10th, the afternoon of 11th and the afternoon of 14th.	Facts
FINDINGS OF THE SPEAKER 12.	Facts
(i)	Facts
The direction whip dated 20.10.97 by the appellant was not issued in accordance with paragraph 2 (1) of the Xth Schedule of the Constitution and as such it was unconstitutional and illegal with the result the respondents are not liable to be disqualified under that paragraph for voting contrary to it.	Facts
The petitions filed by the appellant did not fulfil the requirements of The Members of Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly (Disqualification on grounds of Defection) Rules, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules) in as much as they did not contain a statement of material facts and consequently the petitions were liable to be dismissed Under Rule 8(ii) of the said rule.	Facts
The appellant had in fact issued a direction on 21.10.97 to the B.S.P. M.L. As for creating disturbances and committing violence in the House on that date and, therefore, the direction issued by her earlier on 20.10.97 was superseded withdrawn waived and made ineffective.	Facts
As such, the respondents could not be disqualified for having voted contrary to the direction dated 20.10.97.	Facts
There was a split in the B.S.P. on 21.10.97 as a result of which there arose a faction and 26 M.L. As mentioned in annexures 1 and 2 of Chowdhary Narender Singhs affidavit dated 24.2.98, who were more than l/3rd members of the BSP Legislature Party, constituted a group representing the said faction.	Facts
Consequently, the group became the original political party known as JBSP.	Facts
The members of the said group were entitled to protection of para 3 of the Xth Schedule of the Constitution.	Facts
Further, after the split of the BSP and formation of the group of 26 MLAs on 20.10.97, there was a further split in the JBSP on 15.1.98 as a result of which 19 MLAs continued to remain members of JBSP Legislature Party.	Facts
As a result of the aforesaid findings the petitions filed by the appellant and the petitions filed by R.K. Chaudhary were dismissed.	Facts
The 19 persons set out in the order were declared as members of JBSP in the Assembly.	Facts
CONTENTIONS	None
Mr Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the appellant, submitted that the order of the Speaker suffers from jurisdictional errors based on violation of the constitutional mandates, noncompliance with rules of natural justice and perversity.	Arguments of Petitioner
He stated expressly that he was not attacking the order on grounds of bias or mala fides, though they were raised in the S.L.P. 66.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. L.M. Singhvi argued on behalf of the first respondent, while Mr. Ashok Desai represented respondents 2 and 3.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. R.K. Jain argued for respondents 4,5 and 6 and Mr. K.N. Balgopal represented the 7th respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
The substance of the contentions urged on behalf of the respondents is as follows The order of the Speaker is a well structured one.	Arguments of Respondent
The findings of facts rendered by him are based on the evidence on record.	Arguments of Respondent
The order does not suffer from any perversity.	Arguments of Respondent
Nor is it vitiated by violation of Constitutional mandates or principles of natural justice.	Arguments of Respondent
Even if the order is set aside, the matter has to go back to the Speaker for a fresh decision in accordance with the judgment of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
E. ARTICLE 145(3) OF THE CONSTITUTION In the midst of his arguments Dr. Singhvi invited our attention to Article 145(3) of the Constitution of India and submitted that as the case involves several substantial questions of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution it should be heard by minimum number of five Judges.	Arguments of Respondent
When the said submission was made, arguments had already been heard for two days.	Arguments of Respondent
The Honble the Chief Justice observed that there is an Interpretation Clause in the Xth Schedule and every question of law is not a substantial question of law.	Arguments of Respondent
Dr. Singhvi did not persist the matter further.	Arguments of Respondent
However, Mr. Ashok Desai, who argued on the last day of the hearing, handed over a paper setting out proposed substantial questions of law questions as to interpretation of Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
He has mentioned 9 questions therein.	Arguments of Respondent
In my view question numbers 4 and 9 therein fall within the ambit of Article 145(3).	None
They read as follows The manner, authority, and other requirements of a valid whip for disqualification under Clause 2(1) (b) of the Xth Schedule, especially the meaning of expressions political party and of any person or authority authorised.	None
Whether order of speaker refusing to disqualify members of House be substituted by disqualification in course or judicial review.	None
DISCUSSION 68.	None
The contentions of the appellants counsel can be classified under three main heads violation of Constitutional Mandates (ii) violation of principles of Natural Justice (iii) perversity.	Arguments of Petitioner
(i) Violation of Constitutional Mandates.	Arguments of Petitioner
This can be sub divided into two (a) violation of para 2 (1) (b) (b) violation of para 2(1) (a) of the Xth Schedule of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
A common defence to grounds under both sub paras (a) and (b), is available in para 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the situation contemplated in para 3 is proved, neither para (a) nor para (b) will help the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Para 2(1) is in the following terms 2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Disqualification on ground of defection  (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 3,4 and 5, a member of a House belonging to any political party shall be disqualified from being a member of the House,  (a) if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such political party or (b) If he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party to which he belongs or by any person or authority authorized by it in this behalf, without obtaining, in either case, the prior permission of such political party, person or authority and such voting or abstention has not been condoned by such political party, person or authority within fifteen days from the date of such voting or abstention.	Arguments of Petitioner
Explanation  For the purposes of this subparagraph, (a) an elected member of a House shall be deemed to belong to the political party, if any, by which he was set up as a candidate for election as such member (b) a nominated member of a House shall,  (i) Where he is a member of any political party on the date of his nomination as such member, be deemed to belong to such political party (ii) in any other case, be deemed to belong to the political party of which he becomes, or, as the case may be, first becomes a member before the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat after complying with the requirements of Article 99 or, as the case may be, Article 188.	Arguments of Petitioner
Para 3 reads as follows 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Disqualification on ground of defection not to apply in case of split  Where a member of a House makes a claim that he and any other members of his Legislature party constitute the group representing a faction which has arisen as a result of the split in his original political party and such group consists of not less than onethird of the members of such Legislature party, (a) he shall not be disqualified under subparagraph (1) of paragraph 2 on the ground  (i) that he has voluntarily given up his membership of his original political party or (ii) that he has voted or abstained from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by such party or by any person or authority authorised by it in that behalf without obtaining the prior permission of such party, person or authority and such voting or abstention has not been condoned by such party, person or authority within fifteen days from the date of such voting or abstention and (b) from the time of such split, such faction shall be deemed to be the political party to which he belongs for the purposes of subparagraph (1) of paragraph 2 and to be his original political party for the purposes of this paragraph.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) Violation of para 2 (1) (b) Apart from the defence under para 3, an additional defence relating to para 2 (1) (b) has been raised in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
That has been accepted by the Speaker and findings have been rendered accordingly.	None
Though it is a question involving interpretation of a provision in the Constitution and requires to be decided by a Bench of at least five Judges, I am bound to express my opinion here as the case has been heard fully by this Bench.	None
Both parties argued the question at length before the Speaker and invited his findings.	None
Before us also, the appellants counsel argued it at length and the respondents counsel replied.	None
Hence it is necessary to express an opinion.	None
The argument of the appellant is that the expression political party in subpara (b) means political party in the House, in other words, the Legislature Party.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument runs counter to the definition contained in para l(c).	None
According to that definition, original political party in relation to a member of a House, means the political party to which he belongs for the purposes of subparagraph (1) of paragraph 2.	None
The expression original political party is used in para 3 only.	None
Para 2, does not at all use the expression original political party .	None
The said expression in para 3 is equated to the expression political party in para 2(1).	None
The definition clause in para 1 (c) does not make any distinction between sub para (a) and sub para (b) of para 2.	None
But the appellants counsel wants to make such a distinction.	None
According to him political party in sub para (a) would refer to original political party but the same expression in sub para (b) would refer only to the Legislature Party.	None
The term Legislature Party having been defined in para l(b) could well have been used in para 2 (1) (b) instead of the term political party if the intention of the Parliament was to refer only to the Legislature Party.	None
There is another feature in Para 3 (b) which negatives the appellants argument.	None
According to para 3(b), from the time of split in the original political party such as the one referred to in the first part of the para, the faction referred to therein shall be deemed to be the political party to which the concerned member belongs for the purposes of subpara (1) of para 2 and to be his original political party for the purposes of paragraph 3.	Reasoning
The entire subparagraph (1) of para 2 is referred to therein meaning thereby both clauses (a) and (b) of the subpara 1 and no distinction is made between the two clauses.	None
Hence for the purposes of clause a as well as clause b, the faction referred to in the first part of para 3 shall be deemed to be the political party mentioned in the subpara and the same faction shall be deemed to be the original political party mentioned in para 3.	None
It is thus clear that political party in Clause (b) of subpara (1) of para 2 is none other than original political party mentioned in para 3.	None
The argument that the context in para 2 (1) (b) requires to equate political party with legislature party even though the definition clause reads differently is not acceptable, A reading of sub para (b) the Explanation in para 2(1) places the matter beyond doubt that the political party in sub para (b) refers to the original political party only and not to the Legislature Party.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the explanation, for the purpose of the entire sub para, an elected member of the House shall be deemed to belong to the political party, if any, by which he was set up as a candidate for election as such member.	None
Certainly, the Legislature Party could not have set up the concerned member as a candidate for election.	None
According to learned counsel for the appellant, the Legislature Party may have to take decisions on urgent matter in the House and as it represents the original political party in the House, whatever direction is issued by the Leader of such Legislature Party must be regarded as a direction issued by the political party.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no merit in this contention.	None
When the provision in the Constitution has taken care to make a distinction between the Legislature Party and the original Political party and prescribe that the direction should be one issued by the political parry Or by any person or authority authorised in this behalf, there is no meaning in saying that whatever the Leader of the Legislature Party directs must be regarded as that of the original political party.	None
The reason is not far to seek.	None
Disqualification of a member elected by the people is a very serious action and before that extreme step is taken, it should be proved that he acted contrary to the direction issued by the party which set him up as a candidate for election.	None
In Hollohan, 1992 Supp 2 SCC 651, the majority dealt with the expression any direction in Para 2(1) (b) and held that the objects and purposes of the Xth Schedule define and limit the contours of the meaning of the said expression.	None
It is advantageous to extract para 122 of the judgment which reads as follows While construing Paragraph 2(1) (b) it cannot be ignored that under the Constitution Members of Parliament as well as of the State legislature enjoy freedom of speech in the House though this freedom is subject to the provisions of the Constitution and the rules and standing orders regulating the Procedure of the House Article 105(1) and Article 194(1).	None
The disqualification imposed by paragraph 2(1)(b) must be so construed as not to unduly impinge on the said freedom of speech of a Member.	None
This would be possible if Paragraph 2(1)(b) is confined in its scope by keeping in view the object underlying the .	None
amendments contained in the Tenth Schedule, namely, to curb the evil or mischief of political defections motivated by the lure of office or other similar considerations.	None
The said object would be achieved if the disqualification incurred on the ground of voting or abstaining from voting by a member is confined to cases where a change of government is likely to be brought about or is prevented, as the case may be, as a result of such voting or abstinence or when such voting or abstinence is on a matter which was a major policy and programme on which the political party to which the Member belongs went to the polls.	None
For this purpose the direction given by the political party to a Member belonging to it, the violation of which may entail disqualification under Paragraph 2(1)(b), would have to be limited to a vote on motion of confidence or no confidence in the government or where the motion under consideration relates to a matter which was an integral policy and programme of the political party on the basis of which it approached the electorate.	None
The voting or abstinence from voting by a Member against the direction by the political party on such a motion would amount to disapproval of the programme on the basis of which he went before the electorate and got himself elected and such voting or abstinence would amount to a breach of the trust reposed in him by the electorate.	None
If the direction referred to in para 2 (l)(b) is to be restricted to the two kinds referred to in the said passage, there is no doubt that political party in para 2(l)(b) refers only to the original political party as it is only such party which could issue such directions.	None
In such matters, the members of the House would certainly be given sufficient notice in advance and original political party would have sufficient time to take decisions and issue directions.	None
In The Journal of Parliamentary Information. 1993	None
(Vol.39).	None
Article 19.	None
Anti  Defection Law  Split	None
In parties by D. Sripada Rao p.p. 104 and 105, it is stated as follows It is not as though the Schedule does not take into its fold the outside events and organisation.	None
The Schedule mentions the direction of the political parties, etc. in Clause (b) of subpara (1) or para 2.	None
The direction of a member of the House can be from a functionary of a political party outside the House according to the Constitution of the respective parties.	None
The label which a member carries and ultimately goes to constitute his Legislature Party Under Rule 4(2) is an agency outside the House.	None
A member is disqualified for giving up that label and not the membership of the Legislature Party.	None
The operation of the Schedule is not exclusively intramural or confined to the four walls of the House, where the Speakers writ runs.	None
If the intention of the Parliament in enacting the Schedule is to confine the Speaker merely to count the members of the Legislature Party there is no need to mention the original political party in paras 3 and 4 in connection with split or merger.	None
There is an inbuilt mechanism in the Schedule to maintain nexus between the political party and the Legislature Party which is essential for the effective functioning of Parliamentary form of Government.	None
The Schedule casts a duty on the Speaker not to lose sight of the nexus while formalising the split or merger.	None
A party split outside the House without the support of l/3rd members inside the House renders it to wipe out its identity in the House and the House and the Members who engineer a split in Legislature Party without there being a corresponding split in the party outside make themselves vulnerable to forego their seat in the House albeit their command over l/3rd legislature party.	None
The above passage shows that no distinction can be made between sub para (a) and sub para (b) vis a vis the meaning of the term political party and that it means only the original political party.	None
It has been rightly held by the Speaker that there is no material whatever to hold that the direction issued on 20.10.97 was issued by the B.S.P. or that the appellant was authorized by the BSP to issue such a direction.	None
Neither before the Speaker nor before us any such plea was even raised.	None
There is also no difficulty in accepting the finding of the Speaker that the direction dated 20.10.97 was not in accordance with the law laid down by this court in Hollohan  In para 123, it is said Keeping in view the consequences of the disqualification i.e., termination of the membership of a House it would be appropriate that the direction or whip which results in such disqualification under Paragraph 2(1 )(b) is so worded as to clearly indicate that voting or abstaining from voting contrary to the said direction would result in incurring the disqualification under Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule so that the member concerned has foreknowledge of the consequences flowing from his conduct in voting or abstaining from voting contrary to such a direction.	None
Mr. Sibals contention that such a warning as mentioned in the above passage is necessary only when whips are issued on unimportant matters and mat the above passage in Hollohan is misunderstood by the Speaker is unsustainable.	None
A reading of paras 122 and 123 in Hollohan clearly shows that no meaning can be given to para 123 other than that given by the Speaker.	None
Hence I hold that the Speaker has not violated para 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule.	None
48.	None
(b) Violation of Para 2(l)(a)	None
The attack of the appellant on the factual findings of the Speaker could be more conveniently and appropriately considered when I discuss violation of principles of Natural Justice and perversity.	None
Under this head, I would discuss the question of law raised by Mr. Sibal.	None
The meaning to be given to the word split in Para 3 is left open in Hollohan.	None
In Para 124, it is said There are some submissions as to the exact import of a split  whether it is to be understood an instantaneous, one time event or whether a split can be said to occur over a period of time.	None
The hypothetical poser was that if onethird of the members of a political party in the legislature broke away from it on a particular day and a few more members joined the splinter group a couple of days later, would the latter also be a part of the split group.	None
This question of construction cannot be in vacuo.	None
In the present cases, we have dealt with constitutional issues.	None
The meaning to be given to split must necessarily be examined in a case in which the question arises in the context of its particular facts.	None
No hypothetical predications can or need be made.	None
We, accordingly, leave this question to be decided in an appropriate case.	None
Issue No. 6 framed by the Speaker is as follows Whether on 21.10.97 a group was formed in Bahujan Samaj Party Legislature Party under paragraph 3 of Tenth Schedule of the Constitution representing the group which had arisen as a result of split in Bahujan Samaj Party and whether there were at least onethird members of Bahujan Samaj Party Legislature Party in such group?	None
If yes, its effect.	None
There is no dispute before us as to the correctness of the issue as framed.	None
There is also no difference of opinion among the two sides as to the meaning of para 3. 84.	None
The only question of law raised by Mr. Sibal relates to the maintainability of the plea of split in default of compliance with Rule 3 of the Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, the Rules, having been framed in exercise of the powers conferred by para 8 of the Tenth Schedule for giving effect to the provisions of the Schedule, have the same force as constitutional mandates and noncompliance thereof would disentitle the concerned party from invoking the provisions of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 3(1) of the Rules reads thus 3.	None
(i) The leader of each legislature party, other than a legislature party consisting of only one member shall within thirty days from the date of the first sitting of the House, or, where such legislature party is formed after such date, within thirty days from the date of its formation, and in either case within such further period as the Speaker may for sufficient cause allow, furnish the following to the Speaker, namely (a) a statement in writing in Form I containing the names of members and other particulars of such legislature party (b) names and designations of each such member of the legislature party who has been chosen as leader of that party or authorized for the purposes referred to in Clause (f) of rule 2, to act as, or to discharge the functions of, such leader (c) names and designations of such members of the legislature party who have been authorised for the purposes of these rules to correspond with the Speaker (d) a copy of the Constitution and rules (by whatever name called) of such legislature party and of the political party to which its members are affiliated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submits that in the present case though the split was alleged to have taken place on 21.10.97, Markandeya Chand, the leader of JBSP did not within thirty days from the said date or for that matter till 25.2.98, the day on which the arguments before the Speaker were concluded furnish the statement etc. as set out in the Rule.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence according to him the respondents were not entitled to raise the plea of split in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
86.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the decision Of this Court in Ravi S. Naik v. Union of India and Anr. etc., 1994 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 754 is not correct and it requires reconsideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, therefore, argued that the order of the Speaker placing reliance on the said ruling is erroneous and has to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
87.	Arguments of Petitioner
Before referring to Ravi S. Naik, (supra) I would consider the question on first principles.	None
Para 3 of the Tenth Schedule excludes the operation of para 2 (l)(a) and (b) where a member of a House makes a claim that he and any other member of his legislature party constitute the group representing a faction which has arisen as a result of a split in his original political party and such group consists of not less than one third of the members of such legislature party.	None
The following are the conditions for satisfying the requirements of the para A split in the original political party giving rise to a faction, The faction is represented by a group of MLAs in the House.	None
Such group consists not less than one third of the members of legislature party to which they belong.	Reasoning
For the purpose of that para all the three conditions must be fulfilled.	None
It is not sufficient if more than l/3rd members of a legislature party form a separate group and give to itself a different name without there being a split in the original political party.	None
Thus the factum of split in the original party and the number of members in the group exceeding l/3rd of the members of the legislature party are the conditions to be proved.	None
Rule 3 provides for furnishing of information to the Speaker.	None
Rule 6 provides for recording of such information in a register to be maintained by the Secretary.	None
Will the recording of information in the register conclude the issue relating to the two requirements of para 3 of the Tenth Schedule?	None
There is not even a provision for presumption as to the correctness of the entries in the register maintained Under Rule 6.	None
The entries would at best only show that such and such information was furnished by such and such member.	None
The entries in the register cannot have any other effect whatever.	None
Rule 10 enables the Speaker to issue from time to time such directions as he may consider necessary in regard to the detailed working of the rules.	None
Will such directions also be considered as constitutional mandates?	None
Rules 7, 8 and 9 set out the procedure for seeking disqualification of a member.	None
In this case the petitions for disqualifications were filed even on 24.10.97 long before the expiry of the period of 30 days specified in Rule 3.	None
The question of disqualification had to be decided in those petitions.	None
The power to decide disputed disqualification under Para 6(1) of the Tenth schedule is preeminently of a judicial complexion.	None
The Speaker or the Chairman acting under Para 6(1) is a Tribunal (See Hollohan 1992 Supp.	None
2 S.C.C. 651.	None
Can the entries in the register maintained Under Rule 6 by the Secretary have the effect of establishing the two conditions required for para 3 of the Tenth Schedule?	None
It can if at all be only a piece of evidence in support of the claim of one party.	None
If as contended by the appellants counsel, failure to comply with the rule will prevent the raising of a plea of split, the compliance of the rule must have the effect of conclusively proving the conditions required for para 3.	None
That will lead to an anomalous situation.	None
When a disqualification proceeding is initiated against the members who claim the benefit of para 3, they can defeat the proceeding by furnishing some information to the Speaker Under Rule 3 and getting it recorded in the Register Under Rule 6.	None
Thus a matter which has to be decided judicially under Para 6(1) of the Tenth schedule may get decided administratively by compliance of Rules 3 and 6.	None
Undoubtedly such a status cannot be given to the rules which are only procedural.	None
If the contention of Mr. Sibal is accepted, form will stand exalted over substance.	None
Now I shall advert to Ravi S. Naik 1994 1	None
SCR 754 .	None
Both the learned Judges who decided the case were party to the majority Judgment in Hollohan.	None
It is too much to say that they had not properly understood their own dictum in Hollohan.	None
After referring to the provisions of the Tenth Schedule and the decision in Hollohan the Bench dealt with the facts of each appeal separately.	None
The Bench observed in C.A. 3390 of 1993 as follows The Disqualification Rules have been framed to regulate the procedure that is to be followed by the Speaker for exercising the power conferred on him under subparagraph (1) of Paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The Disqualification Rules are, therefore, procedural in nature and any violation of the same would amount to an irregularity in procedure which is immune from judicial scrutiny in view of subparagraph (2) of paragraph 6 as construed by this Court in Kihoto Hollohan case.	Reasoning
Moreover, the field of judicial review in respect of the orders passed by the Speaker under subparagraph(l) of paragraph 6 as construed by this court in Kihoto Hollohan case is confined to breaches of the constitutional mandates, mala fides, non compliance with rules of Natural Justice and perversity.	None
We are unable to uphold the contention of Shri Sen that the violation of the Disqualification Rules amounts to violation of constitutional mandates.	None
By doing so we would be elevating the rules to the status of the provisions of the Constitution which is impermissible.	None
Since the Disqualification Rules have been framed by the Speaker in exercise of the power conferred under paragraph 8 of the Tenth Schedule, they have a status subordinate to the Constitution and cannot be equated with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
They cannot, therefore, be regarded as constitutional mandates and any violation of the Disqualification Rules does not afford a ground for judicial review of the order of the Speaker in view of the finality clause contained in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule as construed by this Court in Kihoto Hollohan case.	None
Again in Civil 1992 1 SCR 686 , the Bench dealt with paras 2 and 3 of the 10th Schedule and said As noticed earlier paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule provides for disqualification on the ground of defection if the conditions laid down therein are fulfilled and paragraph 3 of the said schedule avoids such disqualification in case of split.	None
Paragraph 3 proceeds on the assumption that but for the applicability of the said provision the disqualification under Paragraph 2 would be attracted.	None
The burden to prove the requirements of paragraph 2 is on the person who claims that a member has incurred the disqualification and the burden to prove the requirements of paragraph 3 is on the member who claims that there has been a split in his original political party and by virtue of said split the disqualification under paragraph 2 is not attracted.	None
In the present case Naik has not disputed that he has given up his membership of his original political party but he has claimed that there has been a split in the said party.	None
The burden, therefore, lay on Naik to prove that the alleged split satisfies the requirements of paragraph 3.	None
The said requirements are The member of a House should make a claim that he and other members of his legislature party constitute the group representing a faction which has arisen as a result of a split in his original party and Such group must consist of not less than onethird of the members of such legislature party.	None
In the present case the first requirement was satisfied because Naik has made such a claim.	None
The only question is whether the second requirement was fulfilled.	None
The total number of members in the legislature party of the MGP (the original political party) was eighteen.	None
In order to fulfil the requirements of paragraph 3, Naiks group should consist of not less than 6 members of the legislature party of the MGP.	None
Naik has claimed that at the time of split on December 24, 1990 his group consisted of eight members whose signatures are contained in the declaration, a copy of which was filed with the reply dated February 13,1991.	None
The Speaker has held that the split had not been proved because no intimation about the split has been given to him in accordance with Rules 3 and 4 of the Disqualification Rules.	None
We find it difficult to endorse this view.	None
Rule 3 requires the information in respect of matters specified in clauses (a) (b) and (c) of Subrule (1) to be furnished in the prescribed form (Form 1) to the Speaker by the leader of the legislature party within 30 days after the first sitting of the House or where such legislature is formed after the first sitting, within 30 days after its formation.	None
Rule 4 relates to information to be furnished by every member to the Secretary of the Assembly in the prescribed form (Form III).	None
In respect of a member who has taken his seat in the House before the date of commencement of the Disqualification Rules, the information is required to be furnished within 30 days from such date.	None
In respect of a member who takes his seat in the House after the commencement of the Disqualification Rules, such information has to be furnished before making and subscribing an oath or affirmation under Article 188 of the Constitution and taking his seat in the House.	None
Rule 4 has no application in the present case because the stage for furnishing the required information had passed long back when the members made and subscribed to oath and affirmation after thenelection in 1989.	None
Rule 3 also comes into play after the split and the failure on the part of the leader of the group that has been constituted as a result of the split does not mean that there has been no split.	None
As to whether there was a split or not has to be determined by the Speaker on the basis of the material placed before him .	None
In the present case the split was sought to be proved by the declaration dated December 24, 1990 whereby eight MLAs belonging to the MGP declared that they had constituted themselves into a group known as Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (Ravi Naik Group).	None
A Xerox copy of the said declaration was submitted along with the reply filed by Naik on February 13, 1991 and the original declaration bearing the signatures of the eight MLAs was produced by the advocate for Naik during the course of the hearing before the Speaker on February 13, 1991.	None
The genuineness of the signatures on the said declaration was not disputed before the Speaker.	None
One of the signatories of the declaration, namely, Dharma Chodankar, had written to the Speaker that his signatures were obtained forcibly.	None
That may have a bearing on the number of members constituting the group.	None
But the fact that a group was constituted is established by the said declaration.	None
Emphasis supplied With respect, I express my wholehearted agreement with the reasoning.	None
The ruling does not at all require reconsideration.	None
The contention of the appellant is therefore rejected.	None
I hold that the Speaker has not violated any of the constitutional mandates.	None
(II) Violation of principles of Natural Justice Under this head, the argument of the appellant relates to two affidavits filed on 25.2.98, six on 4.3.98 and one on 10.3.98.	None
The two affidavits filed on 25.2.98 were that of Narinder Singh and Markandeya Chand.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were presented when the arguments were proceeding.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same was objected to by the counsel who was appearing for the appellant before the Speaker on the ground that they had been filed after 9.2.98 which was the last day to produce evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the copy of the proceedings dated 25.2.98, the following statement is found Whether the above affidavits be placed on record and be read in evidence or not will be considered presently during arguments.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellant, the Speaker did not pass any order thereafter to take the affidavits on record but he relied on them in his order and thus violated the principles of Natural Justice as the appellant had no opportunity to controvert the averments in the affidavits.	Arguments of Petitioner
94.	Arguments of Petitioner
In his order, the Speaker has stated as follows When we resumed the hearing at 6.00 P.M. on 25.2.98 the respondents counsel Shri A. Kumar made a request that the presence of 6 MLAs who were in the division of the BSP on 21.10.97 be noted and the affidavits of Chaudhary Narendra Singh and Shri Markandeya Chand be read in evidence.	None
These six MLAs were Sarvasri Munna Lal Maurya, Rajendra Singh Patel, Jai Narain Tewari, Ved Prakash, Shiv Ganesh Lodhi and Qasim Hasan.	None
The names of all these MLAs are mentioned in Annexure I to the aforesaid affidavits.	None
Similarly, the petitioners also produced Sarvasri Haji Akbar Husain, Ram Ratan Yadav, Vibhuti Prasad Nishad, Shiv Charan Prajapati, Ram Kripal Singh, Chhotey Lal Rajbhar and Matesh Chandra Sonkar MLAs and requested that their presence on the petitioners side be also noted.	None
The names of these persons also find place in Annexure I to the said affidavits.	None
The presence of all the above mentioned MLAs presented by both sides was accordingly noted.	None
So far as the affidavits of Chaudhary Narendra Singh and Markandeya Chand are concerned, the petitioners counsel strongly objected to the same on the ground that the respondents were given last opportunity to file affidavit by 09.02.1998 which date has expired and hence the affidavits should not be taken or record.	Reasoning
On being asked whether the petitioners would like to file reply to the said affidavit in case the same is placed on record, the petitioners Senior Counsel Shri Umesh Chandra stated that he would not file any reply but would object to taking the same on record.	None
During the course of arguments Shri Umesh Chandra referred to some paragraphs of this affidavit also to contend that there was no division of the BSP.	None
(Underlining mine) I find that for determining the controversy completely and finally it is in the interest of justice to place the affidavits on record and particularly when the petitioners do not want to file any reply to the same.	None
Again in another place, it is stated as follows The various applications, pleadings and affidavits filed after the petition was amended on 5.12.97, have already been stated earlier in this order and they need not be repeated here.	None
Reference to the relevant applications, pleadings and affidavits shall made where considered necessary.	None
Suffice it to say that in order to finally and completely adjudicate upon the controversy, and in the interest of justice, and particularly keeping in view the serious consequences flowing from disqualification of a member of the Assembly, I have taken on record all the applications and affidavits filed even after 09.02.1998.	None
Parties have been afforded sufficient opportunity to meet the case of each other.	None
In the S.L.P. a ground is raised that the averment in the order that the appellants counsel said that he would not file any reply to the affidavits is factually incorrect.	None
But there is no denial whatever in the SLP of the averment that during the course of arguments Shri Umesh Chandra referred to some paragraphs of that affidavit also to contend that there was no division of the BSP.	None
No argument was also advanced before us challenging the correctness of that averment.	None
When the appellants counsel had himself relied on portions of the affidavits filed on 25.2.98, there is no substance in the contention that the Speaker had taken them on record behind the back of the appellant.	None
There is also no substance in the contention that the appellant had no opportunity to controvert the contents of those affidavits.	None
On the very same day (25.2.98), the appellant filed an application and affidavits of nine MLAs at 7.40 P.M.	None
She could have then said whatever she wanted to say about the contents of the affidavits filed by the respondents.	None
It is not the case of the appellant that Speaker did not permit her to file any affidavit in reply to the said affidavits of the respondents.	None
The only objection to the reception of the affidavits in question was that it was filed after the expiry of the time granted earlier to file a list of members of BSP.	None
The appellant was represented by practising lawyers who knew very well that the Speaker had ample powers to condone the delay in filing the affidavits.	None
In the Proceedings of 25.2.98 it is stated towards the end that learned counsel for the two sides had made their submissions on factual and legal aspects.	None
It is not the case of the appellant that any argument with reference to the said affidavits was shut out.	None
Moreover the contents of the affidavits filed on 25.2.98 are almost a repetition of the contents of the Additional Written Statement filed on 2.2.98 plus the two annexures containing the names of 26 members, who formed the group of JBSP on 21.10.97 and 18 members, who continued in the group till then besides a plea of split within split.	None
I do not find any violation of the principles of Natural Justice in the Speakers taking on record the two affidavits filed by the respondent on 25.2.98.	None
The other affidavits said to have been taken on record without notice to the appellant were filed on 4.3.98 and 10.3.98.	None
According to the respondents, those affidavits were filed in reply to the nine affidavits filed by the appellant on 25.2.98 at 7.40 P.M.	None
According to them the appellant filed them without serving copies on them and they had to obtain copies from the office of the Speaker on 27.2.98.	None
It is stated by the appellant that the affidavits filed on her behalf were presented before the Speaker in the course of arguments in the presence of counsel for the parties.	None
The proceedings of the Speaker dated 25.2.98 do not make any reference to the said affidavits.	None
The endorsement on the margin of the application of the appellant dated 25.2.98 and the affidavits filed therewith prove that they were filed in the office of the Secretary to the Speaker at 7.40 P.M. and on the same day, the Speaker has made an endorsement in the margin directing the placing of the application and affidavits on record.	None
Whatever it may be, it is not the case of the appellant that copies of those affidavits were served on the respondents or their counsel.	None
There is no record to prove such service.	None
The Speaker has dealt with this matter in his order as follows The petitioners themselves had filed 9 affidavits at 7.40 P.M. on 25.2.1998 while hearing on the petitions was going on.	None
Copies of these affidavits were not served on respondents on 25.2.1998.	None
Their counsel obtained it on 27.2.1998 i.e. after the orders were reserved on the case on 25.2.1998.	None
The respondents filed 6 affidavits dated 25.2.1998 and 27.2.1998 by means of an application dated 04.03.1998 which specifically stated that these affidavits were being filed in reply to the said 9 affidavits.	None
The affidavit of Shri Ram Ratan Yadav filed on 10.3.1998 is almost entirely the same as the affidavits filed by the petitioners on 252.1998.	None
One more fact needs to be stated at this stage.	None
Shri R.K. Chaudhary, petitioner, sent an application letter dated 16.3.1998 asking for copies of the affidavits filed on behalf of the respondents after the order was reserved on 25.2.1998.	None
The copies of these affidavits were sent to Shri R.K. Chaudhary along with a letter dated 17.3.1998 in which he was informed that copies of the affidavits filed by the petitioner on 25.2.1998 were received by the respondents counsel on 27.2.1998 and the affidavits filed alongwith the application dated 04.03.1998 were filed in reply thereof.	None
Along with the said letter, a copy of the affidavit filed by Shri Ram Ratan Yadav dated 10.3.98 was also sent to Shri R.K. Chaudhary.	None
It was specifically mentioned in the letter of 17.3.98 that in case he wanted to submit anything he may appear before me on 19.3.98 at 1.00 P.M. Information of this date was sent to the respondents also.	None
On 19.3.98 the respondents Chaudhary Narendra Singh and Markandeya Chand appeared along with their counsel Shri A. Kumar and Sri N.K. Pandey.	None
On behalf of the petitioners Shri Daya Ram Pal, President of the U.P. BSP handed over a letter of Shri R.K. Chaudhary that the purpose of the letter dated 17.3.98 was not clear and as such the same be made clear.	None
In reply to this letter of Shri R.K. Chaudhary, a letter was sent to him on 19.3.98 informing him that if he wanted to file any reply to the said affidavit or submit anything in his favour or to file anything, he may do the same on that date i.e. 19.3.98.	None
Nobody appeared thereafter on behalf of the petitioner Shri R.K. Chaudhary nor filed any document.	None
The aforesaid letters have been placed on the records.	None
In my view, in the particular circumstances of the case no prejudice has been caused to any of the parties by admitting the aforesaid affidavits on record.	None
Again the Speaker has stated thus in his order Since the facts stated about the split and threat etc.	None
in the affidavits of Sri Vans Narain Singh and others filed on 02.02.1998 and the affidavits dated 25.2.1998 of Shri Markandeya Chand and Chaudhary Narendra Singh, (including the allegations of split within split) and the facts stated in the six affidavits filed through the application dated 04.03.1998 have not been controverted despite opportunity having been given to the petitioner Shri R.K. Chaudhary (who was also looking after the petitions of Ms. Mayawati), I prefer to place reliance on them and hold that there was a split in the Bahujan Samaj Party on 21.10.1997 and a faction had risen as a result of this split in the BSP and a group of BSP MLAs consisting of 26 BSP MLAs (whose names are mentioned in Annexure I to the affidavits of Chaudhary Narendra Singh and Shri Markandeya Chand, filed on 25.2.1998) was constituted on 21.10.97 itself representing the faction, which thus arose and that this group known as Jantantrik BSP.	None
An objection is taken before us in the course of arguments that R.K. Chaudhary never represented the appellant in the proceedings before the Speaker and notice to him will not amount to notice to the appellant.	None
No such ground has been taken in the S.L.P. There is no denial in the S.L.P. of the averment found in the order of the Speaker that R.K. Chaudhary was looking after the petitions of the appellant.	None
Without challenging the correctness of the statement in the S.L.P., it is not open to counsel for the appellant to raise the contention for the first time in the course of his arguments.	None
In the order of the Speaker dated 7.11.97 it is stated that R.K. Chaudhary, MLA and D.R. Verma, Ex Chairman Legislative Assembly came and produced two letters of the appellant before the Speaker which shows that R.K. Chaudhary did represent the appellant in these proceedings.	None
In fact he filed petitions for disqualification only on 11.11.97 and those petitions were nothing but repetition of the petitions filed by the appellant.	None
In the circumstances it is not possible for this Court to say that the averment made by the Speaker in his order that R.K. Chaudhary was looking after the petitions filed by the appellant is not correct.	None
While I am unable to accept the factual contention that the appellant had no opportunity to controvert the affidavits filed before the Speaker on 25.2.98, 4.3.98 and 10.3.98, I am of the opinion that even so there is no violation of the principles of natural justice.	None
This court has in The Chairman, Board of Mining Examination and Chief Inspector of Mines and Anr.	None
v. Ramjee 1977 2 SCR 904 , discussed the principles of natural justice and said Natural justice is no unruly horse, no lurking land mine, nor a judicial cureall.	None
If fairness is shown by the decision maker to the man proceeded against, the form, features and the fundamentals of such essential processual propriety being conditioned by the facts and circumstances of each situation, no breach of natural justice can be complained of.	None
Unnatural expansion of natural justice, without reference to the administrative realities and other factors of a given case, can be exasperating.	None
We can neither be, finical nor fanatical but should be flexible yet firm in this jurisdiction.	None
No man shall be hit below the belt  that is the conscience of the matter	None
But then we cannot look at law in the abstract or natural justice as a mere artifact.	None
Nor can we fit into a rigid mould the concept of reasonable opportunity These general observations must be tested on the concrete facts of each case and every miniscule violation does not spell illegality.	None
If the totality of circumstances satisfies the court that the party visited with adverse order has not suffered from denial of reasonable opportunity the Court will decline to be punctilious or fanatical as if the rules of natural justice were sacred scriptures.	None
It has not been proved by the appellant that there is a failure of substantial justice.	None
In the absence of bias and malafides, the contention that the order of the Speaker is vitiated by violation of principles of natural justice has to fail.	None
(III) PERVERSITY One of the contentions urged under this head is that Speaker has by unduly delaying the proceedings acted perversely.	None
Though learned senior counsel stated expressly in the course of his arguments that he is not alleging bias or personal mala fides against the Speaker, in the written submissions given by him, it is stated as follows The Honble Speaker by not deciding the petitions expeditiously and by allowing the BJP time to garner support for the purposes of the defence of the respondents under paragraph 3 has acted contrary to the constitutional mandate.	None
The said submission is not permissible in view of the statement expressly made and referred to above.	None
In any event, merely because there is a delay in concluding the hearing, the order cannot be said to be perverse.	None
The Speaker has framed the question properly as to whether a split, as alleged by the respondents, had taken place on 21.10.97 and whether it was supported by acceptable evidence.	None
This Court in exercise of its power of limited judicial review has only to see whether the findings arrived at by the Speaker are perverse in the sense in which the expression perversity has been understood by this court in several decisions.	None
I am unable to accept that as a matter of law, delay in the completion of proceedings would by itself vitiate the order passed by him.	None
But I wish to add that it is absolutely necessary for every Speaker to fix a time schedule in the relevant rules for disposal of the proceedings for disqualification of MLAs or MPs.	None
In my opinion all such proceedings shall be concluded and orders should be passed within a period of three weeks from the date on which the petitions are taken on file.	None
104.	None
52	None
Before considering the relevant findings of the Speaker which are said to be perverse by the appellant, it is better to refer to the rulings which define perversity.	None
As pointed out already in Kihoto Hoilahan v. Zachillhu and Ors. 1992 1	None
SCR 686 the Constitution Bench has laid down that the power of judicial review visavis the order of the Speaker under paragraph 6(1) of the Tenth schedule is confined to jurisdictional errors only based on violation of constitutional mandate, mala fides, non compliance of rules of natural justice and perversity.	None
In Associated Provincial Picture Houses, Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corporation, (1947) 2	None
All ER 68 Lord Greene, M.R. dealt with a case where the proprietors of a Cinema theatre sought a declaration that a condition imposed by the Wednesbury Corporation on grant of permission for Sunday performances to be held in that cinema was ultra vires.	None
The Court dismissed the action.	None
The relevant passage in the judgment reads as follows In the present case we have heard a great deal about the meaning of the word Unreasonable.	None
It is true the discretion must be exercised reasonably.	Arguments of Respondent
What does that mean?	Arguments of Respondent
Lawyers familiar with the phraseology commonly used in relation to the exercise of statutory discretions often use the word unreasonable in a rather comprehensive sense.	Arguments of Respondent
It is frequently used as a general description of the things that must not be done.	None
For instance, a person entrusted with a discretion must direct himself properly in law.	None
He must call his own attention to the matters which he is bound to consider.	None
He must exclude from his consideration matters which are irrelevant to the matter that he has to consider.	None
If he does not obey those rules, he may truly be said, and often is said, to be acting Unreasonably.	None
Similarly, you may have something so absurd that no sensible person could ever dream that it lay within the powers of the authority After referring to a judgment of Theatre de Luxe (Halifax) Ltd. v. Gledhill.	None
(1915) 2 K.B. 49 the learned Judge observed I do not find in any of the language that he used any justification for thinking that it is for the court to decide the question of any justification for thinking that it is for the court to decide the question of reasonableness rather than the local authority.	None
I do not read him as in any way dissenting from the view which I have ventured to express, that the task of the court is not to decide what it thinks is reasonable, but to decide whether the condition imposed by the local authority is one which no reasonable authority, acting within the four corners of their jurisdiction, could have decided to impose.	None
In Judicial Review of Administrative Action 5th ed.	None
at P.549 it is stated as follows Unreasonableness is sometimes used to denote particularly extreme behavior, such as acting in bad faith, or a decision which is perverse or absurd  implying that the decisionmaker has taken leave of his senses.	None
In CCSU v. Minister for Civil Service, (1984) 3	None
All E.R. 935 Lord Diplock observed  	None
By irrationality I mean what can by now be succinctly referred to as Wednesbury unreasonableness (see Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corporation, (1941)	None
2	None
All E.R. 680.	None
It applies to a decision which is so outrageous in its defence of logic or accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at it.	None
In Nottinghamshire County Council v. Secretary of the Environment and Anr, appeal (1986) 1	None
All E.R. 199 Lord Scarman observed as follows Such an examination by a court would be justified only if a prima facie case were to be shown for holding that the Secretary of State had acted in bad faith or for an improper motive, or that the consequences of his guidance were so absurd that he must have taken leave of his senses In Tata Cellular v. Union of India, AIR 1996 SC 11 , a three Judge Bench of this court to which one of us (M.M. Punchhi, J., as His Lordship then was) was a party, the law was stated thus Shortly put, the grounds upon which an administrative action is subject to control by judicial review can be classified as under Illegality	None
This means the decisionmaker must understand correctly the law that regulates his decision making power and must give effect to it.	None
Irrationality, namely, Wednesbury unreasonableness, Procedural impropriety In Union of India and Anr.	None
v. G. Ganavutham, (2000) II LLJ 648 SC this court has interpreted reasonableness and rationality which are two grounds for judicial review.	None
The Court referred to the rule in Wednesbury (supra) and observed Therefore to arrive at a decision on reasonableness the Court has to find out if the administrator has left out relevant factors or taken into account irrelevant factOrs.	None
The decision of the administrator must have been within the four corners of the law, and not one which no sensible person could have reasonably arrived at, having regard to the above principles, and must have been a bona fide one.	None
The decision could be one of many choices open to the authority but it was for that authority to decide upon the choice and not for the Court to substitute its view.	None
The order of the Speaker has to be tested in the light of the above principles only in order to decide whether it is perverse.	None
The Speaker has taken note of the following circumstances for accepting the case of the respondents Markandeya Chand announced on the floor of the Assembly on 21.10.97 that under his leadership 23 MLAs got separated from BSP and they formed one group.	None
This was not controverted by the appellant or the other members of BSP.	None
In spite of such announcement, the petition filed by the appellant on 24.10.97 did not invoke paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule for disqualifying the respondents.	None
There was no mention whatever about the split announced in the Assembly.	None
In the petitions filed by R.K. Chaudhary on 11.11.97, the position was the same.	None
There was no reference to the split announced in the Assembly.	None
On 13.11.97 applications were filed for amendment of the petitions which were allowed by the Speaker but there was no reference in these applications either to the split or to paragraph 2 (l)(a) of the Tenth Schedule.	None
On 25.11.97 the respondents filed the written statement in which it was stated that a split had occurred as a result of which there was more than one third of the BSP legislators under the leadership of Markandeya Chand.	Facts
On 26.11.97 appellant filed a reply rejoinder.	None
There was no denial of the split referred to in the written statement of the respondents.	None
On 5.12.97 applications for amendment of the petitions were filed in which there was only a denial of correctness of the statement made by Markandeya Chand in the Assembly that 23 legislators of BSP were with him.	None
In Paragraphs 7A and 7B of the petitions, which were introduced by the said amendment, there was no dispute of the factum of split pleaded by the respondents.	None
On 2.2.98 an additional written statement was filed by Vansh Narain Singh setting out the facts relating to the split and formation of JBSP.	None
There was also a reference to the threat caused by the appellant to JBSP members and the fact that they were prevented from going to Lucknow.	None
There was also an allegation mat signatures were taken on blank papers from such members.	None
The averments in the additional written statement were never controverted.	None
The affidavits filed by the appellant on 25.2.98 were sworn to in November, 1997.	None
There was no explanation for the same.	None
Three of the affidavits were contradicted and controverted by the deponents thereof.	None
The stamp papers on which the affidavits had been prepared were issued on the same day and the names of the persons to whom the stamp papers were issued were not written by the stamp vendor.	None
The list of persons who joined JBSP on 21.10.97 was for the first time disclosed on 25.2.98 only but the appellant had obtained affidavits from 9 of them in November 1997 itself.	None
That shows that the appellant knew that those 9 MLAs were at that time in the group led by Markandeya Chand.	None
The video cassettes and other records filed in the case revealed that the appellant had instigated violence in the Assembly on 21.10.97 and disrupted the proceedings.	None
That itself probablises the version that the MLAs who supported the respondents were kept under threat by the appellant and prevented from going to Lucknow for some time.	None
The matter is one of oath against oath and the affidavits filed by the respondents and the other evidence produced by them were acceptable.	None
All the above circumstances referred to and relied on by the Speaker are quite relevant and germane for deciding the issue whether there was a split on 21.10.97 and whether the group led by Markandeya Chand had not less than one third members of the BSP legislature party.	None
Apart from this, the Speaker has considered the various facts relied on by the appellant and discussed the same.	None
According to the appellant the following are the facts which would disprove the case of the respondents That a claim was made by Markandeya Chand in the Assembly that he had 23 BSP MLAs along with him who got separated but the respondents who are 12 in number were the only members of the BSP who had voted in support of the Motion of Confidence on that day.	None
Those 12 persons became Ministers on 27.10.97.	None
In spite of several opportunities having been given and inspite of expiry of the time finally granted till 9.2.98, the respondents did not disclose the names of the members of the JBSP who were said to be 26 in number.	None
When the list was given on 25.2.98 there were only 17 members in all in JBSP.	None
The respondents have not complied with the mandatory provisions of Rule 3 of the Rules inspite of extension of time granted by the Speaker.	None
All the above circumstances relied on by the appellant have been referred to and discussed in detail by the Speaker in his order.	None
If any of them had been ignored, it could be said that his order is vitiated.	None
But that is not the case here.	None
When there is no bias or mala fide, the acceptance of one partys statement on facts and rejection of the other cannot be canvassed before this Court.	None
116.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants counsel argued that the Speaker is in error in proceeding on the basis that the averments in the affidavits filed on 25.2.98 on behalf of the respondents were not controverted by the appellant and the Speaker has overlooked that in the application filed by the appellant on 25.2.98 along with nine affidavits they have been specifically controverted.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also argued that the Speaker is in the wrong in rejecting the affidavits of the MLAs filed by the appellant on the ground that they were sworn in November 1997 on different dates.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted by learned counsel that the appellant started collecting such affidavits from all the members of the BSP from 6.11.97 after the respondents claimed that they had 24 members in their group and that she could get them only when the concerned MLAs were available in Lucknow.	Arguments of Petitioner
117.	Arguments of Petitioner
The above arguments are fallacious.	None
The first of them negatives the other plea of the appellant that no opportunity was given to her to controvert the averments in the affidavits of the respondents filed on 25.2.98.	None
It is already seen that the relevant averments were all made in the additional written statement filed on 2.2.98 and the appellant did not file any reply thereto.	None
The averments setting out the reason for the split in the party on 21.10.97 and the averments describing the way in which the appellant kept the MLAs under threat and forced them to sign blank papers were never controverted.	None
That is a crucial circumstance relied on by the Speaker and he cannot be faulted therefore.	None
The Speaker has drawn an inference that the appellant knew that the 9 MLAs whose affidavits were filed by her on 25.2.98 were members of the group of the respondents when it was formed on 21.10.97 and that is why she got affidavits from them in November 1997 by force.	None
In the S.L.P. the said inference of the Speaker has not been traversed.	None
There is no averment in the S.L.P. or any other record that the appellant got affidavits from November 97 onwards of all the MLAs who continued to be in the BSP.	None
In the absence of any such record, an argument advanced by counsel at the fag end of the arguments cannot be accepted.	None
The reasoning of the Speaker is in the following passages The affidavits of the respondents thus remain uncontroverted and there is nothing on the record to disbelieve them.	None
On the other hand, the statements made on bath in the respondents affidavits are corroborated by the following materials on the record Statement of Shri Sardar Singh made on the floor of the House on 21.10.97 while speaking on the motion of confidence.	None
The petitioners have not filed any evidence to controvert the statement of Shri Sardar Singh, which was made on the first available opportunity.	None
Admission in Paragraph 3 of the 9 affidavits filed on behalf of the respondents that there was anarchy in the House on 21.10.97.	None
These affidavits have been sworn in the month of November, 1997 and are totally silent on the points of Ms. Mayawatis direction given on 21.10.97.	None
Video cassettes recording the proceedings dated 21.10.97 of the House unmistakably, and with prominence, show Ms. Mayawati instigating, exhorting and directing the BSP MLAs sitting behind her and on her side, to come to the well of the House and create disturbance.	None
It may be noticed the Speaker was being attacked by BSP MLAs and other opposition MLAs by suing(sic) wooden loud speaker box, microphones etc.	None
The video cassettes of Enadu, BI, Zee, ANITV channels may be referred to in this behalf.	None
These cassettes are on the record.	None
Still photographs taken from some of the video cassettes have also been placed on the record.	None
The fact that violence was committed, and disturbance created, in the House at the instance of Ms. Mayawati and some other opposition MLAs immediately after the recital of Vande Matram was over and the Speaker was attacked.	None
This is precisely what Ms. Mayawati had directed her MLAs to do on 21.10.97.	None
The video cassettes clearly show that Ms. Mayawati instigated and abetted the commission of violence in the House on 21.10.1997 in which microphones, table tops and sound boxes were pulled up from the legislators and reporters table and used for assaulting the Speaker and others.	None
Their acts are criminal in nature.	None
Abetment of these acts is also a crime.	None
There is prima facie evidence in the present petitions to show that Ms. Mayawati is guilty of this offence.	None
Now it is to be seen as to whether as matter of fact a faction had arisen as a result of split in the BSP and the respondents have made a claim that they and other members of the BSP Legislature party had constituted a group representing that faction.	None
Paragraph 11 of the affidavits of Sarvsri Vans Narain Singh and other respondents, filed on 2.2.98, clearly states that in the background of directions given by Ms. Mayawati to the BSP MLAs when they had sat in the cars for coming to the Assembly, these respondents and other MLAs of the BSP, whose number was not less than onethird of the total number of the BSP MLAs, sat in the lobby, discussed the matter and at that very moment there was a split amongst the BSP MLAs and these members of the BSP, who separated from the BSP, formed a separate group under the leadership of Shri Markandey Chand and that the number of such members was not less than onethird of the BSP members.	None
It is further averred that it was not possible for them to remain members of the BSP any more and that the fact was stated by Shri Markandey Chand in the House on 21.10.97.	None
Paragraph 12 of the said affidavits further state that as was apparent from the statement of Shri Markandey Chand there was a split in the BSP and there were 23 member (MLAs) after that split with him and this became a separate group.	None
The timings of the split was given before the Speaker came to the sitting of the House on 21.10.1997.	None
The averments in these affidavits are corroborated by the statement of Shri Markandey Chand given on the floor of the House on 21.10.1997 which was read in evidence by agreement of parties.	None
The petitioners did not file any reply to the said affidavits.	None
There is no sufficient reason to disbelieve the averments in these affidavits.	None
They have been corroborated in material particulars by circumstance and other materials on record.	None
The reason given for splitting the BSP has been found to be true as it is supported by the actual happening of violent events in the House on 21.10.1997, which took place at the active instigation exhortation and abetting of Ms. Mayawati herself.	None
The video cassettes and the news reports of the proceedings of the House of 21.10.97 further support this.	None
Then the statement of Shri Sardar Singh about the split and its cause and Shri Markandey Chands statement about the split both made on the first available opportunity on the floor of the House on 21.10.97 itself are there.	None
Shri Markandey Chand informed the House of the fact of split in BSP by 23 BSP MLAs under his leadership.	None
Another fact which supports the case of the respondents is that, apart from the respondents, there were many BSP MLAs who did not participate in the disorder or violence in the House.	None
The respondents say that they were those who were in the group of BSP MLAs causing split.	None
This fact of nonparticipation of several BSP MLAs in disorder or violence is corroborated by the video cassettes.	None
Further, the petitioners counsel had stated on 26.11.97 that he did not propose to file any documentary evidence except those filed with the petitions.	None
These affidavits have been suddenly produced on 25.2.98 when Chaudhary Narendra Singh and Shri Markandey Chand filed their affidavits disclosing the names of 26 MLAs and further setting up the case of split within split.	None
The contents of these affidavits are not supported by the events of 21.10.1997.	None
There is no reason why their recent affidavits were not filed.	None
In feet they do create a suspicion in the mind that they had been obtained by the petitioners under threat as alleged by the respondents.	None
There is not even an attempt to explain any of the above features relied on by the Speaker for rejecting the nine affidavits filed by the appellant on 25.2.98.	None
Nor is there any argument against the reliance placed by the Speaker on the video tapes showing how the appellant instigated the MLAs to resort to violence and disturb the proceedings in the Assembly on 21.10.97.	None
The question before this Court is not whether on the facts and circumstances of the case there was a split as alleged by the respondents on 21.10.97 but the question is whether the conclusion arrived at by the Speaker after taking note of all the aforesaid circumstances, for and against the respondents is so unreasonable or absurd or perverse that he must have taken leave of his senses.	None
The Speaker has not left out any relevant material from consideration nor has he referred to any irrelevant matter.	None
In the facts and circumstances of this case it can not be said that no reasonable or sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at the findings given by the Speaker.	None
It should not be forgotten while dealing with this question of perversity that according to the appellants counsel there was no bias or mala fide on the part of the Speaker.	None
If the materials on record are considered on that basis it can at best be said that, if at all, two conclusions were possible and the Speaker has chosen one of them.	None
In the circumstances I do not find any perversity in the findings rendered by the Speaker.	None
It is worth recalling the observations of Lord Fraser of Tullybelton in Re Amin (1983) 2	None
All E.R. 864, that Judicial review is concerned not with the merits of a decision but with the manner in which the decision was madeJudicial review is entirely different from an ordinary appeal.	None
The Speaker has considered the question of split within split alleged to have taken place in JBSP.	None
It is unnecessary for the purpose of this case to go into that question.	None
Such a subsequent split in JBSP is referred to by the respondents only for the purpose of explaining how there were only 19 members in that group on 25.2.98.	None
The only relevant question is whether there was a split on 21.10.97 and the group which got separated from the BSP consisted of not less than one third members of the BSP legislature party.	None
That question having been answered in favour of the respondents, it is not necessary to go into the question whether there was a further split in JBSP and if so, the effect, thereof.	None
After considering the materials on record, I am of the opinion that the findings arrived at by the Speaker are not vitiated by perversity.	None
SEQUEL TO JUDICIAL REVIEW	None
In the view I have taken it is not necessary for me to consider the question whether this Court should decide the entire matter here in the event of setting aside the order of the Speaker or remand the matter for fresh disposal by the Speaker in accordance with the judgment of this Court.	None
For the sake of completion, I wish to express my opinion on that question too.	None
If the order of the Speaker is to be set aside, I am of the view that the matter should go back to the Speaker for fresh decision.	None
It is not the function of this Court to substitute itself in place of the Speaker and decide the questions which have arisen in the case.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance on the judgment of this court in Bengal Chemical and Pharmaceutical Works Ltd., Calcutta v. Their workmen, (1959)	None
I LLJ 413 SC .	None
The law as stated in that case is as follows A free and liberal exercise of the power under Art. 136 may materially affect the fundamental basis of such decisions, namely, quick solution of such disputes to achieve industrial peace.	None
Though Art. 136 is couched in widest terms, it is necessary for this Court to exercise its discretionary jurisdiction only in cases where awards are made in violation of the principles of natural justice, causing substantial and grave injustice to parties or raises an important principle of industrial law requiring elucidation and final decision by this court or discloses such other exceptional or special circumstances which merit the consideration of this Court.	None
I do not know how this passage would help the appellant.	None
This Court has only said that interference under Article 136 is necessary (1) where awards are made in violation of the principles of natural justice causing substantial and grave injustice to parties (2) where the case raises an important principle of law requiring elucidation and final decision of this Court and (3) where the case discloses such other exceptional circumstances which merit the consideration of this Court.	None
The passage cannot be interpreted to mean that after setting aside the order of the Tribunal, the factual questions could be decided by this Court.	None
Learned counsel referred also to Hindustan Tin Works Pvt.	None
Ltd. v. Employees of Hindustan Tin Works Pvt. Ltd., (1978) II	None
LLJ 474 SC .	None
The Court relied upon the passage in Bengal Chemical Pharmaceutical Work Ltd., (supra) extracted above and modified the award.	None
That ruling also does not help the appellant in any manner.	None
In Vice Chancellor, Utkal University v. S.K. Ghosh, 1954 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 883 the Constitution Bench held that it is not the function of Courts of law to substitute their wisdom and discretion for that of the persons to whose judgment the matter in question is entrusted by the law.	None
When the Tenth Schedule has expressly constituted the Speaker or the Chairman as the case may be to decide the question of disqualification and attach finality thereto, it is not for this Court to consider the facts and decide the said question by substituting itself in the place of the Speaker.	None
If the order of the Speaker is set aside on any of the grounds mentioned in Hollohan (supra) by exercising the power of limited judicial review, the consequential course to be adopted is to leave the matter to the Speaker to decide afresh in accordance with law.	None
CONCLUSION The Speaker has found on the basis of the records that the appellant instructed the members of the BSP to indulge in violence and disrupt the proceedings in the Assembly on 21.10.97.	None
It is also found that the allegations made by the respondents that the members of the JBSP were kept under threat by the appellant and prevented from entering Lucknow.	None
In view of such finding also which is supported by records, the discretionary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution should not be exercised in favour of the appellant.	None
For all the above reasons this appeal deserves to be and is hereby dismissed.	None
