 B. Majmudar, J. Leave granted in all these appeals.	None
By consent of parties, these appeals were heard together as they arise out of a common judgment passed by the Division Bench of the High Court in original side appeals as well as out of identical orders passed in review petitions arising from the same common judgment.	Issue
A few relevant facts leading to these appeals are required to be noted at the outset.	Issue
BACKGROUND FACTS 3.	Facts
The common appellant is a contractor and common respondents are Konkan Railway Corporation and its officers.	Facts
The contractor entered into four contracts for executing the work of the respondent No. 1 corporation, which had issued an advertisement inviting tenders for the construction of the MangaloreUdupi New Board Gauge Railway Line Earthwork and for other ancillary works.	Facts
Four different contract were entered into by the appellantcontractor with the respondentcorporation in connection with the laying of the aforesaid broad gauge railway line.	Facts
It is not in dispute between the parties that the contractor did proceed with the work for some time, but ultimately all the four contracts giving rise to these appeals were terminated by the respondentauthorities.	Facts
We are not concerned with the merits or demerits of the said exercise undertaken by the respondentauthorities in the present proceedings at this stage.	None
All these contracts were terminated in the first half of the year 1992.	Facts
It has to be noted at this stage that these contracts were entered into by the appellantcontractor with the respondentauthorities in the closing months of the year 1990.	Facts
After the said termination of contracts and handing over the incomplete work of the contracts by the respondentauthorities to other contractors, the appellantcontractor raised certain disputes arising out of the working in the said contracts in the closing months of the year 1994.	Facts
It has also to be noted that, by that time, no final bills were prepared by the respondentauthorities in connection with the work actually done by the appellantcontractor under these four contracts.	Facts
It is the case of the appellantcontractor that despite the raising of these disputes which were not favourably responded to by the respondentauthorities, when the appellantcontractor demanded reference to arbitration pursuant to the terms of the contractual agreement, the respondentauthorities did not comply with the said demand and, on the contrary, wrongly rejected the claims put forward by the appellantcontractor and did not refer the disputes for adjudication by the arbitrators as laid down by the terms of the contracts.	Facts
As the respondentauthorities did not comply with the procedure for appointment of arbitrators for resolving these disputes, the appellantcontractor moved the High Court of Bombay on its original side under Section 8 read with Section 20 of the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
After hearing the parties, the learned Single Judge of the High Court directed the respondentauthorities to comply with the procedure of appointment of arbitrators as per the contracts agreed to between the parties.	Facts
However, the learned Judge did not accept the further prayer of the appellantcontractor that arbitration should be entrusted to independent arbitrators as the respondentauthorities had failed to carry out their contractual obligations under the contracts by appointing arbitrators as per the said provisions.	Facts
Identical directions issued in all the four suits by the learned Single Judge to the respondentauthorities to refer the disputes for appointment of arbitrators as per the terms of the contract after following the machinery provided therein, were accepted by the respondentauthorities by not challenging the said Orders partially granting the prayers of the appellant.	Facts
However, the appellantcontractor in search of appointment of independent arbitrators filed original side appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court, mainly relying on additional affidavit filed by the respondentauthorities in appeals, took the view that the appellantcontractor had not followed the gamut of the procedure regarding raising of demand for reference to arbitration as per Clause 63.1.1 of the contract and, therefore, it could not be said that the respondentauthorities have forfeited their right to refer the disputes to the arbitrators as laid down by the relevant clauses of the said contracts and, hence, the directions issued by the learned Single Judge for referring the disputes and differences which are arbitrable under the arbitration agreement for adjudication and consequently directing the ChairmancumManaging Director of the respondentauthorities to nominate arbitrators within ?	Facts
six weeks as per the relevant clause of the contracts, were confirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court and the appeals of the appellantcontractor were dismissed.	Facts
That is how the appellantcontractor is before this Court in these appeals.	None
RIVAL CONTENTIONS Learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, Shri Dave, vehemently contended that on the fact of the present four cases, the High Court ought to have held that the appellantcontractor had followed the procedure laid down by Clause 62 read with Clause 63.1.1 of the contract and had raised appropriate demands with the respondentauthorities for referring the disputes to arbitration and as the respondentauthorities, instead of responding to the said demands and following the procedure laid down by the contractual terms, have rejected the claims on merits, there was no option left for the appellantcontractor but to approach the Court under Section 8 read with Section 20 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
That as the respondentauthorities have failed to comply with the procedure laid down for resolution of disputes through arbitration as per the contract, it was open to the Court to appoint independent arbitrators as requested by the appellantcontractor.	Arguments of Petitioner
Instead, the Court wrongly relegated the appellantcontractor to the procedure of arbitration under the contracts.	None
That the respondentauthorities, in this connection, has missed the bus and it was not open to them to once again fall back upon the machinery of arbitration under the contract, having earlier failed to discharge their contractual obligations in this connection at the relevant time.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellantcontractor was driven to file proceedings in the Court for no fault of his.	None
It was, therefore, submitted that the Court may appoint a retired Chief Justice or retired Judge of the Supreme Court stationed at Bombay to adjudicate the disputes in these present cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the appellantcontractor will have no objection to the respondentauthorities appointing two arbitrators as per the terms of the contract, but the retired Chief Justice or retired Judge of the Supreme Court may be appointed as Chairman of the arbitration board, thus comprising of three arbitrators.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of these contentions, various decisions were pressed in service.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, also pointed out that when the appellantcontractor filed suit before the High Court invoking Section 8 and Section 20 of the Act, it was clearly averred in the plaints in all the four cases that the appellantcontractor had followed the procedure laid down by Clauses 62 63 of the contract and as the respondentauthorities have failed to comply with his demand for appointment of arbitrators as laid down therein, independent arbitrators had to be appointed by the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
That in their written statements no grounds were raised by the respondentauthorities before the Trial Court, to the effect that the appellantcontractor had filed to follow the procedure of Clause 63.1.1 of the contract and, therefore, there was no occasion for the respondentauthorities to comply with the procedure laid down by the said clause on their part.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, it was not open to the respondentauthorities, for the first time in appeal by way of further affidavits, to make a somersault and to raise such a new point which was accepted by the Division Bench and that too without giving any opportunity to the appellantcontractor to file an affidavit in reply in this connection.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the objection regarding the alleged noncompliance with the time schedule by the appellantcontractor as per Clause 63.1.1 of the contract was clearly waived by the respondentauthorities.	None
Under these circumstances, the Division Bench was in error in dismissing the appeals on this ground.	None
Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, however, fairly stated that as the disputes are lingering since years, it is high time that these disputes are resolved at the earliest by the arbitrators and, therefore, he does not press for any remand to the High Court and that this Court may decide his grievance regarding nonappointment of independent arbitrators in the present proceedings in the light of the admitted well established facts emerging from the documentary evidence on record and may pass appropriate orders in this connection.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Singhvi, learned senior counsel for the respondentauthorities, on the other hand, submitted that the correspondence between the parties which has been brought on record and which is tabled by him by way of a chart in connection with all these four cases, and on which there is no dispute between the parties, clearly indicates that the appellantcontractor had not followed the procedure laid down by Clause 63.1.1 of the contracts and consequently, there was no occasion for the appellantcontractor to contend with any emphasis that the respondentauthorities, in their own turn, had failed to comply with their statutory obligations under the said clauses and as the respondentauthorities have already accepted the Order of the learned Single Judge for referring the disputes to arbitration by following the machinery provided in the contracts, it is too late in the day for the appellantcontractor to contend that the respondentauthorities were guilty of breach of the machinery (mandatory ?) provisions regarding appointment of arbitrators as laid down in the contracts and, therefore, it was open to the Court to appoint independent arbitrators for resolving these disputes between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that in the light of the arbitration agreement binding between the parties Section 8(1) of the Act did not apply, as arbitrators were not to be appointed by consent of parties but were to be appointed by the ChairmancumManaging Director after following the procedure laid down in the contracts and equally there was no occasion for the Court to exercise powers under Section 20(4) of the Act as it could not be said that the respondentauthorities, on the facts of these cases, have failed to discharge their obligations under the clauses pertaining to appointment of arbitrators, and hence, all that could be directed by the High Court is to call upon the respondentauthorities to appoint arbitrators as laid down under the relevant clauses of the contract governing the procedure for appointment of arbitrators.	Arguments of Respondent
That such directions are given by the High Court and which are acceptable to the respondentauthorities.	Arguments of Respondent
We may now refer to decisions of this Court on which reliance was placed by senior counsel for the respective parties.	None
Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor invited our attention to decisions in Union of India v. Prafulla Kumar Sanyal, 1979(3) SCC 631, Nandyal Coop.	None
Spinning Mills Ltd. v. K.V. Mohan Rao, 1993(2) SCC 654 and G. Ramachandra Reddy Co. v. Chief Engineer, Madras Zone, Military Engineering Service, 1994(5) SCC 142 and submitted that if one of the contracting parties does not carry out its obligations regarding appointment of arbitrator, the other party can request the Court in proceedings under Section 8 read with Section 20(4) of the Act to appoint an independent arbitrator for resolving the disputes.	None
Dr. Singhvi, learned counsel for the respondentauthorities, on the other hand, invited our attention to decision of this Court in S. Rajan v. State of Kerala Anr., 1992(3)	None
SCC 608, Secretary to Government, Transport Dept., Madras v. Munuswamy Mudaliar Anr., 1988 (Supp.)	None
SCC 651, Indian Drugs Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Indo Swiss Synthetics Gem Mfg. Co. Ltd.	None
Ors., 1996(1) SCC 54 and Bhupinder Singh Bindra v. Union of India Anr., 1995(5) SCC 329 1995(3)	None
RRR 545 (SC), and submitted that Section 8 subsection (1) clause (a) of the Act does not apply to the facts of the present case as arbitrators under the clause in the present contracts are not to be appointed by consent of the parties but only by a third party i.e. the ChairmancumManaging Director and that too under Section 4 of the Act.	None
He further submitted that Section 20 subsection (4) of the Act, on the facts of the present case, would also not get attracted as the evidence on record shows that in none of the four contracts the appellantcontractor, on his part, had complied with the procedural requirements of Clause 63.1.1 of the contracts laying down the procedure for raising demand for appointment of arbitrators for adjudication of disputes.	None
In our view, it is not necessary to consider the aforesaid decisions of this Court on the facts of the present case, as will be seen hereinafter, once it is found that the appellantcontractor had not carried out his part of the contractual obligation invoking the arbitration clauses as per Clause 63.1.1 and it is not shown that the respondentauthorities have failed to appoint arbitrators as per the relevant clauses and, therefore, have forfeited their right of insisting on the appellantcontractor to be bound by the procedure of appointment of arbitrators as per the relevant clauses of the contract, question of appointment of independent arbitrators by the Court will not survive.	Arguments of Respondent
Even assuming that Section 8(1)(a) does not apply, there would then remain no occasion for the Court to appoint independent arbitrators by exercise of its powers under Section 20(4) of the Act.	None
We, therefore, need not dilate on the aforesaid decisions relied upon by senior counsel for the respective parties.	None
In the light of the aforesaid rival contentions, the following points arise for our determination  Whether the appellantcontractor had followed the procedure laid down by Clause 63.1.1 of the contracts in connection with the demand for appointing arbitrators for resolving the disputes between the parties2.	Issue
Whether the respondentauthorities have failed to carry out their contractual obligations under the very same relevant clauses of the contracts governing the controversy3.	Issue
If the answer to the first point is in the affirmative and the answer to the second point is in the negative, whether it was open to the High Court in proceedings under Section 8 read with Section 20 of the Act to appoint independent arbitrator or arbitrators instead of relegating the appellantcontractor to the procedure of appointment of arbitrators as per the terms of the contracts and4.	Issue
What final order ?	Issue
We shall now proceed to deal with these points in seriatim.	None
POINT NO. 1 So far as this point is concerned, it would be appropriate to note the relevant clauses of all the four contracts which are identical in nature and which deal with settlement of disputes between the parties in connection with the contract work in question.	None
The relevant clauses are 62, 63.1.1, 63.1.2 and 63.1.3, which read as under  All disputes or differences of any kind whatever arising out of or in connection with the contract, whether during the progress of the works or after their completion and whether before or after the determination of the contract, shall be referred by the Contractor to the Corporation and the Corporation shall within a reasonable time after the receipt of the Contractors representation make and notify decisions therein in writing.	None
The decisions, directions and certificates given and made by the Corporation or by the Engineer on behalf of the Corporation, with respect to any matters, decision of which, is specially provided for by Clauses 17, 21.5, 37, 43(a), 53.2, 60.2 and 61.1(b) of these conditions (which matters are referred to hereinafter as expected (excepted ?) matters) shall be final and binding on the Contractor, provided further that expected (excepted ?)	None
matters shall stand specifically excluded from the purview of the arbitration clause and shall not be referred to arbitration.	None
DEMAND FOR ARBITRATION63.1.1	None
In the event of any dispute or difference between the parties hereto as to the construction or operation of this contract, or the respective rights and liabilities of the parties on any matter in question, dispute or difference on any account or as to the withholding by the Corporation of any certificate to which the Contractor may claim to be entitled to or if the Corporation fails to make a decision within a reasonable time, then and in any such case, save the except matters referred to in Clause 62 of these conditions, the Contractor after 90 days but within 180 days of his presenting his final claim on disputed matters, shall demand in writing that the dispute or difference be referred to arbitration.63.1.2	None
The demand for arbitration shall specify the matters which are in question, dispute or difference.	None
Only such disputes or differences in respect of which the demand has been made shall be referred to arbitration and other matters shall not be included in the reference. ?	None
39?3 63.1.3	None
If the Contractor does not prefer his specific and final claims in writing, within a period of 90 days of receiving the intimation from the Corporation that the final bill is ready for payment, he will be deemed to have waived his claims and the Corporation shall be discharged and released of all liabilities under the contract in respect of these claims.	None
It is not in dispute between the parties that if it is found on facts that the appellantcontractor had followed the gamut of the aforesaid clauses and had carried out his part of the contractual obligations and if the respondentauthorities have not responded to the demand for arbitration raised by the appellantcontractor after following the aforesaid procedure, then there would remain no occasion for the respondentauthorities for submitting that the procedure of arbitration and appointment of arbitrators and umpire as laid down by the remaining Clauses 63.3(a), 63.3(b) and other clauses upto 63.3(g) should remain binding between the parties.	None
Then it would be open to the Court to pass appropriate orders regarding appointment of independent arbitrators for resolving the disputes raised by the appellantcontractor even de hors the machinery laid down by Clauses 63.3(a) to 63.3(g) dealing with the procedure of arbitration.	None
On the other hand, if it is found that the appellantcontractor had not followed the procedure of Clause 63.1.1 and not raised appropriate demand within the time schedule laid down therein, then the respondentauthorities cannot be treated to have committed breach of the said provisions so as to leave an open field for the Court to appoint independent arbitrators for resolving the disputes between the parties.	None
Before dealing with this main question, we may clear two preliminary matters.	None
By an earlier Order of this Court dated 2nd April, 1998, it has been held in all these four appeals, after hearing the parties, that the present controversy will have to be resolved in the light of the Arbitration Act, 1940 and not as per the new Arbitration Conciliation Act of 1996.	None
So far as the second preliminary point is concerned, Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, submitted that the alleged noncompliance of the time schedule, as laid down in Clause 63.1.1 by the appellantcontractor, cannot survive for consideration for the simple reason that in the suits filed by the appellantcontractor before the learned Single Judge, it was clearly averred in paragraph 10 of each of the plaints, amongst others, that the plaintiff had requested the defendants by a letter dated 6th March, 1995 to appoint arbitrator and after receipt of the above letter, the defendants have not chosen to appoint any arbitrator till date.	None
Thus a vacancy had arisen which related to appointment of arbitrator.	None
In view of the above vacancy the Honble Court was having ample powers to appoint any third party as arbitrator and complete the arbitration proceedings and that the suit has been filed not only under Section 20(4) of the Act but also under Section 8 of the Act.	None
Shri Dave submitted that the respondentauthorities in their written statements, for reasons best known to them, did not challenge these averments nor did they take up the contention that the appellantplaintiff had not followed the gamut of time as laid down by Clause 63.1.1 and, therefore, the said contention raised for the first time in appeals could not have been permitted to be raised by the Appellate Court and should be treated to have been waived by the respondentauthorities.	None
Learned senior counsel for the respondentauthorities, Dr. Singhvi, on the other hand, submitted that in paragraph 13 of the written statements in each of the suits with further reference to paragraph 10 of the plaint, it was averred as under It is denied that defendants have not chosen to appoint any arbitrator till date.	None
It is rather preposterous on the part of the plaintiff to state that vacancy has arisen which require appointment of an arbitrator.	None
The defendants state that the present suit is neither maintainable under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act nor has it got anything to do with the provision of Section 8 of the Act.	None
The scheme of the aforesaid provision have no bearing on the present suit inasmuch as the present suit lacks the essentials of the aforesaid provision.	None
Now, it becomes at once clear that excepting general denial there is no specific denial on the part of the respondentauthorities in the written statements that the plaintiff had not complied with the time schedule and the gamut laid down by Clause 63.1.1 and hence there was no occasion for the respondentauthorities to appoint arbitrators under the relevant clauses of the contracts.	Reasoning
However, that is not the end of the matter.	Reasoning
The learned Trial Judge, without expressly referring to this aspect of the matter, ultimately held in favour of the respondentauthorities to the limited extent by granting partial relief to the appellantcontractor, namely, that the respondentauthorities were called upon to appoint arbitrators as per the terms of the contracts.	Reasoning
Implicit in the said direction was the finding that the respondentauthorities were not guilty of any breach of the procedural provisions of Clause 63.1.1.	Reasoning
It was also implicit in the said direction that the appellantcontractor had not made out a case for subjecting the respondentauthorities to the procedure of independent arbitration de hors Clause 63.1.1 and the rest of the relevant clauses.	Reasoning
It was also implicit in the said direction that the plaintiff has not followed the time schedule and not raised proper demand for arbitration as per Clause 63.1.1.	Reasoning
But, what was implicit in the finding resulting in the ultimate direction by the Trial Judge was made explicit by the Division Bench in appeal.	Reasoning
It is true that detailed affidavit raising this contention was filed by the respondentauthorities before the Appellate Court.	Reasoning
It is also true that the Appellate Court was required to give sufficient time to the appellantcontractor to file his response by filing his affidavit in reply.	Reasoning
That no such time was given to the appellantcontractor.	None
But this grievance becomes academic as the appellants learned senior counsel did not claim any remand on this ground and wanted us to decide the main controversies between the parties on the basis of evidence on record.	Reasoning
It has also to be kept in view that the learned Judges of the Division Bench heard the parties on merits of this controversy regarding compliance with the procedure of Clause 63.1.1 and thereafter agreeing with the respondentauthorities, dismissed the appeals.	Reasoning
It must, therefore, be held that the question regarding compliance or noncompliance of the time schedule laid down by Clause 63.1.1 by either side is a live controversy which has to be resolved on merits in the light of evidence on record.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances, the objection regarding waiver of this contention by the respondentauthorities on the peculiar facts of these cases, does not survive.14.	Reasoning
Having cleared these preliminary objections and points in controversy, now the stage is reached for addressing ourselves to the main question as to whether the appellantcontractor is justified in demanding reference to arbitration by independent arbitrators or not.15.	Reasoning
For deciding this controversy and finding out as to whether the appellantcontractor has complied with the time frame laid down by Clause 63.1.1, it becomes necessary to look at the relevant facts which are well established on record as emerging from the documentary evidence exchanged between the parties in connection with all these four contracts.	Reasoning
It would, therefore, be convenient to deal with the factual data in connection with the appeals arising out of each of these four SLPs dealing with all the four different contracts between the parties.	Reasoning
Factual data leading to civil appeals arising out of SLP(C)	None
Nos. 123839 dealing with construction of the MangaloreUdupi New Broad Gauge Railway Line Reach VIII.	None
The appellantcontractor submitted a claim letter to the respondentauthorities on 28th November, 1994.	None
It is at pages 4064 of VolumeI. It is addressed to the Chief Engineer, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., Udupi (Dist.	None
South Kanara) dealing with Construction of MangaloreUdupi New Broad Gauge Railway Line.	None
It has also reference to agreement dated 9.11.1990.	None
Having mentioned the various causes for the delay in completing the work, various claims were raised for consideration by the respondentauthorities.	None
They are listed as Claim Nos. 1 to 16 and then follows the pertinent recital in the last paragraph, which reads as under  Finally we request you to kindly settle all the above said claims (from 1 to 16) within a reasonable period from the date of receipt of this letter as per Clause 62 of the General Conditions of Contract failing which, we intend to refer all the claims stated above to Arbitration under the provisions of Clause 63 of the General Conditions of Contract.	None
It is obvious that this letter does mention 16 types of claims raised by the appellantcontractor for consideration of the respondentauthorities.	None
They squarely fall within clause 62 of the general conditions of the contract referred to earlier.	None
It has to be kept in view that under the relevant clauses pertaining to settlement of disputes, two types of disputes or differences are contemplated between the parties.	None
They are  Disputes or differences in connection with the contract when the contract work is in progress.	None
Disputes or differences after the completion of the contract or its recession when the stage of final bill is reached and the disputes pertaining to the claims arising from such final bill.	None
The first type of disputes are covered by Clauses 62 and 63.1.1	None
while the second type of disputes, after the final bills are prepared and made available and served on the contractor, would be covered by the contingency envisaged by Clause 63.1.3.	None
In both these disputes or differences between the parties, the procedural gamut and the requirements of Clause 63.1.1	None
and 63.1.2 would be equally applicable.	None
It is not in dispute between the parties that final bills in all these four cases were never prepared by the respondentauthorities and furnished to the appellantcontractor before he filed proceedings in the Court on 24.8.1995.	None
It must, therefore, be held that when the appellantcontractor wrote a letter dated 28.11.1994, he had complied with the requirements of Clause 62 and which could also attract first part of Clause 63.1.1 and as, according to the appellantcontractor, the disputes raised by him in the said letter did not refer to excepted matters as mentioned in Clause 62, it could be said that the appellantcontractor had submitted his final claim qua these 16 items mentioned in the said letter.	None
In the light of this letter, Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, submitted that on expiry of 90 days after 28.11.1994, that is after 28th February, 1995, the appellantcontractor did raise a demand in writing that the disputes mentioned in the claim letter on 28.11.1994 should be referred to arbitration.	None
That was exactly what was done by him on 6.3.1995.	None
That 6.3.1995 letter was after 90 days of 28.11.1994 and before 180 days of 28.11.1994 which would have expired by 28th May, 1995 and consequently, he could be said to have complied with the time frame and time schedule laid down by Clause 63.1.1.	None
And thereafter, the respondentauthorities, within reasonable time, had not appointed arbitrators as laid down by the procedural provisions of Clause 63.3(a) onwards, the respondentauthorities missed the bus, as by their reply letter dated 3.7.1995, the respondentauthorities rejected the appellants claim on merits and, therefore, it was open to the appellantcontractor to move the Court thereafter on 24.8.1995 seeking appointment of independent arbitrators on the ground that the respondentauthorities, being given ample opportunity to comply with the procedure of arbitration as laid down by the relevant clauses, have failed to discharge their part of the obligation.	None
Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, would have been perfectly justified in his contention, if on 6.3.1995 the appellantcontractor had reiterated his claims raised on 28.11.1994 in connection with the 16 claims and in continuation thereof had demanded arbitration.	None
In that eventuality, claims of 28.11.1994 would have been considered to be final claims on disputed matters as envisaged by Clause 63.1.1 and the time schedule laid down therein would have been fully complied with by the appellantcontractor.	None
Unfortunately, the appellantcontractor, for reasons best known to him, had second thoughts.	None
He did not treat the claims raised earlier on 28.11.1994 as final claims and put forward new claims partly reiterating the earlier claims computing them in money terms and partly introducing new claims by changing the rates earlier claimed for damages.	None
We have, therefore, to see what the appellantcontractor himself did by submitting another claim letter dated 6th March, 1995.	None
It is interesting to note that in the said second letter dated 6.3.1995, the appellantcontractor requested for arbitration into the disputes and differences in the work of construction of MangaloreUdupi New Broad Gauge Railway Line and made reference to the agreement of 9.11.1990.	None
But curiously enough, there is no reference to the earlier claim letter dated 28.11.1994.	None
Thus the appellant, on his own, did not think it proper to rely upon the earlier claim letter of 28.11.1994 and raised entirely fresh final claims on 6.3.1995, we find that there are 16 claims mentioned wherein various amounts have been computed what is already received by the claimant is deducted and balance amounts are claimed to be due.	None
The chart submitted by learned senior counsel for the respondentauthorities, in this connection, showing the variation between the claims put forward on 28.11.1994 and on 6.3.1995, and which could not be controverted by learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, clearly shows that the claims put forward on 6.3.1995 are entirely on a different basis and can be treated to be the final claims pertaining to the disputes raised by the appellantcontractor under diverse heads.	None
Take one example in the statement of claims of 28.11.1994.	None
On Claim No. 5 pertaining to payment of equitable rates for execution of excess quantity over 125 of tender quantity at Serial No. 8 is found construction of RCC slab with CC M20 above 5 Metres and the equitable rate claimed is Rs.	None
1,930.00 Cum.	None
This rate is completely changed in the claim letter of 6.3.1995 at page 81, wherein for this very item equitable rate is Rs.	None
2,390.00 cum.	None
This is only one illustration.	None
Similarly, in the letter of 28.11.1994, there is no computation about Claim Nos. 6 and 7 while in the letter of 6.3.1995 crystallised amounts computed on these claims.	None
We may extract at this stage the variations between the claims put forward on 28.11.1994 under different heads and the claims put forward on 6.3.1995 as reflected in the chart submitted by learned senior counsel for the respondentauthorities It must, therefore, be held that the second claim letter of 6.3.1995 is not in continuation of the earlier letter of 28.11.1994, but it is entirely a new claim letter, which appears to be submitting final claims for consideration of the respondentauthorities.	None
Once this conclusion is reached, the next question arises as to what are the steps next taken by the appellantcontractor as required by Clause 63.1.1.	None
The said provision, as noticed earlier, lays down that the appellantcontractor, after presenting his final claim on disputed matters, has to demand in writing that the disputes or differences qua those matters indicated in the final claim statement should be referred to the arbitration by the respondentauthorities.	None
It is interesting to note that after 6.3.1995, which has to be treated to be the final claim statement by the contractor, he never raised any demand in writing for consideration of the respondentauthorities for referring the disputes or claims mentioned in the letter of 6.3.1995 for adjudication by reference to arbitration as per the requirements of the relevant clauses.	None
It is not possible to agree with the submission of learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, Shri Dave, that the word final as found in Clause 63.1.1 should be treated either as a surplusage or may be read in the light of the contingencies contemplated by Clause 63.1.3.	None
It is difficult to appreciate how the word final can be treated to be surplusage.	None
Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, in this connection, vehemently relied upon the observations of Russell on Arbitration  TwentyFirst Edition for submitting that contents of notice requiring arbitration should not require too much technically.	None
He also invited our attention to The Law and Practice of Commercial Arbitration in England  Second Edition by Sir Michael J. Mustill Stewart C. Boyd, wherein it was observed as follows  Most disputes stem from claims.	None
But the existence of a formulated claim is neither necessary nor sufficient to create a dispute.	None
It is difficult to appreciate how these observations can be of any avail to him for interpreting the word final claims on disputed matters as envisaged by Clause 63.1.1.	None
In the context of the said clause, it must be held that final claims envisaged therein must be crystallised and complete claims on disputed matters to be lodged with the authorities by the contractor who wants the authorities to decide upon these claims and to consider whether they are worth granting wholly or in part or worth rejecting and that play would be available to the respondentauthorities for a period of 90 days from lodging of such final claims on disputed matters by the contractor for the consideration of the authorities.	None
This locus paenitentiae of 90 days is essential for the authorities to consider whether the final and crystallised claims on disputed matters either during the pendency of the contract or after its termination or even after the final bills get prepared are required to be granted wholly or partly or not at all and once the authorities do not respond favourably during these 90 days after the lodging of final claims, then it would be open to the contractor raising those claims to demand arbitration in writing in connection with these final claims within further three months, that is within the upper limit of six months from the date of raising of such final claims.	None
It is also not possible to agree with learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, Shri Dave, that final claims mentioned in Clause 63.1.3 have to be read into the phraseology of the term final claims as mentioned in Clause 63.1.1.	None
It is easy to visualise that final claims on disputed matters may arise during the pendency of contract as laid down by Clause 62 or may arise at the end of the contract when final bills are submitted as contemplated by Clause 63.1.3.	None
In both these cases, which broadly are governed by Clause 62, after lodging of final claims the time schedule laid down by Clause 63.1.1 would obviously apply to cover both these types of final claims.	None
In short, the final claims must be definite, certain and crystallised under diverse heads either flowing from the final bill or even earlier arising out of the working of the contract even when the final bill is still not prepared by the autorities.	None
Therefore, instead of reading down the term final claims on disputed matters as found in Clause 63.1.1 to mean only final claims arising out of final bills, it must be held that the term final claims on disputed matters as employed by Clause 63.1.1 would cover final claims on disputed matters either lodged during the currency or even after its termination or even after preparation and submission of final bills by the authorities.	None
In all these cases, the final claims on disputed matters contemplated by Clause 63.1.1 must be crystallised and firm final claims which are required to be considered by the authorities for giving their response.	None
In other words, the claims should not be in a fluid state and the appellantcontractor should not consider them to be not final but tentative to be revised or reconsidered at his end in future for raising ultimate claims on the relevant heads of dispute.	None
If the appellantcontractor himself treats these claims at an earlier stage to be in a fluid state and not final, neither he can expect the authorities to respond thereto nor can he treat the authorities to have failed to respond thereto so as to lose the benefit of the procedure of arbitration binding between the parties as per the contractual terms.	None
It is interesting to note that, after the final claims regarding disputed items as mentioned in the latter dated 6.3.1995 were lodged, when the Corporation in its reply dated 3.7.1995 turned them down, 90 dyas after lodging the final claims on 6.3.1995 were already over.	None
Therefore, when the respondentauthorities rejected these claims on 3.7.1995 and, when the appellantcontractor naturally was aggrieved, thereby a stage was reached for him as required by Clause 63.1.1 to have demanded in writing reference to arbitration for adjudication of all the final claims mentioned in the letter of 6.3.1995.	None
He was required to do so within 180 days of raising of the final claims of 6.3.1995.	None
Meaning thereby, he could legitimately demand in writing from the respondentauthorities that they should prefer disputed claims referred to in the letter of 6.3.1995 for adjudication to the arbitrators as per the provisions of the relevant clause.	None
He could have, therefore, followed the procedure as laid down by Clause 63.1.1 and raised demand in writing for arbitration on or before 6th September, 1995.	None
Instead of doing so, he rushed to the Court on 24.8.1995 on the assumption that the respondentauthorities had not complied with the requirements of Cluase 63.1.1 and had not responded to the demand in writing as per the said provisions and, therefore, had lost the benefit of the said provisions and had committed breach of the relevant terms of the clauses of the arbitration agreement regarding the procedure for arbitration and, therefore, it was open to the Court to appoint independent arbitrators.	None
For the present purpose, we will assume that in the application under Section 20(4) read with Section 8 of the Act, the Court had jurisdiction to appoint independent arbitrators if it was shown that the respondentauthorities have not complied with their contractual oligations under the relevant clauses of the contracts pertaining to arbitration.	None
But even on the assumption which would not require us to consider various decisions pressed in service by senior counsel for the parties in connection with the Courts power in such cases, we find that on the facts of these cases, the appellants claim for appointment of independent arbitrators is rightly rejected by the High Court.	None
The aforesaid conclusion, in the light of the documentaary evidence on record as seen by us earlier, requires us to hold that the appellantcontractors had not complied with the procedure to be followed within the time schedule laid down by Clause 63.1.1 for raising demand for reference to arbitrators by the authorities and had not demanded in writing that the disputes mentioned in the final claim dated 6.3.1995 should be referred to arbitraiton by the respondentauthorities.	None
Hence, it could not be said that the respondentauthorities have failed to carry out their corresponding contractual obligation under the very same clause and, therefore, had forfeited their right to resort to the machinery of arbitration under the terms of the contract and, consequently, it was open to the Court to appoint independent arbitrators.	None
Factual data regarding civil appeals arising out of SLP (C) Nos. 124041 of 1997 Reach VI Pages 148 in VolumeII.	None
In these cases, the appellants claim letter in dated 5.1.1995.	None
The appellantcontractor raised various claims being Nos. 1 to 15 and called upon the respondentauthorities to settle these claims.	None
On the expiry of 3 months i.e. 90 days, that is after 5.4.1995, the appellantcontractor by a letter dated 24.4.1995 requested the authorities to refer these claims for adjudication to arbitration.	None
It, therefore, can be said to be a demand in writing after expiry of 90 days from 5.1.1995 for reference to arbitration as required by Clause 63.1.1.	None
Instead of referring to arbitration, the respondentauthorities by letter dated 5.7.1995, rejected the claims on merits.	None
If the matter has stood thus, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor, Shri Dave, would have been perfectly justified in submitting that at least in this case the appellantcontractor had strictly complied with the provisions of Clause 63.1.1 and the default was on the part of the respondentauthorities and, therefore, the Court could, on his request, appoint independent arbitrators in the proceedings lodged on 24.8.1995.	None
However, unfortunately for the reasons best known to the appellantcontractor, the said original claim of 5.1.1995 which was wholly reiterated by the letter of 24.4.1995 was again treated as not final claim by the appellantcontractor himself and he addressed a revised claim letter on 10th August, 1995.	None
It was submitted that some claims were inadvertently missed by him while submitting the letter dated 24.4.1995.	None
He also submitted that additional claims amounting to Rs.	None
15,35,202/ were raised and for Claim No. 8 was revised from Rs. 15.00 lacs to Rs. 28.5 lacs and for Claim No. 6 instead of Rs. 2,05,02,510/,	None
Rs. 2,18,27,865.00 had to be read.	None
Shri Dave, learned senior counsel for the appellantcontractor submitted that, on the given heads of claims, further revision could be done even before the arbitrator.	None
That may be so, but here we are concerned with lodging of crystallised definite final claims on disputed items for consideration of the authorities as envisaged by the time schedule agreed to between the parties as per Clause 63.1.1.	None
The appellants letter dated 10.8.1995, therefore, clearly shows that what were earlier final claims, according to him, were not final but were still in a fluid state and were required to be raised upwards even till 10.8.1995.	None
Once that conclusion is reached, the appellantcontractors claims would get reconfirmed to square one under Clause 63.1.1	None
and he had again to wait for 90 days for the consideration of these revised claims by the respondentauthorities and thereafter within further 90 days he had to make a fresh demand for reference and thereafter if the respondentauthorities have failed to comply with such a demand, the Court could have been approached seeking relief for appointment of independent arbitrators.	None
The appellantcontractor could have raised such fresh demand for arbitration after 9.11.1995 and before 9.2.1996.	None
Instead of doing that, the appellantcontractor filed the suit on 24.8.1995.	None
That amounted to cutting across the procedure in the light of the time schedule laid down by Clause 63.1.1.	None
It is last letter of 10.8.1995 that put the appellantcontractor out of the Court so far as his prayer for independent arbitrtors was concerned.	None
Factual data dealing with civil appeals arising out of SLP (C) Nos. 124243 regarding contract Reach XI.	None
Factual data regarding these appeals is almost parallel to the one found in the first case.	None
The appelants first claim letter is dated 30.11.1994.	None
The respondentauthorities, on 2.1.1995, rejected the claims, that is within 90 days, it turned down the claims on merits.	None
Then arose the occasion for the appellantcontractor to raise a written demand for arbitration in the light of the claim letter of 30.11.1994.	None
This he could have done on 6.3.1995 i.e. after 28.2.1994 when 90 days expired after 30.11.1994.	None
But instead of sticking to the earlier claim letter of 30.11.1994, curiously enough, the appellantcontractor, by his letter dated 6.3.1995, raised further claims.	None
Meaning thereby, treating the earlier calaims not to be final.	None
In the chart submitted by the learned senior counsel for the respondentauthorities, the variation between the claims submitted on 30.11.1994 and 6.3.1995 have been pointed out in detail.	None
They reads as under  In the claim letter of 30.11.1994, 16 claims have been put forward while in the letter of 6.3.1995, 20 claims have been put forward, one of them being damages suffered owing to termination of contract, which is entirely a new claim.	None
That apart, there are diverse variations as listed in the chart given by learned senior counsel for the respondentauthorities, as noted earlier.	None
It is also interesting to note that in the claim letter of 6.3.1995, there is no reference to the earlier claim letter of 30.11.1994 and, therefore, according to the appellantcontractor himself, it is entirely a new substituted claim statement which can be treated to be a final claim statement on disputed items listed in the letter of 6.3.1995.	None
Thereafter, as required by Clause 63.1.1, the respondentauthorities should have been given time of 90 days uup to 5th June, 1995 to give response.	None
Ultimately, the respondentauthorities rejected these claims on merits by a communication dated 25.7.1995.	None
Thereafter, as per Clause 63.1.1, the appellantcontractor could have raised demand for arbitration regarding claims put up on 6.3.1995 as 180 days from 6.3.1995 would have expired on 5.9.1995.	None
He did not do so.	None
Instead, rushed to the Court on 24.8.1995.	None
Even prior to 24.8.1995, the appellantcontractor went on raising further claims by a claim letter dated 10.8.1995.	None
Again he was relegated to square one, so far as the time schedule under Clause 63.1.1 was concerned, but even taking the most charitable view of the matter and treating the final claim as envisaged by letter of 6.3.1995, the appellantcontractor should have lodged a demand in writing for reference to these disputes mentioned in the letter of 6.3.1995 before the expiry date as per Clause 63.1.1, that is on or before 5th September, 1995, as seen earlier.	None
He did not do so.	None
As seen above, his raising of further claims on 10.8.1995 shows the fluid state of claims envisaged by the appellantcontractor himself.	None
He was not sure as to what were his clear final crystallised claims on disputed items for consideration of the respondentauthorities till 10.8.1995.	None
If that was so, there was no occasion for treating the respondentauthorities to have committed breach of the relevant provisions of Clause 63.1.1 or to have forfeited their right to insist on complying with the arbitration machinery envisaged by the relevant clauses of the contracts.	None
It must, therefore, be held that it was the appellantcontractor who was guilty of the breach of the procedure envisaged by the time schedule laid down by Clause 63.1.1 and for his breach, he cannot make the respondentauthorities liable and successfully urge that the respondentauthorities having committed breach of their own allegations under the contractual terms, it was open to the appellantcontractor to claim for independent arbitrators without himself following the procedure of arbitration laid down under the contract.	None
Factual data dealing with civil appeals arising out of SLP (C) Nos. 124445 regarding contract Reach XI.	None
In these appeals, the situation does not get improved for the appellantcontractor.	None
He lodged his first claim on 30.12.1994.	None
Instead of sticking to the same, on 15.3.1995 he raised further claims which can be treated to be final claims.	None
In the meantime, the respondentauthorities on 24.1.1995, rejected the claims raised by the first letter of 30.12.1994.	None
Therefore, after 24.1.1995, the appellantcontractor could have lodged a demand for reference of the disputes raised in his letter of 30.12.194.	None
Instead of doing so, the appellantcontractor raised further claims and also a fresh claim on 15.3.1995.	None
Even treating this as a final claim as per Clause 63.1.1, after expiry of 3 months from 15.3.1995, that is after 15.6.1995, the appellantcontractor did not lodge a demand in writing for reference of the disputed claims mentioned in the letter of 15.3.1995 for adjudication by arbitration under the contract.	None
Not only that but the appellantcontractor again raised revised claims on 10.8.1995 and, thereafter, without waiting for 180 days for completing the time gamut as laid down by Clause 63.1.1, filed suit on 24.8.1995 cutting across the scheme of arbitration laid down by Clause 63.1.1.	None
The reply of the Corporation of 11.9.1995, pending suit, would pale into insignificance as the suit itself, in so far as it demanded independent arbitration, became completely misconceived and premature.	None
The conclusion, therefore, is inevitable that in all these four appeals, the appellantcontractor must be held to have himself not complied with the procedural time schedule of Clause 63.1.1 of the contract binding on him, he as a man with commercial sense and worldly wisdom, had signed the contract items before entering into the contracts with the respondentauthorities.	None
It was for him to comply with these terms before finding fault with the other contracting party.	None
Point No. 1, therefore, has to be answered in the negative against the appellantcontractor and in favour of the respondentauthorities.	None
POINT NO.	None
224.	Reasoning
The discussion on point No. 1 and the conclusion reached thereon would automatically result in answering this point in the negative in favour of the respondentauthorities and against the appellantcontractor.	None
As the appellantcontractor is shown to have failed to carry out his contractual obligations under Clause 63.1.1, there would remain no occasion for the respondentauthorities to be dubbed as having failed to comply with their corresponding obligations under the very same clause.	Reasoning
POINT	Reasoning
NO. 3 25.	Reasoning
In view of our finding on point Nos. 1 and 2, there would remain no occasion for the Court to permit either party to get out of the contractual obligations regarding resolution of disputes by arbitration de hors the scheme of arbitration envisaged by the contractual terms.	Reasoning
In other words, it could not be said that the respondentauthorities have failed to carry out their contractual obligations of appointing arbitrators under the agreement even though validly called upon by the appellantcontractor to do so and, therefore, had missed the bus and consequently the Court could appoint independent arbitrators, if it though fit.	Reasoning
That occasion never arose for consideration by the Court in the light of the aforesaid findings of act on the relevant points as discussed by us.	Reasoning
Consequently, it must be held that in the present four cases, the High Court was perfectly justified in relegating both the parties to the procedure of arbitration as laid down under the contracts binding on them.	Reasoning
The final Orders passed by the learned Single Judge in all the four suits and as confirmed by the Division Bench remain well sustained on record.26.	Reasoning
However, before parting with these appeals, we must note that rightly or wrongly the appellantcontractor has a simmering grievance since 1992 when his four contracts were terminated giving rise to diverse claims which, though rejected by the respondentauthorities, were required to be adjudicated upon by the arbitrators as envisaged by the parties under the contracts.	Reasoning
As years have rolled by, it would be appropriate to direct the respondentauthorities to comply with the Orders passed the learned Single Judge as confirmed by the Division Bench and also by us at the earliest.	Reasoning
The procedure laid down by Clause 63.3.2 read with Clause 63.3(b) shall be carried out by the respondentauthorities within four weeks of the receipt of copy of this Order at their end and thereafter the appellantcontractor shall also carry out his obligations under the relevant clauses and the two arbitrators, to be appointed by the ChairmancumManaging Director, shall see to it that the arbitration proceedings are completed at the earliest and not later than four months from the date on which they enter upon the reference.	Decision
Thereafter, if there is any dispute between them on any point or points, then an Umpire may be appointed by them within four weeks of the emergence of such a dispute.	Decision
An Umpire so appointed shall carry out his exercise as envisaged by the relevant clauses of the agreement within a period of two months of being seized of the matter.	Decision
Thus, latest within eight months or so, both sides may come to know where they stand in connection with the disputes in question.	Decision
Subject to the aforesaid directions, all these four appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs in each one of them.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
