 Sarkar, J. 1.	None
These appeals arise from two miscellaneous applications made to the trial Court which was the Court of the Civil Judge.	None
Nadiad in the State of Gujarat.	None
One of these applications was for execution of orders for costs awarded and the other was under S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure for restitution of money and property taken in execution of a decree reversed in appeal.	None
The appellant is the successor in interest of the plaintiff in the suit out of the proceedings of which these appeals arise and the respondents were the defendants there.	None
2.	None
The appellants predecessorininterest had filed the suit for possession of land against the respondents and another person, now dead.	None
The suit was decreed with costs by the trial Court on November 30, 1945 but that decree was set aside on July 13, 1949 on appeal by the defendants to the High Court of Bombay.	None
While the appeal was pending the appellants predecessorininterest had in execution of the decree of the trial Court obtained possession of the land and realised the costs awarded.	None
Also pending the appeal the appellants predecessorininterest having died the appellant was substituted in his place.	None
After the appellate decree had been drawn up, it was amended on August 24, 1950 by deleting the name of one of the appellants mentioned therein, being one of the defendants to the suit, on the ground of his death.	None
The appellant got leave from this Court under Art.	None
136 of the Constitution to appeal from the appellate decree but such leave was revoked on November 24, 1952 as the appellant had failed to carry out the condition on which it had been granted.	None
Thereafter on February 11, 1953, the respondents filed in the trial Court the application for execution for recovering the costs awarded to them in the proceedings up to the date of the revocation of leave by this Court and out of this application one of the appeals has arisen.	None
On February 13, 1953 they filed the other application under S. 144 of the Code for restitution of the land taken and the costs realised from them in execution of the decree of the trial Court and out of this the other appeal has arisen.	None
The only question argued in each appeal is whether it is barred by limitation.	None
3.	None
As regards the application for execution, I agree with my learned brother Subba Rao that it is not barred by time and the appeal arising from it, that is, appeal No. 777 of 1964 should be dismissed.	None
On this matter I have nothing to add to what my learned brother has stated in his judgment.	None
4.	None
On the other application, namely, the application for restitution under S. 144 of the Code, I have come to a conclusion different from that of my learned brother.	None
The question here also, as I have already said, is whether the application had been made beyond the time specified and was barred.	None
The appellant, who was the defendant to that application, contended that an application under S. 144 was not in execution and would be governed by Art.	None
181 of the Limitation Act which covers applications not specially provided for in the Schedule to that Act and not by Art.	Reasoning
182 relating to execution.	None
The respondents who wanted the restitution, contended on the other hand that the case came under Art.	None
182 as the application for it was really one in execution.	None
Subject to certain questions which I will later discuss, it is not in dispute that if Art. 181 applied, then the application would be barred while it would not be so if the case was governed by Art.	None
182.	None
5.	None
The question, therefore, in this appeal is whether an application under S. 144 is an application in execution.	None
On that question there has been a great divergence of opinion in the High Courts.	None
It would not be profitable to refer specifically to the reasons given in these judgments in support of the views respectively adopted, for these reasons will, in substance, all be discussed later.	None
In my view, an application under S. 144 is not one for execution and I proceed now to state my reasons for that view.	None
6.	None
I suppose our first task in deciding what kind of application is contemplated in S. 144 is to look at its terms.	None
On doing so, I find that no reference to execution is made in it.	None
It is not contained in any chapter dealing with execution.	None
It says that when a party becomes entitled to restitution as a result of a decree being varied or reversed, the Court of first instance shall, on his application, cause restitution to be made and for this purpose the Court maythe word may here clearly means shall  make any orders that may be necessary.	None
Apart from the fact that the application is not described as one in execution, the provision for the marking of an order for the purpose of effecting restitution would lead to the conclusion that it is this order which is to be executed for obtaining restitution.	None
The section obviously could not contemplate two applications for execution, and, therefore, the earlier application resulting in the order mentioned in the section could not be one for execution.	None
It seems to be impossible, looking at the terms of the section aloneand without more, we have no right to look at anything elseto say that the application contemplated in it is one in execution.	None
7.	None
There are other reasons indicating that the application contemplated by the section is not one for execution.	None
Thus if the application was in execution, then under S. 47 of the Code a suit to obtain the same relief would be barred.	None
It would then have been unnecessary to provide by subs.	None
(2) of S. 144 that no suit shall be instituted for the purpose of obtaining restitution.	None
Again turning to the definition of a decree in S. 2, subs.	None
(2), I find that it includes the determination of a question within S. 144.	None
This provision would be wholly unnecessary if the determination of that question was in execution proceedings for then the matter would be brought within the definition of decree by that part of it which included in it the determination of any question within S. 47 which section relates to questions arising in execution.	None
8.	None
Lastly, while S. 144 provides that the application under it is to be made to the Court of first instance, S. 38 which occurs in a part of the Code dealing with execution, states that a decree may be executed either by the Court which passed it or by the Court to which it is sent for execution.	Reasoning
Section 39 provides for a transfer of a decree for execution to another Court and by virtue of O. 21, R. 10, the holder of a decree desiring to execute it shall if the decree has been sent to another Court, apply to that Court.	None
Under S. 144, however, the application has to be made to the Court of first instance.	None
The section does not permit an application to be made to a transferee Court.	None
This again will indicate that it was not intended that an application under S. 144 will be an application for execution.	None
No doubt, the expression Court of first instance has to be interpreted in a general sense and would include, where the Court of first instance has ceased to exist, a Court which then has jurisdiction over the territory in which the abolished Court functioned.	None
Such a view was taken in Panchapakesa Aiyar v. Natesa Pattar, 51 Mad LJ 161 (AIR 1926 Mad 813 ).	None
This however, is a different matter.	None
9.	None
It was said on behalf of the respondents that S. 144 of the Code of 1908 was intended to replace the analogous provision contained in S. 583 of the preceding Code of 1882 and was in effect a reenactment of the earlier provision and therefore, in construing S. 144 it has to be considered in what way the earlier provision, namely, S. 583, was defective which defects the new provision intended to rectify.	Arguments of Respondent
10.	None
It does not seem to me that even this approach assists the contention that S. 144 contemplates an application in execution.	None
Section 583 expressly said that the restitution was to be obtained by way of an execution.	None
While it is true that on various questions arising under S. 583 difficulty had been felt and divergent views expressed in the High Court, there was, however, no doubt ever felt that the earlier section had provided for a procedure by way of execution to obtain restitution.	None
The earlier section cannot, therefore, lend any support to the view that the application under the new section has to be in execution.	None
Indeed the old section leads to the contrary view for while it expressly provided that restitution would be by way of execution, the present section deliberately omits reference to execution.	None
This departure in the terminology used, would lend to the view that it was intended that the procedure under the new section would not be by way of execution.	None
With the difficulties actually felt under S. 583, we are not concerned in the discussion of the present case, they give no assistance in the solution of the question now before us.	None
11.	None
It was then said that if the application for obtaining restitution under S. 144 was not in execution, then minors and others would be deprived of the benefit of the provisions in Ss. 6 and 7 of the Limitation Act and the benefit of S. 15 of that Act would also not be available in respect of such an application.	Arguments of Respondent
If the language of S. 144 by itself clearly indicates that the procedure is not to be by way of execution, as I think it does, it would not be legitimate to interpret that section in a different way because of the deprivation of the benefits under the provisions of another Act.	None
Furthermore there will be many applications coming under Art.	None
181 of the Limitation Act other than one under S. 144 of the Code where the benefits of these sections of the Limitation Act would not be available.	None
The provisions in the Code of Civil Procedure which give rise to the other kinds of applications covered by Art. 181 of the Limitation Act cannot all be changed for conferring the benefits of Ss. 6, 7 and 15 of that Act.	None
Clearly the intention of Ss. 6, 7 and 15 of the Limitation Act was that their benefit would be available only in cases coming within their terms.	None
I am, therefore unable to agree that a consideration of these sections of the Limitation Act is relevant for the present enquiry.	None
For all these reasons I am of opinion that the application contemplated in S. 144 of the Code is not one in execution and therefore it is not governed by Art.	None
182 of the Limitation Act dealing with execution but by Art. 181, for it is not disputed that if Art. 182 did not apply, Art. 181 would.	None
Now under Art.	None
181 the time starts to run from the date the right to apply accrues and the period provided is three years.	None
In the present case if the right to apply accrued from the date of the appellate decree which gave rise to the right of restitution, then the application for restitution would be barred for the appellate decree was passed on July 13, l949 and the application had been filed on February 13, 1953.	None
12.	None
But, as I have already said, after the appellate decree had been drawn up it was amended on August 24, 1950 by deleting the name of one of the appellants who had died.	None
It was said for the respondents that the right to apply even if Art. 181 applied, must be said to have accrued when the amendment was made, for before then the present respondents could not apply, and if time was computed from that date the application was not barred.	None
This contention, however, is without foundation for under S. 9 of the Limitation Act once the time starts running, it, does not stop to do so and there is no dispute that the time began to run from the date of the appellate decree when the right to apply first accrued.	None
13.	None
It was lastly contended for the respondents that time should start running from the date when this Court revoked the leave to appeal granted under Art. 136.	None
There is no authority to support this contention.	None
14.	None
In the result I would allow appeal No. 778 of 1964 that has arisen from Miscellaneous application No. 16 of 1953 and dismiss the other appeal 15.	None
Subba Rao, J. (For himself and Raghubar Dayal, N. Rajagopala Ayyangar and Mudholkar, JJ.)	None
These appeals by special leave raise inter alia, the question whether Art. 181 of the Limitation Act or Art.	None
182 thereof applies to an application under S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908.	None
16.	None
The facts may be briefly stated.	Facts
Mohanbhai filed Special Jurisdiction Suit No. 28 of 1943 in the Court of the Civil Judge, Senior Division, Nadiad, for possession of the properties described in the Schedule annexed to the plaint from respondents Nos. 1 to 5 and others.	Facts
Respondents 1 to 5 claimed to be in possession of the said properties as trustees under a will executed by Mohanbhais brother Chhabaji the other respondents are alleged to be the sevaks appointed by the respondents to administer some of the trust properties.	Facts
On November 30, 1945, the learned Civil Judge decreed the suit 3 of the trustees and the sevaks preferred an appeal, being Appeal No. 317 of 1946, to the High Court of Bombay.	Facts
On November 8, 1946, pending the appeal.	Facts
Mohanbhai, obtained possession of the suit properties in execution of the decree of the trial Court he also recovered a sum at Rs.	Facts
1,29030 from the trustees being costs awarded to him by the Trial Court.	Facts
Pending the appeal, Mohanbhai died and his son, the present appellant was brought on record in his place.	Facts
On July 13, 1949, the High Court set aside the decree of the Trial Court and dismissed the suit with costs.	Facts
After the appellate decree was drawn up, an application was filed by the decreeholders for deleting the name of appellant No. 7 in the High Court on the ground of his death.	Facts
On August 24 1950, the application was granted and the name of appellant No. 7 therein was deleted.	Facts
As the application filed by the appellant in the High Court for a certificate to prefer an appeal to this Court was dismissed on January 9,1951 he filed an application in this Court for special leave to appeal.	Facts
On April 16, 1952, special leave to appeal was granted to the appellant.	Facts
But as he did not comply with the conditions imposed on him while granting the special leave, this Court on November 24, 1952, rescinded the special leave.	Facts
Thereafter, the respondents herein filed 2 applications in the Trial Court, one was Special Darkhast No.7 of 1953 filed on February 11, 1953 for recovering costs of the suit, the appeal, and the miscellaneous applications, awarded to them against the appellant and the other was Miscellaneous Application No. 16 of 1953 filed on February 13, 1953 under S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the restitution of the estate of Chhabaji which had come into the possession of the appellant and also for the recovery of a sum of Rs.	Facts
1,29030 paid by the trustees to Mohanbhai in execution of the decree of the Trial Court.	Facts
The appellant contended that the applications were barred by limitation.	Facts
The learned Civil Judge held that cl.	Facts
(2) of Art.182 of the Limitation Act applied to the facts of the case and the period of limitation would run from November 24, 1952 when this Court revoked the order granting special leave, and therefore, both the applications having been filed within 3 years from that date, they were in time.	Facts
Alternatively he held that as the decree was amended on August 24, 1950, when the name of the deceased trustee was deleted the period of limitation would run from that date under cl.	Facts
(4) of Art.	Reasoning
182 of the Limitation Act and, therefore, the two applications would be in time.	Facts
In that view, the Trial Court ordered execution to proceed in the said two applications.	Facts
The appellant preferred an appeal to the High Court against the said order of the Trial Court.	Facts
Before the High Court learned counsel for the appellant contended that in regard to the application for restitution Art. 181 of the Limitation Act would apply and, therefore, the said application , not having been filed within 3 years of the date of the decree, was barred thereunder.	Facts
Alternatively he contended that even if Art. 182 of the Limitation Act applied both the applications would be barred by limitation under the said Article.	Facts
The High Court held that both the applications were governed by Art.	Facts
182 of the Limitation Act and that the period of limitation would commence to run from the date the said decree was amended on August 24, 1950, when the name of the deceased trustee was deleted and that, as the said applications were filed within 3 years from the said date, they were within time.	Facts
In that view, it confirmed the order of the Trial Court.	Facts
Hence the appeals.	Facts
17.	None
Dr. Barlingay, learned counsel for the appellant, raised before us the following two points (1) An application for restitution under S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure is not an application for the execution of a decree and, therefore, the said application is not governed by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
182 of the Limitation Act which provides for a period of limitation in the case of execution of decree, but by Art. 181 thereof, which is a residuary article of limitation.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) As under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
181 of the limitation Act the period of limitation of 3 years starts from the date the right to apply accrues, the said application for restitution was barred by limitation as the respondents right to apply for restitution accrued to them when the appeal filed by them in the High Court was allowed on July 13, 1949.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that the alleged amendment dated August 21, 1950, would not help the respondents, as the 7th respondent (7th appellant in the High Court) died after the said appeal was disposed of, that is after the respondents right to apply accrued and that the second application.	Arguments of Petitioner
viz., Special Darkhast No.7 of 1953 for recovery of costs was also barred by limitation under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
182 of the Limitation Act as it was filed beyond 3 years from the date of the appellate decree and that the amendment dated August 24, 1950 on which the respondents relied to save the bar, was only an amendment of a clerical mistake and, therefore, was not an amendment within the meaning of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
182 (4) of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
18.	None
Mr. I.N. Shroff, learned, counsel for the respondents on the other hand, contended that both the applications age governed by Art. 182 of the Limitation Act and that they are saved both under cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(2) and cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(4) of Art.	Reasoning
182 of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
Alternatively he argued that even if Art. 181 of the Limitation Act applied to the application for restitution it would be within time, as the respondents right to apply accrued to them either on the date when the Supreme Court revoked the special leave granted to the appellant, viz., November 24, 1952 or at any rate on the date when the decree was amended i.e. August 24, 1950.	Arguments of Respondent
19.	None
We shall first take up the question of limitation in regard to an application for restitution.	None
At the outset it would be convenient to read the relevant provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure and of the Limitation Act.	None
20.	None
Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure (1) Where and in so far as a decree is varied or reversed, the Court of first instance shall on the application of any party entitled to any benefit by way of restitution or otherwise, cause such restitution to be made as will, so far as may be, place the parties in the position which the would have occupied but for such decree or such part thereof as has been varied or reversed and for this purpose, the Court may make any orders, including orders for the refund of costs and for the payment of interest, damages, compensation and mesne profits.	None
which are properly consequential on such variation or reversal.	None
(2) No suit shall be instituted for the purpose of obtaining any restitution or other relief which could be obtained by application under subsection (1).	None
The First Schedule to the Limitation Act Description of application Period of limitation Time from which period begins to run Art.	None
181 Application for which noperiod of limitation is provided elsewhere in this schedule or by section 48 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.	None
Three years When the right to apply accrues.	None
Art.	None
182	None
For the execution of a decree or order of any Civil Court not provided for by article 183 or by section 48 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 Three years or where a certified copy of the decree or order has been registered, six years 1.	None
The date of the decree or order, or 2.	None
Where there has been an appeal the date of the final decree or order of the final decree or order of the Appellate Court, or the withdrawal of the appeal, or 3.	None
Where there has been a review of judgment, the date of the decision passed on the review, or 4. Where the decree has been amended, the date of amendment , or Under the said provisions if an application is one for execution of a decree, Art. 182 of the limitation Act applies but if it is not an application for execution of a decree, but an application for which no period of limitation is prescribed elsewhere, Art. 181 of the Limitation Act applies The short but difficult question is whether an application for restitution under S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure is an application for execution of a decree.	None
Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure does not say in express terms that an application for restitution is not an application for execution of a decree nor does it say that it is one for execution.	None
So its nature can be ascertained only by construing the said statutory provision.	None
To execute a decree is to carry into effect the terms of the decree and to restitute is to restore to a party the benefit which the other party has received under a decree subsequently held to be wrong.	None
There is no dichotomy between execution and restitution for there can be an executable decree for restitution There is a sharp clevage of opinion among the various High Courts on the question whether an application for restitution is one for execution of a decree or not.	None
This shows that different views can be taken on a fair construction of S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
In such a case the rule of construction of a statute applicable is stated by Lord Coke.	None
which is adopted by Maxwell and it is found in Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes.	None
11th Edn.	None
at P. 18 To arrive at the real meaning it is always necessary to get an exact conception of the aim.	None
scope and object of the whole Act to consider according to Lord Coke 1.	None
What was the law before the Act was passed, 2.	None
What was the mischief or defect for which the law had not provided 3.	None
What remedy Parliament has appointed and 4 The reason of the remedy.	None
Let us, therefore, approach the problem having regard to the said rule of construction.	None
21.	None
In Halsburys Laws of England, 2nd Edn., Vol. 14, p. 38, para 69, the English law on the subject, is stated thus Where a wrongful or irregular execution has been set aside, or where a judgment or order has been reversed after execution thereon has taken place, restitution will be made to the successful party.	None
The order setting aside the execution or reversing the judgment or order should provide for this and if it does, execution may issue upon it in the ordinary course.	None
If the order does not so provide, another order may be made, or a writ called a writ of restitution be issued, commanding the judgment creditor to restore the property or pay over the proceeds of sale.	None
The said passage indicates that under the English law the appellate order reversing the original one may itself contain a direction for restitution or a Court may issue a separate order or a writ of restitution.	None
In the Code of Civil Procedure, 1859, there was no express provision for restitution.	None
But the scope of the doctrine of restitution was considered by the Judicial Committee in Shama Purshad Roy Chowdhry v. Hurro Purshad Roy Chowdhry, 10 Moo lnd App 203 at p. 211 (PC) wherein it stated the principle thus this rule of law rests, as their Lordships apprehend, upon this ground, that the original decree or judgment must be taken to be subsisting and valid until it has been reversed or superseded by some ulterior proceeding.	None
If it has been so reversed or superseded, the money recovered under it ought certainly to be refunded, and , as their Lordships conceive, is recoverable either by summary process, or by a new suit or action.	None
The true question, therefore, in such cases is, whether the decree or judgment under which the money was originally recovered has been reversed or superseded and applying this test to the present case, their Lordships are of opinion, that the decrees obtained by Tara Purshad against Doorga Purshad were superseded by the Order of Her Majesty in Council pronounced in the year 1849.	None
It was plainly intended by that Order that all the rights and liabilities of the parties should be dealt with under it, and it would be in contravention of the Order to permit the decrees obtained by Tara Purshad pending the appeal on which it was made to interfere with this purpose.	None
Though this passage relates to supersession of a decree not in an appeal against that decree but by the Privy Council in a collateral proceeding, the Judicial Committee made it clear that the rights and liabilities of parties should be dealt with only under the decree superseding the earlier decree, and it further restated the English principle that restitution could be made either by a summary process or by a new suit or action.	None
The Code of Civil Procedure, 1882, for the first time, introduced S. 583 providing for restitution.	None
That section read When a party entitled to any benefit, by way of restitution or otherwise, under a decree passed in an appeal under this chapter desires to obtain execution of the same, he shall apply to the Court which passed the decree against which the appeal was preferred and such Court shall proceed to execute the decree passed in appeal according to the rules hereinbefore prescribed for the execution of decrees in suits.	None
Under this section any party entitled to any benefit under a decree passsed in an appeal could file an application in the Court which passed the decree against which the appeal was preferred for the purpose of executing the appellate decree.	None
The crucial words of the section were benefit by way of restitution or otherwise under a decree.	None
Did those words mean that an appellate decree should expressly contain a direction for restoration of any property taken by the respondent in execution of the decree of the first Court, or did they include any benefit to which the decreeholder would be entitled as a consequence of that decree of reversal?	None
It was held that under that section a party would be entitled to restitution, though restitution was not expressly provided for by the decree see Balvantrav v. Sadrudin, ILR 13 Bom 485 and Rohini Singh v. Hodding, ILR 21 Cal 340 .	None
A bear perusal of the section indicates that an application for restitution under the said section was an application for execution of an appellate decree.	None
The Privy Council in Prag Narain v. Kamakhia Singh, ILR 31 All 551 (PC), held that a separate suit would not lie and the relief provided by the said section could be obtained only under S. 583 and S. 244 of the Code of Civil Procedure in execution proceedings.	None
An application made to obtain restitution under a decree in accordance with S. 583 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882, being a proceeding in execution of that decree, it was held by all the High Courts, except one, that proceedings by way of restitution were proceedings for execution within the meaning of Art. 179 of the Limitation Act, 1877 see Venkayya v. Ragavacharlu, ILR 20 Mad 448, Nand Ram v. Sita Ram, ILR 8 All 545, and Jeddi Subraya v. Ramrao, ILR 22	Reasoning
Bom 998.	None
There was also conflict on the question whether mesne profits for the period of dispossession of the party could be recovered only under the said section or by a regular suit.	None
22.	None
The legal position under S. 583 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1882, may be stated thus The benefit accrued to a party under an appellate decree could be realized by him by executing the said decree through the Court which passed the decree against which the appeal was preferred.	None
The appellate Court which set aside or modified the decree of the first Court could give a direction providing for restitution.	None
Even if it did not expressly, do so, it should certainly be implied as the appellate Court could not have intended otherwise.	None
The setting aside of the decree itself raised the necessary implication that the parties should be restored to their original position.	None
Be that as it may, Courts understood the provision in that light and held that such a decree was executable as if it contained such a direction.	None
Such an application was governed by Art.	None
179 of the Limitation Act, 1887, corresponding to Art.	None
182 of the present Act.	None
No suit lay for the relief of restitution in respect of such a benefit, the same being held by the Privy Council to be barred by S. 244 of the Code of Civil Procedure, corresponding to the present S. 47 of the Code.	None
But the terms of the section were only confined to a party entitled to a benefit by way of restitution or otherwise under a decree passed in an appeal and not under any other proceeding.	None
23.	None
With this background the Legislature in passing the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 introduced S. 144 therein.	None
The said section is more comprehensive than S. 583 of the Code of 1882.	None
Section 144 of the present Code does not create any right of restitution.	None
As stated by the Judicial Committee in Jai Berham v. Kedar Nath Marwari, 49 Ind App 351 at p. 355 (AIR 1922 PC 269 at p. 271).	None
It is the duty of the Court under S. 144 of the Civil Procedure Code to place the parties in the position which they would have occupied, but for such decree or such part thereof as has been varied or reversed.	None
Nor indeed does this duty or jurisdiction arise merely under the said section.	None
It is inherent in the general jurisdiction of the Court to act rightly and fairly according to the circumstances towards all parties involved.	None
The section, to avoid the earlier conflict prescribes the procedure, defines the powers of the Court and expressly bars the maintainability of a suit in respect of a relief obtainable under this section.	Reasoning
The section does not either expressly or by necessary implication change the nature of the proceedings.	Reasoning
Its object is limited.	Reasoning
It seeks to avoid the conflict and to make the scope of the restitution clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
It does not say that an application for restitution, which till the new Procedure Code was enacted, was an application for execution, should be treated as an original petition.	Reasoning
Whether an application is one for execution of a decree or is an original application depends upon the nature of the application and the relief asked for.	Reasoning
When a party, who lost his property in execution of a decree seeks to recover the same by reason of the appellate decree in his favour, he is not initiating any original proceeding, but he is only concerned with the working out of the appellate decree in his favour.	Reasoning
The application flows from the appellate decree and is filed to implement or enforce the same.	Reasoning
He is entitled to the relief of restitution, because the appellate decree enables him to obtain that relief, either expressly or by necessary implication.	Reasoning
He is recovering the fruits of the appellate decree.	Reasoning
Prima facie therefore, having regard to the history of the section, there is no reason why such an application shall not be treated as one for the execution of the appellate decree.	Reasoning
24.	None
Now let us consider the arguments pressed on us for taking the contrary view.	Reasoning
It is said that when an appellate Court makes a decree setting aside the decree of the first Court without providing for restitution, there is no executable decree for restitution.	Reasoning
But this argument concedes that if the appellate Court provides for restitution, an application for restitution will be an application for execution of a decree.	Reasoning
Even if it is an execution application the procedure to be followed and the power of the Court to order a restitution would be confined to S. 144 of the Code.	Reasoning
Therefore, an execution application for restitution would be governed by S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
If the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant be accepted, it will lead to inconsistent positions depending upon whether the appellate decree gave a direction for restitution or it did not.	None
If it did not, the application would become an original petition if it did it would be an execution application.	None
This inconsistency can be avoided, if such a direction for restitution be implied in every appellate decree setting aside or modifying the decree of the lower Court, even if it does not expressly give such a direction.	None
25.	None
The second objection is that if the view of the High Court is correct, S. 144 would become redundant, as S. 47 of the Code covers the same field.	Reasoning
Even under the Act of 1882 there were two sections, namely, S. 583, corresponding to some extent, to S. 144 of the present Code, and S. 244, corresponding to S. 47 of the present Code.	Reasoning
Even so, there was a conflict under the old Code as regards the scope of restitution and also as regards the question of the bar of a suit in a civil Court.	Reasoning
Section 144 was enacted to avoid the conflict, to clarify the doubts, and to define the powers of the Court.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, was enacted to obviate any further debate on the question of bar of a suit.	None
26.	None
The next criticism is that while execution proceedings are confined to Part II and Order XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, the Legislature, presumably to make it clear that an application for restitution is not an execution application, placed it in Part XI thereof under the heading Miscellaneous.	None
The placing of a particular section in a Part of the Code dealing with a specific subjectmatter may support the contention that that section deals with a part of the subject dealt with by that Part, but that cannot be said when a particular section appears under a Part dealing with miscellaneous matters.	None
The Part under the heading Miscellaneous indicates that the sections in that Part cannot be allocated wholly to a Part dealing with a specific subject, for the reason that the sections entirely fall outside the other Parts or for the reason that they cannot entirely fall within a particular Part.	Reasoning
They may have a wide scope cutting across different parts dealing with specific subjects.	Reasoning
Section 144 may have been placed in Part XI, as relief of restitution may cover cases other than those arising in execution of a decree of an appellate Court setting aside the decree of a Court under appeal.	Reasoning
Indeed there is a conflict on the question whether S. 144 applies to an order setting aside an ex parte decree to a decree setting aside another decree in a collateral proceeding and to dependent decrees etc.	Reasoning
That apart, even under earlier Code, S. 583 was not placed in the chapter dealing with execution but only in the chapter dealing with appeals.	Reasoning
Indeed some of the sections in Part XI partly deal with execution matters see ss.	Reasoning
l32(2), 135(3), 135A. etc.	Reasoning
The fact that a section has been placed in a particular Part for convenience of arrangement cannot affect the question if in reality the application is one for execution at the most it is only one of the circumstances relevant to the present enquiry it is not decisive of the question one way or other.	Reasoning
27.	None
Nor can we accept the argument that if an application under S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure is in application for execution, it will be inconsistent with S. 38 of the Code.	Reasoning
Under S. 144 an application can be filed only before the Court of the first instance whereas under S. 38 a decree may be executed either by the Court which passed it or by the Court to which it is sent for execution.	Reasoning
But under S. 37 the expression Court which passed a decree, or words to that effect, shall in relation to the execution of decrees, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, be deemed to include, (a) where the decree to be executed has been passed in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction, the Court of first instance, and (b) where the Court of first instance has ceased to exist or to have jurisdiction to execute it, the Court which, if the suit wherein the decree was passed was instituted at the time of making the application for the execution of the decree, would have jurisdiction to try such suit.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that the expression Court which passed a decree includes the Court of first instance where the decree to be executed has been passed in the exercise of appellate jurisdiction.	Reasoning
A combined reading of Ss. 37 and 38 indicates that the Court of first instance is the Court which passed the decree within the meaning of S. 38, and, therefore, an application for execution of the decree can be filed therein.	Reasoning
If the Court of first instance is deemed to be the Court which passed the decree, we do not see any difficulty in holding that the said Court can transfer the decree under S.39 of the Code.	Reasoning
28.	None
The contention that the determination of a question under.	Reasoning
S 144 of the Code is included in the definition of a decree under Section 2(2) of the Code has also no relevance to the question before us.	Reasoning
The said definition takes in both an order made under S. 47 and that made under S. 144 of the Code.	Reasoning
The said two sections are included for the purpose of giving a right of appeal.	Reasoning
If an execution application to which S. 47 applies does not cease to be an execution application by reason of the section being included in the definition of decree, an execution application under S. 144. cannot likewise cease to be one for the reason that the said section is included in the definition of decree.	Reasoning
29.	None
If the argument of the appellant be accepted, it will lead to many anomalies.	Reasoning
If a respondent in the appeal did not execute the decree in his favour and the appeal was dismissed, the period at limitation for executing the decree would be governed by Art.	Reasoning
182 of the Limitation Act, whereas if he executed the decree and had illegally, taken the property from the appellant, though the appeal was allowed, the period of limitation for restitution would be governed by Art.	Reasoning
181 of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
If the appellate Court gave a direction in the decree for restitution, the period of limitation for executing the decree would be governed by Art.	Reasoning
132 of the Limitation Act, whereas if no such direction was given, it would be governed by Art.	Reasoning
181 thereof.	Reasoning
Where an appellant was a minor or under a disability he could not take advantage of the period of extension provided under Ss. 6 and 7 of the Limitation Act, though the appeal was allowed in his favour, by filing an application for restitution whereas if the appeal was dismissed, the respondent, if he happened to be a minor or under a disability, would get the extension for executing the decree.	Reasoning
If an application for restitution was not an application for execution of a decree and if the restitution was stayed by a second appellate Court under S. 15 of the Limitation Act the time during which the party was prevented from applying for restitution could not be excluded, even if ultimately the appeal was dismissed, with the result the application for restitution would get barred.	Reasoning
The construction suggested by the learned counsel for the appellant will lead to the said anomalies.	Reasoning
The existence of anomalies may have no relevance when a provision of a statute is clear and unambiguous, but it will certainly have a bearing when the section is ambiguous.	Reasoning
30.	None
As we have already indicated, there are strong currents of judicial opinion expressing conflicting views on the construction of S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
The Madras High Court in Somasundaram v. Chokkalingam, ILR 40 Mad 780 (AIR 1917 Mad 185) and Venkataraju v. Suryanarayana, ILR (1943) Mad 411 (AIR 1943 Mad 248 ), the Bombay High Court in Kurgodigouda v. Ningangouda, ILR 41 Bom 625 (AIR 1917	None
Bom 210 ) and Hamidalli v. Ahmedali, ILR 45 Bom 1137 (AIR 1921 Bom 67 ) the Patna High Court in Bhaunath v. Kedarnath, ILR 13 Pat 411 (AIR 1934 Pat 246 (2) )	None
(FB), the Chief Court of Oudh in Chandika v. Bital, ILR 6 Luck 448 (AIR 1931 Oudh 51), the Rangoon High Court in Muthukaruppan Chettiar v. Annamalai, ILR 11 Rang 275 (AIR 1933 Rang 180), the High Court of TravancoreCochin in Kochu Vareed v. Mariyam, AIR 1952 Trav Co 40, and the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Choudhary Hariram v. Pooran Singh, AIR 1962 Madh Pra 295, held that an application under S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure was an application for execution of a decree, while it had been held by the High Court of Allahabad in Parmeshwar Singh v. Sitaldin Dube, ILR 57 All 26 (AIR 1934 All 626) (FB), and other cases the Calcutta High Court in Saraj Bhushan v. Debendranath.	None
ILR 59 Cal 337 (AIR 1932 Cal 308 ) and Hari Mohan Dalal v. Parmeshwar Shau, ILR 56 Cal 61 (AIR 1928 Cal 646 ), and other cases, the Nagpur High Court in Khwaja Allawali v. Kesharimal.	None
ILR (1947)	None
Nag 176 (AIR 1947 Nag 239), and the Punjab High Court in Mela Ram v. Dharam Chand Amrit Lal.	None
ILR (1958) Punj 407 (AIR 1958 Punj 132 (FB) ), that it was not an application for execution.	None
We have gone through the judgments carefully and we have derived great assistance from them.	None
If we are not dealing with each of the cases specifically, it is only because we have practically dealt with all the reasons given by the learned Judges in support of their respective views.	Reasoning
We realize that the opposite construction far which the appellant contended is also a possible one but it ignores the history of the legislation and the anomalies that it introduces.	Reasoning
On a procedural matter pertaining to execution when a section yields to two conflicting constructions, the court shall adopt a construction which maintains rather than disturbs the equilibrium in the field of execution.	Reasoning
The historical background of S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the acceptance of the legal position that an application for restitution is one for execution of a decree by a number of High Courts, the inevitable adoption of the said legal position by innumerable successful appellants within the jurisdiction of the said High Courts, the possible deleterious impact of a contrary view on such appellants, while there will be no such effect on similar appellants within the jurisdiction of the High Courts which have taken a contrary view, also persuade its to accept the construction that the application for restitution is one for execution of a decree.	Reasoning
We, therefore hold on a fair construction of the provisions of S. 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure that an application for restitution is an application for execution of a decree.	Reasoning
31.	None
Coming to the second application, namely, Special Darkhast No. 7 of 1953, filed for recovery of costs, undoubtedly it is governed by, Art.	Reasoning
182 of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
But the appellant contends that the High Court wrongly held that the said application being within 3 years from the date of the amended decree, namely.	Reasoning
August 24, 1950, it was within time.	Reasoning
Under cl.	Reasoning
(4) of Art.	Reasoning
182 of the Limitation Act an application for execution of a decree can be filed within 3 years, where the decree has been amended, from the date of the amendment.	Reasoning
Dr. Barlingay contended that the amendment dated August 24, 1950, was only analogous to a correction of a clerical mistake and was not an amendment affecting the rights of the parties and, therefore, it was not an amendment within the meaning of Art.	Reasoning
182 (4) of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to decide in this case whether the expression amendment in the said clause takes in an amendment of a clerical error, for we are satisfied that on the facts of the case the amendment was a substantial one and that it did affect the rights of the parties under the decree.	Reasoning
It may be recalled that there were 7 appellants in the High Court and the appellate Court set aside the decree passed by the Trial Court against them.	Reasoning
By the amendment dated August 24, 1950, the name of the 7th appellant was struck out from the decree.	Reasoning
The result of the amendment was that while the original appellate decree was in favour of the 7 appellants, the amended appellate decree was only in favour of 6 appellants.	Reasoning
To that extent the rights of the parties were modified by the amended decree.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clearly a case where the decree has been amended within the meaning of cl.	Reasoning
(4) of Art.	Reasoning
182 of the Limitation Act.	Reasoning
32.	None
If so, the application for execution as well as that for restitution having been filed within 3 years from that date, both were clearly within time.	Reasoning
33.	None
In the result, the appeals fail and are dismissed with ousts.	None
34.	None
ORDER OF THE COURT In C. A. No. 778 of 1964.In accordance with the opinion of the majority, the appeal is dismissed with costs.	Decision
35.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
