 Ray, C.J.1.	None
This writ petition is for a mandamus directing the respondents to cancel four orders mentioned in the petition and to issue quota certificate to the petitioners in respect of their past imports.2.	Issue
The petitioners are a partnership firm.	Facts
The petitioners are successors to J. Fernandes and Company of which Josinho Fernandes was the sole proprietor, hereinafter referred to as the original concern.3.	Facts
In the month of October, 1961 the original concern booked orders for purchase of Surveying and Mathematical Instruments and Surgical and Scientific Instruments with a German firm.	Facts
The orders were accepted by the German firm, as will appear from the letter dated 7 November.	Facts
1961.4.	Facts
On 19/20 December, 1961 Goa was liberated.	Facts
Prior to the liberation of Goa import licences were granted to the citizens of Goa by a Government Department known as Junta do Comercio Externo which means the Board of External Trade.	Facts
The original concern is alleged to be an importer registered with the Junta prior to the month of December, 1961.	Facts
After the liberation of Goa the representatives of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry saw the Administrator of Goa with regard to applications for import.	Facts
On 18 January, 1962 the original concern applied to the Administrator of Goa for issuing an import licence for ?	Facts
32,652. 10 for Surveying and Mathematical Instruments and Surgical and Laboratory Equipments, along with necessary papers of firm commitments.5.	Facts
The original concern obtained a licence on 12 February, 1962.	Facts
The licence was No. 47.	Facts
The original concern was allowed to import instruments, microscopes, laboratory apparatus and utensils all worth 32,652100.	Facts
The original concern opened a letter of credit on 21 February, 1962 for 50 per cent of the licence.6.	Facts
The Central Government on 21 February, 1962 informed the Administrator, Goa, that the Central Government withheld action on all pending cases where import had been authorized.	Facts
The Central Government gave two reasons.	Facts
First, the Government were of the view that any relaxation of import would result in serious drain on foreign exchange, and second, that it was difficult for any authority to be satisfied about the firm commitments and some abuse was possible.	Facts
Pursuant thereto the Administrator, Goa issued directions to suspend issue of letter of credit and all cases relating to firm commitments entered into before 18 December, 1961 which were till then not disposed of should be frozen.7.	Facts
On 2 April, 1962 the Administrator of Goa issued a Press Note that imports into Goa, Daman and Diu would be governed by three principles.	Facts
First, import would be allowed in cases (a) where letters of credits had been opened with the Banco National Ultra Marines on or before 18 December, 1961 (b) where goods were shipped on or before 20 December, 1961.	Facts
Second, imports of certain specified items were banned.	Facts
Third, imports would be allowed of certain goods to the extent of 50 percent of imports actually made in the quarter of September, October and November, 1961.8.	Facts
The petitioners licence No. 47 was revalidated on 28 May. 1962 for 16,000 for which the petitioner had not till then opened letter of credit.	Facts
27 February, 1962 is the date when the Administrator of Goa had suspended to issue fresh letter of credit.	Facts
In the month of July, 1962 the petitioner effected imports of goods for the full value.9.	Facts
The Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 was applied to Goa.	Facts
Daman and Diu from 1 October, 1963.10.	Facts
In October, 1964 the original concern was taken over by the petitioner.11.	Facts
In 1967 the Hand Book for the year 1967 declared the period 1 April, 1961 to 31 March, 1966 as the basic period and any one year during the period could be selected as the basic import by the concerned party who would become the established importers.12.	Facts
On 15 May, 1967 the petitioner applied to the licensing authorities for recognising the change in the constitution of the firm and fixation of quota for which they could import the goods.	Facts
The licensing authorities recognised the change in the constitution but refused to fix the quota on the ground that the original licence No. 47 granted to the original concern on 12 February, 1962 was not issued in accordance with the procedure followed for the issue of licence at that time.	Facts
The petitioner filed an appeal against the order, The appeal was rejected.	Facts
The petitioner filed a review application which was rejected.13.	Facts
The petitioners grievances are these First, licence No. 47 dated 12 February, 1962 was a licence issued in accordance with the procedure followed for the issue of licence at that time.	Arguments of Petitioner
The directions of the Central Government were illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Central Government was not competent to issue directions to the Administrator of Goa except through the president in view of Articles 239 and 240 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Second, the provisions of the Goa, Daman and Diu Administration Ordinance No. 2 of 1962.	Arguments of Petitioner
hereinafter referred to as the Ordinance and Goa, Daman and Diu Administration Act l of 1962 hereinafter referred to as the Act cured all irregularities of the State, in any for the grant of licence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Third, refusal to consider the application affects the fundamental right of the petitioner to carry on trade and business.	Arguments of Petitioner
Fourth, the Petitioners fundamental right under Article 14 is violated because the respondents discriminated against the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents granted licences to six parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that the conditions, namely, shipping before 20 December,1961 and opening of letters of credit before 18 December, 1961 could only operate in respect of licences issued by the Portuguese Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
When by reason of policy, these were the conditions applied, the same should have been applied even to those who were given licences under the old laws by the Portuguese Government or those who were given licences by the Administrator of Goa under the operation of the old laws.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no distinction between the cases of the petitioner and the case of six traders mentioned in Annexure R4 at Page 169.14.	None
The contention of the petitioner that six traders have been granted licences whereas the petitioner was not, and, there was violation under Article 14 is unacceptable.	Reasoning
These six licences were issued before liberation between the period 12 February, 1961 and 4 December, 1961.	Reasoning
The six licences were issued prior to the liberation of Goa.	Reasoning
The liberation of Goa was on 19121961.	Reasoning
On 20 December, 1961 Goa became a Union Territory.	Reasoning
The licence on which the petitioner bases the claim was dated 12 February 1962.The petition we was not admittedly issued any licence before the liberation of Goa.	Reasoning
Between the liberation of Goa and the application of the petitioner for licence, the Government of India issued on 3 January, 1962 to the Chief Civil Administrator, Goa certain directions regarding the issue of import licence.	Reasoning
The original concern had not opened letter of credit before 18 December, 1961 and the goods in question were not shipped prior to 20 December, 1961.	Reasoning
The application of the petitioner was subsequent to the issue of directions dated 3 January, 1962 by the Government of India that imports would be allowed if letter of credit had been opened before 18 December, 1961 or shipment had taken place before 20 December, 1961.The classification of persons with reference to the grant of import licence depending on whether it was granted before the liberation or after the liberation of Goa is a valid classification based on intelligible differentia having a rational nexus with the object of import licence policy.	Reasoning
There is no violation of Article 14.	Reasoning
The petitioner stands on a different footing and does not belong to the class of persons who were given import licences during the Portuguese Rule before the liberation of Goa.15.	Reasoning
The petitioner challenges the orders dated 28 September, 1968 rejecting the petitioners application for the issue of a quota certificate.	None
The Government rejected it on the ground that licence No. 47 dated 12 February, 1962 was not issued in accordance with the procedure prescribed for issue of licences, at that time.	None
The Government relied on paragraph 33 (n) of the Hand Book of Rules, 1968.	None
In short, that paragraph is that licence would be given only for the basic period between 1 April, 1961 and 31March, 1966 to established importers.	None
The Government took the stand that the petitioner is not eligible because there was no valid licence The petitioner does not challenge the validity of any provision of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 or any Provision of any statutory orders issued thereunder.	None
The petitioner does not challenge the validity of paragraph 33(n) of the Hand Book of Rules of Procedure.	None
There is no challenge to the authority of the Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports to pass an order in the light of paragraph 33 (n) of the Hand Book.16.	None
Really, the petitioners contention is that the licensing authorities misapplied or wrongly applied the Imports and Exports Control Act.	None
A petition under Article 32 will not be competent to challenge any erroneous decision of an authority.(See Gulabdas and Co. v. Asst.	Arguments of Petitioner
Collector of Customs, AIR 1957 SC 733 and State of Jammu and Kashmir v. Mir Gulam Rasul, (1961) 3	None
SCR 969 (AIR 1961 SC 1301 ).A	None
wrong application of law would not amount to a violation of fundamental right.	None
Das, C. J. said in the case of Gulabdas and Co.(supra) that if the provisions of law are good and the orders passed are within the jurisdiction of the authorities there is no infraction of fundamental right if the authorities are right or wrong on facts.	None
In the case of Gulabdas and Co. (supra) the petitioners challenged the order of the Assistant Collector of Customs.	None
The Customs authorities assessed duty under Item 45 (4) of the Indian Customs Tariff.	None
The petitioners in that case contended that the duty should have been assessed under Item 45 (a).	None
This Court held that there was neither any violation of fundamental right under Article 19 or any unequal treatment and the petition was not maintainable.	None
This Court in the case of Smt.	None
Ujjam Bai v. State of U. P., (1963) 1SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ) as also in the case of Bhatnagars and Co. Ltd. v. Union of India, 1957 SCR 701 at p. 712 (AIR 1957 SC 478 at p. 483), held the same view that any erroneous decision would not be a violation of fundamental rights.17.	None
The petitioner relied on Sections 3, 4 and 7 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Administration) ordinance 1962.	None
Section 3 of the ordinance in short stated that authorities who, immediately before the commencement of this Ordinance, were exercising lawful functions in connection with the Administration of Goa, Daman and Diu or any part thereof shall, unless otherwise directed continue to exercise in connection with such administration their respective functions.	None
Section 4 of the Ordinance speaks of continuance of existing laws and their adaptation until amended or repealed by a competent legislature.	None
Section 7 says that all things done and all actions taken, on or after the appointed day which was 20 December, 1961 and before the commencement of the Ordinance, viz 5 March, 1962 by the Administrator or any other officer which have been done or taken in good faith and in a, reasonable belief that they were necessary for the peace and good Government of Goa, Daman and Diu, shall be as valid and operative as if they had been done or taken in accordance with law.18.	None
The petitioner also relied on Sections.	None
4, 5 and 9 of the Act.	None
Section 4 speaks of officers who before the commencement of the Act were exercising lawful functions would continue to exercise their respective functions.	None
Section 5 of the Act speaks of continuance of existing laws and their adaptation until amended or altered by the competent Legislature.	None
Section 9 of the Act speaks of validation of certain action and indemnity of officers for certain acts similar to Section 7 of the Ordinance.19.	None
Sections 3 and 4 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Administration) Ordinance No.2 of 1962 and Ss. 4 and 5 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Administration) Act No. 1 of 1962 do not support the case of the petitioner.	None
These provisions in the Ordinance and the Act came into force on 5 March 1962.	None
The import licence was issued on 12 February, 1962 which is prior to the coming into force of the provisions of the Ordinance and the Act.	None
After the liberation of Goa the Portuguese laws were not in force and, therefore, the petitioner cannot take recourse to the Portuguese laws for the validity of the licence which was issued on 12 February, 1962.	None
The Chief Civil Administrator was subordinate authority to the Government of India and was bound to obey the direction of the Central Government.	None
The Chief Civil Administrator had no authority to issue a licence in disregard of the directions of the Central Government.	None
Such a licence would not confer any right on the petitioner (See State of Punjab v. Jagdip Singh, (1964) 4	None
SCR 964 (AIR 1964 SC 521 ) ).20.	None
The petitioner cannot draw any sustenance either from Section 7 of the Ordinance or Section 9 of the Act for three reasons.	Reasoning
First the scope of validation is limited to such acts which were done in good faith and with the reasonable belief that they were necessary for peace and good Government.	Reasoning
The licence was issued in contravention of lawful direction given by the Government of India.	Reasoning
The licence was not issued in good faith or in a reasonable belief that they were necessary for the peace and good Government of Goa, Daman and Diu.	Reasoning
Second, the validation was not intended to protect breaches of directions issued by the new sovereign (See Pema Chibar v. Union of India, (1966) 1SCR 357 (AIR 1966 SC 442 ). )	None
21.	None
If the licence dated 12 February, 1962 was validated by Sec.	None
7 of the Ordinance that validation would be an answer to any move on the part of the respondents to cancel that particular licence.	None
What was deemed to be valid by legal fiction for a certain purpose, notwithstanding the infirmity in granting it, cannot confer any right on the petitioner to claim in future as a matter of right, any import quota.	None
The validation would be only in respect of past transactions.	None
Third, in the year 1967 the Government of India laid down the conditions that imports made under licences issued through inadvertence or mistake in the past would not be considered for issuing the import quota certificate.	None
This is a matter of policy.	None
Normally, courts do not go into such policy decision.	None
The policy decision is also not challenged by the petitioner.	None
If the policy is followed and in a given case a licence was issued contrary to the procedure or by mistake or inadvertence, the decision in the year 1968 in the light of the policy enunciated in 1967 cannot be regarded erroneous simply on the ground that the original licence erroneously issued in 1962 might be validated under Section 7 of the Ordinance.22.	None
Any revalidation of the licence on 28 May, 1962 by the Administrator would not assist the petitioner in regard to obtaining quota rights.	None
On 12 April, 1962 the Administrator himself issued a Press Note specifying the conditions subject to which imports would be allowed.	None
Revalidation was in violation of the terms and conditions set out by the Chief Civil Administrator in his Press Note dated 2 April 1962.	None
It is not correct to say that the Chief Civil Administrator revalidated the licence dated 12 February, 1962 on 28 May, 1962.	None
The Chief Civil Administrator merely extended the validity of the licence for a further period of 90 days.	None
It is not a case of revalidation of a defective licence but a case of extension of the duration of the licence.	None
If the original licence was defective mere extension of the duration of the licence could not cure the defect.	None
In any event, the protection, if any, of the validating Section in the Ordinance would not extend beyond 4 March.	None
1962 because the acts validated under Section 7 of the Ordinance must have been done between 20 December, 1961 and 4 March, 1962.23.	None
The directions issued by the Central Government are impeached by the petitioner to be in violation of Articles 239 and 240 of the Constitution.	None
Under Article 1 (3) (c) of the Constitution, Goa, Daman and Diu became part of the territory of India by acquisition.	None
Goa, Daman and Diu became a Union Territory on and from the date of their acquisition by the Government of India.	None
Under Article 239 (1) a Union Territory shall be administered by the President acting through an Administrator.	None
Article 240 empowers the President to make regulations for the peace, progress and good Government of the Union Territory.	None
In the present case no Presidential Regulation was relied on by either side.24.	None
Parliament has power under Article 246 (4) to make laws with respect to any Union Territory.	None
The executive power of the Union under Article 73 (1) (a) shall extend to the matters with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws.	None
The Union Government has, therefore, power to issue executive directions to the Administrator of a Union Territory.	None
So long as there is no conflict between a direction issued by the Central Government and a Presidential Regulation made under Art. 240, the Administrator of a Union Territory is bound to carry out the orders and directions given by the Central Government.	None
The decision of this Court in Shamsher Singh v. State of Punjab.	None
AIR 1974 SC 2192 is that the powers conferred on the President by Article 239 are to be exercised by him on the aid and advice of the Cabinet.	None
Therefore, the directions issued by the Central Government are valid because of the combined effect of Article 73 and Article 246 which confer power on the Union executive to exercise powers in respect of matters with respect to which Parliament has competence to make laws.25.	None
In the present case, the Chief Civil Administrator himself declared in a Press Note dated 2 April 1962 the terms and conditions subject to which import licence would be granted.	None
The alleged revalidation of licence No. 47 in the month of May, 1962 took place subsequent to the Press Note and contrary to the terms and conditions.	Reasoning
It was really not a revalidation of the licence but an extension of the period.	Reasoning
If the licence itself was defective, there could not be any validation of the licence as was contended for by the petitioner.26.	Reasoning
There is no particular statute or Portuguese law which confers any right on the petitioner to get an import licence in the circumstances in which it was issued to him.	Reasoning
Even if preliberation laws continued to be in force with effect from 5 March, 1962 that would not take away power of the Central Government to modify or alter the preexisting procedure for issuing import licences, after liberation, in exercise of its executive powers under Article 73 (1) of the Constitution.27.	Reasoning
The petitioner contended that the original concern was an importer registered with the Junta prior to December, 1961.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents denied that allegation.	None
The petitioner in the rejoinder alleged that it is to be presumed that the original importer must have, been registered with the Junta, prior to the liberation.	None
No materials were shown to establish that the original concern was a regular registered importer.	Reasoning
The contention on behalf of the respondents that the licence was issued without following the regular procedure and by inadvertence or mistake is borne by the facts and circumstances of the code particularly because the Chief Civil Administrator had no authority to issue any import licences in contravention of the directions of the Central Government issued on 3 January, 1962.28.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioner relied on the decision of this Court in M s. Andhra Industrial Works v. Chief Controller of Imports AIR 1974 SC 1539 , in support of the proposition appearing at page 1542 of the Report.	None
The proposition stated there is that one of the instances in relation to laws regulating the citizens right to carry on trade or business guaranteed by Article 19 (1) (g) may be catalogued as where the impugned action is based on a misconstruction of the intra vires statute or is so contrary to the established procedure or rules of natural Justice that it results in violation of a fundamental right.	None
In the case of M s. Andhra industrial Works (supra) the proposition which was extracted from Ujjambais case, (1963) 1	None
SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ) supra) is that an order of assessment made by an authority under a taxing statute which is intra vires, cannot be challenged under Article 32 as repugnant to Article 19 (1) (g) on the sole ground that it a based on a misconstruction of a provision of the Act or of a notification issued thereunder.	None
In Ujjambais case supra) it was said that when assessment proceedings are repugnant to rules of natural justice there is an infringement of the right guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (f) and 19 (1) (g).	None
In support of that proposition reference was made to Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. S. R. Sarkar, (1961) 1	None
SCR 379 (AIR 1961 SC 65 ), K. T. Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala, 1961) 3	None
SCR 77 (AIR 1961 SC 552 ).	None
and Madanlal Arora v. Excise and Taxation Officer, (1962) 1	None
SCR 823 (AIR 1961 SC 1565 ).29.	None
In the case.	None
of Andhra Industrial Works, AIR 1974 SC 1539 (supra) an objection was raised on behalf of the respondents that the petition was not competent because there was no violation of fundamental rights.	None
This Court upheld that objection and said that neither the Imports and Exports (Control) Act nor any order thereunder was alleged to be ultra vires nor was the Import Control Policy impeached.	None
A policy statement was held to be not a statutory document, No Person can on the of basis of a policy statement claim a right to the grant of an import licence.	None
This Court also held that there is no absolute right much less a fundamental right, to the grant of an import licence.30.	None
This Court in Deputy Asst.	Reasoning
Iron and Steel Controller v. L. Manickchand, (1972) 3	Reasoning
SCR 1 (AIR 1972 SC 935 ) held that no one has any vested right to an import licence in terms of the policy in force at the time of his application There is no misconstruction of any statutory provision in the present case.	Reasoning
In the present case it cannot be said that there is no authority of law to reject an application for import licence.31.	Reasoning
For these reasons, the petition fails and is dismissed.	Decision
Parties will pay and bear their own costs,31.	None
Petition dismissed.	None
