 P. Bharucha, J. Leave granted in the Special Leave Petitions.	None
These are appeals by special leave filed by the Employees State Insurance Corporation against the judgments and orders of the High Courts of Bombay, Madras and Kerala holding that advertising agencies are not shops for the purposes of the application thereto of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act.)	Issue
All the appeals can, therefore, be disposed of by a common judgment.	Issue
It is convenient to take note in the judgment, as illustrative, of the facts of the case arising in Bombay.	None
A notification was issued under Section 1(5) of the said Act by the Government of Maharashtra.	Facts
Section 1(5) entitles the appropriate Government, (in these appeals, admittedly, the Goverment of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala) to extend the provisions of the said Act, in consultation with the appellants (the Employees State Insurance Corporation) and with the approval of the Central Government, after giving 6 months notice of its intention as to do by a notification in the Official Gazette, to any establishment or classes of establishments, industrial, commercial, agricultural or otherwise.	Facts
By the said notification the said Act was applied to, inter alia shops.	Facts
The relevant portion of the notification read thus  3.	Facts
The following establishments wherein a twenty or more employees are employed or were employed for wages on any day of the preceding twelve months, namely  (i) hotels (ii) restaurants (iii) shops (iv) cinemas, including preview theatres and (v) newspaper establishments as defined in Section 2(d) of the Working Journalists (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 (43 of 1965).	Facts
5.	Facts
The appellants informed M s Dattaram Advertising (P) Ltd., the respondent in the appeal, that it was covered by the notification and required it to comply with the provisions of the said Act and make contributions thereunder.	Facts
The respondent resisted and, ultimately, filed an application before the Employees State Insurance Court contending that it was not a hotel, a restaurant, a shop, a cinema or a newspaper establishment and, therefore, the said Act had not been extended to it by the said notification.	Facts
The appellants submitted that the respondent was a shop and, accordingly, covered by the said notification and, therefore, by the said Act.	Facts
The Employees State Insurance Court upheld the submission and dismissed the respondents under the provisions of the said Act before the High Court at Bombay and the learned single Judge who heard it reversed the order of the Employees State Insurance Court, holding that the respondent was not a shop.	Facts
The appellants filed a Letters Patent Appeal, upon which the impugned judgment and order was made.	Facts
6.	Facts
The impugned judgment noted the evidence on behalf of the respondent as to the activities carried on in its advertising agency, thus  The witness on behalf of the respondent has stated that sometimes the clients visit the office of the respondent, while sometimes the officers of the respondent visit its clients.	Facts
The proposals for the promotion of the products in different media are given by the officers of the respondent in its office.	Facts
Advices are given by the respondents officers as to the expenses that could be incurred if the products are advertised through the different media, such as newspapers.	Facts
All India Radio, television, etc.	Facts
Basically, says the witness, the respondent renders advice to its clients as to how their products are to be advertised.	Facts
Though at one stage he made himself bold to say that the income of the respondent was only by way of commission which the respondent earns by giving advertisements to the media, he was naturally compelled to admit later that the clients also pay the respondent for the various services rendered by the respondents organisation.	Facts
8.	Facts
Proceeding further, it may be noted that the respondents organisation has an art department, a media department and an accounts department.	Facts
The different categories of the employees are office peons, assistants, accountants, artists, art directors, etc.	Facts
The witness has described the manner in which a proposal for the advertisement takes shape and how it is ultimately executed.	Facts
The description given by him, happily brought out in the cross examination on behalf of the Corporation, gives a fairly accurate picture of the work done by the respondent.	Facts
The idea for advertising is suggested, in the first place, by the respondent to its clients.	Facts
After the idea is accepted in one form or another, the execution of the same is taken up.	Facts
The photograph work is given to outside agencies.	Facts
However, the drawing of the sketches and doing the painting work are done by the art department of the respondent.	Facts
After the work is over, a bill is prepared in respect of a particular client and the payment is naturally made by the client in accordance with the bill.	Facts
7.	Facts
The Division Bench held that it was clear that the respondent, in the course of its business of commercial activity, did not sell any unit of work or unit or commodity to any particular person, not even to its client.	Facts
The bill that was prepared depended upon the extent of the work involved, the quality of the work and the volume of publicity undertaken.	Facts
The payment was not so much for the quantity but for the quality.	Facts
It was true that the advertising agency got paid for the services which it rendered but the services were more in the nature of supply of ideas rather than services of any particular tangible type.	Facts
If in the work that was done by the advertising agency on behalf of its client, a predominant part was played by the mind and what was supplied was the product, such as an idea for an effective campaign, one could not conceive this activity as being one which involved the sale and purchase of services.	Facts
The Division Bench distinguished the judgment of this Court in the case of Hindu Jea Band v. Regional Director, Employees State Insurance Corporation, Jaipur, AIR 1987 Supreme Court 1166, stating that the services of an advertising agency were not available, on retail basis in the sense that any person could go and obtain the same.	Facts
Secondly, the services of the advertising agency were not sold at a stipulated price, the price necessarily varied according to the volume, nature and complexity of the work assigned to it by its client.	Facts
The Division Bench emphasised that a shop, even in its expanded meaning, must be a place where goods and services in a tangible form were sold, such as an entertainment programme which appealed to the senses, or the reservation of accommodation in transport.	Facts
Even if it were accepted that a shop meant a place where goods and services were sold, it could not legitimately be held that the premises in which an advertising agency conducted its business was a place where services were sold.	Facts
The concept of sale necessary involved a unit of work or of service, a definite price for the same and its availability on retail basis to anyone who asked for it.	Facts
The Division Bench, therefore, upheld the contentions of the respondent and dismissed the appeal.	Facts
Shri M.L. Verma, learned counsel for the appellants, submitted that a shop was a place where services were rendered for consideration and that an advertising agency being a place where services were rendered for consideration, it was a shop.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the said Act was a piece of beneficial legislation and the court ought so to interpret it as to bring employees into its fold rather than the other way around.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relief upon the aforementioned judgment of this Court in the case of Hindu Jea Band as also on the decisions of this Court in M s Cochin Shipping Co. v. E.S.I. Corporation, (1992)	Arguments of Petitioner
4 SCC 245 1992(3) SCT 481 (SC) and M s International Ore Fertilizers (India) Pvt. Ltd v. Employees State Insurance Corporation, (1987) 4 SCC 203.	None
Mr. Pai, learned counsel for the advertising agencies, involved in the Madras cases, drew our attention to the correspondence which had taken place between the Government of Tamil Nadu and the appellants in the course of the consultation required by Section 1(5).	Arguments of Respondent
The correspondence showed, in his submission, that the larger area of commercial activity was not intended to be covered by the word shop.	Arguments of Respondent
It was used to bring into the coverage of the said Act small retail establishments.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Pai and other learned counsel for the respondent advertising agencies submitted that it was the retail activity of the establishment that had been emphasised in the Hindu Jea Bands case and an advertising agency was not a retail establishment.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel cited the judgment of this Court in Regional Provident Fund Commissioner v. Shibu Metal Works, (1965) 2	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 72 , which sets out, broadly, the principles on which an entry in a statute such as the said Act must be construed.	Arguments of Respondent
In the case of Hindu Jea Bank (ibid) the petitioner arranged for musical performances on occasions such as marriages.	None
The question was whether its business premises could be called a shop.	None
The Collins English Dictionary defined the work shop thus a place esp, a small building for the retail sale of goods and services and a place for the performance of a specified type of work workshop.	None
The court said It is obvious from the above meaning that a place where services are sold in retail basis is also a shop.	None
It is not disputed that the petitioner has been making available on payment of the stipulated price of services of the members of the group of musicians employed by it now wages.	None
We, therefore, hold that the place where the petitioner has been carrying on business is a shop to which the Act is applicable by virtue of the notification referred to above.	None
In the case of M s International Ore Fertilizers (India) Pvt. Ltd. (ibid) the court said (at pages 206207).	None
The word Shop is not defined in the Act or in the notification issued by the State Government.	None
According to the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary the expression shop means a house or building where goods are made or prepared for sale and sold.	None
It also means a place of business or place where ones ordinary occupation is carried on.	None
In ordinary parlance a shop is a place where the activities connected with the burning and selling of goods are carried on.	None
The evidence produced in the case shows that the petitioner is carrying on its business at its business premises in Secunderabad.	None
At that place the petitioner carries on the commercial activity facilitating the emergence of contracts of sale of goods between its foreign principals and the State Trading Corporation Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India.	None
It arranges for the unloading of the goods under its supervision and for the survey of the goods despatched by its foreign principals at the ports on behalf of its foreign principals and on the goods being delivered to the Central Goverment it collects the price payable by the government and remits it to its foreign principals.	None
All these activities are directed and controlled from its premises at Secunderabad.	None
It is thus clear that the activities carried on by the petitioner constituted trading activities although the goods imported from abroad are not actually brought to the said premises and delivered to the purchaser there.	None
In our opinion, it is not actually necessary that the delivery of the goods to the purchaser should take place at the premises in which the business of buying or selling is carried on to constitute the said premises into a shop.	None
The purchaser is only one aspect of trading activities.	None
Negotiations of the terms of sale, carrying on the survey of the goods imported arranging for the delivery of the goods sold, collection of the price of the goods sold etc. are all trading activities.	None
The premises where business is carried on by the petitioner is undoubtedly a shop as the activities that are carried on there relate only to the sale of goods which are imported into India.	None
The petitioner directs and controls all the activities from the premises in question.	None
If orders are received at a place which ultimately fructify into sales and the resulting trading activity is directed from there that place comes to be known as a Shop.	None
In our view the Employees Insurance Court placed a very narrow interpretation on the expression shop while upholding the contention of the petitioner by confining shop to a place where goods are actually stored and delivered pursuant to a sale.	None
We agree with the decision of the High Court that while construing a welfare legislation like the Act and the notification issued thereunder a liberal construction should be placed on their provisions so that the purpose of the legislation may be allowed to be achieved rather than frustrated or stultified.	None
In the case of M s Cochin Shipping Company (ibid) this Court took note of the decisions in the case of Hindu Jea Band and International Ore Fertilizers (India) Pvt. Ltd., and it noted that the appellant was carrying on stevedoring, clearing and forwarding operations.	None
Clearing documents, even it be in the Custom house, was necessary for the export or import of goods.	None
These services formed part of the carriers job.	None
It could not be gainsaid that the appellant was rendering a service to cater to the needs of exporters and importers and others who wanted to carry goods.	None
Therefore, the appellants premises were held to be a shop carrying on a systematic economic or commercial activity.	Reasoning
In the case of Regional Provident Fund Commissioner v. Shibu Metal Works (ibid) this court noted that the Employees Provident Fund Act was intended to serve a beneficient purpose.	None
The object which the Act purported to achieve was to require that appropriate provision should be made for employees employed in establishments to which the Act applied.	None
That meant that in construing the material provisions of such an Act in two views were reasonably possible, the courts should prefer the view which helped the achievement of the object.	None
When the words used in an entry were capable of a narrow or a broad construction, each construction being reasonably possible, and it appeared that the broad construction would help the furtherance of the object, then it was necessary to prefer that construction.	None
This rule postulated that there was a competition between the constructions, each one of which was reasonably possible.	None
The rule did not justify straining words or putting an unnatural or unreasonable meaning on them just for the purpose of introducing a broader construction.	None
There is no doubt at all that the said Act is beneficient legislation.	Reasoning
If, therefore, it is reasonably possible so to construce the word shop as to include the activity of an advertising agency within it, that construction must be preferred.	Reasoning
15.	Reasoning
The decision in the case of Hindu Jea Band held a shop to be a place where services are sold on retail basis.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, held that making available on payment of a stipulated price the service of musicians employed by the petitioner on wages made the petitioners establishment a shop.	Reasoning
In the case of International Ore Fertilizers (India) Pvt. Ltd., the petitioner carried on commercial activities facilitating the sale of goods by its foreign principals to the State Trading Corporation or the Minerals and Metals Corporation.	Reasoning
It arranged for the unloading of such goods and, their survey.	Reasoning
Upon delivery it collected the price payable and remitted it to its foreign principals.	Reasoning
These were trading activities and although the goods imported were not actually and although the goods imported were not actually brought to the petitioners premises and delivered to the purchasers there, the premises were held to be a shop because the trading activities aforementioned related to the sale of goods.	Reasoning
These judgments were followed in the case of Cochin Shipping Company, which catered to the needs of exporters and importers and others who wanted to carry goods.	Reasoning
The appellants premises were, therefore, held to be a shop where systematic economic or commercial activity was carried on.	Reasoning
16.	Reasoning
In the light of these judgments, and the expanded meaning now given to the word shop, the evidence which we have reproduced above setting out the different activities of an advertising agency needs to be considered.	Reasoning
Clients call on an advertising agency to initiate campaigns for promotion of their products.	Reasoning
Advertising campaigns can be conducted in the different media and otherwise.	Reasoning
The advertising agency gives advice in this behalf and as to possible expenses.	Reasoning
The advertising agency prepares and presents alternative campaigns for the client to choose from.	Reasoning
For such purpose it must prepare the necessary art work and the appropriate words to go with it.	Reasoning
It employs specialists in these fields.	Reasoning
The advertising agency is paid for the service it renders as aforesaid by the client.	Reasoning
It also receives commission from the media though whom advertising is done.	Reasoning
17.	Reasoning
Anyone who has products to sell may approach an advertising agency.	Reasoning
The advertising agency will prepare an adverting campaign for him utilising the services of the experts it employs in this behalf.	Reasoning
It sells the campaign to the client and receives the price thereof.	Reasoning
Indubitably, the price will depend upon the nature of the campaign, but that does not, in our view, make any great difference.	Reasoning
Essentially, the advertising agency sells its expert services to a client to enable the client to launch an effective campaign of his products.	Reasoning
Without straining language, the premises of an advertising agency can, therefore, reasonably be said to be a shop as now understood.	Reasoning
The correspondence between the Government of Tamil Nadu and the appellants in the course of consultation under section 1(5) of the said Act does not assist, in our view, even the advertising agencies in the cases from Madras for, whatever the view of the appellants was before the notification was issued, it is for the courts to interpret the notification once it is issued.	Reasoning
The doctrine of contemporaneous exposition does not apply here.	Reasoning
The appellants have not, in implementing the notification, proceeded on the basis that advertising agencies are not shops.	Reasoning
Accordingly, all the appeals (except, the appeal arising from SLP (C) No. 12696 of 1986) are allowed and judgments and orders under appeal are set aside.	Decision
The respondents therein are directed to register themselves and make contribution under the said Act as on the date from which they were first called upon so to do.	Decision
20.	Decision
The appeal arising from SLP (C) No. 12696 of 1987 relates to a steamship company.	Decision
The activities of a shipping company were considered in the case of Cochin Shipping Company aforementioned.	Decision
Regardless of the fact that the steamship company in this appeal does not carry on stevedoring operations, it is covered by the aforementioned case.	Decision
The appeal arising out of S.L.P.(C) No. 12696 of 1987 is, therefore, dismissed.	Decision
21.	Decision
There shall be no orders as to costs in these appeals.	Decision
