 F. Nariman, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal arises out of a petition filed under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, for appointment of a Sole Arbitrator for adjudication of disputes between the parties.	Issue
The Respondent, Galaxy Infra and Engineering Pvt. Ltd., is a company incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956, having its registered office at Village Arra Gadh, Post Office Dharhara, Dist.	Issue
Vaishali, P.S. Hajipur, Bihar and is in the business of providing consultancy services.	Issue
The Appellant, Pravin Electricals Pvt. Ltd., operates in key industrial and commercial retail sectors and provides services for electrical supplies etc.	Issue
On 26th May, 2014, an online tender was invited by Chief Engineer, South Bihar Power Distribution Company Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as SBPDCL) for appointment of implementing agencies for execution of a Scheme, on turnkey basis, for strengthening, improvement and augmentation of distribution systems capacities of 20 towns in Bihar.	Facts
The Appellant submitted its technical and financial bid and was declared the L1 bidder and was awarded the work on 22nd September, 2014.	Facts
It is the case of the Respondent that it had made substantial efforts under a Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014, to facilitate the Appellant in getting the aforesaid contract for which it was entitled to commission.	Facts
It is then alleged that the Appellant sent an email dated 15th July, 2014 to the Respondent with a draft agreement attached for comments and confirmation.	Facts
On the same day, the Respondent sent its reply stating that certain terms were not acceptable.	Facts
In emails that have surfaced for the first time in this Court dated 22nd July, 2014 and 25th July, 2014, the Respondent argued that, in point of fact, all differences between the parties were ironed out and a Final Consultancy Agreement was agreed upon through correspondence between the parties.	Facts
The Respondent alleged that it had raised an invoice on 27th September, 2014, for payment of Rs.28.09 lakhs as an advance for consultancy charges including service tax.	Facts
It is important to note that the said invoice was addressed to one M s Process Construction and Technical Services Pvt. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Process) and makes reference to an agreement entered into between the Respondent and Process.	Facts
Also, on 24th April, 2016, the Respondent alleged that it raised yet another invoice on the Appellant.	Facts
This invoice was also addressed to Process and makes reference to an agreement between the Respondent and Process.	Facts
Ledger accounts that were produced in the normal course of business by the Respondent reflects transactions with Process and not the Appellant.	Facts
Finally, vide an email dated 30th June, 2017, the Respondent attached the final invoice to the Appellant claiming an amount of Rs.5.54 crores under the alleged Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014.	Facts
This was followed up by a demandcumlegal notice dated 9th March, 2018, seeking payment of Rs.5,54,14,318/ from the Appellant as being due under the alleged Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014.	Facts
Vide its reply dated 22nd March, 2018, the Appellant recorded its surprise on receiving such demand notice and flatly denied that any agreement dated 7th July, 2014, was ever entered into between the parties.	Facts
The Appellant further requested the Respondent to provide a copy of the alleged Agreement dated 7th July, 2014 and payment details referred to in the legal notice.	Facts
On 26th April, 2018, the Respondent invoked Article 14 of the alleged Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014, in which they nominated one Kameshwar Choudhary as Sole Arbitrator to adjudicate differences between the parties.	Facts
On 3rd May, 2018, the Appellant denied execution of the Agreement dated 7th July, 2014 and, therefore, stated that the matter could not be referred to arbitration.	Facts
We are informed that on 14th May, 2018, the Respondents Advocates finally supplied a copy of the alleged Agreement dated 7th July, 2014 to the Appellant.	Facts
On 7th September, 2018, the Respondent then filed a petition under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act for appointment of a Sole Arbitrator on the basis of the alleged Agreement dated 7th July, 2014.	Facts
The Delhi High Court vide an order dated 28th November, 2018, directed the Respondent to produce the original of the Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014.	Facts
The Appellant was then directed to produce Mr. M.G. Stephen, Managing Director of the Appellant, before the Registrar (Judicial) on 7th December, 2018, so that he can carry with him documents which bear his original signature at the contemporaneous time.	Facts
The Registrar (Judicial) was also directed to obtain specimen signatures of Mr. M.G. Stephen.	Facts
The original of the Agreement together with the aforesaid signatures of Mr. M.G. Stephen was then to be sent to the CFSL for obtaining a report.	Facts
The report was then received and by an order dated 20th September, 2019, the High Court directed that copies of the report be given to the learned counsel for the parties.	Facts
Finally, on 30th September, 2019, the learned counsel for the Appellant submitted that he had instructions to contest the matter after which the impugned judgment dated 12th May, 2020 was passed.	Facts
Vide the impugned judgment, the learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court referred to the alleged Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014 and the correspondence between the parties, including the correspondence between SBPDCL and the Respondent herein.	Facts
After going through the aforesaid, the learned Single Judge then held Learned counsel for the petitioner has drawn the attention of the Court to various emails which indicate that a Consultancy Agreement was executed between the parties on 07.07.2014.	Facts
In the said agreement, the parties agreed on the percentage of fee that the petitioner would get in case the respondent succeeded in getting the tender from SBPDCL.	Facts
On 15.07.2014 the respondent had sent an email with a soft copy of the agreement suggesting a certain percentage of the consultancy fee.	Facts
Subsequent emails are also placed on record which show that payment terms were being discussed between the parties.	Facts
Email dated 30.06.2017 is also on record by which a final invoice was sent by the petitioner clearly making a reference to the Agreement dated 07.07.2014.	Facts
None of these documents have been denied by the respondent.	Facts
Learned counsel for the petitioner has also pointed out that the respondent even made payments in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.	Facts
As per the payment terms, Rs.25 Lakhs was payable on receipt of LOI by the respondent from SBPDCL.	Facts
Admittedly on 22.09.2014, LOI was awarded to the respondent and on the petitioner raising an invoice for Rs.25 Lakhs on 27.09.2014, respondent actually made payment on 29.09.2014.	Reasoning
Counsel for the petitioner has also shown the email dated 27.09.2014 whereby the respondent had asked the petitioner to raise the invoice on its letterhead.	Facts
These documents in my view clearly indicate that the parties had entered into an Agreement pursuant to which the parties had acted.	Facts
The petitioner had assisted the respondent in the award of the LOI and the respondent had initially made payments in terms of the said agreement dated 07.07.2014.	Facts
Learned counsel for the Petitioner is also right in submitting that on 15.07.2014, the respondent had itself sent an email containing a Draft Consultancy Agreement which contained Article 14, which was the Arbitration Clause.	Facts
The parties were thus ad idem regarding submission of disputes to Arbitration.	Facts
The fact that there was an Agreement between the parties is also fortified by the fact that the information sent by the Department to the respondent regarding award of the Contract to the respondent was also sent to the petitioner vide email dated 22.09.2014.	Facts
Draft letter of acceptance sent by the Department to the petitioner through email dated 25.09.2014 was sent by the petitioner to the respondent on the same day, by an email.	Facts
Learned counsel for the respondent in my view is not correct in its contention that since a draft agreement was emailed by the respondent, there was no executed agreement dated 07.07.2014.	Facts
From the email dated 15.07.2014, it is apparent that the respondent had executed an Agreement prior to 15.07.2014.	Facts
Petitioner had categorically stated in the email dated 15.07.2014 that the payment terms in the draft agreement were different and there is no document on record filed by the respondent evidencing denial of the contents of this email.	Facts
In so far as the argument that the invoices were raised on PCTSPL and not on the petitioner is concerned, petitioner is correct in its submission that PCTSPL was only a subcontractor of the respondent.	Facts
Petitioner had not raised the invoice on its own will.	Facts
Counsel for the petitioner has pointed out the email dated 24.09.2019 sent by PCTSPL to the respondent i.e. Mr. Manoj Panikar to Mr. Stephen whereby PCTSPL had emailed the draft invoice to the respondent and sought confirmation whether it could be sent to the petitioner and finally, the revised draft invoice was sent to the petitioner on 27.09.2019 by PCTSPL.	Facts
The contention of the respondent that it was PCTSPL which had made payments to the petitioner and this was on account of their own inter se business relationships has no merit.	Facts
The invoice placed on record clearly shows that this was with respect to the contract awarded to the respondent by the Department with which admittedly PCTSPL had no direct relationship.	Facts
This itself is indicative of the fact that dehors the addressee of the invoices, the same were with respect to the contract given by the department to the respondent and for which the petitioner was a consultant.	Facts
In so far as the contention of the respondent that the Consultancy Agreement dated 07.07.2014 did not have the signatures of Mr. M.G. Stephen and therefore, cannot be accepted as an agreement between the parties, is without merit.	Facts
As mentioned in the earlier part of the judgment, it is not mandatory for an Arbitration Agreement that it must be signed by the parties.	Facts
The Supreme Court in case of Caravel Shipping Services Pvt. Ltd. vs. M s. Premier Sea Foods (2019) 11 SCC 461 , has clearly held as under In addition, we may indicate that the law in this behalf, in Jugal Kishore Rameshwardas v. Goolbai Hormusji, AIR 1955 SC 812 , is that an arbitration agreement needs to be in writing though it need not be signed.	Facts
The fact that the arbitration agreement shall be in writing is continued in the 1996 Act in Section 7(3) thereof.	Facts
Section 7(4) only further adds that an arbitration agreement would be found in the circumstances mentioned in the three subclauses that make up Section 7(4).	Facts
This does not mean that in all cases an arbitration agreement needs to be signed.	Facts
The only prerequisite is that it be in writing, as has been pointed out in Section 7(3).	Facts
In my view, the documents placed on record by the petitioner clearly evidence that there exists an Arbitration Agreement between the parties as contained in the draft agreement exchanged by email dated 07.07.2014.	Facts
The present case squarely falls within the ambit of Section 7(4)(b) of the Act.	Facts
The inevitable result is that the parties must be referred to Arbitration for adjudication of their disputes.	Facts
Accordingly, Justice G.S. Sistani, a former Judge of the Delhi High Court was appointed as the Sole Arbitrator to adjudicate the dispute between the parties.	Facts
Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the Appellant, has argued that the alleged Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014 is a concocted document.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is clear from the CFSL report dated 29th September, 2019, on which he relied very heavily.	Arguments of Petitioner
This being the case, since the alleged Consultancy Agreement itself had no existence, there was no arbitration agreement between the parties, as a result of which the High Court judgment fell to the ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also argued that this is the only case of its kind in which a formal signed agreement is alleged to have been entered into between the parties, after which negotiations take place and a draft agreement is referred to.	Arguments of Petitioner
The very fact that negotiations have taken place after such alleged agreement shows that such alleged agreement does not in fact exist.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also went on to argue that the agreement is notarized at Faridabad, Haryana, when the parties are from Mumbai and Bihar respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has also produced documents to show that the socalled Notarys license had expired way before notarization allegedly took place on 7th July, 2014.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that once the case that is pleaded between the parties is found to be incorrect, the Respondent cannot now be allowed to rely upon documents produced here for the first time to show that even apart from the pleaded case namely, the Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014, yet, an agreement is made out in correspondence between the parties after the said date.	Arguments of Petitioner
He attacked the Delhi High Court judgment arguing that the findings that were made qua invoices being raised and payments being made are wholly incorrect in that such invoices were raised and payments were made only by Process under a separate agreement entered into between the Respondent and Process.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also stated that if the pleadings of this case are perused, Process has been described by the Respondent as a Joint Venture partner with the Appellant in one place, then described as a private company who has common directors with the Appellant and then finally described as a SubContractor only in the written submissions filed before Delhi High Court, which last appellation has been accepted by the High Court completely wrongly.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even in the Counter Affidavit filed before this Court, yet another plea is taken that Process is the lead partner of the Appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
For all these reasons, the learned Senior Advocate submits that the judgment under appeal ought to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	None
Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the Respondent, has taken us through all the correspondence again in order to show that even if the Consultancy Agreement dated 7th July, 2014 is not relied upon, yet, an arbitration clause exists in that the draft agreement that was exchanged between the parties culminated in a final agreement on 25th July, 2014.	Arguments of Respondent
In any case, if the correspondence between SBPDCL and the Respondent is to be seen with CCs being marked to the Appellant, it is clear that the Respondent acted as a gobetween and successfully obtained the bid for the Appellant having earned its commission thereon.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued that the judgment under appeal does not require interference in that the CFSL report was also inconclusive and that the correspondence referred to by the learned Single Judge of the High Court would clearly show that the dramatis personae in this case interacted with each other and that, but for the efforts of his client, Pravin Electricals Pvt.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. would never have got the bid.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied upon a number of judgments of this Court to buttress his submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard learned counsel for both the parties, it is important to first set out the relevant provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement.	None
A judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so applies not later than the date of submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of the Supreme Court or any Court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.	None
Appointment of arbitrators.	None
xxxx Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties, (a) a party fails to act as required under that procedure or (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an agreement expected of them under that procedure or (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function entrusted to him or it under that procedure, a party may request the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or any person or institution designated by such Court to take the necessary measure, unless the agreement on the appointment procedure provides other means for securing the appointment.	None
(6A)	None
The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under subsection (4) or subsection (5) or sub section (6), shall, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.	None
xxxx	None
A decision on a matter entrusted by subsection (4) or subsection (5) or subsection (6) to 3 the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court or the person or institution designated by such Court is final and no appeal including Letters Patent Appeal shall lie against such decision.	None
Sections 8 and 11 were amended pursuant to a detailed Law Commission Report being the 246th Law Commission Report on Arbitration.	None
The history of the law prior to 2015 is set out in the aforesaid Report and the changes made therein are reflected by this Court in its judgment in Mayavati Trading (P) Ltd. v. Pradyuat Deb Burman, (2019) 8 SCC 714 as under The 246th Law Commission Report dealt with some of these judgments and felt that at the stage of a Section 11(6) application, only existence of an arbitration agreement ought to be looked at and not other preliminary issues.	None
In a recent judgment of this Court, namely, Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 , this Court adverted to the said Law Commission Report and held The case law under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, as it stood prior to the Amendment Act, 2015, has had a chequered history.	None
In Konkan Railway Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Mehul Construction Co., (2000) 7 SCC 201 (Konkan Railway 1), it was held that the powers of the Chief Justice under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act are administrative in nature, and that the Chief Justice or his designate does not act as a judicial authority while appointing an arbitrator.	None
The same view was reiterated in Konkan Railway Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Rani Construction (P) Ltd., (2002) 2 SCC 388 (Konkan Railway 2).	None
However, in SBP Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618 , a sevenJudge Bench overruled this view and held that the power to appoint an arbitrator under Section 11 is judicial and not administrative.	None
The conclusions of the sevenJudge Bench were summarised in para 47 of the aforesaid judgment.	None
We are concerned directly with subparas (i), (iv) and (xii), which read as follows (SCC pp. 66364)	None
The power exercised by the Chief Justice of the High Court or the Chief Justice of India under Section 11(6) of the Act is not an administrative power.	None
It is a judicial power.	None
The Chief Justice or the designated Judge will have the right to decide the preliminary aspects as indicated in the earlier part of this judgment.	None
These will be his own jurisdiction to entertain the request, the existence of a valid arbitration agreement, the existence or otherwise of a live claim, the existence of the condition for the exercise of his power and on the qualifications of the arbitrator or arbitrators.	None
The Chief Justice or the designated Judge would be entitled to seek the opinion of an institution in the matter of nominating an arbitrator qualified in terms of Section 11(8) of the Act if the need arises but the order appointing the arbitrator could only be that of the Chief Justice or the designated Judge.	None
The decision in Konkan Railway Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Rani Construction (P) Ltd., (2002) 2 SCC 388 is overruled.	None
This position was further clarified in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1 SCC 267 as follows (SCC p. 283, para 22) Where the intervention of the court is sought for appointment of an Arbitral Tribunal under Section 11, the duty of the Chief Justice or his designate is defined in SBP Co. (supra)	None
This Court identified and segregated the preliminary issues that may arise for consideration in an application under Section 11 of the Act into three categories, that is, (i) issues which the Chief Justice or his designate is bound to decide (ii) issues which he can also decide, that is, issues which he may choose to decide and (iii) issues which should be left to the Arbitral Tribunal to decide.	None
22.1.	None
The issues (first category) which the Chief Justice his designate will have to decide are Whether the party making the application has approached the appropriate High Court.	None
Whether there is an arbitration agreement and whether the party who has applied under Section 11 of the Act, is a party to such an agreement.	None
22.2.	None
The issues (second category) which the Chief Justice his designate may choose to decide (or leave them to the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal) are Whether the claim is a dead (long barred) claim or a live claim.	None
Whether the parties have concluded the contract transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights and obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection.	None
22.3.	None
The issues (third category) which the Chief Justice his designate should leave exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are Whether a claim made falls within the arbitration clause (as for example, a matter which is reserved for final decision of a departmental authority and excepted or excluded from arbitration).	None
Merits or any claim involved in the arbitration.	None
As a result of these judgments, the door was wide open for the Chief Justice or his designate to decide a large number of preliminary aspects which could otherwise have been left to be decided by the arbitrator under Section 16 of the 1996 Act.	None
As a result, the Law Commission of India, by its Report No. 246 submitted in August 2014, suggested that various sweeping changes be made in the 1996 Act.	None
Insofar as SBP Co. (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) are concerned, the Law Commission examined the matter and recommended the addition of a new sub section, namely, subsection (6A) in Section 11.	None
In so doing, the Law Commission recommendations which are relevant and which led to the introduction of Section 11(6 A) are as follows The Act recognises situations where the intervention of the Court is envisaged at the prearbitral stage i.e. prior to the constitution of the Arbitral Tribunal, which includes Sections 8, 9, 11 in the case of Part I arbitrations and Section 45 in the case of Part II arbitrations.	None
Sections 8, 45 and also Section 11 relating to reference to arbitration and appointment of the Tribunal, directly affect the constitution of the Tribunal and functioning of the arbitral proceedings.	None
Therefore, their operation has a direct and significant impact on the conduct of arbitrations.	None
Section 9, being solely for the purpose of securing interim relief, although having the potential to affect the rights of parties, does not affect the conduct of the arbitration in the same way as these other provisions.	None
It is in this context the Commission has examined and deliberated the working of these provisions and proposed certain amendments.	None
The Supreme Court has had occasion to deliberate upon the scope and nature of permissible prearbitral judicial intervention, especially in the context of Section 11 of the Act.	None
Unfortunately, however, the question before the Supreme Court was framed in terms of whether such a power is a judicial or an administrative power which obfuscates the real issue underlying such nomenclature description as to  the scope of such powers i.e. the scope of arguments which a court (Chief Justice) will consider while deciding whether to appoint an arbitrator or not i.e. whether the arbitration agreement exists, whether it is null and void, whether it is voidable, etc. and which of these it should leave for decision of the Arbitral Tribunal.  	None
the nature of such intervention i.e. would the court (Chief Justice) consider the issues upon a detailed trial and whether the same would be decided finally or be left for determination of the Arbitral Tribunal.	None
After a series of cases culminating in the decision in SBP Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd. (supra), the Supreme Court held that the power to appoint an arbitrator under Section 11 is a judicial power.	None
The underlying issues in this judgment, relating to the scope of intervention, were subsequently clarified by Raveendran, J. in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd. (supra), where the Supreme Court laid down as follows (SCC p. 283, para 22) 22.1.	None
The issues (first category) which Chief Justice his designate will have to decide are Whether the party making the application has approached the appropriate High Court?	None
Whether there is an arbitration agreement and whether the party who has applied under Section 11 of the Act, is a party to such an agreement?	None
22.2.	None
The issues (second category) which the Chief Justice his designate may choose to decide are Whether the claim is a dead (long barred) claim or a live claim?	None
Whether the parties have concluded the contract transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights and obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection?	None
22.3.	None
The issues (third category) which the Chief Justice his designate should leave exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are Whether a claim made falls within the arbitration clause (as for example, a matter which is reserved for final decision of a departmental authority and excepted or excluded from arbitration)?	None
Merits of any claim involved in the arbitration.	None
The Commission is of the view that, in this context, the same test regarding scope and nature of judicial intervention, as applicable in the context of Section 11, should also apply to Sections 8 and 45 of the Act since the scope and nature of judicial intervention should not change upon whether a party (intending to defeat the arbitration agreement) refuses to appoint an arbitrator in terms of the arbitration agreement, or moves a proceeding before a judicial authority in the face of such an arbitration agreement.	None
In relation to the nature of intervention, the exposition of the law is to be found in the decision of the Supreme Court in ShinEtsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre Ltd., (2005) 7 SCC 234 , (in the context of Section 45 of the Act), where the Supreme Court has ruled in favour of looking at the issues controversy only prima facie.	None
It is in this context, the Commission has recommended amendments to Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.	None
The scope of the judicial intervention is only restricted to situations where the court judicial authority finds that the arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void.	None
Insofar as the nature of intervention is concerned, it is recommended that in the event the court judicial authority is prima facie satisfied against the argument challenging the arbitration agreement, it shall appoint the arbitrator and or refer the parties to arbitration, as the case may be.	None
The amendment envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void.	None
If the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined by the Arbitral Tribunal.	None
However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion will be final and not prima facie.	None
The amendment also envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the arbitration agreement is null and void.	None
In the event that the judicial authority refers the dispute to arbitration and or appoints an arbitrator, under Sections 8 and 11 respectively, such a decision will be final and nonappealable.	None
An appeal can be maintained under Section 37 only in the event of refusal to refer parties to arbitration, or refusal to appoint an arbitrator.	None
Pursuant to the Law Commission recommendations, Section 11(6A) was introduced first by Ordinance and then by the Amendment Act, 2015.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons which were appended to the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2015 which introduced the Amendment Act, 2015 read as follows Statement of Objects and Reasons It is proposed to introduce the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2015, to replace the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2015, which inter alia, provides for the following, namely to amend the definition of Court to provide that in the case of international commercial arbitrations, the Court should be the High Court to ensure that an Indian Court can exercise jurisdiction to grant interim measures, etc., even where the seat of the arbitration is outside India an application for appointment of an arbitrator shall be disposed of by the High Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be, as expeditiously as possible and an endeavour should be made to dispose of the matter within a period of sixty days to provide that while considering any application for appointment of arbitrator, the High Court or the Supreme Court shall examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and not other issues to provide that the Arbitral Tribunal shall make its award within a period of twelve months from the date it enters upon the reference and that the parties may, however, extend such period up to six months, beyond which period any extension can only be granted by the Court, on sufficient cause to provide that a model fee schedule on the basis of which High Courts may frame rules for the purpose of determination of fees of Arbitral Tribunal, where a High Court appoints arbitrator in terms of Section 11 of the Act to provide that the parties to dispute may at any stage agree in writing that their dispute be resolved through fasttrack procedure and the award in such cases shall be made within a period of six months to provide for neutrality of arbitrators, when a person is approached in connection with possible appointment as an arbitrator to provide that application to challenge the award is to be disposed of by the Court within one year.	None
The amendments proposed in the Bill will ensure that arbitration process becomes more userfriendly, cost effective and leads to expeditious disposal of cases.	None
A reading of the Law Commission Report, together with the Statement of Objects and Reasons, shows that the Law Commission felt that the judgments in Patel Engg.	None
Ltd., (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra) required a relook, as a result of which, so far as Section 11 is concerned, the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under Sections 11(4) to 11(6) is to confine itself to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement and leave all other preliminary issues to be decided by the arbitrator.	None
The need for reference to any other case law is obviated by a recent ThreeJudge Bench judgment in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation, (2021) 2 SCC 1.	Reasoning
This ThreeJudge Bench judgment arose out of a reference made to 3 learned Judges in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation, (2019) 20 SCC 406.	Reasoning
Sanjiv Khanna, J. speaking for the Court set out the question that arose before the Court as follows This judgment decides the reference to three Judges made vide order dated 2822019 in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn., (2019) 20 SCC 406 , as it doubts the legal ratio expressed in Himangni Enterprises v. Kamaljeet Singh Ahluwalia, (2017) 10 SCC 706 that landlordtenant disputes governed by the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, are not arbitrable as this would be contrary to public policy.	Reasoning
A deeper consideration of the order of reference reveals that the issues required to be answered relate to two aspects that are distinct and yet interconnected, namely 2.1.	Reasoning
(i) Meaning of nonarbitrability and when the subjectmatter of the dispute is not capable of being resolved through arbitration.	Reasoning
2.2.	None
(ii) The conundrum who decides whether the court at the reference stage or the Arbitral Tribunal in the arbitration proceedings would decide the question of nonarbitrability.	Reasoning
2.3.	None
The second aspect also relates to the scope and ambit of jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage when an objection of nonarbitrability is raised to an application under Section 8 or 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short the Arbitration Act).	Reasoning
The Bench then went into the Law Commissions 246th Report as follows In order to appreciate the effect of the amendments made by Act 3 of 2016, it would be appropriate to refer to the Law Commissions 246th Report which had given reasons for amendments to Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act, including insertion of subsection (6A) to Section 11.	Reasoning
The said reasons read as under Two further sets of amendments have been proposed in this context.	Reasoning
First, it is observed that a lot of time is spent for appointment of arbitrators at the very threshold of arbitration proceedings as applications under Section 11 are kept pending for many years.	Reasoning
In this context, the Commission has proposed a few amendments.	Reasoning
The Commission has proposed changing the existing scheme of the power of appointment being vested in the Chief Justice to the High Court and the Supreme Court and has expressly clarified that delegation of the power of appointment (as opposed to a finding regarding the existence nullity of the arbitration agreement) shall not be regarded as a judicial act.	Reasoning
This would rationalise the law and provide greater incentive for the High Court and or Supreme Court to delegate the power of appointment (being a nonjudicial act) to specialised, external persons or institutions.	Reasoning
The Commission has further recommended an amendment to Section 11(7) so that decisions of the High Court (regarding existence nullity of the arbitration agreement) are final where an arbitrator has been appointed, and as such are nonappealable.	Reasoning
The Commission further proposes the addition of Section 11(13) which requires the Court to make an endeavour to dispose of the matter within sixty days from the service of notice on the opposite party.	Reasoning
The Law Commissions Report specifically refers to the decision of this Court in ShinEtsu Chemical Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre Ltd., (2005) 7 SCC 234 , a decision relating to transnational arbitration covered by the New York Convention.	Reasoning
Dealing with prima facie examination under Section 8, as amended, the Court then held Prima facie examination is not full review but a primary first review to weed out manifestly and ex facie nonexistent and invalid arbitration agreements and nonarbitrable disputes.	None
The prima facie review at the reference stage is to cut the deadwood and trim off the side branches in straightforward cases where dismissal is barefaced and pellucid and when on the facts and law the litigation must stop at the first stage.	Reasoning
Only when the court is certain that no valid arbitration agreement exists or the disputes subjectmatter are not arbitrable, the application under Section 8 would be rejected.	Reasoning
At this stage, the court should not get lost in thickets and decide debatable questions of facts.	Reasoning
Referral proceedings are preliminary and summary and not a mini trial.	Reasoning
This necessarily reflects on the nature of the jurisdiction exercised by the court and in this context, the observations of B.N. Srikrishna, J. of plainly arguable case in ShinEtsu Chemical Co. Ltd. are of importance and relevance.	Reasoning
Similar views are expressed by this Court in Vimal Kishor Shah v. Jayesh Dinesh Shah, (2016) 8 SCC wherein the test applied at the prearbitration stage was whether there is a good arguable case for the existence of an arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
The parameters of review under Sections 8 and 11 were then laid down thus In the Indian context, we would respectfully adopt the three categories in	None
Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd.	None
The first category of issues, namely, whether the party has approached the appropriate High Court, whether there is an arbitration agreement and whether the party who has applied for reference is party to such agreement would be subject to more thorough examination in comparison to the second and third categories issues which are presumptively, save in exceptional cases, for the arbitrator to decide.	Reasoning
In the first category, we would add and include the question or issue relating to whether the cause of action relates to action in personam or rem whether the subjectmatter of the dispute affects thirdparty rights, have erga omnes effect, requires centralised adjudication whether the subjectmatter relates to inalienable sovereign and public interest functions of the State and whether the subjectmatter of dispute is expressly or by necessary implication nonarbitrable as per mandatory statute(s).	Reasoning
Such questions arise rarely and, when they arise, are on most occasions questions of law.	Reasoning
On the other hand, issues relating to contract formation, existence, validity and non arbitrability would be connected and intertwined with the issues underlying the merits of the respective disputes claims.	Reasoning
They would be factual and disputed and for the Arbitral Tribunal to decide.	Reasoning
We would not like to be too prescriptive, albeit observe that the court may for legitimate reasons, to prevent wastage of public and private resources, can exercise judicial discretion to conduct an intense yet summary prima facie review while remaining conscious that it is to assist the arbitration procedure and not usurp jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal.	Reasoning
Undertaking a detailed full review or a longdrawn review at the referral stage would obstruct and cause delay undermining the integrity and efficacy of arbitration as a dispute resolution mechanism.	Reasoning
Conversely, if the court becomes too reluctant to intervene, it may undermine effectiveness of both the arbitration and the court.	Reasoning
There are certain cases where the prima facie examination may require a deeper consideration.	Reasoning
The courts challenge is to find the right amount of and the context when it would examine the prima facie case or exercise restraint.	Reasoning
The legal order needs a right balance between avoiding arbitration obstructing tactics at referral stage and protecting parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is clearly nonarbitrable.	Reasoning
Ozlem Susler, The English Approach to CompetenceCompetence Pepperdine Dispute Resolution Law Journal, 2013, Vol. 13.	Reasoning
Accordingly, when it appears that prima facie review would be inconclusive, or on consideration inadequate as it requires detailed examination, the matter should be left for final determination by the Arbitral Tribunal selected by the parties by consent.	Reasoning
The underlying rationale being not to delay or defer and to discourage parties from using referral proceeding as a ruse to delay and obstruct.	Reasoning
In such cases a full review by the courts at this stage would encroach on the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal and violate the legislative scheme allocating jurisdiction between the courts and the Arbitral Tribunal.	Reasoning
Centralisation of litigation with the Arbitral Tribunal as the primary and first adjudicator is beneficent as it helps in quicker and efficient resolution of disputes.	Reasoning
The Court then examined the meaning of the expression existence which occurs in Section 11(6A) and summed up its discussion as follows We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word existence in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation (whether there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the question of enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls outside the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage.	Reasoning
On jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to differentiate between existence of an arbitration agreement and validity of an arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
Such interpretation can draw support from the plain meaning of the word existence.	Reasoning
However, it is equally possible, jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no existence if it is not enforceable and not binding.	Reasoning
Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid agreement which would be enforced by the court by relegating the parties to arbitration.	Reasoning
Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation would be contrary to the contextual background including the definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences.	Reasoning
A reasonable and just interpretation of existence requires understanding the context, the purpose and the relevant legal norms applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning unless the parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the terms.	Reasoning
A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an unenforceable document.	Reasoning
Thus, there are good reasons to hold that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal.	Reasoning
A void and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything.	Reasoning
Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement that meets and satisfies the statutory requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law.	Reasoning
We would proceed to elaborate and give further reasons 147.1.	Reasoning
In Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 , this Court had examined the question of stamp duty in an underlying contract with an arbitration clause and in the context had drawn a distinction between the first and second part of Section 7(2) of the Arbitration Act, albeit the observations made and quoted above with reference to existence and validity of the arbitration agreement being apposite and extremely important, we would repeat the same by reproducing para 29 thereof (SCC p. 238)	Reasoning
This judgment in United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg.	Reasoning
Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 is important in that what was specifically under consideration was an arbitration clause which would get activated only if an insurer admits or accepts liability.	Reasoning
Since on facts it was found that the insurer repudiated the claim, though an arbitration clause did exist, so to speak, in the policy, it would not exist in law, as was held in that judgment, when one important fact is introduced, namely, that the insurer has not admitted or accepted liability.	Reasoning
Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it is clear that the arbitration clause that is contained in the sub contract would not exist as a matter of law until the subcontract is duly stamped, as has been held by us above.	Reasoning
The argument that Section 11(6A) deals with existence, as opposed to Section 8, Section 16 and Section 45, which deal with validity of an arbitration agreement is answered by this Courts understanding of the expression existence in Hyundai Engg.	Reasoning
case, as followed by us.	Reasoning
Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration agreement does not exist if it is illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal requirements.	Reasoning
Invalid agreement is no agreement.	Reasoning
147.2.	None
The court at the reference stage exercises judicial powers.	Reasoning
Examination, as an ordinary expression in common parlance, refers to an act of looking or considering something carefully in order to discover something (as per Cambridge Dictionary).	Reasoning
It requires the person to inspect closely, to test the condition of, or to inquire into carefully (as per MerriamWebster Dictionary).	Reasoning
It would be rather odd for the court to hold and say that the arbitration agreement exists, though ex facie and manifestly the arbitration agreement is invalid in law and the dispute in question is nonarbitrable.	Reasoning
The court is not powerless and would not act beyond jurisdiction, if it rejects an application for reference, when the arbitration clause is admittedly or without doubt is with a minor, lunatic or the only claim seeks a probate of a will.	Reasoning
147.3.	None
Most scholars and jurists accept and agree that the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement are the same.	Reasoning
Even Stavros Brekoulakis accepts that validity, in terms of substantive and formal validity, are questions of contract and hence for the court to examine.	Reasoning
147.4.	None
Most jurisdictions accept and require prima facie review by the court on nonarbitrability aspects at the referral stage.	Reasoning
147.5.	None
Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act are complementary provisions as was held in Patel Engg.	Reasoning
Ltd.	Reasoning
The object and purpose behind the two provisions is identical to compel and force parties to abide by their contractual understanding.	Reasoning
This being so, the two provisions should be read as laying down similar standard and not as laying down different and separate parameters.	Reasoning
Section 11 does not prescribe any standard of judicial review by the court for determining whether an arbitration agreement is in existence.	Reasoning
Section 8 states that the judicial review at the stage of reference is prima facie and not final.	Reasoning
Prima facie standard equally applies when the power of judicial review is exercised by the court under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, we can read the mandate of valid arbitration agreement in Section 8 into mandate of Section 11, that is, existence of an arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
147.6.	None
Exercise of power of prima facie judicial review of existence as including validity is justified as a court is the first forum that examines and decides the request for the referral.	Reasoning
Absolute hands off approach would be counterproductive and harm arbitration, as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism.	Reasoning
Limited, yet effective intervention is acceptable as it does not obstruct but effectuates arbitration.	Reasoning
147.7.	None
Exercise of the limited prima facie review does not in any way interfere with the principle of competencecompetence and separation as to obstruct arbitration proceedings but ensures that vexatious and frivolous matters get over at the initial stage.	Reasoning
147.8.	None
Exercise of prima facie power of judicial review as to the validity of the arbitration agreement would save costs and check harassment of objecting parties when there is clearly no justification and a good reason not to accept plea of nonarbitrability.	Reasoning
In Subrata Roy Sahara v. Union of India, (2014) 8 SCC 470 , this Court has observed (SCC p. 642, para 191)	Reasoning
The Indian judicial system is grossly afflicted with frivolous litigation.	Reasoning
Ways and means need to be evolved to deter litigants from their compulsive obsession towards senseless and illconsidered claims.	Reasoning
One needs to keep in mind that in the process of litigation, there is an innocent sufferer on the other side of every irresponsible and senseless claim.	Reasoning
He suffers longdrawn anxious periods of nervousness and restlessness, whilst the litigation is pending without any fault on his part.	Reasoning
He pays for the litigation from out of his savings (or out of his borrowings) worrying that the other side may trick him into defeat for no fault of his.	Reasoning
He spends invaluable time briefing counsel and preparing them for his claim.	Reasoning
Time which he should have spent at work, or with his family, is lost, for no fault of his.	Reasoning
Should a litigant not be compensated for what he has lost for no fault?	Reasoning
The suggestion to the legislature is that a litigant who has succeeded must be compensated by the one who has lost.	Reasoning
The suggestion to the legislature is to formulate a mechanism that anyone who initiates and continues a litigation senselessly pays for the same.	Reasoning
It is suggested that the legislature should consider the introduction of a Code of Compulsory Costs.	Reasoning
147.9.	None
Even in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd., (2017) 9 SCC 729 , Kurian Joseph, J., in para 52, had referred to Section 7(5) and thereafter in para 53 referred to a judgment of this Court in M.R. Engineers Contractors (P) Ltd. v. Som Datt Builders Ltd., (2009) 7 SCC 696 to observe that the analysis in the said case supports the final conclusion that the memorandum of understanding in the said case did not incorporate an arbitration clause.	Reasoning
Thereafter, reference was specifically made to SBP Co. v. Patel Engg.	Reasoning
Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618 and National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1	Reasoning
SCC 267 to observe that the legislative policy is essential to minimise courts interference at the prearbitral stage and this was the intention of subsection (6) to Section 11 of the Arbitration Act.	Reasoning
Para 48 in Duro Felguera specifically states that the resolution has to exist in the arbitration agreement, and it is for the court to see if the agreement contains a clause which provides for arbitration of disputes which have arisen between the parties.	Reasoning
Para 59 is more restrictive and requires the court to see whether an arbitration agreement exists nothing more, nothing less.	Reasoning
Read with the other findings, it would be appropriate to read the two paragraphs as laying down the legal ratio that the court is required to see if the underlying contract contains an arbitration clause for arbitration of the disputes which have arisen between the parties nothing more, nothing less.	Reasoning
Reference to decisions in Patel Engg.	Reasoning
Ltd. and Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd. was to highlight that at the reference stage, post the amendments vide Act 3 of 2016, the court would not go into and finally decide different aspects that were highlighted in the two decisions.	Reasoning
147.10.	None
In addition to Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. case, this Court in	Reasoning
Narbheram Power Steel (P) Ltd.	Reasoning
Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Narbheram Power Steel (P) Ltd., (2018) 6 SCC 534 and Hyundai Engg.	Reasoning
Construction Co. Ltd. United India Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Hyundai Engg.	Reasoning
Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 , both decisions of three Judges, has rejected the application for reference in the insurance contracts holding that the claim was beyond and not covered by the arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
The Court felt that the legal position was beyond doubt as the scope of the arbitration clause was fully covered by the dictum in Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd. Vulcan Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Maharaj Singh, (1976) 1 SCC 943 Similarly, in PSA Mumbai Investments Pte.	Reasoning
Ltd.	Reasoning
PSA Mumbai Investments Pte.	Reasoning
Ltd. v. Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, (2018) 10 SCC 525 , this Court at the referral stage came to the conclusion that the arbitration clause would not be applicable and govern the disputes.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the reference to the Arbitral Tribunal was set aside leaving the respondent to pursue its claim before an appropriate forum.	Reasoning
147.11.	None
The interpretation appropriately balances the allocation of the decisionmaking authority between the court at the referral stage and the arbitrators primary jurisdiction to decide disputes on merits.	Reasoning
The court as the judicial forum of the first instance can exercise prima facie test jurisdiction to screen and knock down ex facie meritless, frivolous and dishonest litigation.	Reasoning
Limited jurisdiction of the courts ensures expeditious, alacritous and efficient disposal when required at the referral stage.	Reasoning
The Bench finally concluded Accordingly, we hold that the expression existence of an arbitration agreement in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, would include aspect of validity of an arbitration agreement, albeit the court at the referral stage would apply the prima facie test on the basis of principles set out in this judgment.	Reasoning
In cases of debatable and disputable facts, and good reasonable arguable case, etc., the court would force the parties to abide by the arbitration agreement as the Arbitral Tribunal has primary jurisdiction and authority to decide the disputes including the question of jurisdiction and non arbitrability.	Reasoning
Discussion under the heading Who Decides Arbitrability?	None
can be crystallised as under 154.1.	None
Ratio of the decision in Patel Engg.	Reasoning
Ltd. on the scope of judicial review by the court while deciding an application under Sections 8 or 11 of the Arbitration Act, post the amendments by Act 3 of 2016 (with retrospective effect from 23102015) and even post the amendments vide Act 33 of 2019 (with effect from 982019), is no longer applicable.	Reasoning
154.2.	None
Scope of judicial review and jurisdiction of the court under Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act is identical but extremely limited and restricted.	Reasoning
154.3.	None
The general rule and principle, in view of the legislative mandate clear from Act 3 of 2016 and Act 33 of 2019, and the principle of severability and competencecompetence, is that the Arbitral Tribunal is the preferred first authority to determine and decide all questions of nonarbitrability.	Reasoning
The court has been conferred power of second look on aspects of nonarbitrability post the award in terms of subclauses (i), (ii) or (iv) of Section 34(2)(a) or subclause (i) of Section 34(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act.	Reasoning
154.4.	None
Rarely as a demurrer the court may interfere at Section 8 or 11 stage when it is manifestly and ex facie certain that the arbitration agreement is non existent, invalid or the disputes are nonarbitrable, though the nature and facet of nonarbitrability would, to some extent, determine the level and nature of judicial scrutiny.	Reasoning
The restricted and limited review is to check and protect parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is demonstrably nonarbitrable and to cut off the deadwood.	Reasoning
The court by default would refer the matter when contentions relating to nonarbitrability are plainly arguable when consideration in summary proceedings would be insufficient and inconclusive when facts are contested when the party opposing arbitration adopts delaying tactics or impairs conduct of arbitration proceedings.	Reasoning
This is not the stage for the court to enter into a mini trial or elaborate review so as to usurp the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal but to affirm and uphold integrity and efficacy of arbitration as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism.	Reasoning
Reference is, accordingly, answered.	Reasoning
Ramana, J. in a separate concurring opinion, after referring to the case law, summed up his conclusions as follows Before we part, the conclusions reached, with respect to Question 1, are 244.1.	Reasoning
Sections 8 and 11 of the Act have the same ambit with respect to judicial interference.	Reasoning
244.2.	None
Usually, subjectmatter arbitrability cannot be decided at the stage of Section 8 or 11 of the Act, unless it is a clear case of deadwood.	Reasoning
244.3.	None
The court, under Sections 8 and 11, has to refer a matter to arbitration or to appoint an arbitrator, as the case may be, unless a party has established a prima facie (summary findings) case of nonexistence of valid arbitration agreement, by summarily portraying a strong case that he is entitled to such a finding.	Reasoning
244.4.	None
The court should refer a matter if the validity of the arbitration agreement cannot be determined on a prima facie basis, as laid down above i.e. when in doubt, do refer.	Reasoning
244.5.	None
The scope of the court to examine the prima facie validity of an arbitration agreement includes only 244.5.1.	Reasoning
Whether the arbitration agreement was in writing? or 244.5.2.	Reasoning
Whether the arbitration agreement was contained in exchange of letters, telecommunication, etc.?	Reasoning
244.5.3.	None
Whether the core contractual ingredients qua the arbitration agreement were fulfilled?	Reasoning
244.5.4.	None
On rare occasions, whether the subject matter of dispute is arbitrable?	Reasoning
The 246th Law Commission Report not only discussed the changes that are to be made bearing in mind the difficulties that arose earlier, but also provided for amendments that were to be made to Sections 8 and 11.	None
This was provided as follows Amendment of Section 8	None
In section 8 of the Act, In subsection (1), after the words substance of the dispute, refer add to arbitration, such of and after the words the parties to add the action who are parties to the and after the word arbitration add the word agreement.	None
after subsection (1), add Provided that no such reference shall be made only in cases where the parties to the action who are not parties to the arbitration agreement, are necessary parties to the action the judicial authority finds that the arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void.	None
Explanation 1 If the judicial authority is prima facie satisfied about the existence of an arbitration agreement, it shall refer the parties to arbitration and leave the final determination of the existence of the arbitration agreement to the arbitral tribunal in accordance with section 16, which shall decide the same as a preliminary issue Explanation 2 Any pleading filed in relation to any interim application which has been filed before the judicial authority shall not be treated to be a statement on the substance of the dispute for the purpose of this section.	None
NOTE	None
The words such of the parties to the arbitration agreement and proviso (i) of the amendment have been proposed in the context of the decision of the Supreme Court in Sukanya Holdings Pvt.	None
Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya and Anr., (2003) 5 SCC 531 , in cases where all the parties to the dispute are not parties to the arbitration agreement, the reference is to be rejected only where such parties are necessary parties to the action and not if they are only proper parties, or are otherwise legal strangers to the action and have been added only to circumvent the arbitration agreement.	None
Proviso (ii) of the amendment contemplates a twostep process to be adopted by a judicial authority when considering an application seeking the reference of a pending action to arbitration.	None
The amendment envisages that the judicial authority shall not refer the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void.	None
If the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement to be finally determined by the arbitral tribunal.	None
However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion will be 44 final and not prima facie.	None
The amendment also envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the arbitration agreement is null and void.	None
In subsection (2), after the words duly certified copy thereof add or a copy accompanied by an affidavit calling upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or duly certified copy thereof in a circumstance where the original arbitration agreement or duly certified copy is retained only by the other party.	None
xxx Amendment of Section 11	None
In section 11, In subsection (4), subclause (b), after the words by the delete Chief Justice and add words High Court and after the words designated by delete the word him and add the word it.	None
In subsection (5), after the words by the delete Chief Justice and add words High Court and after the words designated by delete the word him and add the word it.	None
In subsection (6), subclause (c), after the words may request the delete Chief Justice and add words High Court and after the words designated by delete the word him and add the word it.	None
after subsection (6), insert subsection (6A) An appointment by the High Court or the person or institution designated by it under subsection (4) or subsection (5) or subsection (6) shall not be made only if the High Court finds that the arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void, Explanation 1	None
If the High Court is prima facie satisfied regarding the existence of an arbitration agreement, it shall refer the parties to arbitration and leave the final determination of the existence of the arbitration agreement to the arbitral tribunal in accordance with section 16, which shall decide the same as a preliminary issue.	None
Explanation 2 For the removal of any doubt, it is clarified that reference by the High Court to any person or institution designated by it shall not be regarded as a delegation of judicial power.	None
Explanation 3 The High Court may take steps to encourage the parties to refer the disputes to institutionalised arbitration by a professional Indian or International Arbitral Institute.	None
NOTE	None
The proposed section 11 (6A) envisages the same process of determination as is reflected in the proposed amendment to section 8.	None
Explanation 2 envisages that reference by the High Court to any person or institution designated by it shall not be regarded as a delegation of judicial power.	None
Explanation 3 has been inserted with the hope and expectation that High Courts would encourage the parties to refer the disputes to institutionalize arbitration by a professional Indian or international arbitral institute.	None
In subsection (7), after the words or subsection (6) add the words or subsection (6A) and after the words to the delete the words Chief Justice or the and add the words High Court is final where an arbitral tribunal has been appointed or a and after the words person or institution add the words has been and after the words designated by delete the words him is final and insert the words the High Court, and no appeal, including letters patent appeal, shall lie against such order.	None
NOTE This amendment ensures that a) an affirmative judicial finding regarding the existence of the arbitration agreement and (b) the administrative act of appointing the arbitrator are final and non appealabe.	None
Section 37, which is the appeal provision, was also sought to be amended as follows Amendment of Section 37	None
In section 37, In subsection (1), renumber subclause (a) as subclause (b) and insert subclause (a)refusing to refer the parties to arbitration under section 8 In subsection (1), renumber subclause (b) as subclause (d) and insert subclause (c) refusing to appoint an arbitrator or refusing to refer such appointment to a person or institution designated by it under section 11, in the case of an arbitration other than an international commercial arbitration.	None
NOTE Subsections (a) and (c) have been added to provide for appeal in cases of orders refusing to refer parties to arbitration under section 8 (mirroring the existing provision in section 50) and to provide an appeal where the High Court refuses to appoint an arbitrator respectively.	None
In subsection (3), after the words No second appeal add the words , including letters patent appeal, NOTE	None
This amendment is clarificatory and reduces the scope of the party to file an LPA.	None
It will be seen that when Parliament enacted the 2015 amendment pursuant to the Law Commission Report, it followed the Scheme of the Law Commissions Report qua Section 8 and Section 37 by enacting the words unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists in Section 8(1) and the insertion of subclause (a) in Section 37(1) providing an appeal in an order made under Section 8, which refuses to refer parties to arbitration.	Reasoning
However, so far as Section 11(6) and Section 11(6A) are concerned, what was recommended by the Law Commission was not incorporated.	Reasoning
Section 11(6A) merely confines examination of the Court to the existence of an arbitration agreement.	Reasoning
Section 11(7) was retained, by which no appeal could be filed under an order made under Section 11(6) read with Section 11(6A), whether the Courts determination led to a finding that the arbitration agreement existed or did not exist on the facts of a given case.	Reasoning
Concomitantly, no amendment was made to Section 37(1), as recommended by the Law Commission.	Reasoning
However, by a process of judicial interpretation, Vidya Drolia (supra) has now read the prima facie test into Section 11(6A) so as to bring the provisions of Sections 8(1) and 11(6) r w 11(6A) on par.	Reasoning
Considering that Section 11(7) and Section 37 have not been amended, an anomaly thus arises.	Reasoning
Whereas in cases decided under Section 8, a refusal to refer parties to arbitration is appealable under Section 37(1)(a), a similar refusal to refer parties to arbitration under Section 11(6) read with Sections 6(A) and 7 is not appealable.	Reasoning
In the light of what has been decided in Vidya Drolia (supra), Parliament may need to have a relook at Section 11(7) and Section 37 so that orders made under Sections 8 and 11 are brought on par qua appealability as well.	Reasoning
We now come to the facts of the present case.	None
It is first important to set out the CFSL report dated 29th September, 2019, in which the CFSL found Result of Examination	None
It has not been possible to express any opinion regarding the authorship of questioned signatures marked A1 to A6 in comparison with the standard signatures marked A1 to A11 and S1 to S16 attributed to M.G. Stephen, due to the reason that the model of both the sets of signatures are different, hence, technically not comparable.	None
Since, the CFSL did not express an opinion either way, it became incumbent upon the learned Single Judge to determine as to whether the Agreement dated 7th July, 2014 could have been entered into given the surrounding circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
As Shri Divan rightly points out, there are no negotiations which lead upto the 7th July, 2014 Agreement that are on record.	Reasoning
Secondly, negotiations that take place take place only after 7th July, 2014 in which a draft agreement is deliberated upon between the same parties.	Reasoning
It would stretch incredulity to state that on the same subject matter negotiations and a draft agreement would be spoken about after a final signed agreement has been agreed upon between the parties.	Reasoning
Secondly, he rightly points out that the Agreement is notarized in Faridabad, Haryana, with no explanation worth the name when a contract is to be executed in Bihar by one of the parties whose registered office is in Bihar and the other party whose registered office is in Mumbai.	Reasoning
Thirdly, the Notary who is said to have notarized the Agreement was not licensed to do so the same, his license having expired earlier, a fact that is accepted even by the Respondents.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, some of the learned Single Judges conclusions are plainly incorrect and against the record.	Reasoning
The learned Single Judge holds 39.	Reasoning
Admittedly on 22.09.2014, LOI was awarded to the respondent and on the petitioner raising an invoice for Rs.25 Lakhs on 27.09.2014, respondent actually made payment on 29.09.2014.	Reasoning
Counsel for the petitioner has also shown the email dated 27.09.2014 whereby the respondent had asked the petitioner to raise the invoice on its letter head This is plainly incorrect in view of the correspondence and pleadings between the parties, as an invoice was raised on Process, Process making payment on 29th September, 2014 and not the Appellant.	Reasoning
Equally, the finding that a draft Consultancy Agreement was sent on 15th July, 2014 containing an arbitration clause, parties being ad idem regarding submission of the disputes to arbitration is also plainly incorrect in view of the fact that on the same day, an email was sent back in which various terms were disputed, there being no concluded contract between the parties.	Reasoning
Also, the finding that Process was a subcontractor of the Respondent, is contrary to the pleadings between the parties which, as we have seen, had ranged from Process being a joint venture partner of the Appellant to Process having common Directors with the Appellant, and to Process thereafter being described as the lead partner.	Reasoning
Subcontractorship is not pleaded at all by the Respondent, the aforesaid arising only from written submissions made before the learned Single Judge.	Reasoning
The allegation that the Consultancy Agreement of 7th July, 2014 had a signature that may not be that of Mr. M.G. Stephen was brushed aside stating that an arbitration agreement need not be signed by the parties.	Reasoning
That is entirely besides the point.	Reasoning
Mr. M.G. Stephen has sworn to an affidavit filed before the High Court that the signatures appearing on the 7th July, 2014 agreement are not his signatures, as a result of which the Appellant cannot be said to have entered into an agreement at all on 7th July, 2014.	Reasoning
Again, in paragraph 45, the learned Single Judges finding that there exists an arbitration agreement between the parties as contained in the draft agreement exchanged by email dated 7th July, 2014, is incorrect for two reasons.	Reasoning
The draft agreement sent by email was exchanged on 15th July, 2014 and not on 7th July, 2014.	Reasoning
Secondly, the email in reply to the email of 15th July, 2014 shows that there was no concluded contract between the parties.	Reasoning
Also, the pleading with which the parties went to Court was that there was a concluded contract between the parties on 7th July, 2014.	Reasoning
There was no pleading worthy of the name that on 15th July, 2014, a draft agreement was exchanged between the parties, as a result of which a concluded contract emanated therefrom.	Reasoning
The facts of this case remind one of Alice in Wonderland.	Reasoning
In Chapter II of Lewis Carolls classic, after little Alice had gone down the Rabbit hole, she exclaims Curiouser and curiouser and Lewis Caroll states (she was so much surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English).	Reasoning
This is a case which eminently cries for the truth to out between the parties through documentary evidence and crossexamination.	Reasoning
Large pieces of the jigsaw puzzle that forms the documentary evidence between the parties in this case remained unfilled.	Reasoning
The emails dated 22nd July, 2014 and 25th July, 2014 produced here for the first time as well as certain correspondence between SBPDCL and the Respondent do show that there is some dealing between the Appellant and the Respondent qua a tender floated by SBPDCL, but that is not sufficient to conclude that there is a concluded contract between the parties, which contains an arbitration clause.	Reasoning
Given the inconclusive nature of the finding by CFSL together with the signing of the agreement in Haryana by parties whose registered offices are at Bombay and Bihar qua works to be executed in Bihar given the fact that the Notary who signed the agreement was not authorised to do so and various other conundrums that arise on the facts of this case, it is unsafe to conclude, one way or the other, that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties.	Reasoning
The prima facie review spoken of in Vidya Dhrolia (supra) can lead to only one conclusion on the facts of this case  that a deeper consideration of whether an arbitration agreement exists between the parties must be left to an Arbitrator who is to examine the documentary evidence produced before him in detail after witnesses are crossexamined on the same.	Reasoning
For all these reasons, we set aside the impugned judgment of the Delhi High Court in so far as it conclusively finds that there is an Arbitration Agreement between the parties.	Decision
However, we uphold the ultimate order appointing Justice G.S. Sistani, a retired Delhi High Court Judge as a Sole Arbitrator.	Decision
The learned Judge will first determine as a preliminary issue as to whether an Arbitration Agreement exists between the parties, and go on to decide the merits of the case only if it is first found that such an agreement exists.	Decision
It is clarified that all issues will be decided without being influenced by the observations made by this court which are only prima facie in nature.	Decision
The appeal is allowed in the aforesaid terms.	Decision
