Arijit Pasayat, J. State of Andhra Pradesh questions legality of the judgment rendered by a learned Single Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court directing acquittal of the respondents who were accused nos.	Issue
1 and 2 respectively before the Trial Court i.e. Special Judge, CBI., Visakhapatnam.	Issue
The respondents faced trial for alleged commission of offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (in short the Act).	None
The Trial Court found each to be guilty and sentenced to undergo two years RI and to pay a fine of Rs. 1000/ with default stipulation.	None
They were also convicted under Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short the IPC), sentenced to similar custodial punishment and to pay a fine of Rs. 2000/.	None
But in appeal the conviction and sentence were set aside.	None
Factual position as highlighted by the prosecution is as follows Uma Maheswara Rao (A1) was working as Deputy Secretary of Visakhapatnam Port Trust and D. Satyananda Reddy (A2) was working as Deputy Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer of Visakhapatnam Port Trust G. Subrahmanyam (PW1) was the General Power of Attorney holder of M s. Ramesh Chandra Company.	Facts
Both the accused were members of Tender Opening Committee and were associated with the processing of tender file No. C1/BG Sleepers Risk/91.	Facts
The file dealt with placement of purchase order for Assam Salwood Sleepers during the period from September, 1991 to December, 1991.	Facts
Aforesaid Ramesh Chandra Company through its power of Attorney holder (PW1) submitted their quotation at Rs. 828/ per sleeper and the total tender value was Rs. 1,33,84,702.80.	Facts
A1 phoned to PW1 on 28.12.1991 at about 11.00 a.m. and asked him to meet him in the evening at his residence for discussions with regard to tender matter and PW1 went to his house at 8.30 p.m. on the same day and A2 was also present there.	Facts
Both the accused, who were Public Servants, during the discussion informed PW1 that there were many complications in the tender file and demanded Rs. 20,000/ each to be paid as bribe to clear the file in favour of M s. Ramesh Chandra Co.	Facts
They also told him that they would not clear the file, if he fails to meet the said demand and when PW1 expressed his financial constraints, they said that they should be paid Rs.	Facts
5,000/ each as advance and balance amount was to be paid after release of the purchase order.	Facts
A1 had contacted PW1 over telephone at 12.00 noon on 30.12.1991 and asked him to keep the demanded amount ready so that he would come along with A2 and collect the same around 8.30 p.m. on that day at Basant Lodge.	Facts
Visakhapatnam.	Facts
Thereafter, PW1 lodged a complaint with the Superintendent of Police, C.B.I. Visakhapatnam on 30.12.1991 about the demand of bribe by the accused and on the basis of his complaint, investigation was taken up by registering a case i.e. R.C. No. 19(A) /91.	Facts
Both the accused were caught red handed at about 10.15 p.m. on 30.12.1991 in Room No. 208 of Basant Lodge, Visakhapatnam soon after they demanded and accepted bribe amount of Rs. 5,000/ each from PW1 as a motive or reward for clearing the tender file in favour of M s. Ramesh Chandra Co.	Facts
The tainted currency notes amounting to Rs. 10,000/ were recovered immediately from the polythene carry bag which was available with A1.	Facts
Both the accused abused their official position as public servants and after obtaining sanction under Section 19(1)(c) of the Act, from the Chairman, Visakhapatnam Port Trust a charge sheet was filed under Section 120B IPC and Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) read with Section 13(2) of the Act.	Facts
The accused denied their guilt.	Facts
The prosecution in support of its case examined 32 witnesses while the accused to substantiate their plea of innocence examined 5 witnesses.	Facts
PW2 who was taken as witness to prove the acceptance and recovery of the money from PW1 resiled partially from the statement given during investigation.3.	Facts
Placing reliance on the evidence of PW1, PW3 and PW5, the Trial Court held that there was cogent and credible evidence to show not only demand, acceptance but also recovery of the money.	Facts
PW3 was at the relevant time working as Preventive Officer, Customs and worked as the mediator.	Facts
PW5 was the investigating officer was received the complaint, and monitored the trap operation.	Facts
In appeal, before the High Court the stand taken by the accused persons was that there was no cogent evidence regarding demand.	Facts
PW1 complainant was not reliable.	Facts
The socalled complaint before the CBI is dated 20.12.1991.	Facts
Specific stand of the prosecution was that the complaint was made on 30.12.1991 as per Exts.	Facts
P3 and P3A. PW2 who was one of the mediators did not support the prosecution version completely.	Facts
It was not possible to accept that high ranked officers would take and accept money in the presence of an unknown party.	Facts
There is no consistent evidence as regards the first and the subsequent demands.	Facts
Since A1 was not competent to finalise the tenders, it was not possible that he would demand money.	Facts
Further the evidence on record clearly establishes that by the time of alleged demand files had been cleared by A1 and, therefore, it is not believable that the demand was made.	Facts
PW1 in the guise of arranging a dinner took revenge on the accused persons for seeking legal advice before acceptance of the tender.	Facts
With these observations, the High Court set aside the conviction and sentence as noted above.	Facts
In support of the appeals, learned counsel appearing for the appellantState submitted that the order of the High Court is clearly erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
The correct position in law regarding presumptions was not kept in view.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court made out a third case which was not even urged by the accused persons before the Trial Court regarding the alleged discrepancy of the date of the complaint.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that nowhere any such plea was raised by the accused persons that the complaint is dated 20.12.1991.	Arguments of Petitioner
Documents clearly show that it is dated 30.12.1991.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is not known as to why the High Court made out a new case, which was not even pleaded.	Arguments of Petitioner
Evidence of PW1 clearly establishes the demand and the recovery of money.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court came to a conclusion that third party was present and high placed officers would not normally make a demand in the presence of such a person.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, PW2 was introduced to be Group Finance Manager of M s. Ramesh Chandra Co. by PW1.	Arguments of Petitioner
No direct evidence is necessary to show regarding acceptance of money.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial Court has analysed in great detail the factual position and the High Court without even considering those reasons and indicating any reason as to why a different view was to be taken has directed acquittal.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Accused took the stand pleading that a telephonic message was given in his house that there was a dinner in the Basanti Lodge.	Arguments of Petitioner
A5 took the stand that he had gone to purchase sweets.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the time of search apart from the tainted money Re.0.45 was found with him.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is unbelievable that somebody would go to buy sweets with 45 paise in pocket.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no variation and discrepancy in the evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mediator report and the evidence of the witnesses clearly establish the accusations.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has observed that the accused persons being only members of the tender committee possibility of making a demand was not there.	None
In response, Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned counsel for respondent no. 1 (A1) submitted that probabilities of the case have to be looked into and no straight jacket formula can be adopted for deciding a case of this nature.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred to evidence regarding the accepted position that the complainant had made grievance not only against the accused persons, but also on the same date against another officer of the Port Trust.	Arguments of Respondent
Earlier also be had made certain grievances against others.	Arguments of Respondent
This is a clear tactic to get his work done under the threat of complaint.	Arguments of Respondent
Taking advantage of the proximity with the CBI officials false case has been foisted.	Arguments of Respondent
In this background, the complainant (PW1)s version required strong corroboration which is absent.	Arguments of Respondent
PW2s evidence does not show any demand.	Arguments of Respondent
The manner of collecting sample is also totally not above board.	Arguments of Respondent
Since the file had already been cleared the question of making a demand of bribe would not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
Further the complainant had been visiting the office and it is not improbable that he had knowledge about accused persons having cleared the file earlier to the date of demand.	Arguments of Respondent
The Clout enjoyed by PW1 in the office and the favour shown to him by some members of the Port Trust is clearly established by the evidence on record.	Arguments of Respondent
The evidence of PW1 clearly shows that he had not informed accused persons about the booking of room at Basant Lodge.	Arguments of Respondent
It is improbable that the accused persons would choose the lodge for accepting the bribe, when the prosecution case itself is that PW1 had gone to the house of A1 earlier when PW2 was present there.	Arguments of Respondent
The plea of accused persons that PW1 called them to the Basant Lodge on the pretext of dinner is also corroborated by the evidence of PW11.	Arguments of Respondent
Since view taken by the High Court is reasonable one, no interference is called for.	Arguments of Respondent
Suggestion was given that the documents were not prepared at the time claimed.	Arguments of Respondent
The statutory presumption under the Act can be applied under Section 7 and not 13.	Arguments of Respondent
Since PW2 was examined on the panch witnesses, his evidence assumes importance and since the High Court held that his evidence on certain aspects is discrepant and contradictory.	Arguments of Respondent
PW1s evidence becomes suspect.	Arguments of Respondent
In this background no interference is called for.8.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for respondent no.2 (A2) adopted the stand of A1.	Arguments of Respondent
In addition she submitted that there was no evidence of making a demand and his presence at the house of A1 as claimed is also not established.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has rightly observed that PW1 is not a reliable witness and come to the right conclusion.	Arguments of Respondent
The view is not in any way perverse to warrant interference.	None
The evidence of PWs 1 and 5 are discrepant as to where the copy of Ext. P3 was prepared.	None
While it was PW1s case that it was made in his office, PW3 said it is prepared in the office of CBI.	None
By way of reply, learned counsel for the State submitted that the plea that CBI officials had conspired to falsely implicate A1 and A2 is clearly unbelievable and looks absurd on the facts of the case.	None
No reason has been indicated as to why the CBI officials would falsely implicate the accused persons in the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been recorded that there was no restaurant facility at Basant Lodge and the plea that there was a telephone call regarding the official dinner at Basant Lodge is clearly without any substance.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, on 2.12.1991 the Chairman had asked for certain clarifications.	Arguments of Petitioner
A bare look at the complaint shows that it refers to the occurrence of the same date i.e. 30.12.1991.	Arguments of Petitioner
This basic factor has been overlooked by the High Court in making out a new case.	Arguments of Petitioner
For appreciating rival stands it would be proper to quote Section 20(1) of the Act, which reads as follows 20(1) Presumption where public servant accepts gratification other than legal remuneration  (1) Where in any trial or an offence punishable under Section 7 or Section 11 or clause (a) or clause (b) of subsection (1) or Section 13 it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain for himself, or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved that he accepted or obtained.	None
or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, that gratification or that valuable thing, as the case may be, as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in Section 7 or, as the case may be, without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate.	None
Before proceeding further, we may point out that the expressions may presume and shall presume are defined in Section 4 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (in short the Evidence Act).	None
The presumptions falling under the former category are compendiously known as factual presumptions or discretionary presumptions and those falling under the latter as legal presumptions or compulsory presumptions.	None
When the expression shall be presumed is employed in Section 20(1) of the Act, it must have the same import of compulsion.	None
When the subsection deals with legal presumption, it is to be understood as in terrorem i.e. in tone of a command that it has to be presumed that the accused accepted the gratification as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act etc., if the condition envisaged in the former part of the section is satisfied.	None
The only condition for drawing such a legal presumption under Section 20 is that during trial it should be proved that the accused has accepted or agreed to accept any gratification.	None
The Section does not say that the said condition should be satisfied through direct evidence.	None
Its only requirement is that it must be proved that the accused has accepted or agreed to accept gratification.	None
Direct evidence is one of the modes through which a fact can be proved.	None
But that is not the only mode envisaged in the Evidence Act.	None
(See M. Narsinga Rao vs. State of A.P. (2001 (1) SCC 691 ).	None
Proof of the fact depends upon the degree of probability of its having existed.	None
The standards required for reaching the supposition is that of a prudent man acting in any important matter concerning him.	None
Fletcher Moulton L.J. in Hawkins vs. Powells Tillery Steam Coal Co. Ltd. (1911 (1) KB 988) observed as follows Proof does not mean proof to rigid mathematical demonstration, because that is impossible, it must mean such evidence as would induce a reasonable man to come to a particular conclusion.	None
The said observation has stood the test of time and can now be followed as the standard of proof.	None
In reaching the conclusion the Court can use the process of inferences to be drawn from facts produced or proved.	None
Such inferences are akin to presumptions in law.	None
Law gives absolute discretion to the Court to presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened.	None
In that process the Court may have regard to common course of natural events, human conduct, public or private business visavis the facts of the particular case.	None
The discretion is clearly envisages in Section 114 of the Evidence Act.	None
Presumption is an inference of a certain fact drawn from other proved facts.	None
While inferring the existence of a fact from another, the Court is only applying a process of intelligent reasoning which the mind of a prudent man would do under similar circumstances.	None
Presumption is not the final conclusion to be drawn from other facts.	None
But it could as well be final if it remains undisturbed later.	None
Presumption in law of evidence is a rule indicating the stage of shifting the burden of proof.	None
From a certain fact or facts the Court can draw an inference and that would remain until such inference is either disproved or dispelled.	None
For the purpose of reaching one conclusion the Court can rely on a factual presumption.	None
Unless the presumption is disproved or dispelled or rebutted the Court can treat the presumption as tantamounting to proof.	None
However, as a caution of prudence we have to observe that it may be unsafe to use that presumption to draw yet another discretionary presumption unless there is a statutory compulsion.	None
This Court has indicated so in Suresh Budharmal Kalani vs. State of Maharashtra (1998(7) SCC 337) A presumption can be drawn only from facts  and not from other presumptions by a process of probable and logical reasoning.	None
Illustration (a) to Section 114 of the Evidence Act says that the Court may presume that a man who is in the possession of stolen goods soon after the theft is either the thief or has received the goods knowing them to be stolen, unless he can account for his possession.	None
That illustration can profitably be used in the present context as well when prosecution brought reliable materials that there was recovery of money from the accused.	None
In fact the receipt and recovery is accepted.	None
The other factor is the acceptability of the plea of loan, which the High Court itself has not held cogent or credible.	None
We may note that a threeJudge Bench in Raghubir Singh vs. State of Punjab (1974(4) SCC 560) held that the very fact that the accused was in possession of the marked currency notes against an allegation that he demanded and received the amount is res ipsa loquitur.	None
In Hazari Lal vs. State (Delhi Admn.)	None
(1980) (2) SCC 390 )	None
it was observed that there is no requirement to prove passing of money by direct evidence.	None
It may also be proved by circumstantial evidence.	None
In Madhukar Bhaskarrao Joshi vs. State of Maharashtra (2000 (8) SCc 571 )	None
it was observed thus The premise to be established on the facts for drawing the presumption is that there was payment or acceptance of gratification.	None
Once the said premise is established the inference to be drawn is that the said gratification was accepted as motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act.	None
So the word gratification need not be stretched to mean reward because reward is the outcome of the presumption which the court has to draw on the factual premise that there was payment of gratification.	None
This will again be fortified by looking at the collocation of two expressions adjacent to each other like gratification or any valuable thing.	None
If acceptance of any valuable thing can help to draw the presumption that it was accepted as motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do an official act, the word gratification must be treated in the context to mean any payment for giving satisfaction to the public servant who received it.	None
In Blacks Law Dictionary, gratification is defined as a recompense or reward for services or benefits, given voluntarily, without solicitation or promise.	None
But in Oxford Advance Learners Dictionary of Current English the said word is given the meaning to give pleasure or satisfaction to.	None
Among the above two descriptions for the word gratification with slightly different nuances as between the two, what is more appropriate for the context has to be found out.	None
The context in which the word is used in Section 4(1) of the Act is, hence, important.	None
In Mohmoodkhan Mahboobkan Pathan vs. State of Maharashtra (1997 (10) SCC 600 ) this Court has taken the same meaning for the word gratification appearing in Section 4(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the old Act).	None
We quote the following observations The primary condition for acting on the legal presumption under Section 4(1) of the Act is that the prosecution should have prove that what the accused received was gratification.	None
The word gratification is not defined in the Act.	None
Hence, it must be understood in its literal meaning.	None
In the Oxford Advanced Learners Dictionary of Current English, the word gratification is shown to have the meaning to give pleasure or satisfaction to.	None
The word gratification is used is Section 4(1) to denote acceptance of something to the pleasure or satisfaction of the recipient.	None
The provisions of Section 4(1) of the old Act and Section 20(1) of the Act are almost identically worded.	None
What is the concept of gratification has been succinctly stated by this Court in The State of Assam vs. Krishna Rao (1973 (3) SCC 227 ), through illuminating words, after quoting Section 4 of the Act.	None
In State of Madras vs. A. Vaidiaratha Iyer (1958 SCR 580) after reproducing the relevant provisions of Section 4 of the Act this Court observed that where it is proved that a gratification has been accepted the presumption under Section 4 of the Act shall at once arise.	None
It is a presumption of law and it is obligatory on the Court to raise it in every case brought under Section 4.	None
In the reported case this Court allowed the appeal of the State of Madras and setting aside the impugned order of acquittal passed by the High Court restored that of the Special Judge convicting the respondent there.	None
In C.I. Emden vs. The State of U.P. (AIR 1960 SC 548 ) the appellant who was working as a local foreman, was found to have accepted a sum of Rs. 375 from a railway contractor.	None
The appellants explanation was that he had borrowed the amount as he was in need of money for meeting the expenses of the clothing of his children who were studying in school.	None
The Special Judge accepted the evidence of the contractor and held that the money had been taken as a bribe, that the defence story was improbable and untrue, that the presumption under Section 4 of the Act had to be raised and that the presumption had not been rebutted by the appellant and accordingly convicted him under Section 161 IPC and Section 5 of the Act.	None
On appeal the High Court held that on the facts of that case the statutory presumption under Section 4 had to be raised, that the explanation offered by the appellant was improbable and palpably unreasonable and that the presumption had not been rebutted, and upheld the conviction.	None
The appellant contended, on appeal in this Court, inter alia (i) that the presumption under Section 4 could not be raised merely on proof of acceptance of money but it had further to be proved that the money was accepted as a bribe, (ii) that even if the presumption arose it was rebutted when the appellant offered a reasonably probable explanation.	None
This Court, dealing with the presumption under Section 4, observed that such presumption arose when it was shown that the accused had received the stated amount and that the said amount was not legal remuneration.	None
The word gratification in section 4(1) was to be given its literal dictionary meaning of satisfaction or appetite or desire, it could not be construed to mean money paid by way of a bribe.	None
The High Court was justified in raising the presumption against the appellant as it was admitted that he had received the money from the contractor and the amount received was other than legal remuneration.	None
On the facts the explanation given by the accused.	None
In agreement with the opinion of the High Court was held to be wholly unsatisfactory and unreasonable.	None
In Dhanvantrai vs. State of Maharashtra (AIR 1964 SC 575 )	None
it was observed that in order to raise the presumption under Section 4(1) of the Act what the prosecution has to prove is that the accused person has received gratification other than legal remuneration and when it is shown that he has received a certain sum of money which was not a legal remuneration, then, the condition prescribed by this section is satisfied and the presumption thereunder must be raised.	None
In Jhangan vs. State of U.P. 1968 (3) SCR 766 ) the above decisions were approved and it is observed that mere receipt of money is sufficient to raise the presumption under Section 4(1) of the Act.	None
In C.I. Emden vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (AIR 1960 SC 548 ) and V.D. Jhangan vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (1966 (3) SCR 736 )	None
it was observed that if any money is received and no convincing, credible and acceptable explanation is offered by the accused as to how it came to be received by him, the presumption under Section 4 of the old Act is available.	None
When the receipt is admitted it is for the accused to prove as to how the presumption is not available as perforce the presumption arises and becomes operative.	None
These aspects were highlighted recently in State of Andhra Pradesh vs. V. Vasudev Rao (JT 2003(9)	None
SC 119 ).	None
The evidence of PW1 cannot be ignored on the ground that he had earlier made grievances against some other officials.	Reasoning
The Trial Court had carefully analysed his evidence and found the same to be credible.	Reasoning
Even if PW2 did not support the prosecution version on some aspects yet his evidence also prove giving of money.	Reasoning
The Evidence of PW1 coupled with those of PWs 3 and 5 is sufficient to bring home the accusations.	Reasoning
Further, the High Court seems to have made out a new case about the alleged date of complaint.	Reasoning
A bare reading of the contents of the complaint and the date put in the complaint as evident from Exts.	Reasoning
P3 and P3A clearly show that the High Court was not correct in saying that the date of the document is 20.12.1991.	Reasoning
Additionally, this plea was not raised before the Trial Court.	Reasoning
There was even no suggestion about that aspect.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for A1 and A2 submitted that suggestions were there which is not so.	Reasoning
What was suggested was the documents were not prepared at the time they were claimed to be.	Reasoning
There is a gulf of difference between time and date.	Reasoning
In any event such a plea has not been taken before the courts below.	Reasoning
It being essentially a question of fact, the High Court could not have made out a new case regarding correctness of the date.	Reasoning
As noted above, the views of the High Court were also not correct when the document is itself looked at.	Reasoning
Much stress was laid on the accused persons not being the final authority in the tender matter.	Reasoning
As noted in Chaturdas Bhagwandas Patel vs. The State of Gujarat (1976) (3) SCC 46 ) the question whether a person has authority to do the act for which bribe is accepted is of no consequence.28.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the legal principles as can be culled out from decisions referred to above, applying the fact situation to them the inevitable conclusion is that the High Court was not justified in directing acquittal.	Reasoning
Not only the correct legal position was not kept in view but the analysis of the factual position is also found to be erroneous.	Reasoning
That being so, the judgment of the High Court is set aside.	Reasoning
Custodial sentence of one year for each of the proved offence would meet the ends of justice, with the fine and default stipulation stipulated by the Trial Court.29.	Reasoning
The appeals are allowed to the extent indicated.	Decision
The accused persons are directed to surrender to custody to serve remainder of sentence, if any.	Decision
