 This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 26th September, 1984.	None
The first appellant is the State of Uttar Pradesh impleaded through the Chief Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow.	Facts
The second appellant is the Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh, Department of Energy, Lucknow.	Facts
The third appellant is one Shri Yogendra Narain, presently acting as Secretary to the Chief Minister, State of Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow.	Facts
At a particular point of time Shri Yogendra Narain was the Secretary to the Department of Energy.	Facts
The fourth appellant is the Assistant Electrical Inspector, a functionary under the U.P. Electricity (Duty) Act, 1952, Mirzapur Zone, Rani Patti, Mirzapur.	Facts
The fifth appellant is the Collector of Mirzapur.	Facts
There are four respondents in this appeal.	Facts
The first respondent is Renusagar Power Company Ltd.	Facts
The second respondent is M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 is Shri D.M. Mimatramka who resides at Hindalco Administrative Colony, Renukut, Mirzapur.	Facts
The fourth respondent is Shri Rajendra Kumar Kasliwal who resides at Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd., Renukut, District Mirzapur.	Facts
Respondents 3 and 4 mentioned above are the shareholders of the first respondent and the second respondent, that is, Renusagar Power Company and M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd. respectively.	Facts
It is stated that M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd., established and aluminium factory at Renukut in Mirzapur District, U.P. in 1959.	Facts
It is the case of the respondents that it was induced to do so on the assurance that cheap electricity and power would be made available at the relevant time.	Facts
In 1962, a plant of Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd. for manufacture of aluminium, was commissioned.	Facts
M s. Renusagar Power Co. Ltd.	Facts
a wholly owned subsidiary of M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd, was incorporated in 1964.	Facts
M s. Renusagar Power Company Ltd. was incorporated separately and had its own separate Memorandum and Articles of Association.	Facts
On 9th September, 1967, the first generating unit of 67.5 MW in Renusagar was commissioned by M s. Renusagar Power Company Ltd.	Facts
The second generating unit of the company was commissioned on 5th October, 1968.	Facts
The U.P Electricity (Duty) Act, 1952 (hereinafter called the Act) came into force from 15th January, 1953 and it sought to levy a duty on the consumption of electrical energy in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
In the Statement of Objects and Reasons, which was published in U.P. Gazette, it was stated that the programmes of development of the State involved enormous expenditure and thus additional resources had to be raised, the bulk of which could only be raised by means of fresh taxation.	None
It was stated that the object of the Bill, inter alia, provided as follows A tax on the consumption of electrical energy will impose a negligible burden on the consumer and is a fruitful source of additional revenue.	None
The Bill has been so prepared as to ensure that the tax payable by a person will be related to the quantity of electricity consumed by him.	None
The Bill is being introduced with the above object.	None
By virtue of the provisions of the U.P. Electricity (Duty)(Amendment) Ordinance, 1959 various amendments were carried out in the said Act.	Facts
In Section 2 of the principal Act, a new clause, Clause (hh) describing a scheduled industry was inserted.	Facts
By virtue of the aforesaid newly inserted clause, the expression scheduled industry meant any of the industries specified in the schedule.	Facts
In the proviso to Section 3 of the principal Act, after Clause (d), a new Clause (e) was inserted which provided for nonlevy or exemption from the payment of electricity duty on the energy consumed by a consumer in a scheduled industry.	Facts
The. expression which was added was by a consumer in a scheduled industry.	Facts
By virtue of Section 8 of the Amending Act, a schedule was added to the principal Act.	Facts
In the schedule, nonferrous metals and alloys were placed at serial No. 1 in Part B of the schedule under a broad heading Metallurgical Industries.	Facts
It appears, therefore, that by virtue of the aforesaid provisions electricity duty on the energy consumed by M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd. was exempted from 1st April, 1959, the date on which the Ordinance came into force.	Facts
It was further stated that the U.P. Electricity (Duty)(Amendment) Ordinance, 1959 was repealed and the provisions were incorporated into an amending Act, viz., U.P. Act No. 12 of 1959 and termed as the U.P. Electricity (Duty)(Amendment) Act, 1959.	Facts
By virtue of Subsection (2) of Section 1, the Amendment Act provided that the Act would be deemed to have come into force with effect from 1st April, 1959.	Facts
The amendment Act repealed the provisions of the U.P. Electricity (Duty)(Amendment) Ordinance, 1959.	Facts
In Section 2, after Clause (d), the clause which was inserted as a new Clause (e) provided that electricity duty would not be leviable on the consumption of energy by a consumer in any industry engaged in the manufacture, production, processing, or repair of goods.	Facts
Ordinance No. 14 of 1970 was promulgated on 5th August, 1970.	Facts
The provisions contained in the Ordinance were subsequently incorporated in U.P. Act No. 2 of 1971.	Facts
The amended provisions of U.P. Act No. 2 of 1971 came into force from 1st April, 1970.	Facts
The Amendment Act was preceded by U.P. Ordinance No. 14 of 1970.	Facts
The Ordinance was described as the Uttar Pradesh Taxes and Fees Laws (Amendment) Ordinance 1970.	Facts
By virtue of Chapter III of the said Ordinance, amendments were sought to be made to the Act.	Facts
Section 3 of the principal Act was substituted by a new section which provided that there would be levied and paid to the State Government a duty called electricity duty on the energy sold to a consumer by a licensee Board the State Government the Central Government there would be a duty on the consumption of energy by a licensee or the Board in or upon the premises used for commercial or residential purposes, or in or upon any other premises except in the construction, maintenance or operation of his or its works, and there would be a duty upon the consumption of electricity by any other person from his own source of generation.	Facts
It was provided that a duty was to be determined at such rate or rates as may, from time to time, be fixed by the State Government by notification in the official gazette.	Facts
Subsection (2) of Section 3 provided that in respect of certain classes of consumption the electricity duty would not exceed 25 of the rate charged.	Facts
It may be expedient to refer to the Prefatory Note of the Act which, inter alia, is as follows Prefatory Note	None
The minimum programme of development which this State must carry out within the next three or four years for the attainment of the objective of a welfare State is set out in the Five Year Plan drawn up by the Planning Commission.	None
This plan provides for an expenditure of 13.58 crores of rupees on power development projects.	None
Such a huge expenditure cannot be met from our present resources.	None
It is, however, essential for the welfare of the people that the expenditure should be incurred and that nothing should be allowed to stand in the way of the progress of the plan.	None
Additional resources have therefore to be found, the bulk, of which can be raised only by means of fresh taxation.	None
Section 3 of the Act provides as follows Levy of electricity duty (1) Subject to the provisions hereinafter contained, there shall be levied for and paid to the State Government on the energy (a) sold to a consumer by a licensee, the Board, the State Government or the Central Government or (b) consumed by a licensee or the Board in or upon premises used for commercial or residential purposes, or in or upon any other premises except in the construction, maintenance or operation of his or its works or (c) consumed by any other person from his own source of generation a duty (hereinafter referred to as electricity duty) determined at such rate or rates as may from time to time be fixed by the State Government by notification in the Gazette, and such rate may be fixed either as a specified percentage of the rate charged or as a specified sum per unit.	None
Provided that such notification issued after October 1, 1984 but not later than March 31, 1985 may be made effective on or from a prior date not earlier than October 1, 1984.	None
In respect of Clauses (a) and (b) of Subsection (1), the electricity duty shall not exceed thirtyfive per cent of the rate charged.	None
Provided that in the case of onepart tariff where the rate charged is based on units of consumption, the electricity duty shall not be less than one paisa per unit or more than eight paisa per unit.	None
ExplanationFor the purposes of the calculation of electricity duty as aforesaid, energy consumed by a licensee or the Board or supplied free of charge or at the concessional rates to his or its partners, directors, members, officers or servants shall be deemed to be energy sold to consumers by the licensee or the Board, as the case may be, at the rates applicable to other consumers of the same category.	None
In respect of Clause (c) of Subsection (1), the electricity duty shall not be less than one paisa or more than six paisa per unit.	None
The State Government may, in the public interest, having regard to the prevailing charges for supply of energy in any area, the generating capacity of any plant, the need to promote industrial production generally or any specified class thereof and other relevant factors, either fix different rates of electricity duty in relation to different classes of consumption of energy or allow any exemption from payment thereof.	Reasoning
No electricity duty shall be levied on (a) energy consumed by the Central Government or sold to the Central Government for consumption by that Government or (b) x	None
x x (c) energy consumed in the construction, maintenance or operation of any railway by the Central Government or sold to that Government for consumption in the construction, maintenance or operation of any railway (d) by a cultivator in agricultural operations carried on in or near his fields such as the pumping of water for irrigation, crushing, milling or treating of the produce of those fields or chaff cutting.	None
Energy consumed in light upon supplies made under the Janta Service Connection Scheme.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of Clause (e) Janta Service Connection Scheme means a scheme approved by the State Electricity Board for supplying Energy to Harijans, landless labourers, farmers (holding land not exceeding one acre), members of armed forces (whether serving or retired), war widows and other weaker sections in district notified by the State Government.	None
Section 4 of the Act read as follows Payment of electricity duty and interest thereon.(1)	None
The electricity duty shall be paid, in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed, to the State Government.	None
(a) where the energy is supplied or consumed by a licensee,by the licensee (b) where the energy is supplied by the State Government or the Central Government or is supplied or consumed by the Board,by the appointed authority and (c) where the energy is consumed by any other person from his own source of generation,by the person generating such energy.	None
Where the amount of electricity duty is not paid by the State Government within the prescribed period as aforesaid, the licensee, the Board or other person mentioned in Clause (c) of Subsection (1), as the case may be, shall be liable, to pay within such period as may be prescribed, interest at the rate of eighteen per cent per annum on the amount of electricity duty remaining unpaid until payment thereof is made.	None
Section 9 of the Act provides as follows Exemptions.	None
Nothing in this Act shall apply to any energy generated by a person for his own use or consumption or to energy generated by a plant having a capacity not exceeding two and a half killowatts.	None
M s. Renusagar Power Company Ltd. had in the meantime obtained a sanction under Section 28 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 to engage in the business of supply of electricity to the second respondent,	Facts
M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd.	Facts
By virtue of Section 2(f) which defines a licensee for the purposes of the Duty Act to mean any person licensed under Part II of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 and includes any person who has obtained sanction from the State Government under Section 28.	Facts
Renusagar Power Company Ltd., the first respondent herein, was deemed to be a licensee for the purposes of the U.P. Electricity (Duty) Act.	Facts
By virtue of Section 2(d) of the Act, M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd. was a consumer since it was supplied energy by the licensee, M s. Renusagar Power Company Ltd., the first respondent.	Facts
Thus, the consumption of electricity by M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd. under a contract of sale by the licensee was exigible to duty.	Facts
In other words, Clause (a) of Subsection (1) of Section 3 of the Act, as amended, came into operation and a levy of duty would take place on the energy sold, to a consumer by a licensee.	Facts
Clause (a) of Subsection (1) of Section 4 as newly added provided that where the energy was supplied by a licensee, the licensee would be liable to pay electricity duty.	Facts
Thus, by virtue of the amended provisions of the Electricity (Duty) Act, M s. Renusagar Power Co. Ltd.	Facts
the first respondent herein was liable to pay electricity duty in respect of its supplies to M s. Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd.	Facts
In exercise of the powers conferred by the Amendment Ordinance (U.P. Ordinance No. 14 of 1970, the provisions of which were reenacted in U.P. Act No. 2 of 1971), the Governor on or about 25th August, 1970 passed an order that with effect from 1st September, 1970 the electricity duty on industrial consumption would be levied at one paisa per unit.	Facts
On 28th August, 1970, the Governor ordered in supersession of all the previous orders that with effect from 1st September, 1970 electricity duty on the energy consumed by the consumers would be levied at the rates specified therein.	Facts
There was further notification dated 30th September, 1970, issued in the name of the Governor modifying the terms of the notifications dated 25th August, 1970 and 28th August, 1970.	Facts
On or about 4th December, 1952 after the inauguration of the First Five Year Plan, electricity duty was imposed to gather additional revenue for attaining the objectives set out in the plan.	Facts
The U.P. Electricity (Duty) Act, 1952 was enacted on 4th December, 1952.	Facts
On 1st April, 1959 in order to mitigate the hardship which might be caused to certain industries in the State, the U.P. Electricity (Duty)(Amendment) Ordinance, 1959 (U.P. Ordinance No. 3 of 1959) was promulgated by the Governor of U.P.	Facts
By the aforesaid Ordinance it was provided in the first proviso to Section 3 of the principal Act that no duty shall be leviable on the energy consumed by a consumer in a Scheduled Industry, including Nonferrous Industries manufacturing Aluminium like that of respondent No. 2, Hindalco.	Facts
The aforesaid Ordinance was substituted by the U.P. Electricity (Duty)(Amendment) Act, 1959 (U.P. Act No. 12 of 1959).	Facts
It substituted Subclause (e) in the first proviso of Section 3 which reads as follows (e) by a consumer in any Industry engaged in the manufacture, production, processing or repairs of goods.	Facts
In the year 1959 respondent No. 2 looking to the profitability of establishing a factory for manufacture of aluminium, set up a plant at Renukut, District Mirzapur in the State of U.P.	Facts
On or about 29th October, 1959 an agreement was arrived at with the State Government and the Hindustan Aluminium Corporation Ltd. (Hindalco) for supply of 55 M.W. electrical power at the rate of 1.997717 paise per unit inclusive of all charges, duties and taxes of whatever nature on electricity for 25 years.	Facts
In the year 1962 Hindalco, respondent No. 2, started production of aluminium.	Facts
On 14th October, 1964 respondent No. 2 requested the State Government to grant sanction to the Renusagar Power Company Ltd., to supply electricity to respondent No. 2.	Facts
On 12th November, 1964 respondent No. 1 Renusagar Power Company Ltd. was granted sanction under Section 28 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, to engage in the business of supply of electricity to respondent No. 2 Hindalco.	Facts
There was an agreement on 29th December, 1967 with Hindalco and U.P. State Electricity Board to supply 5.5 M.W. and 7.5 M.W. of power.	Facts
The rate of charges along with levy of sales tax, etc. were to be paid by the consumer.	Facts
On 1st July, 1970, there was an agreement between Hindalco and State Electricity Board to supply 7.5 M.W. of power.	Facts
The rate of charges including levy such as Sales Tax etc. were to be paid by the consumer.	Facts
On 5th August, 1970, the U.P. Ordinance No. 14 of 1970 was promulgated further to amend the U.P. Electricity (Duty) Act, 1952 which came into force from 1st September, 1970.	Facts
By the aforesaid amendment provisions of Sections 3, 4 and 7 were substituted by new sections, Sections 3A and 9 were omitted and there were several amendments in various sections of the original Act.	Facts
As a result of the promulgation of the Ordinance, electricity duty became leviable on the industrial consumption as well as on the energy consumed by any person from his own source of generation.	Facts
The provisions of Section 3 have been set out before.	Facts
Thereafter notification was issued on 25th August, 1970 under which rate of electricity duty on the energy consumed for industrial purposes was prescribed at one paisa per unit on consumption of electricity with effect from 1st September, 1970.	Facts
On 1st September, 1970, the provisions of the Ordinance amending U.P. Electricity (Duty) Act, 1952 came into force.	Facts
Electricity duty became leviable on the respondent No. 1 on the energy supplied to Hindalco, respondent No. 2 for the industrial purposes.	Facts
On 28th September, 1970 respondent No. 2, Hindalco, made an application under Subsection (4) of Section 3 of the Act to the State Government to grant exemption on the energy supplied by respondent No. 1 to respondent No. 2 for industrial purposes.	Facts
On 17th January, 1971 Ordinance No. 14 of 1970 was substituted by the U.P. Electricity (Duty)(Amendment) Act, 1970.	Facts
On 26th February, 1971 report was made by the ThreeMen Committee appointed to examine the request of Hindalco for grant of exemption from payment of electricity duty on the energy supplied by Renusagar Power Company Ltd.	Facts
According to the Committee the burden as a result of the imposition of electricity duty did not result in substantial or insufferable increase of the rate of duty for Hindalco.	Facts
On 27th August, 1971 a demand for payment of electricity duty amounting to Rs.	Facts
59,13,891.80 was raised on respondent No. 1.	Facts
On 29th March, 1972 application of respondent No. 2 for grant of exemption was rejected by the State Government on the following reasons That the intention of the legislation was clear to withdraw the exemption from payment of electricity duty on the industrial consumers with effect from 1.9.1970 the facility of which was being availed for a period of more than 11 years.	Facts
That the applicant was never given any assurance that he will be exempted from electricity duty nor the applicant is entitled for any exemption as a matter of right under the provisions of the amended Act.	None
That it was not in public interest to grant them exemption from electricity duty.	None
That the electricity duty is also being levied on the Aluminium Industries in other States also.	None
That the additional resources are taken into account to give the final shape of the State Development Plans and with a view to fulfil the requirement of these Development Plans the Electricity Duty Act was amended in 1970.	None
The expected income from this duty is essential for the execution of State Government plans.	Facts
It cannot be inferred that the imposition of electricity duty will be an unbearable burden on Hindalco.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid rejection, the respondents filed Writ Petition No. 4521 of 1972 before the High Court of Allahabad.	Facts
On 17th March, 1973 the State Government granted exemption from payment of electricity duty on the energy consumed by any person from his own source of generation.	Facts
Exemption was also granted on the energy sold to a consumer establishing a factory having capital investment upto Rs. 25 lakes in the backward district for five years.	Facts
The High Court by its judgment on 17th May, 1974 in the Writ Petition No. 4521 of 1972 quashed the order of the State Government and directed the State Government to reconsider the application of the respondents for exemption in the light of the observations made in that judgment.	Facts
On 6th September, 1975 Hindalco submitted an application again to the State Government for reconsideration of their previous application for exemption from payment of electricity duty.	Facts
In the meanwhile, the State Government filed a special leave petition to this Court against the judgment and order of the High Court of Allahabad dated 17th May, 1974 in Writ Petition No. 4521 of 1972.	Facts
In the meantime of 13th November, 1976 an agreement was entered into between the State Electricity Board and Hindalco for supply of 85 M.W. main supply.	Facts
The rate fixed was 11 paise per unit inclusive of all taxes of whatever nature on electricity.	Facts
Special leave petition was, however, dismissed on 28th March, 1977.	Facts
In compliance with the High Courts judgment dated 17th May, 1974, on 5th April, 1977 respondents were given an opportunity of hearing by the State Government.	Facts
For the purpose of considering the representation and to verify the correctness of the data and the profit and loss accounts furnished by Hindalco in their printed Balance Sheets the matter was got examined by Shri B.B. Jindal, Controller of Banking Operations, U.P. State Electricity Board who submitted his report in 1977.	Facts
The State Government, however, was not satisfied with the report of Shri B.B. Jindal.	Facts
On 6th September, 1978 the matter was got reexamined by the Chief Electrical Inspector to Government, Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
He submitted his report.	Facts
The Chief Electrical Inspector in his report compared the cost of power of Hindalco with similar industries in other States.	Facts
On 5th December, 1978 Secretary of Power discussed the matter with Dr. R. Rajagopalan, Chief Advisor (Costs), Government of India.	Facts
Then a note was prepared by the Secretary, Power, Government of U.P. in which reference was made to the above report of Chief Electrical Inspector to the Government of U.P. Thereafter the Chief Secretary to the Government of U.P. on 26th December, 1978 wrote a letter to the Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, requesting him that the matter may be got examined by the Chief Advisor (Costs), Government of India, expeditiously.	Facts
After examination on 29th January, 1979 Dr. R. Rajagopalan, Chief Advisor (Costs), Government of India, submitted his report that the effect of imposition of electricity duty on the margin of profit available to Hindalco has been very insignificant.	Facts
It did not have any adverse effect on the profitability of Hindalco since such a levy has been included in the cost in fixing the selling prices of Hindalcos products by the Government of India.	Facts
Imposition of electricity duty did not result in reducing the normal profits of Hindalco to either an absolute loss or such a small margin of profit that Hindalco was turned into an uneconomic unit.	Facts
According to him the claim of Hindalco for exemption from levy of electricity duty is not based on justifiable grounds of either low profitability or incapacity of resources with which to pay.	Facts
Personal hearing was given to the respondents in view of the directions given by the High Court.	Facts
Report of Dr. Rajagopalan was made available to the respondents.	Facts
On 28th January, 1980 rate of electricity duty on the energy consumed for industrial purposes was revised from one paisa to two paise per unit applicable from the date of notification, that is, from 16th February, 1980.	Facts
There was an agreement on 24th April, 1980 between the State Electricity Board and the Hindalco regarding 85 M.W. main supply and 60 M.W. stand by Emergency Supply.	Facts
Rate of 28.42 paise per unit was fixed.	Facts
A personal hearing was given to the respondents in compliance with the directions issued by the High Court.	Facts
Respondents were allowed to inspect the report of the Chief Electrical Inspector and other reports available with the State Government were shown to them and they submitted their comments on the report of Dr. Rajagopalan which were duly considered by the State Government.	Facts
A personal hearing was again given to the respondents to submit their submissions in support of their application for exemption.	Facts
Respondents were represented by counsel during the course of hearing.	Facts
After giving full consideration to the submissions made in the original and additional representations and the comments dated 23rd August, 1980 on the report of Dr. Rajagopalan and to the entire material placed before the State Government, the State Government came to the conclusion that the claim for exemption from levy of electricity duty was not at all justified on any ground whatsoever.	Facts
Accordingly the request for exemption was disallowed.	Facts
On 3rd March, 1982 respondent No. 1 was asked to pay Rs.	Facts
11,96,83,153.80 as the amount of electricity duty on the energy supplied by it to respondent No. 2 for industrial purposes.	Facts
Respondent No. 1, however, failed to pay the aforesaid amount within the stipulated time.	Facts
On 22nd March, 1982, the District Magistrate, Mirzapur, was requested to recover the said amount as arrears of land revenue.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the decision of the State Government, the respondent filed a Writ Petition No. 3921 of 1982 in the High Court of Allahabad and the High Court issued stay order directing the petitioners not to take any proceedings for the recovery of the impugned electricity duty.	Facts
On 26th September, 1984 the High Court allowed the Writ Petition No. 3921 of 1982 and held that the impugned order of the State Government was not maintainable in law and hence quashed the order of the State Government as well as the notice of demand dated 3rd March, 1982.	Facts
The State Government was also directed to consider the request of the respondents for exemption in accordance with the directions issued by the Division Bench in Writ Petition No. 4521 of 1972 and also in the light of the observations made in the judgment after affording an opportunity of personal hearing to the respondents.	Facts
Being aggrieved thereby the appellants have come up in appeal to this Court.	Facts
In the background of the facts and the circumstances setout hereinbefore, we have now to examine the correctness of the judgment and order of the High Court which is under appeal.	None
There are two different aspects.	None
One is whether the Renusagar Power Company Ltd., was own source of generation of electricity for the Hindalco, in the facts and circumstances of the case.	None
The second aspect is whether the order passed by the State Government, having regard to the nature of the order passed, was in accordance with the principles of natural justice insofar as the same were applicable to the facts of this case.	Issue
As it is apparent on the state of law mentioned hereinbefore from 1952 to 1970 no duty was payable if electricity was generated from own source of energy.	None
From 1970 to 1973 duty of one paisa was payable in respect of electricity supplied from own source of generation.	None
However, after 1973 no duty was payable in respect of electricity supplied from own source of generation.	None
Own source of generation is an expression connected with the question of lifting or piercing the corporate veil.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled that in interpreting items in statutes whose primary object is to raise revenue and or which purpose they classify diverse products, articles and substances, resort should be had not to the scientific and technical meaning of the terms or expressions used but to the meaning attached to them by those dealing in them.	Reasoning
See the observations of this Court in Chiranjit Lal Anand v. State of Assam and Anr.	Reasoning
1985 Supp 2 SCR 385.	Reasoning
As mentioned hereinbefore, the application for exemption was made after disposal of the first writ petition No. 4521/72 by the High Court on 17th May, 1974.	None
Thereafter, the respondent made another application for exemption under Section 3(4) of the Act.	None
The said application was ultimately rejected, which rejection was subsequently challenged.	None
The High Court in the judgment under appeal on 26th September, 1984 has set aside the order of rejection passed by the State Government.	None
Was the High Court right, is the question involved in this appeal.	Issue
Examination of this question involves two aspects, namely, what is the rate of duty under which various notifications were applicable to the energy consumed by Hindalco from Renusagar.	Issue
Is Renusagar own source of generation of Hindalco within the meaning of Section 3(1)(c) of the Electricity Duty Act, 1952 and the various notifications issued thereunder.	Issue
The question whether Renusagar was own source of generation of Hindalco, is a mixed question of law and facts as correctly contended by Shri Palkhiwala as well as by Shri Sen appearing, on behalf of the respondents.	None
Shri Palkhiwala appearing for the respondents submitted before us the historical background of the setting up of Renusagar Power Plant.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that for producing aluminium by Hindalco, electricity is a rawmaterial.	Arguments of Respondent
The Hindalco was set up with a capacity of 20,000 tons per annum on the basis of sole assurance according to the respondent, given by the State of U.P. that adequate power would be given at a very cheap and economical rate.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government of U.P. in 1959 agreed to give 55 m.w. of power 1.99 paise per unit.	Arguments of Respondent
This, according to the respondents, was in accordance with the policy of Central Government and on the basis of the report of the various Committees set up by the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was drawn to certain facts appearing in Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
A pages 89 which set out the averments made in the writ petition filed in the instant case.	Arguments of Respondent
It was stated therein that aluminium is an essential rawmaterial in a large number of industries of strategic national importance and its production is of vital public interest.	Arguments of Respondent
60 of the production of Renusagar goes to the electric industries and an extra 16 of the production goes to the utensils manufacturing unit and all the remaining production goes to defence, ordnance, mint, transportation and packaging industry.	Arguments of Respondent
Aluminium is, therefore, a commodity of national importance and, as such, is mentioned in Schedule 1 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 which contains only such industries which have been declared by the Parliament to be of public interest.	Arguments of Respondent
The Union Government was anxious to set up new units in private sector as for want of sufficient foreign exchange such units could not be set up in the public sector.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection reliance was placed on the report of the Industrial Licensing Enquiry Committee known as Data Committee.	Arguments of Respondent
In this background Shri G.D. Birla who eventually floated the Corporation was prevailed upon to explore the possibility of setting up of aluminium plant.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government of India appointed a Committee of Experts headed by Shri Nagarajarao in the year 1956 for recommending the location of a new Aluminium Plant.	Arguments of Respondent
In that report Shri Nagarajarao recommended Rihand as one of the places for setting up the Aluminium Plant.	Arguments of Respondent
The U.P. Government was also keen to have the industry located in the State and persuaded Shri G.D. Birla to set up the plant with the assurance that sufficient electricity at constant and concessional rate would be available.	Arguments of Respondent
Here, it was reiterated that the agreement dated 29th October, 1959 was entered into called the parallel agreement so that at any time any one of the Thermal Power Stations could be maintained independently.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindalco was allowed to expand its aluminium production capacity from time to time on the condition that it would install its own power plant subject to the further condition that this power plant could be taken over by the State at a later date.	Arguments of Respondent
To avoid takeover complications Hindalco decided to set up captive power house through the instrumentality of Renusagar Power Co., a 100 subsidiary of Hindalco fully controlled by Hindalco in all respects to supply power to Hindalco only.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference may be made to page 28 of Vol. XVI which is a letter dated 13th February, 1963 written by the Deputy Secretary, Govt. of India, Ministry of Commerce Industry, to Shri D.P. Mandelia of Hindustan Aluminium Corporation, New Delhi, where on the question of power plant it was suggested that as stated by Shri Mandelia a separate Company may be formed with the power plant project and the major portion of the capital subscribed by Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
It was highlighted that setting up of a power plant project was part of the scheme for meeting the needs of Hindalco for electricity.	Arguments of Respondent
All planning, designing, engineering, purchase of equipments financing was done by Hindalco exclusively for Renusagar.	Arguments of Respondent
See Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
XVI Pages 20, 33, 49, 58 62 of the paperbook.	Arguments of Respondent
The only object and purpose of power plant was to supply power and suit the requirements of Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference may be made to pages 36 37 of Vol. XVI of the paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Shri Palkhiwala and Shri B. Sen from the aforesaid background the following facts emerge (a) 1967/1968 Unit 1 2 of Renusagar went into operation.	Arguments of Respondent
Renuagar was set up as part and parcel of Aluminium Expansion Scheme.	None
All steps to set up Renusagar including expansion were taken by Hindalco.	None
Agency of Renusagar was set up by Hindalco because of Take Over option by the State.	None
Renusagar is 100 subsidiary of Hindalco.	None
Borrowings of Renusagar arranged and guaranteed by Hindalco.	None
Renusagar supplies power to Hindalco only.	Reasoning
There is only one transmission line from Renusagar to Hindalco.	None
Renusagar generates power only to the extent required by Hindalco.	Reasoning
Hindalco has complete control over Renusagar.	Reasoning
Hindalco has undertaken various obligations for the running of Renusagar.	Arguments of Respondent
The agreement between Renusagar and Hindalco is not a normal sale purchase agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
This agreement shows complete control of Hindalco over Renusagar.	Arguments of Respondent
THE CONDITIONS UNDER THE INDIAN ELECTRICITY ACT, 1910 APPLICABLE TO NORMAL SANCTION HOLDERS AND LICENSEES WERE NOT APPLIED TO RENUSAGAR BECAUSE IT WAS HINDALCOS CAPTIVE SOURCE OF GENERATION.	Arguments of Respondent
For Instance After the incorporation in 1964 Renusagar was granted sanction Under Section 28 of the Electricity Supply Act, 1910 to supply power to Hindalco only.	Arguments of Respondent
See	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. XVI page 64 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
Since Renusagar was not public utility but a captive plant of Hindalco certain conditions applicable to normal sanction holders in the nature of public utilities but inapplicable to Renusagar were deleted from the sanction.	Arguments of Respondent
See	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. XVI page 74 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
FOR THE PURPOSE OF EXPANSION OF HINDALCO AS WELL AS RENUSAGAR THE GOVT.	Arguments of Respondent
OF INDIA AND THE STATE OF U.P. SPECIFICALLY PROCEEDED ON THE FOOTING THAT HINDALCO HAD ITS OWN SOURCE OF GENERATION IN RENUSAGAR, SINCE RENUSAGAR WAS THE CAPTIVE POWER PLANT OF HINDALCO.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, for all practical purposes Renusagar was treated as part and parcel of the Hindalcos expansion programme.	Arguments of Respondent
In 1962 Hindalco decided to expand capacity to 60,000 tons per annum.	Arguments of Respondent
This meant need of extra power.	Arguments of Respondent
The U.P. Government and the UPSEB expressed inability to give the extra power.	Arguments of Respondent
The U.P. Govt. had no objection if Hindalco set up its own powerhouse with an option to the U.P. Govt.	Arguments of Respondent
to take over the power plant later.	Arguments of Respondent
On this important basis Hindalco was granted permission to set up captive power plant.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed in this connection on Vol. XVI, pages 4, 6, 7, 15 and 16 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
Also see Sections 34, 36, 37, 44 of the Electricity Supply Act, 1910.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus Hindalco was allowed to expand its aluminium production on the condition of its setting up its own power plant which was part and parcel of the expansion scheme.	Arguments of Respondent
See in this connection Vol. XVI, pages 22 25 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
When Hindalco decided to expand its aluminium plant again from 60,000 to 1,20,000 tons per annum, the expansion of the powerhouse was a condition precedent to aluminium expansion.	Arguments of Respondent
All negotiations, requests for permission, correspondence with authorities, intimation from Government were done and received by Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection reference may be made to Vol. XVI, pages 129 to 134, 151, 157 180 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
Renusagar was allowed expansion limited to power requirement of Hindalco for captive use of Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
See Vol. XVI, pages 145, 159, 161, 185, 187 and 189 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
All Government authorities including Central Govt., State of U.P. and U.P. State Electricity Board have always treated Renusagar to be Captive Plant as either Self Generation or Own generation or Own Plant or Own Source of generation or Generation for selfuse or Own use etc. of Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection reference may be made to Vol. XVI, pages 81, 9091, 112, 135A, 139140, 146, 150, 152, 160, 163, 167, 169, 172, 183A 184 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
It further appears that 100 powercutsstoppage of electricity from the State gridwere imposed on those who had 50 or more of their own source of generation.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindalco suffered 100 power cuts precisely on this account.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted on behalf of the respondents and in our opinion rightly that the words own source of generation could not have one meaning for power cuts and another meaning for concession exemptions under the same law.	Arguments of Respondent
It further appears that the Secretary, Power, U.P. Govt. submitted a note to the Advisory Council for recommending 100 powercuts on Hindalco as Hindalco had more than 50 power supply from its own source of generation i.e. Renusagar.	Arguments of Respondent
See Vol. XVI, page 163 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
Notification under Section 22B of the Act as appearing in Vol. XIII of the Paper Book was accordingly issued.	Arguments of Respondent
The U.P.S.E.B. served notice on Hindalco to reduce drawal to zero.	Arguments of Respondent
See Vol. XVI, page 167 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
The U.P. Government refused exemption from powercut to Hindalco on the ground that it had its own source of generation.	Arguments of Respondent
See Vol. XVI, page 172.	Arguments of Respondent
In Court proceedings Hindalco challenged powercut.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government filed affidavits, always asserting Renusagar to be own source of generation of Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
See Vol. XXIV, pages 68 to 75 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
Indeed, it appears from the observations of this Court in State of U.P. v. Hindustan Aluminium Corpn.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
19793SCR709 that this Court proceeded on the basis that Renusagar had its own source of generation.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further said that the appellants have also admitted in the present proceedings the position that Hindalco had in Renusagar its own source of generation.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance has been placed on Section 9 of the Duty Act as it existed upto 1970.	None
See Vol. XVIII, page 5 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
Three men Committee Report on exemption treated Renusagar as own generation.	Arguments of Respondent
See Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
A page 158 at 163 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government of U.P. rejected exemption application.	Arguments of Respondent
Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
A page 3 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
Counteraffidavit in the first petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. X, pages 26, 27 32 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
Counteraffidavit in second petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. XI, pages 93 130 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
See the Judgment of the Allahabad High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
A, pages 7, 1011, 13 19.	None
Petition of the U.P. Government under Article 138.	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. XI, page 134.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also significant to note the special leave petition filed by the U.P. Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference may be made to Vol. XI, pages 139 to 141.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference may be made to Rajagopalan Report, Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
A pages 237 265 of the Paper Book.	Arguments of Respondent
See the affidavit of State of U.P. in Allahabad High Court in present proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
A, pages 7172, 76 84.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Courts Judgment dated 26.9.84 in the present proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. B, pages 391397.	None
All these factors have to be borne in mind in considering whether Renusagar was Hindalcos own source of generation.	Issue
Counsel for the respondents drew our attention to the fact that in the manufacture of aluminium, electrical energy is rawmaterial and between 16,000 to 20,000 units of energy are required for the production of 1 ton of aluminium.	Arguments of Respondent
The impact of the imposition of duty on energy (c) 1 paise per unit would be an increase in the cost of production of aluminium by Rs. 160 to Rs. 200 per ton.	Arguments of Respondent
The impact of the imposition of duty on energy 6 paise per unit will be an increase in the cost of aluminium by Rs. 960 to Rs. 1,200 per ton.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindalco was incorporated in 1959 and its aluminium plant commenced production in 1962 with a capacity of 20,000 tons of aluminium ingots p.a.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindalco obtained electrical energy required for the manufacture of aluminium to the extent of 55 MW from the State Board Hydle power under an agreement dated 29.10.59 1.997717 paise per unit inclusive of all charges, duties and taxes of whatever nature on electricity.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindalcos plant was located at Renukut because of their assurances for power supply at economical rates.	Arguments of Respondent
The first expansion of Hindalco from 20,000 to 60,000 tons p.a. required further electricity.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondent the basic planning of the power plant at Renusagar, the arrangement for its design, engineering, purchase and for importing the plant and for financing the whole project were done by Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
Renusagar, which is a 100 subsidiary of Hindalco, wholly owned and controlled by Hindalco, was incorporated in March 1964.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindalco established the power plant through the agency of Renusagar in order to avoid complications in the case of a take over of the power plant by the State Board of which there could be a possibility as power generation is generally not permitted in normal conditions in private sector.	Arguments of Respondent
In this background what was highlighted on behalf of the respondent was that the sanction under Section 28 of the 1910 Act given to Renusagar and its amendment established that Renusagar was not a normal type of sanction under Section 23 of the 1910 Act as the holder could supply power only to Hindalco.	Arguments of Respondent
The first generating unit in Renusagar commenced on 9.9.67 and the second one commenced on 5.10.68.	Reasoning
All steps for the expansion of the power in Renusagar so as to match the power requirement of Hindalcos expansion were taken by Hindalco even though Renusagar had been incorporated.	Reasoning
Applications for all the necessary sanctions and permissions were made by Hindalco.	Reasoning
Permissions and sanctions were first intimated to Hindalco even though Renusagar was in existence.	Reasoning
See Vol. XVI, pages 129134 149 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
Changes in the sanctions and or permissions granted were obtained by Hindalco and not by Renusagar.	Reasoning
See Vol. XVI, pages 157, 180 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
The expansion of the power plant in Renusagar was to exactly match the requirements of Hindalco for the production of aluminium.	Reasoning
The expansion of the power plant in Renusagar was part and parcel of the expansion of the aluminium plant of Hindalco.	Reasoning
See Vol. XVI, pages 145, 159, 161, 185, 187 189 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
The third generation unit in Renusagar commenced in November 1981 and the fourth generating unit in April 1983.	Reasoning
Hindalco consumes about 255 MW power out of which 250 MW comes from Renusagar and 5 MW by way of main supply and 15 MW by way of emergency supply is made by the Board.	Reasoning
It was emphasised on behalf of Hindalco that the power plants at Renusagar were set up as part and parcel of the aluminium expansion scheme of Hindalco and the only object and purpose of the power plants in Renusagar was to supply power to suit the needs of Hindalco.	Reasoning
All steps to set up the power plant in Renusagar and its further expansion were taken by Hindalco.	Reasoning
The power plant was set up by Hindalco through the agency of Renusagar (100 subsidiary and wholly owned and controlled by Hindalco) to avoid complications in the event of take over by the State Board.	Reasoning
All the borrowings of Renusagar were arranged and guaranteed by Hindalco.	Reasoning
Further, there is only one transmission line going out of Renusagar and the same goes to Hindalco.	Reasoning
Renusagar can supply power only to Hindalco.	Reasoning
Renusagar generates power only to the extent required by Hindalco.	Reasoning
Hindalco has complete control over Renusagar including its daytoday operations.	Reasoning
This will be evident from the applications with regard to running of Renusagar Power Plant Station undertaken by Hindalco to the Board.	Reasoning
See Vol. XV, pages 104, 118, 124 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
The agreement between Renusagar and Hindalco indicates this was not normal salepurchase agreement between two independent persons at arms length.	Reasoning
The price of electricity is determined according to the cash needs of Renusagar.	Reasoning
This covenant also shows complete control of Hindalco over Renusagar.	Reasoning
It was submitted before us that if looked at properly, Renusagar was Hindalcos own source of generation and according to the respondent an analysis of the different provisions of the Amendment Act, makes the position clear.	Arguments of Respondent
Submissions were made on the construction of Section 3 of the Act and also that the difference in language of Section 2(g)(c) and old Section 9 is significant.	Arguments of Respondent
Ambit of Section 3(1)(c) is wider than the old section in view of the addition of the words source of generation which must be given their full meaning.	Reasoning
We have setout hereinbefore the provisions of Sections 3(1)(c) and 9 of the Act.	Reasoning
Rule 2(g) referred to in the order shows that the expression any person in Section 3(1)(c) would mean a person other than licensee or a Board who consumes energy from his own source of generation.	Reasoning
Hindalco fixes in the expression any other person under Section 3(1)(c) and it consumes energy from its own source of generation.	Reasoning
Generation being done by Renusagar, it was pointed out that Rule 2(g) of the U.P. Electricity Duty Rules, 1952 supports this plea of the respondents.	Reasoning
It should be borne in mind that the expression own source of generation which has not been defined in the Duty Act or 1910 Act, cannot be regarded as a term of art.	Reasoning
The various documents and letters placed before the Court and referred to hereinbefore indicate that all persons and authorities dealing and conversant with this matter had consistently treated Renusagar as own source of generation of Hindalco.	Reasoning
In the powercuts matter under Section 22B of 1910 Act, 100 cut was imposed on Hindalco on the footing that it has its own source of generation.	Reasoning
All the authorities including the State and the Board have all along treated Renusagar as own source of generation of Hindalco.	Reasoning
The High Court as well as this Court had proceeded on that basis.	Reasoning
In a note with the Advisory Counsel dated 31.5.77 the Secretary, Power Deptt.	Reasoning
of the State Govt.	Reasoning
treated Renusagar as own source of generation of Hindalco.	Reasoning
In the proceedings under the Electricity Duty Act itself, it was the case of the State that Renusagar generation was by Hindalco for its own use within the meaning of Section 9 of the Duty Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also the case of the State that Renusagar was own source of generation of Hindalco and since by its amendment in 1952 the Legislature had shown an intention to levy duty on own source of generation, Hindalco was not entitled to exemption.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, submitted that Renusagar must be regarded as alter ego of Hindalco i.e., own source of generation of Hindalco within the meaning of Section 3(1)(c) of the Duty Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
48.	Arguments of Petitioner
The word own is a generic term, embracing within itself several gradations of title, dependent on the circumstances, and it does not necessarily mean ownership in fee simple it means, to possess to have or hold as property.	None
See Blacks Law Dictionary, 5th Edn.	None
p. 996.	None
It was further submitted that by the 1970 Amendment Act, the Legislature intended to cover a wide area under Section 3(1)(c) than under the old Section 9.	Arguments of Petitioner
If Renusagar is the own source of generation of Hindalco then the consumption clearly falls within Section 3(1)(c).	Arguments of Petitioner
The three clauses of Section 3(1), it was submitted, had to be read together by way of harmonious construction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 3(1)(a) should not be so construed as to defeat the aim of Section 3(1)(c).	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of harmonious construction what needs to be looked at, is the dominant or the primary element in the provisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus Section 3(1)(c) should not be interpreted to cover all the cases of own generation notwithstanding the fact that a sale may be involved and to that extent the transaction should be excluded from the operation of Section 3(1)(a).	Arguments of Petitioner
Alternatively, it was submitted that if the three clauses were to be treated as independent of each other then the result of construction that each provision would yield to special provisions applied should be applied as a part and parcel of harmonious construction of this section.	Arguments of Petitioner
49.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this approach Clause (c) of Section 3(1) ought to be regarded as dealing with the special situation, namely, a person consuming from its own source of generation while provisions of Clause (a) of Section 3(1) should be regarded as general provisions dealing with the cases of sale and consumption generally.	Arguments of Petitioner
The aforesaid construction would be in harmony, it was urged, with the object and purpose of the legislation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on the observations of this Court in J.K. Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of U.P. and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1961)ILLJ540SC , where at page 193 this Court insisted on harmonious construction and not on literal construction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Also see Girdhari Lal and Sons v. Balbir Nath Mathur and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
19861SCR383	Arguments of Petitioner
State of Tamil Nadu v. Kodaikanal Motor Union (P) Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
19862SCR927 at 100 and D. Sanjeevayya v. Election Tribunal, A.P. and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
19672SCR489 .	Arguments of Petitioner
50.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents and in support of their contention, it was urged that the harmonious construction would advance purpose and object of the legislation inasmuch as it was clearly one of the purposes of the legislation to treat captive generation or selfgeneration as a separate category and to confer benefits on the same in public interest.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was drawn to the notification dated 17th March, 1973 which appears at Vol. XVIII, page 34.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further contended on behalf of the respondents that interpretation of Section 3(1)(c) of the Act would not depend on the manner in which a person might choose to organise his affairs.	Arguments of Respondent
Further that there was no rational distinction having a nexus with the object of the Duty Act, where a person generating electrical energy himself was consuming the same and a person who engaged another person to generate electrical energy exclusively for and on behalf of his complete control and who consumes all the electrical energy so generated.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly it was urged that such a distinction being arbitrary and irrational, it would be violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, it was contended that a construction of the Duty Act, which would make such a distinction, must be avoided.	Arguments of Respondent
This naturally brings us to the question of lifting the corporate veil or piercing the corporate veil as we often call it.	Issue
On behalf of the appellants, however, it was very strongly urged that in this case there was no ground for lifting the corporate veil and Shri Trivedi, learned Additional AdvocateGeneral, State of U.P., who was assisted by Shri Gopal Subramaniam, submitted before us elaborate arguments and made available to us all the relevant documents, urged that there was no warrant either in law or in fact to lift the corporate veil and to treat Renusagars plant as Hindalco s own source of generation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Trivedi urged that facts in this case do not justify such a construction and the law does not warrant such an approach.	Arguments of Petitioner
We may say that Shri Trivedi mainly relied on the proposition that normally the Court has disregarded the separate legal entity of a Company only where the Company was formed or used to facilitate evasion of legal obligations.	Reasoning
He referred us to the observations of this Court in Western Coalfields Ltd. v. Special Area Development Authority, Korba and Anr.	Reasoning
19822SCR1 .	Reasoning
The facts of that case were, however, entirely different and it is useless to refer to them but at page 17 of the report, Chandrachud, C.J. speaking for the Court quoted the observations in Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corpn.	Reasoning
v. The I.T.O. and Anr. 199452ITR524(SC) , where this Court had held that though the Transport Corporation was wholly controlled by the State Government it had a separate entity and its income was not the income of the State Government.	Reasoning
While delivering the Judgment in that case Gajendragadkar, C.J., referred to the observations of Lord Denning in Tamlin v. Hannaford 1950 KB 18 where Lord Denning had observed that the Crown and the corporation were different and the servants of the corporation were not civil servants.	Reasoning
Chandrachud, C.J., relied on the aforesaid observations and referred to penningtons Company Law 4th Edn., pages 5051, where it was stated that there were only two cases where the Court had disregarded the separate legal entity of a Company and that was done because the company was formed or used to facilitate the evasion of legal obligations.	Reasoning
The learned editor of Penningtons Company Law, 5th Edn., at page 49 has recognised that this principle has been relaxed in subsequent cases.	None
He states that the principle of companys separate legal entity has on the whole been fully applied by the Courts since Salomons case.	None
Corporate veil has been lifted where the principal question before the court was one of company law, and in some situations where the corporate personality of the company involved was really of secondary importance and the application of the old principle has worked hardship and injustice.	None
In England, there have been only a few cases where the court had disregarded the companys corporate entity and paid attention to where the real control and beneficial ownership of the companys undertaking lay.	None
When it had done this, the court had relied either on a principle of public policy, or on the principle that devices used to perpetrate frauds or evade obligations will be treated as nullities, or on a presumption of agency or trusteeship which at first sight Salomons case seems to prohibit.	None
Again at page 36 of the same Book, the learned author notes a few cases where the courts have disregarded separate legal entity of a company and investigated the personal qualities of the shareholders or the persons in control of it because there were overriding, public interests to be served by doing so.	None
Indubitably, in this case there was no question of evasion of taxes but the manner of treatment of the power plant of Renusagar as the power plant of Hindalco and the Government taking full advantage of the same in the case of power cuts and denial of supply of 100 power to Hindalco, in our opinion, underline the facts and, as such, imply acceptance and waiver of the position that Renusagar was a power plant owned by Hindalco.	Reasoning
Shri Trivedi naturally relied on several decisions which we shall briefly note in aid of the submission that Renusagars power plant could not be treated as Hindalcos power plant.	Reasoning
He referred us to the wellknown case of Aron Salomon v. A. Salomon and Co. Ltd. 1897 AC 22 to emphasise the distinction between the shareholders and the company.	Reasoning
This point of view was emphasised by this Court also in which Chandrachud, CJ., relied on Western Coalfields Ltd. in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India 19703SCR530 at 555, where this Court held that a Company registered under the Companies Act was a legal person, separate and distinct from its individual members.	Reasoning
Property of the Company was not the property of the shareholders.	Reasoning
These propositions, in our opinion, do not have any application to the facts of the instant case.	Reasoning
Shri Trivedi also drew out attention to the Bank Voor Handel En Scheepvaart N.V. v. Stalford 1953 1 QB 248, where in the context of the international law property belonging to or held on behalf of a Hungarian national came up for consideration and the distinction between a shareholder and a company was emphasised and highlighted.	Arguments of Petitioner
55.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Kodak Ltd. v. Clark 1903 1 KB 505, the Court of Appeal in England while dealing with an English company carrying on business in the U.K owned 98 of the shares in a foreign company, which gave it a preponderating influence in the control, election of directors etc., of the foreign company.	None
The remaining shares in the foreign company were, however, held by independent persons, and there was no evidence that the English company had ever attempted to control or interfere with the management of the foreign company, or had any power to do so otherwise than by voting as shareholders.	None
It was held that the foreign company was not carried on by the English company, nor was it the agent of the English company, and that the English company was not, therefore, assessable to income tax.	None
Renusagar was not the alter ego of Hindalco, it was submitted.	None
On, the other hand these English cases have often pierced the veil to serve the real aim of the parties and for public purposes.	None
See in this connection the observations of the Court of Appeal in DHN Food Distributors Ltd. and Ors.	None
v. London Borough of Tower Hamlets 1976 3	None
AER 462.	None
It is not necessary to take into account the facts of that case.	None
We may, however, note that in that case the corporate veil was lifted to confer benefit upon a group of companies under the provisions of the Land Compensation Act, 1961 of England.	None
Lord Denning at page 467 of the report has made certain interesting observations which are worth repeating in the context of the instant case.	None
The Master of the Rolls said at page 467 as follows Third, lifting the corporate veil.	None
A further very interesting point was raised by counsel for the claimants on company law.	None
We all know that in many respects a group of companies is treated together for the purpose of general accounts, balance sheet and profit and loss account.	None
They are treated as one concern.	None
Professor Gower in his book on company law says there is evidence of a general tendency to ignore the separate legal entities of various companies within a group, and to look instead at the economic entity of the whole group.	None
This is especially the case when a parent company owns all the shares of the subsidiaries, so much so that it can control every movement of the subsidiaries.	None
These subsidiaries are bound hand and foot to the parent company and must do just what the parent company says.	None
A striking instance is the decision of the House of Lords in Harold Holdworth and Co. (Wakefield) Ltd. v. Caddies.	None
So here.	None
This group is virtually the same as a partnership in which all the three companies are partners.	None
They should not be treated separately so as to be defeated on a technical point.	None
They should not be deprived of the compensation which should justly be payable for disturbance.	None
The three companies should, for present purposes, be treated as one, and the parent company, DHN, should be treated as that one.	None
So that DHN are entitled to claim compensation accordingly.	None
It was not necessary for them to go through a conveyancing device to get it.	None
I realise that the President of the Lands Tribunal, in view of previous cases, felt it necessary to decide as he did.	None
But now that the matter has been fully discussed in this Court, we must decide differently from him.	None
These companies as a group are entitled to compensation not only for the value of the land, but also compensation for disturbance.	None
I would allow the appeal accordingly.	None
Lord Justice Goff proceeded with caution and observed as follows at pages 468 469 of the report Secondly, on the footing that that is not in itself sufficient, still, in my judgment, this is a case in which one is entitled to look at the realities of the situation and to pierce the corporate veil.	None
I wish to safeguard myself by saying that so far as this ground is concerned, I am relying on the facts of this particular case.	None
I would not at this juncture accept that in every case where one has a group of companies one is entitled to pierce the veil, but in this case the two subsidiaries were both wholly owned further, they had no separate business operations whatsoever thirdly, in my judgment, the nature of the question involved is highly relevant, namely whether the owners of this business have been disturbed in their possession and enjoyment of it.	None
I find support for this view in a number of cases, from which I would make a few brief citations, first from Harold Holdworth and Co (Wakefield) Ltd. v. Caddies where Lord Reid said It was argued that the subsidiary companies were separate legal entities, each under the control of its own board of directors, that in law the board of the appellant company could not assign any duties to anyone in relation to the management of the subsidiary companies, and that, there fore, the agreement cannot be construed as entitling them to assign any such duties to the respondent.	None
My Lords, in my judgment, this is too technical an argument.	None
This is an agreement in re mercatoria, and it must be construed in the light of the facts and realities of the situation.	None
The appellant company owned the whole share capital of British Textile Mfg. Co. and, under the agreement of 1947, the directors of this company were to be the nominees of the appellant company.	None
So, in fact, the appellant company could control the internal management of their subsidiary companies, and, in the unlikely event of there being any difficulty, it was only necessary to go through formal procedure in order to make the decision of the appellant companys board fully effective.	None
That particular passage is, I think, especially cogent having regard to the fact that counsel for the local authority was constrained to admit that in this case, if they had thought of it soon enough, DHN could, as it were, by moving the pieces on their chess board, have put themselves in a position in which the question would have been wholly unarguable.	None
I also refer to Scottish Cooperative Wholesale society Ltd. v. Meyer.	None
That was a case under Section 210 of the Companies Act, 1948 and Viscount Simonds said I do not think that my own views could be stated better than in the late Lord President Coopers words on the first hearing of this case.	None
He said In my view, the section warrants the court in looking at the business realities of a situation and does not confine them to a narrow legalistic view.	None
My third citation is from the judgment of Danckwerts LJ in Merchandise Transport Ltd. v. British Transport Commission where he said that the cases Show that where the character of a company, or the nature of the persons who control it, is a relevant feature the court will go behind the mere status of the company as a legal entity, and will consider who are the persons as share sholders or even as agents who direct and control the activities of a company which is incapable of doing anything without human assistance.	None
The third ground, which I place last because it is longest, but perhaps ought to come first, is that in my judgment, in truth, DHN were the equitable owners of the property.	None
In order to resolve this matter, it will be necessary for me to refer in some detail to the facts.	None
Shaw L.J. also observed at page 473 as follows Even if this were not right, there is the further argument advanced on behalf of the claimants that there was so complete an identity of the different companies comprised in the socalled group that they ought to be regard for this purpose as a single entity.	None
The completeness of that identity manifested itself in various ways.	None
The directors of DHN were the same as the directors of Bronze the shareholders of Bronze were the same as in DHN, the parent company, and they had a common interest in maintaining on the property concerned the business of the group.	None
If anything were necessary to reinforce the complete identity of commercial interest and personality, Clause 6, to which I have referred already, demonstrates it, for DHN undertook the obligation to procure their subsidiary company to make the payment which the bank required to be made.	None
If each member of the group is regarded as a company in isolation, nobody at all could have claimed compensation in a case which plainly calls for it.	None
Bronze would have had the land but no business to disturb DHN would have had the business but no interest in the land.	None
In this connection it would be useful to refer to Harold Holdsworth and Co. (Wakefield), Ltd. v. Caddies 1955 1	None
All E.R. 725, where Lord Morton of Henryton in England, at page 734 of the report observed as follows My Lords, this clause refers to a group of companies consisting of the appellant company and their existing subsidiary companies.	None
I cannot read the clause as compelling the board to assign duties to the respondent in relation to the business of every company in the group.	None
Nor can I read it as compelling the board to assign him duties in relation to the business of the appellant company.	None
That business is not treated as being on a different footing from the business of British Textile or of another subsidiary of the appellant company, Whalley Appleyard, Ltd., which is mentioned in the respondents condescendence 3.	None
As I read the clause, it leaves the board of the appellant company free to assign to the respondent duties in relation to the business of one only, or two only or all of the companies in the group, and to vary the assignment and the duties from time to time.	None
Further, I think the clause leaves the board free to appoint another person to be a managing director, and to divide the duties and powers referred to in the clause between the respondent and the other managing director in such manner as they think fit.	None
It is true that each company in the group is, in law, a separate entity, the business whereof is to be carried on by its own directors and managing director, if any but there is no doubt that the appellant company, by taking any necessary formal steps, could make any arrangements they pleased in regard to the management of the business of (for instance) British Textile.	None
They owned all the issued capital and the directors were their nominees.	None
Lord Reid at pages 737738 observed as follows It was argued that the subsidiary companies were separate legal entities, each under the control of its own board of directors, that in law the board of the appellant company could not assign any duties to any one in relation to the management of the subsidiary companies, and that, therefore, the agreement cannot be construed as entitling them to assign any such duties to the respondent.	None
My Lords, in my judgment, this is too technical an argument.	None
This is an agreement in re mercatoria, and it must be construed in the light of the facts and realities of the situation.	None
The appellant company owned the whole share capital of British Textile Manufacturing Co., and, under the agreement of 1947, the directors of this company were to be the nominees of the appellant company.	None
So, in fact, the appellant company could control the internal management of their subsidiary companies, and, in the unlikely event of there being any difficulty, it was only necessary to go through formal procedure in order to make the decision of the appellant companys board fully effective.	None
Our attention was drawn by Shri Sen to Scottish Cooperative Wholesale Society Ltd. v. Meyer and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
1958 3	Arguments of Respondent
All E.R. 66, where Viscount Simonds of House of Lords observed at pages 7172 as follows My Lords, it may be that the acts of the society of which complaint is made could not be regarded as conduct of the affairs of the company if the society and the company were bodies wholly independent of each other, competitors in the rayon market, and using against each other such methods of trade warfare as custom permitted.	Arguments of Respondent
But this is to pursue a false analogy.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not possible to separate the transactions of the society from those of the company.	Arguments of Respondent
Every step taken by the latter was determined by the policy of the former.	Arguments of Respondent
I will give an example of this.	Arguments of Respondent
I observed that, in the course of the argument before the House, it was suggested that the company had only itself to blame if, through its neglect to get a contract with the society, it failed in a crisis to obtain from the Falkland Mill the supply of cloth that is needed.	Arguments of Respondent
The short answer is that it was the policy of the society that the affairs of the company should be so conducted, and the minority shareholders were content that it should be so.	Arguments of Respondent
They reliedhow unwisely the event provedon the good faith of the society, and in any case they were impotent to impose their own views.	Arguments of Respondent
It is just because the society could not only use the ordinary and legitimate weapons on commercial warfare but could also control from within the operations of the company that it is illegitimate to regard the conduct of the companys affairs as a matter for which it had no responsibility.	Arguments of Respondent
After much consideration of this question, I do not think that my own views could be stated better than in the late Lord President, Lord Coopers words on the first hearing of this case.	Arguments of Respondent
He said 1954 SC 391 In my view, the section warrants the court in looking at the business realities of a situation and does not confine them to a narrow legalistic view.	Arguments of Respondent
The truth is that, whenever a subsidiary is formed as in this case with an independent minority of shareholders, the parent company must, if it is engaged in the same class of business, accept as a result of having formed such a subsidiary an obligation so to conduct what are in a sense its own affairs as to deal fairly with its subsidiary.	Arguments of Respondent
At the opposite pole to this standard may be put the conduct of a parent company which says our subsidiary company has served its purpose, which is our purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore let it die and, having thus pronounced sentence, is able to enforce it and does enforce it not only by attack from without but also by support from within.	Arguments of Respondent
If this section is inept to cover such a case, it will be a dead letter indeed.	Arguments of Respondent
I have expressed myself strongly in this case because it appears to me to be a glaring example of precisely the evil which Parliament intended to remedy.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, at page 84 of the report, Lord Keiths observations are also relevant to the facts of this case.	None
My Lords, if the society could be regarded as an organisation independent of the company and in competition with it, no legal objection could be taken to the actions and policy of the society.	None
Lord Carmont pointed this out in the Court of Session.	None
But that is not the position.	None
In law, the society and the company were, it is true, separate legal entities.	None
But they were in the relation of parent and subsidiary companies, the company being formed to run a business for the society which the society could not at the outset have done for itself unless it could have persuaded the respondents to become servants of the society.	None
This the respondents were not prepared to do.	None
The company, through the knowledge, the experience, the connexions, the business ability and the energies of the respondents, had built up a valuable goodwill in which the society shared and which there is no reason to think would not have been maintained, if not increased, with the cooperation of the society.	None
The company was in substance, though not in law, a partnership consisting of the society and the respondents.	None
Whatever may be the other different legal consequences following on one or other of these forms of combination one result, in my opinion, followed in the present case from the method adopted, which is common to partnership, that there should be the utmost good faith between the constitutent members.	None
In partnership the position is clear.	None
As stated in Lindley on Partnership (11th Edn.)	None
p. 401	None
A partner cannot, without the consent of his copartners, lawfully carry on for his own benefit, either openly or secretly, any business in rivalry with the firm to which he belongs.	None
It may not be possible for the legal remedies that would follow in the case of a partnership to follow here, but the principle has, I think, valuable application to the circumstances of this case.	None
In Charterbridge Corpn.	None
Ltd. v. Lloyds Bank Ltd. and Anr.	None
1969 2	None
All E.R. 1185 Justice Pennycuick emphasised that the reality of the situation must be looked in.	None
Shri Trivedi drew out attention to the decision in Marshall Richards Machine Co. Ltd. v. Jewitt (H.M. Inspector of Taxes) 36 TC 511, where at page 525 of the report Lord Upjohn, J. observed that where you have a whollyowned subsidiary, and both the parent company and whollyowned subsidiary enter into trading relationships, there is, of course, a dual relation, but you cannot for the purposes of tax disregard the fact that there are, in fact, two entities and two trades, that is to say, the trade of each company.	Reasoning
It is normally a question of fact whether the disbursement in question is laid out wholly and exclusively and for the purposes of the trade.	Reasoning
In aid of this proposition and in furtherance Shri Trivedi drew our attention to the profits of the two companies which were separately computed and also referred to Vol. C, 641 where the profits of Renusagar were separately indicated and Vol.	Reasoning
C at page 642 where the profits of Hindalco were separately indicated.	Reasoning
We are, however, of the opinion that these tests are not conclusive tests by themselves.	Reasoning
Our attention was also drawn to the decision of the Madras High Court in Spencer and Co. Ltd., Madras v. The Commissioner of Wealth Tax 196972ITR33(Mad) , where Veeraswami J. held that merely because a company purchases almost the entirety of the shares in another company, there was no extinction of corporate character for each company was a separate juristic entity for tax purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
Almost on similar facts, are the observations of P.B. Mukharji, J. in Turner Morrison and Co. Ltd.	None
v. Hungerford Investment Trust Ltd.	None
AIR1969Cal238 where he held that holding company and subsidiaries are incorporated companies and in this context each has a separate legal entity.	None
Each has a separate corporate veil but that does not mean that holding company and the subsidiary company within it, all constitute one company.	None
Mr Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy speaking for this Court in Life Insurance Corporation of India v. Escorts Ltd. and Ors. 1985	None
Supp 3 SCR 909 had emphasized that the corporate veil should be lifted where the associated companies are inextricably connected as to be, in reality, part of one concern.	None
It is neither necessary nor desirable to enumerate the classes of cases where lifting the veil is permissible, since that must necessarily depend on the relevant statutory or other provisions, the object sought to be achieved, the impugned conduct, the involvement of the element of the public interest, the effect on parties who may be affected.	None
After referring to several English and Indian cases, this Court observed that ever since	None
A. Salomon Co.	None
Ltds case (supra), a company has a legal independent existence distinct from individual members.	None
It has since been held that the corporate veil may be lifted and corporate personality may be looked in.	None
Reference was made to Pennington and Palmers Company Laws.	None
It is high time to reiterate that in the expanding of horizon of modern jurisprudence, lifting of corporate veil is permissible.	Reasoning
Its frontiers are unlimited.	Reasoning
It must, however, depend primarily on the realities of the situation.	Reasoning
The aim of the legislation is to do justice to all the parties.	Reasoning
The horizon of the doctrine of lifting of corporate veil is expanding.	Reasoning
Here, indubitably, we are of the opinion that it is correct that Renusagar was brought into existence by Hindalco in order to fulfil the condition of industrial licence of Hindalco through production of aluminium.	Reasoning
It is also manifest from the facts that the model of the setting up of power station through the agency of Renusagar was adopted by Hindalco to avoid complications in case of take over of the power station by the State or the Electricity Board.	Reasoning
As the facts make it abundantly clear that all the steps for establishing and expanding the power station were taken by Hindalco, Renusagar is whollyowned subsidiary of Hindalco and is completely controlled by Hindalco.	Reasoning
Even the daytoday affairs of Renusagar are controlled by Hindalco.	Reasoning
Renusagar has at no point of time indicated any independent volition.	Reasoning
Whenever felt necessary, the State or the Board have themselves lifted the corporate veil and have treated Renusagar and Hindalco as one concern and the generation in Renusagar as the own source of generation of Hindalco.	Reasoning
In the impugned order of the profits of Renusagar have been treated as the profits of Hindalco.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are of the opinion that the corporate veil should be lifted and Hindalco and Renusagar be treated as one concern and Renusagars power plant must be treated as the own source of generation of Hindalco and should be liable to duty on that basis.	Reasoning
In the premises the consumption of such energy by Hindalco will fall under Section 3(1)(c) of the Act.	Reasoning
The learned Additional AdvocateGeneral for the State relied on several decisions, some of which have been noted.	Reasoning
The veil on corporate personality even though not lifted sometimes, is becoming more and more transparent in modern company jurisprudence.	Reasoning
The ghost of Salomons case still visits frequently the hounds of Company Law but the veil has been pierced in many cases.	Reasoning
Some of these have been noted by Justice P.B. Mukharji in the New Jurisprudence.	Reasoning
(Tagore Law Lecture 183)	Reasoning
It appears to us, however, that as mentioned the concept of lifting the corporate veil is a changing concept and is of expanding horizons.	Reasoning
We think that the appellant was in error in not treating Renusagars power plant as the power plant of Hindalco and not treating it as the own source of energy.	Reasoning
The respondent is liable to duty on the same and on that footing alone this is evident in view of the principles enunciated and the doctrine now established by way of decision of this Court in Life Insurance Corporation of India, (supra) that in the facts of this case Sections 3(1)(c) and 4(1)(c) of the Act are to be interpreted accordingly.	Reasoning
The person generating and consuming energy were the same and the corporate veil should be lifted.	Reasoning
In the facts of this case Hindalco and Renusagar were inextricably linked up together.	Reasoning
Renusagar had in reality no separate and independent existence apart from and independent of Hindalco.	Reasoning
In the aforesaid view of the matter we are of the opinion that consumption of energy by Hindalco is clearly consumption by Hindalco from its own source of generation.	Reasoning
Therefore, the rates of duty applicable to own source of generation have to be applied to such consumption, that is to say.	Reasoning
I paisa per unit for the first two generating sets and nil rate in respect of 3rd and 4th generating sets.	Reasoning
It is appropriate to refer that having regard to the conduct of the State the powercuts matter and also the present proceedings the State should riot be permitted to treat consumption of Renusagars energy by Hindalco as anything other than different from consumption of energy by Hindalco from its own source of generation.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that in the facts of this case the corporate veil must be lifted and Hindalco and Renusagar should be treated as one concern and if that is taken the consumption of energy by Hindalco must be regarded as consumption by Hindalco from its own source of generation.	Reasoning
Inasmuch as the High Court upheld this contention of the respondent we are in respectful agreement of its views and the appeal directed against this finding of the High Court must, therefore, be rejected.	Reasoning
The electricity bill for arrears, subject to consideration of other aspects of the matter, that is to say, the validity of the order of rejection passed by the State on 16th February, 1982 rejecting the claim for exemption would be treated hereinafter.	Issue
In order to appreciate the second aspect of the matter, that is to say, the challenge to the order which has been quashed by the High Court, it is necessary to recapitulate certain facts.	None
Hindalco made an application to the State Government under Section 3(4) of the Act for exemption on 28th September, 1970.	Facts
In spite of repeated requests made by Hindalco the State did not take any decision on the said application of Hindalco and also purported to raise and enforce demands under the Duty Act against Hindalco.	Facts
Hindalco and Renusagar filed a Writ Petition No. 368 of 1972 in the High Court of Allahabad on 21st March, 1972.	Facts
On that very date Hindalco was informed that the application previously made by it had been rejected by the State Government.	Facts
Hindalco applied for amendment of the writ petition.	Facts
Reasons for rejection were intimated on 16th June, 1972.	Facts
Thereafter Writ Petition No. 368 of 1972 was withdrawn.	Facts
On 21st July, 1972 Hindalco and Renusagar filed another Writ Petition No. 4521 of 1972 in the High Court of Allahabad challenging the order of rejection.	Facts
On 17th May, 1974 the High Court delivered judgment quashing the aforesaid rejection and asking the State Government to consider the matter afresh in accordance with law and in accordance with the directions contained in the said judgment.	Facts
Another Writ Petition being Writ Petition No. 3921 of 1982 out of which the present appeal arises was filed by Renusagar and Hindalco on 16th April, 1982.	Facts
The High Court passed an order on 26th September, 1984 quashing the order.	Facts
The High Court was of the view that the Government was under a mandatory duty to consider certain factOrs.	Facts
These were (1) How did the cost of power to the Corporation compare with the cost of power to similar industries in other States?	Facts
(2) How the spending of huge sums by the Government of India in foreign exchange decreased and its keenness to attain selfsufficiency in the country by increasing its indigenous production in public interest attained?	Facts
(3) The commitment made by the Government of Uttar Pradesh to the Hindalco to supply power at cheap rate as noticed in the report of Dr. Nagarajarao.	Facts
(4) The effect of imposition of duty on the margin of profit available to Hindalco.	Facts
The provisions of Subsection (4) of Section 3 have been noticed.	Reasoning
As we have read the said provisions, it appears to us that the dominance of public interest is significant and we refer to the various factors, namely, (a) prevailing charges for supply of energy in any area, (b) the generating capacity of any plant, (c) the need to promote industrial production generally or any specified class thereof and other relevant factors and then taking all these factors into consideration, in public interest, to fix different rates of electricity duty in relation to different classes of consumption of energy or allow any exemption from payment thereof.	Reasoning
Various grounds have been made out.	None
Shri Sen for the respondents is right that in view of the ceilings prescribed the power conferred upon the State under Section 3(1) of the Act by itself is valid and does not amount to excessive delegation.	Reasoning
See also in this connection the observations of this Court in Devi Das Gopal Krishnan and Ors.	Reasoning
v. State of Punjab and Ors.	Reasoning
19673SCR557 and Ram Bachan Lal v. The State of Bihar 19673SCR1 .	Reasoning
Shri Trivedi, learned Additional AdvocateGeneral, State of Uttar Pradesh drew our attention to the case of Panama Canal Company v. Grace Line, 356 U.S. 309 2 L Edn. 788, where at page 793 of the report while dealing with the facts of that case Justice Douglas observed that, as it was seen in that case, the conflict raged over questions that at heart involved problems of statutory construction and cost accounting whether an operating deficit in the auxiliary or supporting activities was a legitimate cost in maintaining and operating the Canal for purpose of the toll formula.	Arguments of Petitioner
These are matters on which experts might disagree these involve nice issues of judgment and choice, which required the exercise of informed discretion.	Arguments of Petitioner
In those circumstances Justice Douglas observed that the case was, therefore, quite unlike the situation where a statute created a duty to act and an equity court was asked to compel the agency to take the prescribed action.	Arguments of Petitioner
What was emphasised was that the matter should be far less cloudy, much more clear for courts to intrude.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also in this connection necessary that if technical considerations are involved the Court feels shy to interfere.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on the observations of this Court in Vincent Panikurlangara v. Union of India and Ors.	None
19872SCR468 .	Reasoning
There the writ petition involved the claim for withdrawal of 7000 fixed dose combinations and withdrawal of licences of manufacturers engaged in manufacture of about 30 drugs which have been licensed by the Drugs Control Authorities the issues that fell for consideration are not only relating to technical and specialised matters relating to therapeutic value, justification and harmful side effects of drugs but also involved examination of the correctness of action taken by respondents 1 and 2 therein on the basis of advice the matter also involved the interest of manufacturers and traders of drugs as also the interest of patients who require drugs for their treatment.	Reasoning
this Court reiterated that in view of the magnitude, complexity and technical nature of the enquiry involved in the matter as also the farreaching implications of the total ban of certain medicines for which the petitioner had prayed, a judicial proceeding of the nature initiated was not an appropriate one for determination of such matters.	Reasoning
The technical aspects which arose for consideration in a matter of that type could not be effectively handled by a court.	Reasoning
this Court also reiterated that similarly the question of policy which was involved in the matter was also one for the Union Governmentkeeping the best interest of citizens in viewto decide.	Reasoning
No final say in regard to such aspects came under the purview of the court.	Reasoning
The High Court in the instant case reiterated the necessity of cheap electricity and if cheap electricity was not made available, the cost of indigenous aluminium would go up.	Reasoning
It would necessitate import of aluminium causing drain on the foreign exchange of the country.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the learned Additional Advocate General for the State of U.P. contended and in our opinion rightly that primary purpose of the Act as stated in the preamble was to raise the revenue for the development projects.	Reasoning
Whether in a particular situation, rural electrification and development of agriculture should be given priority or electricity or development of aluminium industry should be given priority or which is in public interest, in our opinion, are value judgments and the legislature is the best judge.	Reasoning
The High Court in its impugned judgment referred to the order of the Government.	Reasoning
The said order read as follows The Corporation has also emphasized that the Government of India is spending a huge sum of money in foreign exchange to meet the requirements of aluminium in India, with a view to increasing the aluminium production by Hindalco Electricity should be made available at cheap rate and exemption should be granted to the Corporation from payment of electricity duty.	Reasoning
In this connection it may again be pointed out that the imposition of electricity duty will not affect the productivity of aluminium by M s. Hindalco as electricity duty is negligible as clearly made out in the earlier paragraphs.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the electricity duty is not likely to have any adverse effect on foreign exchange of the country.	Reasoning
Referring to the aforesaid observations of the State Government, the High Court was of the view that the said observations of the State Government clearly showed that the State Government did not address itself to the need of promoting aluminium industry for increasing production of aluminium which would in the long run save foreign exchange.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree.	Reasoning
What was paramount before introduction of the development programme and how the funds should be allocated and how far the Government considers a negligible increase and rise in the cost of aluminium for the purpose of raising monies for other development activities are matters of policy to be decided by the Government.	Reasoning
It is true as the High Court has pointed out that the question regarding public interest and need to promote indigenous industrial production was related with the question of exemption of duty.	Reasoning
But what the High Court missed, in our opinion with respect, was that a matter of policy which should be left to the Government.	Reasoning
Reading the order of the Government, it appears to us that the Government had adverted itself to all the aspects of Subsection (4) of Section 3 of the Act.	Reasoning
It is true that certain amount of encouragement was given to Hindalco to start the industry in a backward area.	Reasoning
After considerable point of time the very low rate of duty was charged.	Reasoning
But if we need other sectors of growth and development for example, food, shelter, water, rural electrification, the need for encouragement to aluminium industry had to be subordinated by little high cost because that is a matter on which the Government as representing the will of the people is the deciding factor.	Reasoning
Price fixation, in our opinion, which is ultimately the basis of rise in cost because of the rise of the electricity duty is not a matter for investigation of Court.	Reasoning
This question was examined by this Court in Union of India and Anr.	None
v. Cynamide India Ltd. and Anr.	None
19872SCR841 where one of our learned brothers who delivered the judgment of the High Court of Allahabad was a party.	None
There in exercise of the powers under Section 3(2)(c) of the Essential Commodities Act, the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 1979 was made.	None
The Central Government thereafter issued notification thereunder.	None
At page 741 of the report, Chinnappa Reddy, J. speaking for the Court referring to a passage of the Administrative Law by Schwartz with approval expressed the view that those powers were more or less legislative in character.	None
Fixation of electricity tariff can also to a certain extent be regarded of this category.	None
Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed at page 735 of the report that price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative activity than any other.	None
He referred to the fact that due to the proliferation of delegated legislation, there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion.	None
Administrative, quasijudicial decisions tend to merge in legislative activity and, conversely, legislative activity tends to fade into, and present an appearance of an administrative or quasijudicial activity.	None
Any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions, it has been said, is difficult in theory and impossible in practice.	None
Reddy, J. insisted that it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different legal rights and consequences may ensue.	None
It appears to us that Subsection (4) of Section 3 of the Act in the set up is quasilegislative and quasiadministrative in so far as it has power to fix different rates having regard to certain factors and in so far as it has power to grant exemption in some cases, in our opinion, is quasilegislative in character.	None
Such a decision must be arrived at objectively and in consonance with the principles of natural justice.	None
It is correct that with regard to the nature of the power under Section 3(4) of the Act when the power is exercised with reference to any class it would be in the nature of subordinate legislation but when the power is exercised with reference to individual it would be administrative.	None
Reference was made in this connection to the cases of Union of India v. Cynamide India Ltd. (supra) and P.J. Irani v. State of Madras 19622SCR169 at 179180 and 181182.	None
If the exercise of power is in the nature of subordinate legislation the exercise must conform to the provisions of the statute.	None
All the conditions of the statute must be fulfilled.	None
The High Court was right only to the limited extent that all the relevant considerations must be taken into account and the power should not be exercised on irrelevant considerations but singular consideration which the High Court, in our opinion, seems to have missed in the judgment under appeal, is these factors, namely, the prevailing charges for supply of energy in any area, the generating capacity of any plant, the need to promote industrial production generally or any specified class thereof and other relevant factors cannot be judged disjointly.	None
These must be judged in adjunct to the public interest and that public interest is as mentioned in the preamble to raise revenue.	None
Reference was also made to the observations of the Judicial Committee in Ryots of Garabandho and Ors.	None
v. Zamindar of Parlakimedi and Anr.	None
where the Judicial Committee had to deal with the proviso to Section 30 of the Act.	None
It read as follows In settling rents under this section the Collector shall presume, unless the contrary is proved, that the existing rent or rate of rent is fair and equitable and shall have regard to the provisions of this Act for determining rates of rent payable by a ryot.	None
Viscount Simon L.C. observed that the view taken by the majority of the Collective Board of Revenue in making the order which is now complained of, is that the requirement to have regard to the provisions in question has no more definite or technical meaning than that of ordinary usage, and only requires that these provisions must be taken into consideration.	None
In their view the prime duty of the Revenue Officer under Chap.	None
II was to fix a fair and equitable rent, and though he must be guided by the principles underlying such provisions as were contained in chap.	None
3, he was not strictly bound by such provisions.	None
The Judicial Committee observed at page 180 of the report as follows Having regard to the long time that had elapsed since the last tentative settlement of rent in 186768, to the prodigions rise in prices that had taken place since then, and to the general economic improvement of this part of the country, the Collective Board considered that an enhancement of 371/2 per cent, would not be oppressive and directed the Revenue Officer to reduce to that figure the enhancement of 100 per cent, which he had made.	None
This view of the effect of the direction to have regard to the provisions of the Act for determining rates of rent payable by a ryot is supported by the decision of the High Court in 49 Mad.	None
499 at 506.	None
It is also confirmed by certain observations of Reilly J. in 63 M.L.J. 450, where the learned Judge said Where the settling officer has to deal only with such questions as would arise in a suit for commutation, for enhancement, or reduction of money rent, under Section 168(2) he must be guided by the appropriate principles as set out in the Act, but there is no doubt that his settlement may embrace a much wider field of question and whenever he has not merely to adjust the lawful rent but to fix what is fair and equitable in variation from the lawful rent which can be exacted in a suit, his settlement is clearly something which no civil Court could do unless specially empowered.	None
Their Lordships find themselves on this matter in agreement with the view taken by the majority of the Collective Board.	None
It is not possible to peruse the proceedings of the Special Revenue Officer in this case without seeing that a number of matters besides the rise in prices of staple food crops were considered by him, and had to be considered by him, if he was to carry out his duty under chap.	None
II.	None
He observed in para.	None
30 of the final proceedings dated 10th December 1935 I hold that the present settlement is also a fresh and initial settlement wherein everything has to be reclassified afresh and new rates of rent have to be fixed.	None
It is not therefore a case of enhancement but of fixing and introducing a new rate of rent based on the principles of equity and fairness as laid down in Chap.	None
II, Estates Land Act.	None
The High Court in the impugned judgment commented that it was a mandatory duty to separately consider these relevant factors and has committed the error against which the Judicial Committee cautioned.	None
The High Court was of the view at page 10 of the judgment that there was a mandatory duty to consider the factors mentioned hereinbefore.	None
All that the section requires was that these factors should be borne in mind but these must be subordinate to the executive decision of the need for public interest.	None
In Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. etc. v. Union of India 19751SCR956 the Sugar (Control) Ors., 1966 came up for consideration.	None
Clause 7(2) of the Sugar (Control) Order had been set out at page 958 of the report.	None
It read as follows Such price or maximum price shall be fixed having regard to the estimated cost of production of sugar determined on the basis of the relevant schedule of cost given in the Report of the Sugar Enquiry Commission (October 1965), subject to the adjustment of such rise in cost subsequent to the Report aforesaid as, in the opinion of the Central Government, cannot be absorbed by the provision for contingencies in the relevant schedule to that Report.	None
Beg, J. as the learned Chief Justice then was, observed that Clause 7(2) set out above required the Government to fix the price having regard to the estimated cost of production of sugar on the basis of the relevant schedule.	None
The expression having regard to only obliges the Government to consider as relevant data material to which it must have regard to.	None
In so far as the High Court held in this judgment that the power conferred on the State Government was of the administrative nature, the High Court may not be in error.	None
But the High Court held that it should be in consonance with the principles of natural justice, in our opinionit must be in accordance with natural justice to a limited extentand such principles of natural justice are enunciated by this Court in several decisions, namely, A.K. Kraipak v. Union of India, 19701SCR457 Travancore Rayons Ltd. v. Union of India, 1978(2)ELT378(SC) and Amal Kumar Ghatak v. State of Assam and Ors., A.I.R. 1971	None
Ass 32.	None
Keeping in view the aforesaid principles, the High Court examined the petitioners grievance.	None
Dr. Rajagopalan submitted his report to the State Government in January, 1979.	None
Admittedly, Dr. Rajagopalan placed reliance on the report of Working Group on Aluminium set up by the Government of India in 1970 and various other reports of Bureau of Industrial Cost and Price (hereinafter referred to as BICP), submitted to the Government from time to time.	None
It is based on the balancesheet of the appellants and had been made available to the respondents.	None
We have examined the correspondence that passed between the parties and we are of the opinion that there was no violation of the principles of natural justice because the relevant data were made available to the appellants.	None
It is true that the principles of natural justice must be adhered to.	None
In this connection reference may be made to S.D. Hotop Principles of Australian Administrative Law 6th Edition, Pages 210212, Cases and Materials on Review of Administrative Action (2nd Edition) by S.D. Hotop, Wade on Administrative Law, 5th Edition, pages 506/507 and Bennion on Statutory Interpretation, 1984 Edition, pages 140141.	None
The exercise of power whether legislative or administrative will be set aside if there is manifest error in the exercise of such power or the exercise of the power is manifestly arbitrary.	None
Similarly, if the power has been exercised on a nonconsideration or nonapplication of mind to relevant factors the exercise of power will be regarded as manifestly erroneous.	None
If a power (whether legislative or administrative) is exercised on the basis of acts which do not exist and which are patently erroneous, such exercise of power will stand vitiated.	None
See Commissioner of Income Tax v. Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd. and Ors. 1983144ITR225(SC) .	None
The present case relates to the particular facts and circumstances of an individual, namely, Hindalco.	Reasoning
To the extent, its claim for exemption was entitled to the consideration.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the facts and circumstances of the case were examined in consonance with the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
All relevant factors were given consideration but subject to public interest.	Reasoning
The High Court considered whether electricity duty was included in the prices of aluminium fixed by the Central Government.	Reasoning
On this aspect our attention was drawn on behalf of the respondents at pages 372387 of the judgment in Volume B.	Reasoning
It was submitted that the assumption that electricity duty was included in the prices of Hindalco fixed by the Central Government formed a basic and a very important consideration in the making of the impugned order.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree.	Reasoning
It was also submitted that the said assumption was made by the State Government and Dr. Rajagopalan on the basis of the reports of BICP and the Working Group.	Reasoning
The High Court on a perusal of the reports of the BICP and the Working Group came to the conclusion that the said assumption of the State and Dr. Rajagopalan is based on nonexistent fact and or is patently erroneous.	Reasoning
Apparently such examination by the High Court was not warranted.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that Dr. Rajagopalan had determined the adequacy of the profits of Hindalco by relating the same to the original subscribed capital only and had completely ignored the reserves of Hindalco.	Reasoning
The aforesaid basis, it was held by the High Court is contrary to the well accepted principles of return on capital employed net worth.	Reasoning
It is true that Hindalco has made profits much more than it had before the imposition of the duty.	Reasoning
The adequacy of the profits or whether it made much more profits is not a consideration which must prevail over public interest and the Government having taken into consideration this factor, in our opinion, did not commit any error and the High Court was in error in setting aside the order of the Government.	Reasoning
It is true that the cost of power to similar industry in other State was a relevant factor and the State was under a mandatory duty to consider the same.	Reasoning
The State has taken note of all those factors and has observed that M s. Hindalco is being supplied with electrical energy at a very nominal rate and taking into consideration the prevailing practice of levy of electricity duty in other States as well as the provisions stated in Section 3(4), the Government have come to the conclusion that there is no justification for allowing exemption from electricity duty to M s. Hindalco.	Reasoning
The Government did not commit any error which required interference by the High Court in the manner it did.	Reasoning
The assurance of cheap power factor was there.	Reasoning
But the assurance of cheap power factor does not foreclose the public interest of raising public revenue.	Reasoning
In July, 1975 the Central Government fixed uniform prices of aluminium for all the producers of aluminium.	Reasoning
The Central Government also fixed uniform sale prices of aluminium applicable to all producers.	Reasoning
The Central Government also fixed individual retention prices (based, inter alia, on the cost of production) for each individual producer.	Reasoning
All producers of aluminium were to sell aluminium at the uniform sale prices.	Reasoning
Any producer whose retention prices were lower than the sale prices had to pay difference into the Aluminium Regulation Account.	Reasoning
Any producer whose retention prices were higher than the sale prices was entitled to receive the difference from the Aluminium Regulation Account.	Reasoning
Price, therefore, was no question of the respondent being loser or sufferer.	Reasoning
It is true that electricity duty was not included and was also considered in the fixation of the price.	Reasoning
That is the only predominant factor, having regard to the technical nature of the order.	Reasoning
The impugned order does not suffer from the vice of nonapplication of mind or nonconsideration of the relevant factors and the High Court was in error in interfering with the order of the Government.	Reasoning
We are clearly of the opinion that the High Court was in error in interfering with the order in the manner it did.	Reasoning
The High Court should not have interfered for interference by the High Court the matter should have been far less cloudy and far more clear.	Reasoning
Natural justice in the sense that a party must be heard beforehand need not be directly followed in fixing the price.	Reasoning
Reference in this connection may be made to the observations of this Court in Prag Ice and Oil Mills and Anr.	Reasoning
etc. v. Union of India 1978CriLJ1281a , where at page 325 of the report, this Court observed that in the ultimate analysis, the mechanics of price fixation has necessarily to be left to the judgment of the executive and unless it is patent that there is hostile discrimination against a class of operators, the processual basis of price fixation has to be accepted in the generality of cases as valid.	Reasoning
In this connection reference may also be made to Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Union of India 19742SCR398 , where this Court dealing with the Cotton Textile (Control) Order, 1948 at page 419 of the report observed that if fair price is to be fixed leaving a reasonable margin of profit, there is never any question of infringement of fundamental right to carry on business by imposing reasonable restrictions.	Reasoning
Unreasonableness and natural justice have to be judged in that context.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter nonsupply of the basis of the report of the BICP does not by itself, in our opinion, in the facts and circumstances of the case make the order of the State Government vulnerable to challenge.	Reasoning
In Laxmi Khandsari etc. etc. v. State of U.P. and Ors.	Reasoning
19813SCR92 this Court was dealing with the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 and the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966 and observed that in determining the reasonableness of restrictions imposed by law in the field of industry, trade or commerce, the mere fact that some of the persons engaged in a particular trade may incur loss due to the imposition of restrictions will not render them unreasonable because it is manifest that trade and industry pass through periods of prosperity and adversity on account of economic, social or political factors.	Reasoning
At page 129 of the report rejecting the plea that before fixing a price the rules of natural justice should be adhered to, this Court emphasised, referring to the observations in the case of Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. Union of India 19751SCR956 that price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative measure even though it may be based upon objective criteria found in a report or other material.	Reasoning
There is scope for trial and error in such sphere.	Reasoning
Judged by that standard, the impugned order in this case, in our opinion, is not bad.	None
In support of the proposition that the principles of natural justice had been violated in passing the impugned order, five decisions were referred to, namely, State of Orissa v. Mr. (Miss) Binapani Dei (1967)IILLJ266SC A.K. Kraipak v. Union of India, 19701SCR457 Mohd.	Reasoning
Rashid v. State of U.P. (1979)ILLJ146SC S.L. Kapoor v. Jagmohan and Ors., 19811SCR746 and Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, 19782SCR621 .	Reasoning
The principles of these cases will have no application to the facts of this case.	Reasoning
There has been no violation of the principles of natural justice to the extent applicable to the order of this nature.	Reasoning
Reference was made to the observations in the case of India Sugars and Refineries Ltd. v. Amravathi Service Cooperative Society Ltd.	Reasoning
19762SCR740 where at page 746 of the report, this Court observed that the power to grant exemption to factories from payment of additional price is intimately connected with the right of sugarcane growers to claim additional price.	Reasoning
In granting of such power, principles of natural justice should be followed.	Reasoning
In such a case a duty to act judicially does arise.	Reasoning
90.	None
this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Mahindra and Mahindra Limited and Ors.	Reasoning
1983144ITR225(SC) at page 786 of the report, dealt with the parameters of the Courts power of judicial review of administrative or executive action or decision.	Reasoning
Indisputably, it is a settled position that if the action or decision is perverse or is such that no reasonable body of persons, properly informed, could come to or has been arrived at by the authority misdirecting itself by adopting a wrong approach or has been influenced by irrelevant or extraneous matters, the Court would be justified in interfering with the same.	Reasoning
See also the observations at page 787 of the report.	Reasoning
In this case the parameters had been adhered to.	Reasoning
All relevant factors had been borne in mind.	Reasoning
It is true that each factor had not been independently considered, but these had been borne in mind.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the Government did not act in violation either of the principles of natural justice or arbitrarily or in violation of the previous directions of the High Court.	Reasoning
In the premises, the High Court was in error in setting aside the order of the State Government in its entirety.	Reasoning
The High Court should have allowed the claim of Hindalco for the reduced rate of bill on the basis that Renusagar Power Plant was its own source of generation under Section 3(c) and the bills should have been made by the Board on that basis.	Reasoning
But the High Court was in error in upholding the respondents contention that the State Government acted improperly and not in terms of Section 3(4) of the Act and in violation of the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
We, therefore, allow the appeal to the extent indicated above and set aside the judgment of the Allahabad High Court to that extent and restore the State Governments impugned order subject to the modification of the bills on the basis of own source of generation.	Decision
We, therefore, direct that the electricity bills must be so made as to give Hindalco the benefit of the rate applicable to its own source of generation from Renusagar Plant.	Decision
The appeal is disposed of in those terms.	Decision
The electricity bills must be computed as indicated above.	Decision
After recomputation and presentation of such bills the respondents will pay the same within two months thereof.	Decision
In view of the facts and circumstances of the case, the parties will pay and bear their own costs.	Decision
Ranganathan, J. I agree.	None
On the second issue, I think it is difficult to define the precise nature of the power conferred on the State Government under Section 3(4) of the Electricity Duty Act and I have doubts whether the subsection can at all be interpreted as conferring a right on individual consumers to require that, in the light of the material adduced by them, the rates applicable to them should have been fixed differently or that they should have been exempted from duty altogether.	None
However, it is unnecessary to pursue this aspect further as I agree with the conclusion of my learned brother that, in this case, the respondents representations have been fully considered and the requirements of natural justice have been fulfilled and that there is no warrant to interfere with the order of the State Government.	None
