 Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
A short but important question of law involving effect of amendment to Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (in short the Code) is involved in these appeals.	Issue
Since the answer to the question does not involve any factual adjudication, a brief reference thereto would suffice.	Issue
By Section 12(i) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1999 (in short the Amendment Act) operative from 1.7.2002, amendments were made to Section 115 of the Code.	Facts
In all these appeals, the concerned High Courts held that because of amended Section 115, the revision filed before them was not maintainable, as had an order been passed in favour of the party applying for revision, same would not have finally disposed of the suit or other proceeding.	Facts
It has been contended by learned counsel for the appellants that the High Court went wrong in disposing of the revision applications as not maintainable, on several grounds.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are (i) the amended provisions do not apply to petitions which were admitted before the amendment, (ii) appeals and revisions stand on a parallel footing and are vested rights in the appellant applicant, as the case may be, and as such the amended provisions would not have any application, and (iii) the applications for injunction and the like which form subject matter of the revisions relate to the expression other proceeding and even if the amended provisions apply disposal of the revision would have meant final dismissal of such other proceeding.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
With reference to Section 32(2)(i) of the Amendment Act, it is submitted that the same does not convey any meaning.	Arguments of Petitioner
The legislature always saved pending proceedings in terms of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (in short General Clauses Act) and, therefore, proceedings which were pending before the High Court on the date of amendment are clearly outside the effect of amendment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even if it is conceded for the sake of arguments that there is no specific provision in that regard, it is clearly a case of casus omissus.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that plain meaning of provisions of a statute have to be given full effect and even a bare reading of the provisions makes it clear that the High Courts order is on terra firma.	Arguments of Respondent
Whenever the legislature intended to keep the pending proceedings out of the purview of amended provisions, it was specifically so provided.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference is made to the amendment in 1976 to the Code which in Section 97(3) of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 1976 (in short Old Amendment Act) saved the pending proceedings, ruling out operation of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the rival submissions it will be necessary to take note of the provisions of Section 115 as they stood before amendment and after amendment.	None
Section 115 (before Amendment)	None
The High Court may call for the record of any case which has been decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereto, and if such subordinate court appears  (a) to have exercised in a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or (b) to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or (c) to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularly, the High Court may make such order in the case as it thinks fit Provided that the High Court shall not, under this section, vary or reverse any order made, or any order deciding an issue, in the course of a suit or order proceeding, except where  (a) the order, if it had been made in favour of the party applying for revision, would have finally disposed of the suit or other proceeding, or (b) the order, if allowed to stand, would occasion a failure of justice or cause irreparable injury to the party against whom it was made.	None
The High Court shall not, under this section, vary or reverse any decree or order against which an appeal lies either to the High Court or to any court subordinate thereto.	None
Explanation In this section, the expression Any case which has been decided includes any order made, or any order deciding an issue, in the course of a suit or other proceeding.	None
Section 115 (after Amendment)	None
The High Court may call for the record of any case which has been decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereto, and if such subordinate court appears  (a) to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or (b) to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested.	None
(c) to have acted in the exerciseof its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity, the High Court may make such order in the case as it thinks fit Provided that the High Court shall not, under this section, vary or reverse any order made, or any order deciding an issue in the course of a suit or order proceeding, except where the order, if it had been made in favour of the party applying for revision, would have finally disposed of the suit or other proceedings.	None
The High Court shall not, under this section, vary or reverse any decree or order against which an appeal lies either to the High Court or to any Court subordinate thereto.	None
A revision shall not operate as a stay of suit or other proceeding before the Court except where such suit or other proceeding is stayed by the High Court.	None
Explanation	None
In this section, the expression any case which has been decided includes any order made, or any order deciding the issue, in the course of a suit or other proceeding.	None
A comparison of two provisions shows that while proviso (a) of the unamended provision has been retained in its totality, in the amended provisions clause (b) of the proviso has been omitted.	None
It is to be noted that prior to the amendments to the Code by the Old Amendment Act, the power of revision was wider.	None
By the amendment, certain positive restrictions were put on the High Courts power to deal with revisions under Section 115.	None
Prior to the said amendment, it was not strictly necessary that the impugned order would have the result of finally deciding the lis or the proceedings in the lower Courts.	None
In fact, the power could be exercised in any case where jurisdictional error was committed by the original court or where substantial injustice had resulted.	None
By the Old Amendment Act, the condition of finally deciding of lis and the proceedings in the subordinate courts was introduced.	None
The proviso which was introduced contains qualifications which are prerequisites before exercise of power under Section 115.	None
They were clauses (a) and (b) of the proviso.	None
Logically, the High Court has suo motu power to revise an order where total failure to justice would have occasioned or where irreparable loss would have caused to the parties against whom it was made.	None
These powers were retained by clause (b).	None
Though, after 1976, the exercise of power was somewhat circumscribed, it was not totally curtailed.	None
In other words, the High Court could even after the 1976 amendment interfere in cases where there was failure of justice or irreparable loss caused, the nature of the proceedings was substantially changed and the suo motu power of the High Court was retained.	None
It was in the nature of power of superintendence of the High Court over the subordinate courts.	None
Changes were related to indicating limitations in exercise of power.	None
Even after the amendments in 1976, in 1999 and prior to the amendment in 1976, the revision power was exercisable in a case where the order or the decree, as the case may be, was not appealable.	None
Subsection (2) which was introduced by the Old Amendment Act and retained even after present amendment, provides that the High Court shall not interfere where the order or the decree is appealable in courts subordinate to the High Court.	None
It is interesting to note that the Law Commission of India had recommended deletion of Section 115.	None
In the Law Commissions opinion, provisions of Section 115 are analogous to provisions of Article 227 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the Constitution) and the litigants would not be prejudiced in any way if the entire Section is deleted.	None
The Joint Committee of the Parliament discussed these recommendations and only thought it proper to make certain modifications in the Section.	None
That led to amendment of Section 115 by Old Amendment Act.	None
The deliberations of the Committee are reflected in the following words The Committee, however, feel that, in addition to the restrictions contained in section 115, an overall restriction on the scope of applications for revision against interlocutory orders should be imposed.	None
Having regard to the recommendations made by the Law Commission in its Fourteenth and TwentySeventh Reports, the Committee recommended that Section 115 of the Code should be retained subject to the modification that no revision application shall lie against an interlocutory order unless either of the following conditions is satisfied, namely i. that if the orders were made in favour of the applicant, it would finally dispose of the suit or other proceeding or ii.	None
that the order, if allowed to stand, is likely to occasion a failure of justice or cause in irreparable injury.	None
First aspect that has to be considered is the respective scope of appeal and revision.	None
It is fairly a well settled position in law that the right of appeal is a substantive right.	None
But there is no such substantive right in making an application under Section 115.	None
Though great emphasis was laid on certain observations in Shankar Ramchandra Abhyankar v. Krishnaji Dattatraya Bapat (AIR 1970 SC 1 ) to contend that appeal and revision stand on the same pedestal, it is difficult to accept the proposition.	None
The observations in the said case are being read out of context.	None
What was held in that case related to the exercise of power of a high court, and in that context the nature of consideration in appeal and revision was referred to.	None
It was never held in that case that appeal is equated to a revision.	None
Section 115 is essentially a source of power for the High Court to supervise the subordinate courts.	None
It does not in any way confer a right on a litigant aggrieved by any order of the subordinate court to approach the High Court for relief.	None
The scope for making a revision under Section 115 is not linked with a substantive right.	None
Language of Sections 96 and 100 of the Code which deal with appeals can be compared with Section 115 of the Code.	None
While in the former two provisions specifically provide for right of appeal, the same is not the position visavis section 115.	None
It does not speak of an application being made by a person aggrieved by an order of subordinate court.	None
As noted above, it is a source of power of the High Court to have effective control on the functioning of the subordinate courts by exercising supervisory power.	None
An Appeal is essentially continuation of the original proceedings and the provisions applied at the time institutional of the suit are to be operative even in respect of the appeals.	None
That is because there is a vested right in the litigant to avail the remedy of an appeal.	None
As was observed in K. Eapen Chako vs. The Provident Investment Company (P) Ltd. (AIR 1976 SC 2610 ) only in cases where vested rights are involved, a legislation has to be interpreted to mean as one affecting such right to be prospectively operative.	None
The right of appeal is only by statute.	None
It is necessary part of the procedure in an action, but the right of entering a superior court and invoking its aid and interposition to redress the error of the courts below.	None
It seems to this paramount right, part of the progress of the inferior tribunal.	None
(Per Wastbury See AG vs. SILLEM 33 J. Ex. 209).	None
The appeal, strictly so called, is one is which the question is, whether the order of the Court from which the appeal is brought was right on the materials which that Court had before it (	None
Per Lord Devuil Ponnamal vs. Arumogam 1905 SC 390).	None
The right of appeal, where it exists, as a matter of substance and not of procedure (Colonial Sugar Refining Company vs. Irtin 1905 AC 368).	None
Right of appeal is statutory.	None
Right of appeal inherits in no one.	None
When conferred by statute it becomes a vested right.	None
In this regard there is essential distinction between right of appeal and right of suit.	None
Where there is inherent right in every person to file a suit and for its maintainability it requires no authority of law, appeal requires so.	None
As was observed in The State of Kerala vs. K.M. Charia Abdulla and Co. (AIR 1965 SC 1585 ), the distinction between right of appeal and revision is based on differences implicit in the two expressions.	None
An appeal is continuation of the proceedings in effect the entire proceedings are before the appellate authority and it has power to review the evidence subject to statutory limitations prescribed.	None
But in the case of revision, whatever powers the revisional authority may or may not have, it has no power to review the evidence, unless the statute expressly confers on it that power.	None
It was noted by the fourJudges Bench in Hari Shankar and others vs. Rao Girdhari Lal Chowdhury (AIR 1963 SC 698 ) that the distinction between an appeal and a revision is a real one.	None
A right of appeal carries with it a right of rehearing on law as well as fact, unless the statute conferring the right of appeal limits the rehearing in some way, as has been done in second appeals arising under the Code.	None
The power of hearing revision is generally given to a superior Court so that it may satisfy itself that a particular case has been decided according to law.	None
Reference was made to Section 115 of the Code to hold that the High Courts powers under the said provision are limited to certain particular categories of cases.	None
The right there is confined to jurisdiction and jurisdiction alone.	None
As regards the field of operation of amended provision, it is to be noted that the language of amended provision is clear.	None
It is well settled principle in law that the Court cannot read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and unambiguous.	None
A statute is an edict of the Legislature.	None
The language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of legislative intent.	None
Words and phrases are symbols that stimulate mental references to reference.	None
The object of interpreting a statute is to ascertain the intention of the Legislature enacting it.	None
(See Institute of Chartered Accountants of India vs. M s. Price Waterhouse and Anr.	None
(AIR 1998 SC 74 )	None
The intention of the Legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used, which means that attention should be paid to what has been said as also to what has not been said.	None
As a consequences, a construction which requires for its support, addition or substitution of words or which results in rejection of words as meaningless has to be avoided.	None
As observed in Crawford vs. Spooner (1846 (6) Moore PC 1), Courts, cannot aid the Legislatures defective phrasing of an Act, we cannot add or mend, and by construction make up deficiencies which are left there.	None
(See The State of Gujarat and others vs. Dilipbhai Nathjibhai Patel and Anr.	None
(JT 1998(2)	None
SC 253 ).	None
It is contrary to all rules of construction to read words into an Act unless it is absolutely necessary to do so.	None
(See Stock vs. Frank Jones (Tiptan) Ltd. (1978 1 All ER 948 (HL).	None
Rules of interpretation do not permit Courts to do so, unless the provision as it stands is meaningless or of doubtful meaning.	None
Courts are not entitled to read words into an Act of Parliament unless clear reason for it is to be found within the four corners of the Act itself.	None
(Per Lord Loreburn L.C. in Vickers Sons and Maxim Ltd. vs. Evans (1910)	None
AC 445 (HL), quoted in Jamma Masjid, Mercara vs. Kodimaniandra Deviah and others (AIR 1962 SC 847 ).	None
The question is not what may be supposed and has been intended but what has been said.	None
Statutes should be construed not as theorems of Euclid.	None
Judge Learned Hand said, but words must be construed with some imagination of the purposes which lie behind them.	None
(See Lenigh Valley Coal Co. vs. Yensavage 218 FR 547.	None
The view was reiterated in Union of India and others vs. Filip Tiago De Gama of Vedem Vasco De Gama (AIR 1990 SC 981 ).	None
In Dr. R. Venkatchalam and others etc. vs. Dy. Transport Commissioner and others etc.	None
(AIR 1977 SC 842 ), it was observed that Courts must avoid the danger of apriori determination of the meaning of a provision based on their own preconceived notions of ideological structure or scheme into which the provision to be interpreted is somewhat fitted.	None
They are not entitled to usurp legislative function under the disguise of interpretation.	None
While interpreting a provision the Court only interprets the law and cannot legislate it.	None
If a provision of law is misused and subjected to the abuse of process of law, it is for the legislature to amend, modify or repeal it, if deemed necessary.	None
(See Commissioner of Sales Tax, M.P. vs. Popular Trading Company, Ujjain (2000 (5) SCC 515 ).	None
The legislative casus omissus cannot be supplied by judicial interpretative process.	None
Two principles of construction  one relating to casus omissus and the other in regard to reading the statute as a whole  appear to be well settled.	None
Under the first principle a casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court except in the case of clear necessity and when reason for it is found in the four corners of the statute itself but at the same time a casus omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose all the parts of a statute or section must be construed together and every clause of a section should be construed with reference to the context and other clauses thereof so that the construction to be put on a particular provision makes a consistent enactment of the whole statute.	None
This would be more so if literal construction of a particular clause leads to manifestly absurd or anomalous results which could not have been intended by the Legislature.	None
An intention to produce an unreasonable result, said Danackwerts, L.J. in Artemiou vs. Procopiou, (1966 (1) QB 878), is not to be imputed to a statute if there is some other construction available.	None
Where to apply words literally would defeat the obvious intention of the legislation and produce a wholly unreasonable result we must do some violence to the words and so achieve that obvious intention and produce a rational construction.	None
(Per Lord Reid in Luke vs. IRC (1966 AC 557) where at p. 577 he also observed this is not a new problem, though our standard of drafting is such that it rarely emerges.	None
It is then true that, when the words of a law extend not to an inconvenience rarely happening, but do to those which often happen, it is good reason not to strain the words further than they reach, by saying it is casus omissus, and that the law intended quae frequentius accidunt.	None
But on the other hand, it is no reason, when the words of a law do enough extend to an inconvenience seldom happening, that they should not extend to it as well as if it happened more frequently, because it happens but seldom (See Fenton vs. Hampton 11 Moore, P.C. 345).	None
A casus omissus ought not to be created by interpretation, save in some case of strong necessity.	None
Where, however, a casus omissus does really occur, either through the inadvertence of the legislature, or on the principle quod semel aut bis existit proetereunt legislatores, the rule is that the particular case, thus left unprovided for, must be disposed of according to the law as it existed before such statute  Casus omissus et oblivioni datus dispositioni communis juris relinquitur a casus omissus, observed Buller, J. in Jones vs. Smart (1 T.R. 52), can in no case be supplied by a court of law, for that would be to make laws.	None
The golden rule for construing wills, statutes, and, in fact, all written instruments has been thus stated The grammatical and ordinary sense of the words is to be adhered to unless that would lead to some absurdity or some repugnance or inconsistency with the rest of the instrument, in which case the grammatical and ordinary sense of the words may be modified, so as to avoid that absurdity and inconsistency, but no further (See Grey vs. Pearson 6 H.L. Cas. 61).	None
The latter part of this golden rule must, however, be applied with much caution, if, remarked Jervis, C.J., the precise words used are plain and unambiguous in our judgment, we are bound to construe them in their ordinary sense, even though it lead, in our view of the case, to an absurdity or manifest injustice.	None
Words may be modified or varied where their import is doubtful or obscure.	None
But we assume the functions of legislators when we depart from the ordinary meaning of the precise words used, merely because we see, or fancy we see, an absurdity or manifest injustice from an adherence to their literal meaning (See Abley vs. Dale 11, C.B.378).	None
At this juncture, it would be necessary to take note of a maxim Ad ea quae frequentius accidunt jura adaptantur	None
(The laws are adapted to those cases which more frequently occur).	None
Laws ought to be, and usually are, framed with a view to such cases as are of frequent rather than such as are of rare or accidental occurrence or, in the language of the civil law, jus constitui oportet in his quoe ut plurium accidunt, non quoe ex inopinato for, neque legas neque senatusconsulta ita scribi possunt ut omnes casus qui quandoque inciderint comprehendantur, sed sufficit ea quoe plerumque accident contineri laws cannot be so worded as to include every case which may arise, but it is sufficient if they apply to those things which most frequently happen.	None
All legislation proceeds upon the principle of providing for the ordinary course of things, and to this principle frequent reference is to be found, in the reports, in answer to arguments, often speciously advanced, that the words of an Act cannot have a particular meaning, because in a certain contingency that meaning might work a result of which nobody would approve.	None
In Miller vs. Salomons (7 Exch. 475)	None
it was argued that Parliament could not have intended that a Jew, before sitting in the House of Commons, must use the words on the true faith of a Christian, prescribed in the oath of abjuration of 6 Geo. 3, c.53, because any person, refusing to take the same oath when tendered by two justices, would, under the 1 Geo. 1, st.2, c.13, be deemed to be a popish recusant, and would be liable to penalties as such and to enforce these provisions against a Jew, it was said, would be merest tyranny.	None
But Baron Parke thus replied to this argument  If in the vast majority of possible cases  in all of ordinary occurrence  the law is in no degree inconsistent or unreasonable construed according to its plain words, it seems to me to be an untenable proposition and unsupported by authority, to say that the construction may be varied in every case, because there is one possible but highly improbably one in which the law would operate with great severity, and against our own notions of justice.	None
The utmost that can be reasonably contended is, that it should be varied in that particular case, so as to obviate that injustice  no further.	None
Appeal is the right of entering a superior Court and invoking its aid and interposition to redress the error of the court below.	None
(per Westbury C., A.G. vs. Sillem, 10 HLC 704 33 LJ ex. 209).	None
Appeal is defined in the Oxford Dictionary, volume I, page 398, as the transference of a case from an inferior to a higher Court or tribunal in the hope of reversing or modifying the decision of the former.	None
In the Law Dictionary by Sweet, the term appeal is defined as a proceeding taken to rectify an erroneous decision of a Court by submitting the question to a higher Court or Court of appeal, and it is added that the term, therefore, includes, in addition to the proceedings specifically so called, the cases stated for the opinion of the Queens Bench Division and the Court of Crown Cases reserved, and proceedings in error.	None
In the Law Dictionary by Bouvier an appeal is defined as the removal of a case from a Court of inferior to one of superior jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining a review and retrial, and it is explained that in its technical sense it differs from a writ of error in this, that it subjects both the law and the facts to a review and retrial, while the latter is a Common Law process which involves matter of law only for reexamination it is added, however, that the term appeal is used in a comprehensive sense so as to include both what is described technically as an appeal and also the common law writ of error.	None
As Mr. Justice Subramania Ayyar observes in Chappan vs. Moidin, 22 Mad 68 at p.80 the two things which are required to constitute appellate jurisdiction are the existence of the relation to superior and inferior Court and the power, on the part of the former, to review decisions of the latter.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 115 has remained unaltered even after the amendment by the Amendment Act.	None
A new subsection (3) has been added in Section 115 by the Amendment Act which states that revision shall not operate as a stay of suit or other proceeding before the Court except where such suit or other proceedings is stayed by the High Court.	None
In Section 2, the expressions degree and order have been defined in clauses (2) and (14) respectively.	None
It is to be noted that it matters little that the judgment is styled as an order.	None
If, in fact, it fulfils the conditions of the definition under Section 2(2), it is a decree and becomes appealable.	None
Orders that are not appealable are, generally speaking, those which are procussal i.e. interlocutory or incidental orders regulating proceedings but not deciding any of the matters of controversy in the suit.	None
Order 43 deals with the appeals from orders.	None
These appeals lie under Section 104 of the Code.	None
The said Section deals with appeals from orders and specifies the orders from which appeals can lie.	None
Subsection (2) of Section 104 says that no appeal shall lie from any order passed in appeal under the said Section.	None
Section 104 and Order 43 Rule I contain a full list of appealable orders.	None
An order which amounts to a decree within Section 2(2) does not fall within Section 104 and the only applicable section is Section 96.	None
Clauses (a) to (f) of Section 104 were omitted by Arbitration Act 1940.	None
Section 105 relates to other orders.	None
It, inter alia, relates to any order i.e. so appealable as well as nonappelable orders.	None
It is in the nature of a prohibition stipulating that save as otherwise expressly provided, no appeal shall lie from any order made by a Court in exercise of original or appellate jurisdiction but where a decree is appealed from, any error, defect or irregularity in any other, affecting the decision of the case, may be set forth as a ground of objection in the memorandum of appeal.	None
Subsection (2) deals with case of remand.	None
This section, in fact, contemplates two things i.e. (1) regular appeal from decree and (2) the provision relating to grant of objection relating to interim order.	None
Order 43 Rule 1 is an integral part of Section 104.	None
A plain reading of Section 115 as it stands makes it clear that the stress is on the question whether the order in favour of the party applying for revision would have given finality to suit or other proceeding.	Reasoning
If the answer is yes then the revision is maintainable.	Reasoning
But on the contrary, if the answer is no then the revision is not maintainable.	Reasoning
Therefore, if the impugned order is of interim in nature or does not finally decide the lis, the revision will not be maintainable.	Reasoning
The legislative intent is crystal clear.	Reasoning
Those orders, which are interim in nature, cannot be the subject matter of revision under Section 115.	Reasoning
There is marked distinction in language of Section 97(3) of the Old Amendment Act and Section 32(2)(i) of the Amendment Act.	Reasoning
While in the former, there was clear legislative intent to save applications admitted or pending before the amendment came into force.	Reasoning
Such an intent is significantly absent in Section 32(2)(i).	Reasoning
The amendment relates to procedures.	Reasoning
No person has a vested right in a course of procedure.	Reasoning
He has only the right of proceeding in the manner prescribed.	Reasoning
If by a statutory change the mode of procedure is altered the parties are to proceed according to the altered mode, without exception, unless there is a different stipulation.	Reasoning
Section 6 of the General Clauses Act has no application because there is no substantive vested right available to a party seeking revision under Section 115 of the Code.	None
In Kolhapur Canesugar Works Ltd. and another vs. Union of India and others (AIR 2000 SC 811 ), it was observed that if a provision of Statute is unconditionally omitted without a saving clause in favour of pending proceedings, all actions must stop where the omission finds them, and if final relief has not been granted before the omission goes into effect, there is no scope for granting it afterwards.	None
There is modification of this position by application of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act or by making special provisions.	Reasoning
Operation of repeal or deletion as to the future and the past largely depends on the savings applicable.	Reasoning
In a case where a particular provision in the statute is omitted and in its place another provision dealing with the same contingency is introduced without a saving clause in favour of pending proceedings, then it can be reasonably inferred that the intention of the legislature is that the pending proceedings shall continue but a fresh proceeding for the same purpose may be initiated under the new provision.	Reasoning
In view of what has been stated above the inevitable conclusion is that the High Courts were right in the conclusion about nonmaintainability of revision applications.	None
It was submitted by learned counsel for the appellants that even if the revision applications are held to be not maintainable, there should not be a bar on challenge being made under Section 227 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that an opportunity may be granted to the appellants to avail the remedy.	Arguments of Petitioner
36.	None
If any remedy is available to a party under any statute no liberty is necessary to be granted for availing the same.	None
If the appellants avail such remedy, the same shall be dealt with in accordance with law.	None
The appeals are dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
