 This petition has been filed under Section 11 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 (hereinafter referred the said Act) by the petitioner praying for appointment of the arbitral tribunal to adjudicate the claims and disputes between the petitioner and the respondent.	Issue
The petitioner is a company incorporated and existing under the laws of Malaysia and is engaged in the business of fabrication of all types of offshore and onshore structures and complexes.	Facts
The respondent on the other hand is the company incorporated under the (Indian) Companies Act, 1956 and is inter alia engaged in the business of providing engineering and related technical services for petroleum refineries and other industrial projects.3.	Facts
The necessary facts of the case are that Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC) invited a tender vide notification dated November 17, 2003 for carrying work of Survey, Design, Engineering, Procurement, Fabrication, Anticorrosion and Weight coating, Laying of submarine pipeline, Installation of SPM, Load out, Tie down Seafastening and various other jobs in respect of Mumbai High South Field offshore site.4.	Facts
In connection with the said tender issued by ONGC, respondent and petitioner entered into a Business Agreement on 22/01/2004 by which it was agreed that the respondent shall quote as a bidder against the said Tender with the petitioner as a subcontractor for identified scope of work.	Facts
The tender was awarded by ONGC to the respondent by notice dated 10/03/2004 for the said fabrication and installation of D1 WellCumWater Injection Platform at Mumbai High South field Offshore site on a turnkey basis for a sum of US 62,3000,000/ and thereafter an agreement between the respondent and ONGC was entered into.	Facts
Then, the respondent entered into a subcontract with the petitioner which was signed on 29th of October 2004 and for Fabrication, Load Out and Transportation of Jacket, Piles, Conductors and Deck for D1 WellCumWater Injection Platform Project of ONGC at Bombay High South field offshore site for a lump sum subcontract price of US 20,162,460/.	Facts
In terms of the said subcontract the petitioner carried out its scope of work in terms of its contractual obligations.	Facts
As it did not receive the full payment from the respondent disputes and differences between them cropped up.	Facts
These disputes between the parties remained unresolved despite some joint negotiations between them.5.	Facts
The petitioner by its Advocates notice on 19/02/2008 invoked the arbitration clause and referred all disputes and differences between them and respondent to arbitration including its claim of US 14,244,812.02 and claim for loss and damage on account of financing charges and foreign exchange and such other damages.	Facts
In the said letter the petitioner also suggested the names of a few arbitrators.	Facts
The respondent by its letter dated 26/02/2008 did not accept the stand of the petitioner and stated that petitioners stand to proceed with arbitration is premature and the respondent requested the petitioner to withdraw the Notice Invoking Arbitration and come out with a viable proposal to create a joint settlement mechanism to settle the dispute amicably.	Facts
However, the learned counsel for the petitioner tried to show before this Court that several meetings were held between the parties for settling the dispute amicably but the said efforts ultimately did not succeed.	Arguments of Petitioner
However before this Court the learned counsel for the respondent fairly accepted the position but disputes between the parties virtually cannot be resolved amicably anymore and the matter should be resolved through arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent submitted that he does not dispute that there are arbitrable disputes between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Nor does he dispute that the petitioner has invoked the arbitration clause between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
The only point on which the case is argued is that in this case the arbitration panel must consist of three arbitrators, one is to be nominated by each party and the third arbitrator is to be chosen by the nominated arbitrators.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the petitioner on the other hand did not accept the said stand of the learned counsel for the respondent and submitted that in terms of the agreement in this case dispute can be decided by the sole arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
Matter was actually heard before this Court on the aforesaid controversy.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that admittedly the arbitration clauses in the contract which govern the rights of the parties in the matter of arbitration are as follows 12.1	None
This Subcontract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of India.	None
The Courts at Delhi shall have	Arguments of Petitioner
sole jurisdiction.12.2	Arguments of Petitioner
The Parties shall endeavour to resolve any dispute or difference amicably through joint negotiation and when necessary by reference to the Chief Executive of EIL and SSE.	Arguments of Petitioner
If any dispute or difference, which cannot be mutually resolved by the parties, the same shall be referred to arbitration in accordance with the provisions contained in Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 which is generally in accordance with UNCITRAL rules.12.3 The arbitrator(s) shall give reasoned award in respect of each dispute or difference referred to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The award as aforesaid shall be final, conclusive and binding on all the Parties of this Subcontract in accordance with the Law.12.4 The venue of the arbitration shall be at New Delhi, India.	Arguments of Petitioner
By relying on para 12.2, learned counsel submitted that the said clause does not indicate about the number of arbitrators to be appointed while reciting that the matter be referred to arbitration in accordance with the provisions contained in the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation, 1996, which is generally in accordance with the UNCITRAL rules.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also referred to and relied on Section 10 of the said Act which deals with the composition of Arbitral Tribunals under Chapter III of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 10 (1) and 10 (2) are as under Number of arbitrators.  	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators, provided that such number shall not be an even number.(2) Failing the determination referred to in subsection (1), the arbitral tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on Clause 12.2 and Section 10, learned counsel submits that it is clear that arbitration in this case shall be held by a sole or a single arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
He particularly emphasised Clause 12.2 of the agreement and Section 10(2) of the Act which says that failing the determination referred to in subsection 1, the Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submits that in the instant case Clause 12.2 does not indicate the number of arbitrators and in that event Subsection (2) of Section 10 would apply.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel further submits that the matter should not be referred to three arbitrators as that would prolong arbitration proceedings as three arbitrators would have to adjust their timings.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from that the same would result in considerable escalation of cost.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel has referred to a judgment of this Court in support of his contention that it has been judicially recognized that reference of a dispute to a panel of three arbitrators escalates the cost and more so it is very time consuming.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand submits that reference of the matter to a panel of three arbitrators is not ruled out if the arbitration clause is properly construed alongwith Section 10 of the said Act.16.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel admitted that Clause 12.2 is silent about the number of arbitrators but Clause 12.3 refers to an expression arbitrator(s).	Arguments of Respondent
By relying on the said expression in Clause 12.3 learned counsel submits that the arbitration clause thus postulates the appointment of more than one arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
As there cannot be two arbitrators which is an even number, the minimum number of arbitrators other than one would be three.17.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel also submitted that while clause 12.2 stipulates that the arbitration between the parties would be governed under the said Act it also says in clause 12.2 that it shall generally be in accordance with UNCITRAL rules.18.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel also submitted that they have a policy that in matters involving high stakes above Rupees ten crores, it should be referred to a Committee on panel of arbitrators.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this submission, learned counsel referred to a Standard Contract Clauses which have been disclosed in the counter affidavit filed by the respondent and reliance was placed on the following clause	Arguments of Respondent
The Arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the Indian Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.	None
For Contracts costing upto Rs.10 Crores, a Sole Arbitrator should be appointed.	Arguments of Respondent
For Contracts costing over Rs.10 Crores, a Committee of Arbitrators should be appointed composed of one Arbitrator to be nominated by the Contractor, one to be nominated by the Owner and the third Arbitrator, who will act as a Chairman but not as umpire, to be chosen jointly by the two nominees.	Arguments of Respondent
The decision of majority of Arbitrators shall be final and binding on both parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel also relied on a passage from Redfern and Hunter, Law and Practice of International Commercial Arbitration, Fourth Edn., 2004, page 185, which is as under In modern practice, despite the advantages of a sole arbitrator, particularly in arbitrations involving heavy stakes, preference is for appointment of three arbitrators, albeit not without rationale.	Arguments of Respondent
Particularly, in the area of international commercial arbitration involving complex problems peculiar to special types of disputes, eg, engineering, construction, maritime and international trading disputes, a sole arbitrator, many a time may not be suitable for resolution of such disputes.	Arguments of Respondent
In such situations, the common practice is to appoint a tribunal comprising of three arbitrators.	Arguments of Respondent
Even though it may involve more expense and delay than a sole arbitrator arbitration, it is still preferred as it is more effective.	Arguments of Respondent
An arbitral tribunal of three arbitrators is likely to prove more satisfactory to the parties, and the ultimate award is more likely to be accepted to them.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel argued if the aforesaid stipulations in clauses 12.2 and 12.3 of the agreement and Sections 10(1) and 10(2) are read harmoniously with UNCITRAL model rules, the appointment of a panel of three arbitrators in this case cannot be ruled out.	Arguments of Respondent
These being the rival contentions of the parties, I am unable to accept the contentions putforth by learned counsel for the respondent for the reasons discussed hereinbelow.	None
If one looks at the Clause 12.2 of the agreement it should be clear if the disputes and differences are not resolved mutually, the same shall be referred to arbitration in accordance with the provisions of the said Act.	None
Clause 12.3 stipulates the requirement on the part of the arbitrator(s) to give reasons.	None
The Arbitration Tribunal as defined under Section 2(d) of the Act means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators.	None
Section 10(2) of the Act is very relevant in order to resolve the controversy in this case in as much as Section 10(2) makes it very clear where the number of arbitrator is not determined, the arbitral tribunal shall consist of a sole arbitrator.	None
In this connection if UNCITRAL rules are referred the position will remain the same.	None
UNCITRAL model law on International Commercial Arbitration also accepts the same definition of Arbitration Tribunal in Article 2(b).	None
Article 10 of those rules is almost identical with Section 10 of the said Act.	None
Article 2(b) and Article 10 of those rules are extracted hereinbelow Article 2.	None
Definition and rules of interpretation  For the purposes of this Law(a) xxx xxx(b) arbitral tribunal means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators.	None
Article 10.	None
Number of arbitrators  (1)	None
The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators.(2) Failing such determination, the number of arbitrators shall be three.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the definition of Arbitral Tribunal in Section 2(1)(d) of the said Act is verbatim the same as in Article 2(b).	None
Article 10 of the UNCITRAL model law has close similarity with Section 10 of the said Act.	None
Section 10 deviates from Article 10 of the UNCITRAL law only in the sense that Section 10(1) of the Act provides that despite the freedom given to the parties to determine the number of arbitrators such numbers shall not be even number.	None
But in default of determination of the number, Section 10(2) provides the tribunal is to consist of a sole arbitrator.	None
Therefore, scheme of Section 10(2) of the Act is virtually similar to Article 10.2 of the UNCITRAL model law.	None
In the instant case Clause 12.2 of the Arbitration clause is silent about the number of arbitrator.	Reasoning
Therefore, Section 10(2) of the said Act squarely applies.28.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the respondent has referred to a passage at page 185 para 418 of Redfern and Hunter, Law and Practice of International Commercial Arbitration, Fourth Edn.	Reasoning
But looking at the said book this Court finds that the said passage was not been properly quoted.	Reasoning
In paragraph 415 of the said book it has been provided as follows A sole arbitrator shall be appointed unless the parties have agreed in writing otherwise, or unless the LCIA Court determines that in view of all the circumstances of the case a threemember tribunal is appropriate.	None
In the said paragraph it has also been stated that there are distinct advantages of referring a dispute to a sole arbitrator on grounds of speed and economy.	Reasoning
A sole arbitrator does not need to deliberate with others, without having to spend time in consultation with colleagues in an endeavour to arrive at an agreed or majority determination of the matters in dispute.	Reasoning
(Page 184)30.	Reasoning
Similar opinion has been expressed in Russell on Arbitration 23rd Edition.	Reasoning
At page 129, paragraph 4035 with reference to arbitration it has been said Where no choice is made, the law implied a reference to a tribunal consisting of a sole arbitrator.	Reasoning
In fact Section 15(3) of the (English) Arbitration Act, 1996 provides for the same.31.	Reasoning
Mustil and Boyd on Commercial Arbitration, 2nd Edition also contains the same statement of law.	Reasoning
At page 174 of the said book it has been provided that an arbitration agreement calls for a reference to a single arbitrator, either if it contains an express stipulation to that effect, or if it is silent as to the mode of arbitration.32.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the arbitration clause 12.2 is silent as to the number of arbitrator.	Reasoning
The said clause read with Section 10(2) of the Act makes it very clear that arbitral tribunal in the instant case would be consisting of a sole arbitrator.33.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the respondent has referred to its policy decision which has been quoted hereinabove.	Arguments of Respondent
Such policy decision cannot change the contractual clause.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event the contract between the parties was entered into in 2004.	Arguments of Respondent
The said policy decision came into effect in 2005.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the said policy decision cannot in any way override contract between the parties.34.	Arguments of Respondent
The parties autonomy in the arbitration agreement must be given due importance in construing the intention of the parties.	Reasoning
In so far as reference to the expression arbitrator(s) in clause 12.3 is concerned, the same does not in any way affect the intention of the parties in clause 12.2.35.	Reasoning
It is noted in this connection that parties have freedom to change the number of arbitrator even after the contract has been entered and by mutual consent the parties may amend the contract.	Reasoning
If that takes place, in such an eventuality clause 12.3 provides that the arbitrator or arbitrators have to give reasoned award in respect of each dispute and difference referred.	Reasoning
Here also the expression which has been used is him which also points to a sole arbitrator.36.	Reasoning
It is clearly provided in the said Act that an arbitral tribunal can, if necessary, take the help of experts in terms of Section 27 of the said Act.	Reasoning
If the sole arbitrator requires the assistance of an expert it can always take such assistance.37.	Reasoning
Mr. Mukul Rohtagi, learned counsel for the respondent has fairly submitted that if his argument is not accepted by the Court then his client has no objection to the appointment of Honble Mr. Justice D.P. Wadhwa, a former Judge of this Court, to be the sole arbitrator in this case.	Reasoning
The name of Justice Wadhwa also finds place in the list of names suggested by the petitioner.	Reasoning
Therefore, appointment of Justice Wadhwa is fairly by consensus.	Reasoning
Since I am unable to accept the argument of learned counsel for the respondent, I accordingly appoint Justice D.P. Wadhwa, a former Judge of this Court, the sole arbitrator in this case.39.	Decision
The Honble arbitrator is requested to decide the dispute as early as possible and preferably within a period of six months from the date of entering upon the reference.	Decision
The terms of arbitration proceeding are left to be decided by learned arbitrator.40.	Decision
The petition is allowed accordingly.	Decision
No order as to costs.	Decision
