 K. Das, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave from an award dated 10101956, made by the Industrial.	None
Tribunal, Bihar, raises an important question of interpretation in the matter of a disqualification for layoff compensation under S. 25E read with S. 25C of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter called the Act), and so far as we know, this is the first case of its kind in which the expression in another part of the establishment occurring in cl.	None
(iii) of S. 25E has come up for an authoritative interpretation.	None
2.	None
The facts are simple and are shortly set out below.	Facts
The Associated Cement Companies Ltd., hereinafter called the Company, have a number of cement factories in different States of the Indian Union as also in Pakistan.	Facts
There are two such factories in the State of Bihar, one at Khelari and the other at a place called Jhinkpani in the district of Chaibasa in Bihar.	Facts
The latter factory is commonly known as the Chaibasa Cement Works.	Facts
There is a limestone quarry owned by the same Company situate about a mile and a half from the Chaibasa Cement Works, the quarry being known as the Rajanka limestone quarry.	Facts
Limestone is the principal raw material for the manufacture of cement and the Chaibasa Cement Works depended exclusively for the supply of limestone on the said quarry.	Facts
At the time relevant to this appeal there were two classes of labourers at the quary, those employed by the Company through the management of the Chaibasa Cement Works and others who were engaged by a contractor.	Facts
There was one union known as the Chaibasa Cement Workers Union, hereinafter called the Union, of which the Companys labourers both at the Cement Works and the quarry were members.	Facts
There was another union consisting of the contractors labourers which was known as the A. C. C. Limestone Contractors Mazdoor Union.	Facts
On 311955, the Union made certain demands on the management on behalf of the labourers in the limestone quarry, but these were rejected by the management.	Facts
Then by a subsequent letter dated 1821955,the Central Secretary of the Union gave a notice to the Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works to the effect that the Union proposed to organise a general stayinstrike in the limestone quarry from 131955, if certain demands, details whereof are unnecessary for our purpose, were not granted on or before 2821955.	Facts
A similar notice was also given on behalf of the A. C. C. Limestone Contractors Mazdoor Union.	Facts
These notices led to certain efforts at conciliation which, however, failed.	Facts
On 2421955, the management gave a notice to all employees of the Chaibasa Cement Works, in which it was stated that in the event of the strike materalising in the limestone quarry, it would be necessary for the management to close down certain sections of the factory at Jhinkpani on account of the nonsupply of limestone the notice further stated that in the event of such closure, it would be necessary to lay off the workers not required during the period of closure for the sections concerned.	Facts
The strike commenced on 131955, and lasted till 471955.	Facts
On March 25, 1955, the management wrote to the General Secretary of the Union intimating to him that the workers in certain departments referred to in an earlier letter dated 1931955, would be laid off with effect from 141955.	Facts
On March 28, 1955, the management gave the lists of employees who were to be laidoff with effect from 141955, and they were actually laidoff from that date.	Facts
During the period of the strike fresh efforts at conciliation were made and ultimately the strike came to an end on 571955, when the Central Government referred the dispute between the management and the workers of the limestone quarry to the Central Industrial Tribunal at Dhanbad.	Facts
This reference was, however, withdrawn by mutual consent in terms of a settlement arrived at 7121955.	Facts
The details of this settlement are not relevant to this appeal.	Facts
3.	None
Thereafter, a demand was made by the Union for payment of layoff compensation to those workers of the Chaibasa Cement Works who had been laidoff for the period 141955 to 471955.	Facts
This demand was refused by the management.	Facts
This gave rise to an industrial dispute which was referred by the Government of Bihar under S. 10 of the Act of the Industrial Tribunal, Bihar.	Facts
The terms of reference set out the dispute in the following words Whether the workmen of the Chaibasa Cement Works are entitled to compensation for layoff for the period from April 1, 1955 to July 4, 1955.	Facts
The parties filed written statements before the Industrial Tribunal and the only witness examined in the case was Mr. Dongray, Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works, Jhinkpani.	None
4.	None
At this point it is necessary to read the two sections of the Act which relate to the right of workmen to layoff compensation and the circumstances in which they are disqualified for the same.	Facts
The right is given by S. 25C and the disqualification is stated in three clauses of S. 25E, of which the third clause only is important for our purpose.	Facts
We now proceed to read Ss. 25C and 25E so far as they are material for our purpose.	Facts
Section 25C. (1) Whenever a workmen (other than a badli workman or a casual workman) whose name is borne on the muster rolls of an industrial establishment and who has completed not less than one year of continuous service under an employer is laidoff, he shall be paid by the employer for all days during which he is so laidoff, except for such weekly holidays as may intervene,.	Facts
Compensation which shall be equal to fifty percent, of the total of the basic wages and dearness allowance that would have been payable to him had he not been so laidoff.	Facts
Section 25E.	None
No compensation shall be paid to a workman who has been laidoff (i) (ii) (iii) if such layingoff is due to a strike or slowingdown of production on the part of workmen in another part of the establishment.	None
5.	None
Now, the central point round which the controversy between the parties has raged is this.	Facts
Was the layoff of the workers in certain sections of the Chaibasa Cement Works due to a strike on the part of workmen in another part of the establishment within the meaning of cl.	Facts
(iii) of S. 25E?	Facts
In other words, was the limestone quarry at Rajanka part of the establishment known as the Chaibasa Cement Works?	Facts
The contention of the management was and is that the Cement Works and the limestone quarry form one establishment within the meaning of cl.	Facts
(iii) aforesaid.	Facts
The contention on behalf of the workmen is that they are not parts of one establishment but are separate establishments.	Facts
The learned Chairman of the Industrial Tribunal held for reasons which we shall presently discuss, that the limestonequarry was not part of the establishment known as the Chaibasa Cement Works and the workmen in the latter were not disentitled to layoff compensation by reason of cl.	Facts
(iii) of S. 25E.	Facts
The correctness of this view is the principal point for decision in this appeal.	Facts
6.	None
On behalf of the respondent workmen it has been contended that the conclusion of the Industrial Tribunal that the factory at Jhinkpani and the limestone quarry at Rajanka are not parts of one establishment is a finding of fact and this appeal should be disposed of on that footing.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think that this contention is correct and we shall presently deal with it.	Reasoning
We propose, however, to examine first the relation between the limestone quarry at Rajanka and the cement factory at Jhinkpani in the light of the evidence given before the Tribunal and the findings arrived at by it because they will show the process of reasoning by which the Tribunal came to its final conclusion.	Reasoning
7.	None
The evidence was really onesided and the only witness examined was Mr. Dongray, Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works.	None
Now, the relation between the limestone quarry and the factory can be considered from several points of view, such as (1) ownership, (2) control and supervision, (3) finance, (4) management and employment, (5) geographical proximity and (6) general unity of purpose and functional integrality, with particular reference to the industrial process of making cement.	None
On all the above points Mr. Dongray gave evidence.	None
It was not disputed that the Company owned the limestone quarry as also the factory and there was unity of ownership.	None
Mr. Dongrays evidence further showed that there was unity of control, management and employment.	None
He said that the limestone quarry was treated as a part and parcel of the Chaibasa Cement Works, that is, as a department thereof and he as the Manger was in over all charge of both, though there was a Quarry Manager in charge as a departmental head under him.	None
On this point Mr. Dongray said There is a Manager appointed for the quarries.	None
The Manager is working under me.	None
The Cement Work itself has about eight or nine departments under it.	None
There are heads of each department.	None
The Manager of the quarry has the same status as the heads of other departments at the Cement Works.	None
This was supported by a circular letter dated March 11, 1952, which said that the entire factory and the associated quarries were under the sole control of the Manager, who was responsible for maintaining full output at economic cost up to the expected standard.	None
The circular letter further stated that all orders and contracts were to be issued by the Manager for the working of the factory and quarries and the relevant bills were to be passed by him.	None
As to finance and conditions of employment, Mr. Dongray said All requirements of the quarry are sent by the Manager there to the office of the Cement Works and if they are available in the Cement Works Stores, they are issued from there otherwise I indent them from the Bombay office or purchase them locally.	None
There is no account office in the quarries and their account is maintained in the Cement Works Office.	None
I as Manager of the Chaibasa Cement Works make payment for the indents or requirements of the quarries stated above.	None
The quarry has no separate banking account.	None
The Quarry Manager is not entitled to operate banking account apart from myself.	None
At the quarries there are dailyrated workers and monthly paid staff.	None
To the dailypaid workers in the quarries, the cashier of the Cement Works or his Assistant makes payment, when required.	None
The monthlypaid staff of the quarries come to the Cement Office for receiving payment.	None
In the Cement Works we have got a system of allocation of work for different jobs every day.	None
It is done by the Departmental Heads.	None
Same system privails in the quarries also.	None
The Quarry Manager does the distribution as head of that department.	None
Attendance Register is maintained at the quarry in the same way as it is done in the different departments of the Cement Works.	None
There is only one common pay sheet for all the monthlypaid staff, whether he is at the factory or in the quarries.	None
For the dailyrated workers we have got different sheets departmentwise and there is one such sheet for the daily workers of quarry as well.	None
There is one summary sheet of the payment showing the payment of all the departments including to payment in the quarries as well.	None
I have to send statutory intimation to the authorities under the Mines Act regarding the quarries for working faces and other accidents etc.	None
The staff and workers working in the quarries are transferable to the Cement Works according to the exigencies of the work and also vice versa.	None
There have been a few instances of such transfer.	None
The terms and conditions of service, for instance, T. A., leave, provident fund, gratuity, etc., are same for workers in the Cement Works as also the workers in the quarries.	None
We got the application of the statutory provident fund rules extended to our department in the quarries also.	None
The report of the working of the quarry comes to me from the Manager there from time to time.	None
I as Manager of the Cement Works make payments of royalties in respect of limenstones raised from the quarries.	None
Payments for compensation maternity benefits, accidents, etc., in the quarry are made under my authority by the factory office and not by the Quarry Manager.	None
Exhibits, 1 to 26 filed on behalf of the management, which showed the working of the quarry and the factory, supported the aforesaid evidence of Mr. Dongray they showed, as has been observed by the Tribunal itself, that the management was maintaining one common account and the final authority on the spot in respect of the quarry as also in respect of other departments of the factory was Mr. Dongray, the Manager.	Reasoning
There were also other documents to show that the transfer of members of the staff from the quarry to the factory and vice versa was made by Mr. Dongray according to the exigencies of service.	None
It is worthy of note here that the Union itself gave notice to the Manager of the factory with regard to the intended strike in the limestone quarry.	None
The geographical proximity of the limestone quarry was never in dispute.	Reasoning
It was adjacent to the factory, being situate within a radius of about a mile.	Reasoning
As to general unity of purpose and functional integrality, this was also not seriously in dispute.	Reasoning
Mr. Dongray said that limestone was the principal raw material for the manufacture of cement and the cement factory at Jhinkpani depended exclusively on the supply of limestone from the quarry at Rajanka.	Reasoning
His evidence no doubt disclosed that some excess limestone was sent to the factory at Khelari as well.	None
On this point Mr. Dongray said Limestone from this quarry is at times sent to the Khelari Cement Works, but that is very rare and in small quantity.	None
It is done only in cases of emergency.	None
Mr. Dongray explained that the normal number of departmental workers in the quarry before the strike was in the neighbourhood of 250 but there were about 1,000 workers employed by contractors.	None
The number of dailyrated workers was in the neighbourhood of 950 and the total monthlypaid staff varied from 100 to 105.	None
The wages paid to the workers in the quarry were debited to limestone account of the Cement Works, and in the matter of costing, the amount spent on limestone was also debited.	None
The bank accounts, however, were in the name of the Company and the persons who were entitled to operate on those accounts were Mr. Dongray, the Manager, the Chief Engineer and the Chief Chemist of the Cement Works.	None
8.	None
All the aforesaid evidence, oral and documentary, was apparently accepted by the Tribunal as correct for the learned Chairman summarised the evidence of Mr. Dongray without any serious adverse comment.	None
He then referred to certain contentions urged on behalf of the Union, which he said were not without force.	None
We may now state those contentions.	None
The first contention was that under the provisions of the Act, the appropriate authority in respect of the factory at Jhinkpani was the State Government of Bihar, whereas the appropriate authority in respect of the limestone quarry, which was a mine as defined in the Mines Act, 1952, was the Central Government.	None
The second contention was that there were two sets of Standing Orders one for the workmen of the factory and the other for the workmen in the limestone quarry.	None
The third contention was that the limestone quarry had an office of its own and a separate attendance register, and the fourth contention was that under the provisions of the Mines Act.	None
1952	None
Mr. Dongray was an Agent in respect of the limestone quarry and there was a separate Manager who was responsible for the control, management and direction of the mine under the provisions of S. 17 thereof.	None
The learned Chairman referred to certain criticisms made in respect of the evidence of Mr. Dongray.	None
One criticism was that though the Company was the owner of both the factory and the limestone quarry, it had also factories and limestone quarries at other places in India and Pakistan and if the test of one ownership were the determining test, then all the factories and limestone quarries of the Company wherever situate would be one establishment.	None
This criticism was not, however, pertinent, because the Company never claimed that all its factories in different parts of India and Pakistan formed one establishment by reason of unity of ownership only.	None
The other criticism was that Mr. Dongray admitted that, if necessary in the interest of service, the workmen at the Chaibasa Cement Works could be transferred to some other factory of the Company and therefore transferability was not a sure test.	None
This criticism was also not germane, because the Company never claimed that transferability was the only sure test.	None
A third criticism also advanced on behalf of the workmen was that Mr. Dongray admitted that all the accounts of the different factories and limestone quarries of the Company were ultimately consolidated into one Profit and Loss Account, a criticism which in our view was equally not pertinent to the question at issue.	None
The learned Chairman then expressed his final finding in the following words From these and other admissions made by Mr. Dongray it would appear that it is only for economy and convenience that he was given charge of the control of both the concerns but his capacity was dual.	None
While he was controlling the Cement Works as its Works Manager he had the control of the quarries as its Agent under the Mines Act.	None
It has also to be noted that if both these establishments which are inherently different by their very nature are treated as one and the same, anomalous position may arise in dealing with the employees in the quarries in matters of misconduct and such other things if there is a pendency of a dispute in the Cement Works and vice versa.	None
Obviously, the employees of the Cement Works have to be dealt with by the State Tribunal while the employees of the quarries by the Central Tribunal.	None
This also nullifies the force of the managements contention that both are parts of the same establishment.	None
Considering these it has to be held that the contention of the management fails and that of the Union must prevail.	None
9.	None
We now revert to the contention urged on behalf of the respondent that this appeal should be disposed of on the footing that the final conclusion of the Industrial Tribunal is a finding of fact.	None
The Judgment of the Tribunal itself shows that the final conclusion was arrived at by a process of reasoning which involved a consideration of several provisions of the Act and some provisions of the Mines Act, 1952.	None
The Tribunal accepted a major portion, if not all, of the evidence of Mr. Dongray but it felt compelled to hold against the appellant despite that evidence by reason of an anomalous position which, it though, would arise if the factory and the quarry were held to be one establishment.	Reasoning
The question before the Tribunal, and this is also the question before us, was the true scope and effect of cl.	None
(iii) of S. 25E of the Act, with particular reference to the expression in another part of the establishment occurring therein.	None
That question was not a pure question of fact, as it involved a consideration of the tests which should be applied in determining whether a particular unit is part of a bigger establishment.	None
Indeed, it is true that for the application of the tests certain preliminary facts must be found but the final conclusion to be drawn therefrom is not a mere question of fact.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent is not, therefore, justified in asking us to adopt the short cut of disposing of the appeal on the footing that a finding of fact should not be disturbed in an appeal by special leave.	None
In this case we cannot relieve ourselves of the task of determining the true scope and effect of cl.	Reasoning
(iii) of S. 25E by adopting the short cut suggested by learned counsel.	None
10.	None
We proceed now to consider what should be the proper tests in determining what is meant by one establishment.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent has suggested that the test has been laid down by the Legislature itself in the Explanation to S. 25A of the Act.	None
That Explanation states In this section and in sections 25C, 25D and 25E, industrial establishment means  (i) a factory as defined in clause (m) of section 2 of the Factories Act, 1948, or (ii) a mine as defined in clause (j) of section 2 of the Mines Act, 1952 or (iii) a plantation as defined in clause (f) of section 2 of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument is that the Explanation states in clear terms what an industrial establishment means in certain sections of the Act including S. 25E, and on a proper construction it negatives the idea of a factory and a mine forming parts of one establishment.	None
Curiously enough S. 25E does not contain the expression industrial establishment.	None
It uses the word establishment only.	None
We agree, however, that if S. 25E is read with S. 25C and the definition of layoff in S. 2(kkk) of the Act, as it must be read, the word establishment in S. 25E has reference to an industrial establishment.	Reasoning
On the footing that the word establishment in S. 25E means an industrial establishment, what then is the effect of the Explanation?	None
The contention of the respondent is that an industrial establishment may be either a factory as defined in clause (m) of S. 2 of the Factories Act, 1948 or a mine as defined in cl.	None
(j) of S. 2 of the Mines Act, 1952 or a plantation as defined in cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(f) of S. 2 of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951 but it cannot be a combination of any two of the aforesaid categories therefore, a factory and a mine together, as in the present case, cannot form one establishment.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument proceeds on the assumption that the Explanation while stating what undertakings or enterprises come within the expression industrial establishment necessarily lays down the test of one establishment also.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think that there is any warrant for the assumption.	None
The Explanation only gives the meaning of the expression industrial establishment for certain sections of the Act it does not purport to lay down any test as to what constitutes one establishment.	Reasoning
Let us take, for example, a factory which has different departments in which manufacturing process are carried on with the aid of power.	Reasoning
Each department, if it employs ten or more workmen, is a factory within the meaning of cl.	Reasoning
(m) of S. 2 of the Factories Act 1948 so is the entire factory where 1000 workmen may be employed.	Reasoning
The Explanation merely states that an undertaking of the nature of a factory as defined in cl.	Reasoning
(m) of S. 2 of the Factories Act 1948 is an industrial establishment.	Reasoning
It has no bearing on the question if in the example taken the factory as a whole or each department thereof should be treated as one establishment.	Reasoning
That question must be determined on other considerations, because the Explanation does not deal with the question of one establishment.	Reasoning
In our view, the true scope and effect of the Explanation is that it explains what category, factory, mine or plantation, come within the meaning of the expression industrial establishment it does not deal with the question as to what constitutes one establishment and lays down no tests for determining that question.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, accept the argument of learned counsel for the respondent that a factory and a mine, a mine which supplies the raw material to the factory, can never be one establishment under the Act that we do not think is the effect of the Explanation to S. 25A. 11.	Reasoning
The Act not having prescribed any specific tests for determining what is one establishment, we must fall back on such considerations as in the ordinary industrial or business sense determine the unity of an industrial establishment, having regard no doubt to the scheme and object of the Act and other relevant provisions of the Mines Act, 1952, or the Factories Act, 1948.What then is one establishment in the ordinary industrial or business sense?	None
The question of unity or oneness presents difficulties when the industrial establishment consists of parts, units, departments, branches etc.	None
If it is strictly unitary in the sense of having one location and one unit only, there is little difficulty in saying that it is one establishment.	None
Where, however, the industrial undertaking has parts, branches, departments, units etc. with different locations, near or distant, the question arises what tests should be applied for determining what constitutes one establishment.	None
Several tests were referred to in the course of arguments before us, such as, geographical proximity, unity of ownership management and control, unity of employment and conditions of service, functional integrality, general unity of purpose etc.	None
To most of these we have referred while summarising the evidence of Mr. Dongray and the findings of the Tribunal thereon.	None
It is perhaps impossible to lay down any one tests as an absolute and invariable tests for all cases.	None
The real purpose of these tests is to find out the true relation between the parts, branches, units, etc.	Reasoning
If in their true relation they constitute one integrated whole, we say that the contrary they do not constitute one integrated whole, each unit is then a separate unit.	Reasoning
How the relation between the units will be judged must depend on the facts proved, having regard to the scheme and object of the statute which gives the right of unemployment compensation and also prescribes a disqualification therefor.	Reasoning
Thus, in one case the unity of ownership, management and control may be important test in another case functional integrality or general unity may be the important test and in still another case, the important test may be the unity of employment.	Reasoning
Indeed, in a large number of cases several tests may fall for consideration at the same time.	Reasoning
The difficulty of applying these tests arises because of the complexities of modern industrial organisation many enterprises may have functional integrality between factories which are separately owned some may be integrated in part with units or factories having the same ownership and in part with factories or plants which are independently owned.	None
In the midst of all these complexities it may be difficult to discover the real thread of unity.	None
In an American decision (Donald L. Nordling v. Ford Motor Company, (1950) 28 ALR 2d.	None
272) there is an example of an industrial product consisting of 3800 or 4000 parts, about 900 of which came out of one plant some came from other plants owned by the same Company and still others came from plants independently owned, and a shutdown caused by a strike or other labour dispute at any one of the plants might conceivably cause a closure of the main plant of factory.	None
12.	None
Fortunately for us, such complexities do not present themselves in the case under our consideration.	Reasoning
We do not say that it is usual in industrial practice to have one establishment consisting of a factory and a mine but we have to remember the special facts of this case where the adjacent limestone quarry supplies the raw material, almost exclusively, to the factory the quarry is indeed a feeder of the factory and without limestone from the quarry, the factory cannot function.	Reasoning
Ours is a case where all the tests are fulfilled, as shown from the evidence given on behalf of the appellant to which we have earlier referred.	Reasoning
There are unity of ownership, unity of management, supervision and control, unity of finance and employment, unity of labour and conditions of service of workmen, functional integrality, general unity of purpose and geographical proximity.	Reasoning
We shall presently deal with the legal difficulties at which the Tribunal has hinted and which have been elaborated by learned counsel for the respondent.	Reasoning
But apart from them, the only fair conclusion from the facts proved in the case is that the Chaibasa Cement Works consisting of the factory and the limestone quarry form one establishment.	Reasoning
The existence of two sets of Standing Orders and a separate attendance register for the limestone quarry have already been adverted to.	Reasoning
They have been sufficiently explained by Mr. Dongray, particularly the existence of two sets of Standing Orders by reason of the statutory requirement of approval by different authorities  one set by the Labour Commissioner, Bihar, and the other by the relevant Central authority.	Reasoning
13.	None
We proceed now to consider the legal difficulties which according to learned counsel for the respondent stand in the way of treating the limestone quarry and the factory as one establishment.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has merely hinted at these difficulties by saying that an anomalous position will arise if the quarry and the factory are treated as one establishment.	None
It is necessary to refer briefly to the scheme and object of layoff compensation and the disqualification therefor as envisaged by the relevant provisions in Chapter VA of the Act.	None
That chapter was inserted by the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 1953 (43 of 1953), which came into effect from October 24, 1953.The right of workmen of layoff compensation is obviously designed to relieve the hardship caused by unemployment due to no fault of the employee involuntary unemployment also causes dislocation of trade and may result in general economic insecurity.	None
Therefore, the right is based on grounds of humane public policy and the statue which gives such right should be liberally construed, and when there are disqualifying provisions, the latter should be construed strictly with reference to the words used therein.	None
Now S. 25C gives the right, and there are three disqualifying clauses in S. 25E.	None
They show that the basis of the right to unemployment compensation is that the unemployment is involuntary in other words, due to no fault of the employees themselves that is why no unemployment compensation is payable when suitable alternative employment is offered and the workmen refuses to accept it as in cl.	None
(i) of S. 25E or the workman does not present himself for work at the establishment as in cl.	None
(ii) or when the layingoff is due to a strike or slowing down of production on the part of workmen in another part of the establishment as in cl.	None
(iii).	None
Obviously, the last clause treats the workmen in one establishment as one class and a strike or slowdown by some resulting in the layingoff of other workmen disqualifies the workmen laidoff from claiming unemployment compensation, the reason being that the unemployment is not really involuntary.	None
14.	None
It is against this background of the scheme and object of the relevant provisions of the Act that we must now consider the legal difficulties alleged by the respondent.	None
The first difficulty is said to arise out of S. 17 of the Mines Act, 1952.	Reasoning
That section says in effect that every mine shall be under a Manager having prescribed qualifications who shall be responsible for the control, management and direction of the mine it is then pointed out that the word agent in relation to a mine means a person who acts as the representative of the owner in respect of the management of the mine and who is superior to a Manager.	None
The argument is that the limestone quarry at Rajanka had a Manager under the Mines Act, 1952 and Mr. Dongray acted as the agent, that is representative of the owner, viz.	Arguments of Respondent
the Company and this arrangement which was in consonance with the provisions of the Mines Act, 1952, it is argued, made the factory and the quarry two separate establishments.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	None
We do not think that S.17 of the Mines Act, 1952 has any relevance to the question whether the limestone quarry was part of a bigger establishment.	Reasoning
It prescribes the appointment of a Manager for purposes of the Mines Act, 1952 and does not deal with the question of one establishment within the meaning of cl.	Reasoning
(iii) of S. 25E of the Act.	Reasoning
The fact that the quarry Manager worked under the overall control and supervision of Mr. Dongray showed, on the facts proved in this case, just the contrary of what learned counsel for the respondent has contended it showed that the factory and the quarry were treated as one establishment.	Reasoning
15.	None
The second difficulty is said to arise out of certain provisions of the Act which relate to the constitution of Boards of Conciliation, Courts of Inquiry, Labour Courts and Tribunals and the reference of industrial disputes to these bodies for settlement, in inquiry or adjudication.	None
The scheme of the Act is that except in the case of National Tribunals which are appointed by the Central Government, the appropriate Government makes the appointment of Boards of Conciliation, Courts of Inquiry, Labour Courts and Tribunals and it is the appropriate Government which makes the reference under S. 10 of the Act.	None
Now, the expression appropriate Government is defined in S. 2(a) of the Act.	None
So far as it is relevant for our purpose, it means the Central Government in relation to the limestone quarry at Rajanka and the State Government of Bihar in relation to the factory at Jhinkpani.	None
We had stated earlier in this judgment that in this very case the original dispute between the management and the workmen in the limestone quarry was referred to the Central Tribunal at Dhanbad, while the latter dispute about layoff compensation to workmen of the factory was referred by the Government of Bihar to the Industrial Tribunal at Patna.	None
The argument before us is that when the statute itself brings the two units, factory and mine, under different authorities, they cannot be treated as one establishment for the purpose of the same statute.	None
Our attention has also been drawn to S. 18(3) of the Act under which in certain circumstances, a settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings under the Act or an award of a Labour Court or Tribunal is made binding on all persons who were employed in the establishment or part of the establishment, as the case may be, to which the dispute relates on the date of the dispute and all persons who subsequently become employed in that establishment or part.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that it will be difficult to apply S. 18(3) if the factory and the limestone quarry are treated as one establishment.	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly learned counsel for the respondent has referred us to S. 33 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsection (1) of that section, in substance, lays down that during the pendency of any conciliation proceedings or of any proceeding before a Labour Court or Tribunal in respect of any industrial dispute, no employer shall alter the conditions of service to the prejudice of workmen or punish any workmen, save with the permission in writing of the authority before which the proceeding is pending.	None
Subsections (2) and (3) we need not reproduce, because for the purpose of this appeal, the argument is the same, which is that if a proceeding is pending before a Central Tribunal, say in respect of the limestone quarry, there will be difficulty in applying the provisions of S. 33 in respect of workmen in the factory over which the Central Tribunal will have no jurisdiction.	Reasoning
The Industrial Tribunal did not specifically refer to these provisions, but perhaps, had them in mind when it said that an anomalous position would arise if the factory and the quarry were treated as one establishment.	Reasoning
16.	None
We have given our most earnest consideration to these arguments, but are unable to hold that they should prevail.	Reasoning
It is indeed true that in the matter of constitution of Boards of Conciliation Courts of Inquiry, Labour Courts and Tribunals and also in the matter of reference of industrial dispute to them, and perhaps for certain other limited purposes, the Act gives jurisdiction to two distinct authorities, the Central Government in respect of the limestone quarry and the State Government in respect of the factory.	Reasoning
The short question is  does this duality of jurisdiction, dichotomy one may call it, necessarily imply that for all purpose of the Act, and particularly for payment of unemployment compensation as per the provisions in Ch. VA, the factory and the quarry must be treated as separate establishments.	Reasoning
We are unable to find any such necessary implication.	Reasoning
There is no provision in the Act which says that the existence of two jurisdictions has the consequence contended for by learned counsel for the respondent nor do we find anything in the provisions creating two jurisdictions which by reason of the principle underlying them or by their very nature give rise to an implication in law that the existence of two jurisdiction means the existence of two separate establishments.	Reasoning
On the contrary, such an implication or inference will be at variance with the scheme and object of unemployment compensation as provided for by the provisions in Ch. VA of the Act.	Reasoning
We have pointed out earlier that the object of unemployment compensation is to relieve hardship caused by involuntary unemployment, that is, unemployment not due to any fault of the employees.	Reasoning
If in the ordinary business sense the industrial establishment in one, a layoff of some of the workmen in that establishment as a result of a strike by some other workmen in the same establishment cannot be characterised as involuntary unemployment.	Reasoning
To hold that such an establishment must be divided into two separate parts by reason of the existence of two jurisdictions is to import an artificiality for which we think there is no justification in the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
17.	None
Nor do we think that Ss. 18(3) and 33 present any real difficulty.	Reasoning
Section 18(3) clearly contemplates a settlement or an award which is binding on a part of the establishment.	Reasoning
It says so in express terms.	Reasoning
If, therefore, in the case before us there is a settlement or award in respect of the limestone quarry it will be binding in the circumstances mentioned in the subsection, on the workmen in that part of the establishment which is the limestone quarry.	Reasoning
Similarly, settlement or award in respect of the factory will be binding on the workmen of the factory.	Reasoning
Section 33 so far as it is relevant for the argument now under consideration, is in two parts.	Reasoning
Subsection (1) relates to a matter connected with the dispute in respect of which a proceeding is pending.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) relates to a matter not connected with the dispute in respect of which the proceeding is pending.	Reasoning
In one case permission of the authority before which the proceedings is pending has to be obtained for punishing etc in the other case, an application for approval of the action taken by the employer has to be made.	Reasoning
We see no difficulty in applying S. 33 in a case like the one before us.	Reasoning
For workmen in the mine, the authority will be the one appointed by the Central Government for the factory, the authority will be that appointed by the State Government.	Reasoning
This is the same arguments as the argument of two jurisdictions in another form.	Reasoning
The assumption is that there cannot be two jurisdictions for two parts of one establishment.	Reasoning
This argument is valid, if the assumption is correct.	Reasoning
If, however, there is no warrant for the assumption, as we have held there is none, then the argument has no legs to stand upon.	Reasoning
18.	None
So far we have dealt with the case irrespective of and apart from reported decisions, because there is no decision which really covers the point in controversy before us.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the appellant has referred to the decisions in Hoyle v. Oram (1862) 12 CB (NS) 124 142 ER 1090 and Coles v. Dicknson, (1864) 16 CB (NS) 604 143 ER 1264.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question in the first case was if the appellants there were liable to be convicted of an offence against the Bleaching Works Act, 23 and 24 Vict.	None
c. 78 in employing a child without a schoolmasters certificate.	None
It was held that a child employed on the premises where the bleaching, dyeing and finishing were performed was employed in an incidental printing process within the second section of 8 and 9 Vict.	None
c. 29 and that the place where he was so employed formed part of the establishment where the chief process of printing was carried on within the meaning of that Act.	None
The decision proceeded mainly on the words of the statute but Earle C. J. said It appears that the works at Mayfield having some year ago become inadequate, by reason of the increase of the business and by the deterioration and deficiency of the water of the river Medlock, the appellants transferred part of their works to Sandy Vale but that the principal part of the work continued to be carried on at Mayfield, which was the principal seat of the firm.	None
In a commercial sense, therefore, Sandy Vale clearly was part of one entire establishment.	None
It was contended for the respondent that the statute did not mean forming part in a commercial sense, but in a popular and local sense.	None
But I see no reason for confining the meaning to local proximity.	None
The whole substantially forms one establishment.	None
In the second case the question was this by the 73rd section of 7 and 8 Vict.	None
c. 15 premises which are used solely for the manufacture of paper were excluded from the operation of the Factory Acts there were two mills, one at Manchester and the other in Hertfodshire.	None
The Manchester mill prepared what was called halfstuff which was sent to the mill in Hertfordshire to be manufactured into paper, and the question was if the Manchester mill was exempted from the operation of the Factory Acts.	None
The answer given was in the affirmative.	None
It was stated that each step in the process was a step in the manufacture of paper, and the distance between the two places where the several parts were carried on was wholly immaterial in view of the words of the statute.	None
19.	None
The last decision to which out attention has been drawn is the American decision in (1950) 28 ALR, 2d.	None
272.	None
This decision is perhaps more in point as it related to unemployment compensation.	None
The statute in that case provided that an individual losing his employment because of a strike or other labour dispute should be disqualified during its process at the establishment in which he is or was employed.	None
The claimants there had been employed at a Minnesota automobile assembly plant which was partially shut down because of a lack of parts due to a strike at a manufacturing plant owned and operated by the same corporation in Michigan.	None
The Minnesota Supreme Court to which an application was made for a certiorari to review a decision of the director of the division of employment and security reviewed the tests which have generally been applied for determining what is meant by the term establishment within the meaning of the statute concerned, it pointed out that there was no uniformity of decision on the question and it was not possible to lay down an absolute or invariable test.	None
The decision was based on the broader ground that the tests of functional integrality, general unity and physical proximity should all be taken into consideration in determining the ultimate question of whether a factory, plant or unit of a larger industry is a separate establishment within the meaning of the employment and security law.	None
The test which was emphasized in that case was the test of the unity of employment and on that footing it was found that the evidence was ample to support the directors finding that the Minnesota plant was a separate establishment.	None
20.	None
We do not think that these decisions carry the matter any further than what we have explained in earlier paragraphs of this judgment.	Reasoning
We must have regard to the provisions of the statute under which the question falls to be considered if the statute itself says what is one establishment, then there is no difficulty.	Reasoning
If the statute does not, however, say what constitutes one establishment, then the usual tests have to be applied to determine the true relation between the parts, branches etc., namely, whether they constitute one integrated whole or not.	Reasoning
No particular test can be adopted as an absolute test in all cases of this type and the word establishment is not to be given the sweeping definition of one organisation of which it is capable, but rather is to be construed in the ordinary, business or commercial sense.	Reasoning
21.	None
For the reasons which we have already given, we are of the view that the learned Chairman of the Industrial Tribunal wrongly held that the limestone quarry at Rajanka and the factory at Jhinkpani were separate establishments.	Reasoning
In our view, they constituted one establishment within the meaning of cl.	Reasoning
(iii) of S. 25E of the Act.	Reasoning
It was conceded on behalf of the respondent workmen that the layoff in the factory was due to the nonsupply of limestone by reason of the strike in the limestone quarry and the strike was decided on by the same Union which consisted of the workmen at the factory and the quarry.	None
That being the position, the disqualification in cl.	None
(iii) aforesaid clearly applied and the workmen at the factory were not entitled to claim layoff compensation.	Reasoning
22.	None
The result, therefore, is that the appeal succeeds and is allowed and the award of the Industrial Tribunal is set aside.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case in which a difficult question of interpretation arose for decision for the first time, we pass not order as to costs.	Decision
23.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
