 UNTWALIA, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave.	Issue
Bibi Saddiqa Fatima, the appellant, was the plaintiff in Suit No. 86 of 1952 filed in the Court of the Civil Judge it Aligarh in which the defendant was Saiyed Mohammad Hasan.	Issue
He was the sole respondent in this appeal also.	Issue
He died during the pendency of the appeal and on his death his legal heirs and representatives were substituted as respondents.	Issue
For the sake of convenience hereinafter in this judgment by the respondent would be meant the original respondent.2.	Issue
One Smt.	Facts
Sughra Begum was a Shia Muslim Lady.	Facts
She was a resident of Asgharabad in the District of Aligarh.	Facts
She was possessed of vast Zamindari and other properties.	Facts
On October 6, 1928, she created a waqf of the entire properties dividing them in three qurras.	Facts
Raja Haji Saiyad Mohammad Mahmood Hasan was appointed by the waqifa as the Mutawalli of qurra No. 1.	Facts
His brother was appointed the Mutawalli of the second qurra.	Facts
The waqifa appointed herself the Mutawalli of the third qurra.	Facts
The dispute in this case relates to a property concerning qurra	Facts
No. 1.	Facts
The Rajas first wife was Smt.	Facts
Akbari Begum.	Facts
She died in the year 1931 leaving behind four sons and six daughters.	Facts
Raja Sahib, when he was about 50 years of age, took the plaintiff as his second wife in the year 1933.3.	Facts
The plaintiff, at the time of her marriage with the Raja, was a young lady of seventeen.	None
Raja died in September, 1939.	Facts
On January 22, 1935, a permanent lease was executed on behalf of one Saiyed Anwarul Rahman in respect of the disputed land in the name of the plaintiff.	Facts
The rent fixed was Rs. 80/ per year.	Facts
Between the years 1937 and 1939 Kothi (Bungalow) was constructed on the said land, which was named as Mahmood Manzil.	Facts
The suit property in this litigation is the said Kothi together with the land appertaining to it.	Facts
In short the plaintiffs case is that the disputed property belongs to her.	Facts
The defendant was inducted as a tenant of the Kothi an and from 1st of March, 1947 on a rental of Rs. 60  per month.	Facts
He paid rent upto May, 1950 but did not pay any rent thereafter.	Facts
In the year 1952, the plaintiff served a notice on the defendant to pay the arrears of rent and deliver vacant possession of the Kothi.	Facts
The defendant, in his reply, refuted the claim of the plaintiff and asserted that the Kothi did not belong to her nor was be a tenant of the same.	Facts
Hence the appellant instituted the suit for realisation of arrears of rent, damages and recovery of possession of the suit property.	Facts
The respondent, inter alia, pleaded that Raja Sahib, the first Mutawalli of qurra	Facts
No. 1, had acquired the lease of the land and constructed the Kothi with the waqf fund as Mutawalli of the waqf.	Facts
It was a waqf property.	Facts
After the death of the Raja, the respondent became the Mutawalli of qurra No. 1 including the Kothi in question.	Facts
He occupied the Kothi as a Mutawalli and not as a tenant.	Facts
The Trial Court accepted the case of the defendant, rejected that of the plaintiff and dismissed her suit.	Facts
The Allahabad High Court has dismissed her appeal.	Facts
She has preferred this appeal in this Court on grant of special leave.4.	Facts
Shri M. N. Phadke advanced a very strenuous argument in support of this appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Lal Narayan Sinha combated his argument on behalf of the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
It would be convenient to refer to some more facts and facets of the case from the pleadings of the parties and judgments of the Courts below before enunciating and enumerating the submissions made on their behalf.5.	None
The case pleaded in the plaint by the appellant was like this, Raja Sahib out of great love for the plaintiff used to pay her a handsome amount every month as pinmoney and also a good deal of money occasionally.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiff, with the object of constructing a Kothi, took on lease the disputed land measuring about 4 bighas and had been paying the annual rent of Rs. 80/ since the execution of the lease.	Arguments of Petitioner
She pleads in para 4After the execution of the said lease, the plaintiff with her personal fund built a kothi and the out houses on the land mentioned in paragraph No. 3 above and named it as Mahmood Manzil after the name of her husband.	Arguments of Petitioner
The construction of this Kothi bad been completed by May 1938, after which the plaintiff herself used lo stay in that Kothi whenever she came from Asgharabad to Aligarh.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiff bad only one daughter born to her out of the wedlock with the Raja.	None
She is Smt.	None
Abrar Fatima.	None
She was married on the 25th May, 1950 to one Saiyed Mohammed Raza Ali Khan.	None
The defendant was quite obedient and faithful to the plaintiff until the marriage of her daughter.	None
But after the said marriage, he gradually turned hostile and thereupon the plaintiff mostly lived with her daughter.	None
According to the respondents case in his written statement t he lease was taken by Raja Sahib and the sum of Rs. 786/spent on Nazrana etc. for taking the lease was paid by him from the income of the waqf property and he constructed the Kothi from the wakf fund of Asgharabad estate.	None
He had neither any money of his own to invest in acquisition of the property nor was the property acquired by the plaintiff with her personal fund.7.	None
The appellant was examined on commission as a witness to support her case at the trial.	None
In her examinationinchief, she stated that her husband used to give her Rs. 500/ per month as pinmoney besides, meeting her expenses regarding food and clothing.	None
Over and above this, he used to send money on the occasions of Id and Bakrid and also gave her money whenever she demanded.	None
She constructed the Kothi at Aligarh by investing about Rs. 20, 000/.	None
In other words she meant to convey in her examinationinchief that she had acquired the land and constructed the Kothi out of the savings she had fro m the various amounts of money given by the Raja monthly or from time to time.	None
At a later stage of her deposition (probably in crossexamination) she demolished her case and claimed to be in possession of Rs. 50, 000/	None
at the time of the death of her husband, which sum was her total savings out of the money paid to her monthly or from time to time by the Raja.	None
Thus in her evidence she could not explain as to out of which personal fund she claimed to have acquired the disputed property.	None
The Civil Judge framed for trial several issues out of which issues 1 and 5 were, in the following terms1.	None
Whether the plaintiff is the owner of the property in suit as alleged and is she entitled to the possession claimed ?	None
5.	None
Whether the defendant possesses the disputed property as the Mutawalli as alleged by him8.	None
The defendants case was that the Patta was obtained by the old Raja tinder the influence of her young wife benami in her name though it was acquired with the waqf fund.	None
The Raja, as Mutawalli, was the real lessee of the land.	None
He had constructed the Kothi out of the income of the waqf property.	None
A Mutawalli is not an owner of the waqf property, but whatever property of the waqf was there from before or acquired subsequently must, ordinarily, be in the name of the Mutawalli.	None
A property could be acquired in the name of any beneficiary, like the plaintiff, but she would be merely a benamidar of the Mutawalli and the property will be a waqf property.	None
The Civil Judge has noted in his JUDGMENT that the plaintiff did not put forth a plea that the Kothi was built by late Raja out of his personal money and that she was owner, on the basis of the equitable deoctrine of advancement.	None
He has said furtherThus the only point on which the parties were at issue was with respect to the source of the money out of which the patta was obtained and the building constructed and the plaintiff could succeed only if she proved that she had obtained the patta and built the kothi out of the money given to her by her late husband as pocket expenses, etc.	None
The Civil Judge also	None
remarkedHad she stated that she built the kothi out of the money which she had saved, that would have been consistent with her allegations in the plaint.	None
But she admitted that the whole of her savings were still with her and that out of them she had spent a little when she filed the present suit.9.	None
The Trial Court, thereafter, considered the voluminous documentary evidence in the light of the oral evidence adduced and came to the conclusion that the plaintiff did not provide any money either for the lease of the land or for the construction of t he Kothi thereon and that the money for both the purposes was provided out of the waqf estate.	None
Hence it was held, while deciding issues 1 and 5, that the plaintiff was not the owner of the Kothi in suit and the defendant was in possession of it in his capacity as the successor Mutawalli.10.	None
It would be advantageous to note at this stage the stand taken by the appellant in the High Court in her Memo of Appeal as also in argument.	None
On perusal of the grounds set out in the Memorandum o f Appeal, especially ground Nos. 6, 8, 9, 11, 13 and 27, it would appear that the case made out therein was that the Raja had his personal money kept in the waqf estate treasury alongwith the waqf money.	None
The amount spent in constructing the Kothi was mostly taken out of the treasury from his personal fund with the intention of making his wife the owner of the property even though the doctrine of advancement did not apply in India, and that the observation of the learned Civil Judge that the plaintiff failed to prove that she did not provide any money out of her personal fund was wholly irrelevant for the decision of issue No. 1.	None
In argument, however, a stand like the one taken in the Trial Court was reiterated but consistently and concurrently rejected because the evidence in favour of the defendants case was so overwhelming to show that the lease had been taken and the Kothi had been constructed with the money coming out of the waqf fund that no other view was reasonably probable to be taken.	None
At one place in its judgment the High Court saysCounsel for the appellant has strongly relied on these documents in proof of the fact that the Kothi was constructed with her money and belonged to her.11.	None
In the teeth of t he overwhelming evidence the appellant was obliged to take an entirely new stand in her petition for special leave and in the argument before us.	None
In paragraph 23 of the petition it was statedThat the case of the applicant had been t hat	None
the lease was obtained with the applicants funds and that she had constructed the Kothi with her own money and it was also her alternative case put forward before the Honble High Court that even if it be assumed that the money utilised for constructing the Kothi did not pass directly from the plaintiffs hand and even if it be the finding of the Court that the money so utilised bad proceeded from Raja Mahmudul Hasan then on the admitted case of the defendant that this fund was waqf fund, the plaintiffs claim ought to have been decreed inasmuch as on the ground that the usufruct or the profit of the waqf property though arising out of the waqf property did not belong to waqf as waqf property	None
but it was by its very nature the property of the beneficiary and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary Raja Mahmoodul Hasan.	None
I held that those funds for the beneficiaries and the amount spent by him in the construction of the Kothi should be the money belonging to the applicant.13.	None
Mr. Phadke made the following submissions(1)	None
The Raja intended to acquire the land on lease and construct the Kothi for the plaintiff by investing from time to time money taken out of the waqf estate treasury, which had the effect of disbursement and payment of the money by the Mutawalli to his wife, the beneficiary, for the purpose of the, acquisition of the Kohi.	Arguments of Petitioner
The source of Money in that event is immaterial.(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
The intention of the Raja to provide a separate Kothi to the plaintiff evidenced by numerous documents taken and standing in her name must be respected.(3)	None
The Raja went on giving money in driblets for construction of the Kothi by taking out the money from the waqf fund from time to time.	None
It was open to him to do so in accordance with clause 18 of the waqf deed Ext. A2.	Arguments of Petitioner
( 4) The intention of the Raja is further fortified by the recital in his Will Ext. 15.(5) That there is a number of circumstances in support of the contentions aforesaid.(6)	Arguments of Petitioner
The rules of pleading should not be too strictly applied in India and no party should be defeated on that account when both sides adduced evidence and proceeded to trial of the real issues in the case with their full knowledge and understanding.(7) That there is no substantial variance in the case made out in the pleadings and the evidence and in argument either in the Courts below or in this Court.(8)	Arguments of Petitioner
The burden of proof to displace the ostensible title of the appellant and to show that she was a benamidar was on the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
In absence of any clinching evidence on either side, the ostensible title prevails.(9)	Arguments of Petitioner
Although the doctrine of advancement does not apply in India, the Mutawalli being the owner of the waqf property had full and unlimited power of disposal over its usufruct and income.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Lal Narayan Sinha, while refuting the submissions made on behalf of the appellant, contended that it is a settled law that the question whether a particular transaction is, benami or not is purely one of fact and this Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution does not, ordinarily and generally, review the comment findings of the Courts below in that regard.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that the Courts below had correctly applied the Muslim law applicable to Shias in respect of the waqf property and its income.	Arguments of Respondent
They have rightly come to the conclusion that the suit property appertained to the waqf.	Arguments of Respondent
It was clear, according to the submission of Mr. Sinha, that the parties went to trial to prove their respective cases as to whether the property had been acquired with the personal funds of the Plaintiff or those of the waqf.	Arguments of Respondent
The plaintiffs case failed in view of the overwhelming evidence against her and she should not be permitted to make out an entirely new case in this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
He also contended, firstly, that the theory of onusprobandi is not strictly applicable when both parties have adduced evidence in such a situation it becomes the duty of the Court to arrive at the true facts on the basis of reasonable probabilities.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, in the instant case the strict tests to prove the benami character of the transaction cannot be applied, as, to do so will be in the teeth of the, wellsettled principles of Mohammedan law in relation to waqfs.	Arguments of Respondent
We proceed to examine the correctness of the rival contentions of the parties but not exactly in theOrder it has been stated above.15.	Arguments of Respondent
It is undisputed in this case that a valid waqf was created by Smt.	None
Sughra Begum.	None
It is further indisputably clear from the waqf deed that except a portion of money which was to be spent for public, religious or charitable objects the waqf was primarily of a private nature for the benefit of the.	None
settlers family and their descendants, which is called wakfalalaulad.	None
The ultimate object of the waqf was to spend income, if any, in the service of the Al mighty God.	None
In Abdul Fata Mahomed v. Rasamaya (22 Indian Appeals, 76.)	None
their Lordships of the Privy Council held that the gift to charity was illusory, and that the sole object of the settler was to create a family settlement in perpetuity.	None
The waqf of this kind was, therefore, invalid.	None
Ibis decision aforesaid caused considerable dissatisfaction in the Mohammedan community in India.	None
This led to the passing of the Mussalman Wakf Validating Act, 1913 which was made retrospective in operation by a subsequent Act of 1930.	None
In view of the Validating Act of 1913 the validity of the wakf was beyond the pale of challenge.16.	None
Although in respect of the law applicable to waqfs there is some difference in regard to some matters between the Shia law and the various other schools of Mohamedan law applicable to Sunnis, in very many fields the law is identical.	None
After the Validating Act of 1913, on the basis of the law as it prevailed even before, creation of a waqf for the purpose of t he maintenance of the members of the waqifs family and their descendants is also a charitable purpose.	None
We now proceed to notice some salient features of the law as applicable to waqfs and especially of the Shias.	None
Tyabjis Muslim Law, Fourth edition, Chapter X deals with waqf.	None
According to Shia law the waqf is irrevocable after possession is given to the beneficiaries or the Multawalli.	None
The settler divests himself of the ownership of the property and of everything in the nature of usfufruct from the moment the wakf is created.	None
In purely metaphorical sense the expression ownership of God is used but unlike Hindu Law, since conception of a personal God is not recognized, there is no ownership of God or no property belongs to God in the jural sense, although the ownership of the property becomes reverted in God as he is originally the owner of all things (vide page 523).	None
The Shia authorities considered the property as transferred to the beneficiaries or to the object of the, waqf.	None
Strictly speaking, the ownership of the waqf property has no jural conception with any exactitude.	None
The corpus is tied down and is made inalienable.	None
Only the usufruct and the income from the corpus of the waqf property is available for carrying out the objects of the wakf.	None
The SharaiulIslam saysWaqf is a contract the fruit or effect of which is (a) to tie up the original and (b) to leave its usufruct free the waqf or subject of appropriation (corpus) is transferred, so to become the property of the mowkoof alehi, or person on whom the settlement is made for he has a right to the advantage or benefits (usufruct) to be derived from it.	None
(vide page 494,In the foot note at the same page occurs a passage which runs thusBut it should not be overlooked that question about ownership of property after dedication, refers merely to scientulla juris, supposed to remain undisposed of although entire usufruct, (all benefits , C.) are assigned away.	None
Question in whom property rests, therefore, entirely academical.17.	None
Mutawalli is like a Manager rather than a trustee (see page 498).	None
The Mutawalli, so far as the waqf property is concerned, has to see that the beneficiaries got the advantage of usufruct.	None
We have already pointed out that under the Shia law the property does not re main with the waqif.	None
It is transferred to God or to the beneficiaries.	None
At page 554 of Tyabjis famous book it is statedThe support and maintenance of the waqfs family, c. would seem under the Act to be deemed a purpose recognized by the Muslim law as religious, pious or charitable s. 2.	None
This view was put forward by Ameer Ali, J., with great learning in his dissenting judgment in Bikani Mias case.18.	None
Section 527 at page 593 runs thusThe mutawalli has no ownership, right or estate in the waqf property in that respect he, is not a trustee in the technical sense he holds the property as a manager for fulfilling the purpose of the waqf.19.	None
A contrary statement of law at page 202 of Mullas Mohamedan Law, seventeenth edition based on the decision of the Allahabad High Court in Mohammad Qamar Shah Khan v. Mohammad Salamat Ali Khan(A.I.R. 1933 Allahabad 407.) to the effect that the mutawalli is not a mere superintendent or manager but is practically speaking the owner is not correct statement of law.	None
In a later Full Bench decision of the same court in Moattar Raza and others v. Joint Director of Consolidation, U.P. Camp at Bareilly and others(A.I.R. 1970 Allahabad, 509.)	None
while overruling the earlier decision, it has been said at pages 51314the legal status and position of a mutawalli under a waqf under the Musalman Law is that of a Manager or Superintendent.	None
The general powers of the Mutawalli as mentioned in section 529 of Tyabjis book are that he may do all acts reasonable and p roper for the protection of the wakf property, and for the administration of the waqf.	None
It will be useful to point out the Law as regards, distribution of distributable income of the waqf properties amongst the beneficiaries as mentioned in the various subsections of section 545 at pages 606608.	None
Unless a different intention appear, subsection (4) saysThe benefit of a waqf for a persons sons and his children, and the children of his children for ever so long as there are descendants, is taken per capita, males and females taking equally and the children of daughters being included.20.	None
Attention must be called to an important statement of law in the wellknown authoritative book of Mohamedan Law by Ameer Ali Vol. 1, fourth edition, page 472.	None
It runs thusIt is lawful for a mutawalli with the income of a waqf to erect shops, houses, c., which may yield profit to the waqf, as all this is for the benefit of the waqf.	None
All properties purchased by the mutawalli out of the proceeds of the waqf become part of the waqf and are subject to the same legal incidents as the original waqf estate.21.	None
Mr. Phadke cited the decision of this Court in Ahmed G. H. Ariff Ors. v .	None
Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Calcutta(1970 2 S.C.R. 19.)	None
and contended that the right of the beneficiaries to get money out of the income of the waqf property for their maintenance and support was their property.	None
In our opinion the case does not help the appellant at an in regard to the point at issue.	None
Ahanafi Muslim had created a wakfalalaulad and on a proper construction of the relevant clauses in the waqf deed it was held that the aliquot share of the income provided for the beneficiaries was not meant merely for their maintenance and support but even if it was so, it would be an asset within the meaning of s. 2 (a) of the Wealth Tax Act, 1957.	None
The definition of the term asses, was very wide in the Wealth Tax Act.	None
The share of the income which a beneficiary was getting under the said waqf was assessable to income tax and following the particular method of evaluation it was held to be an asset for the purposes of the Wealth Tax.	None
The question at issue in the p resent case is entirely different as will be shown and discussed hereinafter.	None
But in support of what we have said above in relation to the waqf property and the position of the Mutawalli we may quote a few lines from tills judgment also which am at page 24As mentioned before, the moment a wakf is created, all rights of property pass out of the Wakif and vest in the A lmighty.	None
Therefore, the Mutawalli has no right in the property belonging to the wakf.	None
He is not a trustee in the technical sense, his position being merely that of a superintendent or a manager.22.	None
It would be convenient to briefly discuss the questions of fact and the evidence in relation thereto before we advert to the discussion of some other questions of law argued before us on either side as those principles of law will be better appreciated and applied in the. background of the facts of this case.23.	None
As has been stated already the evidence is overwhelming on the question as to what was the source of money for the acquisition of the disputed property, either the land or the kothi.	None
It came from the waqf fund.	None
This position could not be seriously challenged before us.	None
What was argued will be alluded to a bit later.	None
We may just cursorily refer to some, of the pieces of the evidence on the question aforesaid.	None
Ext. A35 is a written direction by the Raja to Mahmud Syedullah Tahvildar directing him to debit a sum of Rs. 741/ to his personal account for the acquisition of the. plot in question.	None
The details of the expenses and the Nazrana money are given therein.	None
The payment was from the funds of the waqf estate.	None
But the Raja made a feable and futile attempt to get this debit entry made as a repayment of the loan money said to have been advanced by him to the waqf estate.	None
The High Court as also the Trial Court has rightly remarked that the entry like Ext. A443 was got made by the Raja in the account books of the waqf estate as a fictitious countervailing entry in his attempt to show that some of the sums of money which he had withdrawn from the waqf estate were on account of the repayment of his alleged loans.	None
The High Court has rightly pointed out that they were all fictitious entries.	None
Mr. Phadke endeavored to show that the approximate gross income of the waqf estate was not Rs. 43, 515/ as is shown by the High Court but it was in the neighbourhood of Rs. 58, 000/.	None
We shall accept it to be so.	None
Thus the net distributable income at the disposal of the Raja was about Rs. 30, 000/ instead of Rs. 15, 5101 mentioned in the judgment of the High Court.	None
There were 13 beneficiaries in qurra no. 1 of which the Raja was the Mutawalli.	None
In that capacity he was getting a monthly allowance of Rs. 70/ only from the estate account.	None
He bad no other personal property or source of income from which he could advance any loan to the waqf estate.	None
Nor could it be shown that the waqf estate at any point of time was in need of any loan from the Raja.	None
Therefore, the attempt of the Raja to put a show of acquiring the land in the name of his young wife out of his personal money was a very crude attempt to disguise the real source of that money.	None
The concurrent findings of the Courts below that the expenses for the acquisition of the leas e were incurred from the waqf estate funds could not be successfully assailed.	None
The High Court has referred next to the question of payment of rent of the land to the lessor.	None
The plaintiff produced six rent receipts.	None
Exts.	None
13 and 14 were of the year 1952 when disputes between the parties had started.	None
As regards four other receipts the High Court was inclined to believe the explanation of the defendant that the plaintiff had surreptitiously obtained their possession.	None
On the other band, the defendant filed four rent receipts of the period when the Raja was alive.	None
Since the lease had been taken in the name of the plaintiff, naturally all the receipts were in her name.	None
The High Court has also referred to the satisfaction of a decree for rent obtained by the lessor in a suit instituted against the plaintiff as well as the defendant and has come to the conclusion that the entire decretal amount, the expenses of the auction sale and the costs were deposited in the Court out of the waqf fund.	None
Then comes the evidence regarding the construction of the Kothi.	None
All documents for obtaining permission from be Municipal Board and for electric connection etc. obviously stood in the name of the plaintiff as the lease wag, standing in her name.	None
As in the High Court, so here, Mr. Phadke strongly relied upon those documents to show that the Kothi was constructed for and on behalf of the plaintiff.	None
As already stated the stand in the High Court was, that it was constructed with her money.	None
Here it was a completely different stand.	None
It was urged that the money came from the waqf fund but as and when the money was being spent by the Raja for the construction of the Kothi it amounted, in law, as payment of the money by the Raja to his wife and the construction of the Kothi should thus be treated as having been made with her money.	None
We shall scrutinize the correctness of this branch of the argument a bit later.	None
Numerous documents are mentioned in the judgments of the Trial Court as also of the High Court to show that every bit of expenditure in the construction of the Kothi came out of the waqf fund under the direction of the Raja.	None
We need not discuss these document s in any detail as the concurrent finding of the Courts below could not be assailed in face of these documents and that led the appellant to make a somersault here and to take an ingenuous stand.	None
These documents are Ext. A449 series Ext. A450 series Ext.	None
A452 Ext. A453 Ext.	None
A455 Ext. A458 Ext.	None
A460 Ext.	None
A463 Ext. A486 Ext. A491 Ext.	None
A493 series Ext. A495 and Ext. A518.	None
Ext. A3 shows that Ramlal, a mason who had worked as a contractor in the construction of the Kothi instituted a suit for recovery of Rs. 2, 917/10/, the amount which was not paid during the life time of the Raja.	None
The suit was instituted in the year 1941.	None
It was decreed in 1942.	None
Exts.	None
A36, A43 and A44 are the receipts in proof of the fact that eventually the decree was satisfied by the defendant on payment of money to Ramlal.	None
Ext. A45 is a similar receipt dated January 2, 1942 showing payment of Rs.	None
923/ by the defendant to Zafaruddin in satisfaction of his decretal dues on account of the construction of the Kothi.	None
The plaintiffs claim of the payment of Rs. 2, 000/ to Ramlal was too slippery to be accepted by the Courts below and it need not detain us either.	None
The High Court has also relied upon two lettersExts.	None
A28 and A27 written by the Raja to the Supervisor of the building operations indicating that if the foundation of the Kothi was not laid within a certain time, loss would be caused to the Riyasat namely the waqf estate.	None
It may be emphasised here that the countervailing fictitious entries got made by the Raja were very few and far between and the entire amount spent in the acquisition of the Kothi which was in the neighbourhood of Rs. 21, 000/ (both for t he land and , the building) could not be.	None
shown to be the personal money of the Raja by this spurious method.	None
A major portion of the total amount obviously, clearly, and admittedly too, had come from the waqf fund., And that compelled the appellant to take an entirely new stand in this Court.	None
We now proceed to deal with the new stand.	None
It is necessary in that connection to refer to some of the important recitals in Ext. A2 the waqf deed.	None
In the preamble of the document it is recited that the waqf is being created with some religious purposes and for the regular support and maintenance of the descendants of the waqif for all times to come so that they may get their support from generation to generation.	None
The ultimate object is for charitable purposes in the service of the God Fisaliilah.	None
After referring to the Act of 1913 it is statedHence the entire property given below having become WaqfAlalaulad in perpetuity, has become, uninheritable and nontransferable.	None
E ach Mutawalli of his respective qurra was appointed the principal manager with full and complete powers of entire waqf property.	None
From clauses 7 and 13 of the waqf deed it was rightly Pointed out on behalf of the appellant, and not disputed by the respondent either, that Rs. 6, 000/ amiually had to be spent by Mutawalli of qurra no. 1 for the religious purposes mentioned therein.	None
This was the first obligation of the Mutawalli before he could apply the rest of the usufruct in the support and maintenance ofthe family beneficiaries.	None
Then comes the most important clause in the waqf deed namely clause 18.	Reasoning
The said clause as translated and printed in the paper book runs as followsSyed Mahmood Hasan t he Mutawalli of the, first lot is vested with the power to fix stipends for his children and their descendants and for his wives during his life time whatsoever he pleases or t o laydown conditions by means 0 a registered document or may get any writing kept reserved in the custody of the district judge, so that after him it be binding upon every Mutawalli, such in case he might not get any writing registered or kept in the custody of the district judge of the district, then under such circumstances the twenty percent (20) of the inco me of the waqf property having been set apart for the expenditure of collection and realisation and right of the, Mutwalliship and the amount of Rs. 6, 000/ (Rupees six thousand) for meeting the expenditure of Azadari as detailed at para No. 7 above the entire remaining will be distributed among the heirs of Mahmood Hasan according to their respective legal share provided under Mohammadan Law.24.	None
The High Court referring to this clause has said that the power given to the Raja in clause 18 could be exercised by him during his life time in the fixation of the stipends but it was to come in operation after his death.	None
With the help of learned counsel for both sides, .	None
we looked into the original clause 18 and found that there is some inaccuracy in the translation as made and printed in the paper book.	None
But substantially there is not much difference.	None
Correctly appreciated, the meaning of the clause is that Saiyed Mohammad Hasan, the Raja, was given a special power and right to fix stipends for his children, wives and descendants either by a registered document and or by a document in writing kept in the custody of the District Judge so that after him it may be binding on every subsequent Mutawalli.	None
If he failed to do so, then after setting apart 20 of the gross income to meet the expenditure of collection and realisation and Rs. 6, 000/the charitable expenditure mentioned in clause 7, the balance was to be distributed amongst the heirs of Saiyed Mohammad Hasan according to their respective legal shares provided under t he Mahomedan law.	None
The bone of contention between the parties before us was that according to the appellant such a power of fixation of stipends for the wives and children was given to the Raja even to be operative during his life time, while according to the respondent it was only to be effective after his death.	None
We do not think it necessary to meticulously examine the terms of clause 18 and resolve this.	None
difference.	None
We shall assume in favour of the respondent that, in terms, the power was given which was meant to be operative after his death.	None
But then, does it stand to reason that he had no such power during his life time ?	None
On a reasonable view of the matter, either by way of construction of clause 18, or as a necessary implication of it, we find no difficulty in assuming in favour of the appellant that the Raja was vested with the power to fix stipends for his children and their descendants and for his wives during his life time also.	None
A question, how ever, ariseswas this power completely unfettered, unguided and not controlled by the general principles of Mohamedan law ?	None
Apart from the fact that in clause 27 of the waqf deed it is specifically mentioned that any condition or phrase laid down in any of the paras of the waqf deed was not meant to go against the, Mohamedan law and was not to be of any effect, if it did so, it is difficult to conclude that the Raja was conferred an absolute power or discretion to fix any stipend for any beneficiary and no stipend for some beneficiary.	None
Equality amongst all is a golden thread which runs throughout the Mohamedan law.	None
It is a chief trait of that law.	None
We have already pointed out from Tyabjis book that each beneficiary was entitled to share the usufruct of the waqf property per capita.	None
The Power given to the Raja under clause 18 had to be reasonably exercised within a reasonable limit of variation according to the exigencies and special needs of a particular beneficiary.	None
He had no power to spend money quite disproportionately for the benefit of one beneficiarymay she be his young wife or young daughter or be he a young son.	None
He had no power to spend money for acquisition of any immovable property for a beneficiary.	None
No income from the waqf estate could be, spent for acquisition of an immovable property, and particularly a big property with which we are concerned in this case, to benefit only one beneficiary ignoring the others who were a bout a dozen.	None
The money had to be spent equitably for the support and maintenance of each and every beneficiary.	None
Of course, the Raja had the discretion to spend more moneysay on the education of a particular beneficiary it was necessary to do so or for the treatment of an ailing one.	None
There it would be preposterous to suggest that money bad to be equally spent.	None
It is, however, difficult to spell out from Clause 18, as was argued by Mr. Phadke, that the Raja should be deemed to have fix ed as stipends for the young lady all the numerous sums of money spent from time to time in the various items of the acquisition of land or the construction of the Kothi.	None
Such a construction will, not only militate against the tenets of the Mahomed an law as quoted from Ameer Alis book, but would be obviously against the spirit of clause 24 of the waqf deed itself.	None
The said clause saysIf any property will be purchased out of the funds of the State, it shall also be deemed to be property included in and belonging to the waqf.	None
It shall not become the private or personal property of any one.25.	None
Taking a permanent lease of the land and constructing a Kothi thereupon to all intents and purposes, is a purchase of the property out of the funds of the estate.	None
It will be a startling proposition of Mahomedan law to cull out from clause 1 8 of the waqf deed that a property acquired obviously and clearly out of the funds of the waqf estate in the name of one of the beneficiaries should be treated as having been acquired for him or her in exercise of the power under clause 18.	None
It should be remembered that apart from the properties which were mentioned in the waqf deed and which had been tied and made inalienable if any further property was to be acquired, in the, eye of law, according to the concept of Mahomedan law, there was no legal entity available in whose name the property could be acquired except the Mutawalli or the beneficiary.	None
Unlike Hindu law, no property could be acquired in the name of the God.	None
Nor could it be acquired in the name of any religious institution like the waqf estate.	None
Necessarily the property had to be taken in the name of one of the living persons.	None
Ordinarily and generally the acquisition of property out of the waqf funds should have been made in the name of the Mutawalli.	None
But it did not cease to be, a waqf property merely because it was acquired in the name of one of the beneficiaries.	None
We are empbasizing this aspect of the matter at this stage to point out that the law relating to benami transactions, strictly speaking, cannot be applied in all its aspects to a transaction of the kind we are concerned with in this case.	None
We, however, hasten to add that even if applied, there will be no escape from the position that the real owner of the property was the Raja in his capacity as Mutawalli and the plaintiff was a m	None
ere benamidar.	None
The property in reality, therefore, belong to the waqf estate as concurrently and rightly held by the two courts be low.	None
It is a very novel and ingenuous stand which was taken in this Court to say that all money spent from time t o time in acquiring the land and constructing the Kothi was payment by the Raja as Mutawalli to his wife and therefore the property must be held to have been acquired by the lady herself out of her own personal fund.	None
At no stage of this litigation e xcept in this Court such a case was made out in pleading or evidence or in argument.	None
The defendant was never asked to meet such a case.	None
Parties went to trial and evidence was adduced upon the footing that the plaintiff claimed that out of the money given to her by the Raja as pinmoney or on the occasions of festivals or otherwise she had saved a lot and out of those savings she had spent the money in acquiring the property.	None
The defendant asserted and proved that the case of the plaintiff was untrue and that all the money came from the waqf fund directly to meet the cost of the acquisition of the property.	None
In such a situation it is difficult to accept the argument put forward by Mr. Phadke that pleadings should not be construed too strictly.	None
He relied upon three authorities of this Court in support of this argument namely, (1) Srinivas Ram Kumar v. Mahabir Prasad and others(1951 S.C.R. 277.)	None
(2) Nagubai	None
Ammal others v. B. Shama Rao others(1956 S.C.R. 451.), and (3) Kunju Kesavan v. M. M. Philip I.C.S. and others(19643 S.C.R. 634.).	None
Let us see whether any of them helps the appellant in advancing her case any further.	None
In the case of Srinivas Ram Kumar (supra) the suit for specific performance of the contract failed.	None
The defendant had admitted the receipt of Rs. 30, 000/.	None
In that event, it was held that a decree could be passed in favour of the plaintiff for the recovery of Rs. 30, 000/ and interest remaining due under the agreement of loan pleaded by the defendant, even though the plaintiff had not set up such a case and it was even inconsistent with the allegations in the plaint.	None
The Trial Court had passed a decree for the sum of Rs. 30, 000/.	None
The High Court upturned it.	None
In that connection, while delivering the judgment of the Court, it was observed by Mukherjea J., as he then was, at page 282The question, however, arises whether, in the absence of any such alternative case in the plaint it is open to the Court to give him relief on that basis.	None
The rule undoubtedly is that the Court cannot grant relief to the plaintiff on a case for which there was no foundation in the pleadings and which the other side was not called upon or had an opportunity to meat.	None
But when the alternative case, which the plaintiff could have made, was not only admitted by the defendant in his written statement but was expressly put forward as an answer to the claim which the plaintiff made in the suit, there would be nothing improper in giving the plaintiff a decree upon the case which the defendant himself makes.26.	None
In the instant case, there is no question of giving any alternative relief to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
The relief asked for is one and the same.	Reasoning
The plaintiff claimed that she had acquired the property with her personal funds.	Reasoning
The defendant successfully combated this case.	Reasoning
He had not said anything on the basis of which any alternative relief could be given to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
The facts of the case of Nagubai Ammal (supra) would clearly show that the decision of this Court does not help the appellant at all.	Reasoning
The respondent did not specifically raise the question of his pending in his pleading nor was an issue framed or.	Reasoning
the point, but he raised the question at the very commencement of the trial in his deposition, proved relevant documents which were admitted into evidence without any objection from the appellants who filed their own documents, crossexamined the respondent and invited the Court to hold that the suit for maintenance and a charge and the connected proceedings evidenced by these documents were collusive in order to avoid the operation of s. 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Reasoning
The matter was decided with reference to s. 52.	Reasoning
In such a situation it was held by this Court that the decisions of the Courts below were correct and in the facts and circumstances of the case the omission of the respondent to specifically raise the question of his pending in his pleading did not take the appellants by surprise.	Reasoning
It was a mere irregularity which resulted in no prejudice to the appellants.	Reasoning
In the instant case no body at any stage of the litigation before the appeal came up to this Court had taken any stand or said a word any where that money spent in acquisition of the property was the personal money of the plaintiff because as and when the sums were spent they went on becoming her personal money.	Reasoning
The evidence adduced and the stand taken in arguments were wholly different.	Reasoning
No party had said anything on the lines of the case made out in this Court.	Reasoning
Similar is the position in regard to the decision of this Court in the case of Kunju Kesavan.	Reasoning
At page 648 Hidayatullah J., as he then was, has stated,The. parties went to trial fully understanding the central fact whether the succession as laid down in the Ezhava Act applied to Bhagavathi Valli or not.	Reasoning
The absence of an issue, therefore, did not lead to a mistrial sufficient to vitiate the decision.27.	None
It was further added that the plea was hardly necessary in view of the plea made by the plaintiff in the replication.	None
Mr. Lal Narayan Sinha placed reliance upon the decision of this Court in Meenakshi Mills, Madurai v. The Commissioner of Incometax, Madras(1956 S.C.R. 691.)	Reasoning
in support o	Reasoning
f his submission that the question of benami is essentially a question of fact and this Court would not ordinarily and generally review the concurrent findings of the courts below in that regard.	Reasoning
Mr. Phadke submitted that his case was covered by some exceptions carved out in the decision of the Federal Court in Gangadara Ayyarand others v. Subramania Sastrjgal and others.(A.T.R. 1949 F.C. 88.)28.	Reasoning
In our opinion it is not necessary to decide as to on which side of the dividing line this case falls in the light of the principles enunciated, in the case aforementioned.	Reasoning
Truly speaking, the concurrent findings of the Courts below on the, primary facts could not be seriously challenged.	Reasoning
They are obviously correct.	Reasoning
But a new stand was taken on the basis of clause 18 of the waqf deed which we have already discussed and rejected.29.	Reasoning
Mr. Phadke, heavily relied upon clause 19 of the Win dated 1761938Ext.	Reasoning
15 executed by the Raja fixing various amounts of stipends to be paid to the beneficiaries after his death.	Reasoning
He had executed two other wills prior to this Will.	Reasoning
In an earlier litigation, a question had arisen as to which Will would prevailthe first one or the last one.	Reasoning
The amounts fixed for the plaintiff in the last Will was much higher than the amount fixed for her in the first Will.	Reasoning
in an earlier judgment dated 391949Ext. 3 which was a judgment interpartes it was held that the amount fixed in the first Will would prevail.	Reasoning
Clause 18 of the waqf deed was also interpreted in a particular manner.	Reasoning
Mr. Lal Narayan Sinha endeavoured to use this judgment operating as res judicata in regard to some of the questions falling for decision in this litigation .	Reasoning
We do not propose to make use of that judgment in that form.	Reasoning
Nor do we propose to express any final opinion as to which amount of stipend was effectivethe first one or the last one.	Reasoning
We. shall assume in favour of the plaintiff that the. amount fixed by the last Will was effective and binding on the subsequent Mutawalli.	Reasoning
We are, however, concerned to read clause 19 of the last Will which runs as followsMy wife Siddique Fatima has got a kothi known a s (main (?)	Reasoning
Shagird Pasha in mauza Doodhpur (paper torn) by taking on perpetual lease.	Reasoning
I or the state has no concern with the same.	Reasoning
It has been constructed by her with her own funds.	Reasoning
All t he articles lying there belong to her and have been purchased by her from her own money.	Reasoning
I have certainly given some articles to her which belonged to me personally.	Reasoning
In short all the articles, of whatever sort they may be are her property and nobody has got any right in respect thereof because the state or any one else has got no concern or right in respect thereof.	Reasoning
Hence she(?) has got the right to dispose the same off or to make a waqf of the same.	Reasoning
She may give it to any of my sons, who renders obedience and service to her or may give the same to any of my grandsons.	Reasoning
My other heirs shall have no right in respect thereof.	Reasoning
If any body brings, any claim, in order to harass her, the same shall be false.30.	None
Let us see whether this clause advances the case of the appellant any further.	None
On a close scrutiny, it would be found that it directly demolishes her stand taken in this Court.	Reasoning
The recital by the Raja in clause 19 is that his wife bad taken the perpetual lease and constructed the kothi with her own funds.	Reasoning
All the articles lying there have been purchased by her from her own money.	Reasoning
He had certainly given some articles to her which belonged to him personally.	Reasoning
There is no recital that the Raja had constructed the kothi , for the plaintiff out of his own funds nor was there a recital that he had constructed the kothi by taking the money from the waqf estate and treating it as payment of stipends to her as and when the sums of money were paid.	Reasoning
By no stretch of law such a recital could create a title in favour of the plaintiff and finish the right of the, waqf to the property.	Reasoning
The recital was demonstrably false and could not bind the subsequent Mutawalli.	Reasoning
If the property became the acquired property of the waqf a Mutawalli, as the Raja was, by his mere declaration contained in clause 19 of the Will could not make it a property of the lady.	Reasoning
The recital of fact could be pressed into service only to lend additional support to the plaintiffs case if she would have stuck to that case and proved it by evidence aliunde.	Reasoning
The appellants counsel relied upon the various circumstances to, advance her case in this Courtthe foremost of them is based upon clause 18 of the waqf deed, which we have already dealt with.	Reasoning
It was next contended that the real question was that the property was of waqf alalaulad of which the main object was the maintenance and support of the members of the settlers family and to tie up the corpus of the property in perpetuity so as to, make it inalienable.	Reasoning
The Raja, however, according to the submission was left free during his life time to make disbursement of the income in any manner he chose and liked.	Reasoning
Acquiring a property with the waqf fund was the fulfillment of the object of the wakf.	Reasoning
It was a part of making a provision for the maintenance and support of the wife of the Mutawallii.	Reasoning
It was an integral part of the object of the waqf and was not in breach of the trust.	Reasoning
We are not impressed with this argument and have already dealt with it in the earlier portion of this judgment.	Reasoning
True it is that the property was not acquired by the sale of the corpus of any of the waqf property but even acquisition of an immovable property directly with the, waqf fund was an accretion to the waqf property.	Reasoning
The Raja had no power while administering the waqf to acquire a property for a particular beneficiary by way of maintenance and support of such a beneficiary.	Reasoning
As indicated earlier, a Mutawalli of a waqt although not a trustee in the true sense of the terms is still bound by the various obligations of a trustee.	Reasoning
He like a trustee or a person standing in a fiduciary capacity, cannot advance his own interests or the interests of his close relations by virtue of the position held by him.	Reasoning
The use of the funds of the waqf for acquisition of a property by a Mutawalli in the name of his wife would amount to a breach of trust an d the property so acquired would be treated as waqf property.	Reasoning
In the tenth edition of The Law of Trusts by Keaton and Sheridan it has been pointed out at page 329, Chapter XXThe general rule that a trustee must not take.	Reasoning
heed of one beneficiary to the detriment of others has already been discussed.	Reasoning
Put in another way, the rule implies that although a trustee, may be the servant of all the beneficiaries, he is not the servant of any one of them, but an arbitrator, who must hold the scales evenly.31.	Reasoning
The position of the Mutawalli under the.	None
Mahomedan law is in no way different and all the beneficiaries are entitled to benefit equally, of course, subject to the special power conferred on the Mutawalli as the one provided in clause 18 of the waqf deed and to the extent and in the manner interpreted by us above.	Reasoning
Exhibit A22an account of daily expenses incurred in the construction of the Kothi was attacked as a spurious document.	Reasoning
we do not attach much importance to Ext. A22 in face of the other pieces of evidence to indicate that the expenses were all met from the waqf fund.	Reasoning
I t is not necessary to lay any stress on Ext.	Reasoning
A22	Reasoning
Our attention was drawn to some statements made in the testimony of the defendant himself who was examined as D.W. 2 and D.W. 1the brother of the Raja.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned here that Hamid Hasanbrother of the defendant was examined at P.W.3.	Reasoning
The plaintiff had examined herself in the house in which P.W. 3 was living and in his presence.	Reasoning
Without discussing in any detail a few lines here for a few lines there in their evidence, suffice it to say that their evidence could not and did not establish the plaintiffs case as made out in the Courts below nor did they lend any support to the new case made out here.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not think it necessary to encumber this judgment by a detailed discussion of the evidence, because it has all been dealt with in full by the Trial Court and to a large extent by the High Court also.32.	None
We now proceed to consider, the law of benami prevalent in India and especially in regard to acquisition of a property by the husband in the name of the wife.	Reasoning
We would also in this connection be discussing whether the, doctrine of advancement is applicable in India or any principle analogous to that can be pressed into service on be half of the appellant as was sought to be done by her learned counsel.	Reasoning
Alongwith the discussion of the points aforesaid, we shall be adverting to the appellants argument of burden of proof being on the person to prove that a transaction which is apparent on the face of the document of title is not a real one but a benami deal.	Reasoning
In conclusion, we shall show that neither the Trial Court nor the High Court has deviated from the application of the wellsettled principles in this regard, although at places the Trial Court seems to have apparently thrown the onus on the plaintiff.	Reasoning
But as a matter of fact neither of the two Courts below has committed any error in the application (, it the real principle.	Reasoning
In Gopeekrist Gosain and Gungaparsaud Gosain (6 Moores Indian Appeals,  53) it was pointed out as early as 1854, at page 72It is very much the habit in India to make purchases in the names of others, and, from whatever cause or causes the practice may have arisen, it has existed for a series of years, and these transactions are known as Benamee transactions.33.	Reasoning
Lord Justice Knight Bruce proceeds to observe further at Pages 7475 that if the money for acquisition of property has been provided by a person other than the individual in whose name the purchase was effected and if such a person was a stranger or a distant relative of the person providing the money, , he would have.	None
been prima facia a trustee.	Reasoning
It was observed further that even when the purchaser was the son of the real purchaser the English doctrine of advancement was not applicable in India.	Reasoning
This case was followed by the Board in Bilas Kunwar and Desraj Ranjit Singh and others(42 Indian Appeals, 202.)	Reasoning
Sir George Farwell has said at page 205The exception in our law by way of advancement in favour of wife or child does not apply in India Gopeekrist v. Gangaparsaud (1854) 6 Moo, Ind. Ap.	Reasoning
53	Reasoning
but the relationship is a circumstance which is taken into consideration in India in determining whether the transaction is benami or not.	Reasoning
The general rule in India in the absence of all other relevant circumstances is thus stated by Lord Campbell in Dhurm Das Pandey v. Mussumat Shama Soondari Dibiah (1843) 3 Moo. Ind. Ap. 229	Reasoning
The criterion in these cases in India is to consider from what source the money comes with which the purchase money is paid.34.	None
Lord Atkinson reiterated the same view in Kerwick and Kerwick (47 Indian Appeals, 275.)	None
at page 278 in these terms In such a case there is, under the general law in India, no presumption of an intended advancement as there is in England.	Reasoning
It will be useful to quote a few lines from the judgment of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council delivered by Sir John Edge in the case of Sura Lakshmiah Chetty and others v. Kothandarama Pillai (52 Indian Appeals, 286.)	None
The lines occurring at page 289 run thusThere can be no doubt now that a purchase in India by a native of India of property in India in the name of his wife unexplained by other proved or admitted facts is to be regarded as a benami transaction, by which the beneficial interest in the property is in the husband, although the ostensible title is in the wife.	Reasoning
The rule of the law of England that such a purchase by a husband in England is to be assumed to be a purchase for the advancement of the wife does not apply in India.35.	None
In the wellknown treatise of the law of Trusts referred to above the learned authors say at page 173The best example of a trust implied by law is where property is purchased by A in the name of B that is to say, A supplies the purchase money, and B takes the conveyance.	None
Here, in the absence of any explanatory facts, such as an intention to give the property to B, equity presumes that A intended B to hold the property in trust for him.	None
36.	None
It may here be made clear that much could be said in favour of the appellant if the Raja would have acquired the property with his own money intending to acquire it for her.	Reasoning
But such an intention was of no avail to the appellant when the money for the acquisition of the property came from the coffers of the waqf estate over which the Raja had no unbridled or uncontrolled power of ownership.	Reasoning
He was himself in the position of a trustee owing a duty and obligations to the beneficiaries.	Reasoning
He had no free volition in the matter to spend and invest the trust fund in any manner he liked and for showing undue advantage to his wife.	Reasoning
At one stage of the argument Mr. Phadke felt persuaded to place reliance upon the decision of Yorke and Agarwal JJ in Mt. Sardar Jahan and others v. Mt. Afzal Begam (A.I.R. 1941, oudh, 288.).	Reasoning
At page 291, column 1 the observation seems to have been made per in curium to the effectAs regards this question of pleading, it does not appear to us that there was anything to prevent the plaintiff from falling back on the plea of advancement in case she was unable to satisfy the court that the moneys expended were her own.	None
Yorke J realised the inaccuracy of the above proposition and said so in Mt. Siddique Begam v. Abdul Jabber Khan and others(A.I.R. 1942, Allahabad, 308.)	None
and then concluded at page 312 column 1 thusI n point of fact it has been laid down by their Lordships in earlier cases that the burden of proof that a transfer is benami does lie in the first instance upon the person asserting it to be so, but that burden is discharged upon the said person showing that the purchase money was provided by him.37.	Reasoning
In the case of Gangadara Ayyar and others (supra) Mahajan J., enunciated the law pithily, if we may say so with respect, in paragraph 14 at page 92It is settled law that the onus of establishing that a transaction is benami is on the plaintiff and it must be strictly made out.	Reasoning
The decision of the Court cannot rest on mere suspicion, but must rest on legal grounds and legal testimony.	Reasoning
In the absence of evidence, the apparent title must prevail.	Reasoning
It is also well established that in a case where it is asserted that an assignment in the name of one person is in reality for the benefit of another, the real test is the source whence the consideration came and that when it is not possible to obtain evidence which conclusively establishes or rebuts the allegation, the case must be dealt with on reasonable probabilities and legal inferences arising from proved or admitted facts.	Reasoning
While dealing with the question of burden of proof, one must remember a very salutary principle reiterate d by this Court in Kalwa Davadattam and two others v. The Union of India and other(1964 3 S.C.R. 191.)	Reasoning
at page 205.	Reasoning
Says the learned JudgeThe question of onus probandi is certainly important in the early stages of a case.	Reasoning
It may also assume importance where no evidence at all is led on the question in dispute by either side in such a contingency the party on whom the onus lies to prove a certain fact must fail.	Reasoning
Where however evidence has been led by the contesting parties on the question in issue, abstract considerations of onus are out of place truth or otherwise of the case must always be adjudged on the evidence led by the parties.	None
Shinghal J. recently followed this dictum in the case of Union of India v. Moksh Builders and Financiers Ltd. and ors.	None
etc.(1977 1	None
S. C.R. 967.)	None
at page 973.38.	Reasoning
Mr. Phadke heavily relied upon the decisions of this Court in (1) Kanakarathanammual v. V. S. Loganatha Mudaliar and another(1964 6 S.C.R. 1) (2) Jaydayal Poddar (deceased) through his L. Rs and another v. Mst.	None
Bibi Hazra and ors(1974 2 S.C.R. 90.)	None
and (3) Krishnanand v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (19771 S.C.R. 816.).	None
A question of some fine distinction arose in Kanakarathanammal s case.	None
The question was whether the property purchased in the name of the wife by the money given to her by the husband was a property gifted to her under section 10(2) (b) of the Mysore Hindu Law womens Rights Act, 1933 or was it a property in which fell under clause (d) of section 10(2).	None
If it was a property gifted by the husband to the wife, then the appellants contention was right and it became a property gifted under section 10(2) (b).	None
If, on the other hand, it was a property purchased with the money gifted by the husband to the wife, then it would not be so.	None
According to the finding of the Courts below, the whole of the consideration was paid by the appellants father and not by her mother.	None
The majority view expressed by Gajendragadkar J., as he then was, at page 9 of the report isWe have carefully considered the arguments thus presented to us by the respective parties and we are satisfied	None
t hat it would be straining the language of s. (2)(b) to hold that the property purchased in the name of the wife with the money gifted to her by her husband should be taken to amount to a property gifted under s. 10(2) (b).39.	None
It would thus be seen that indisputably in that case the property was of the wife.	None
The only dispute was whether the property itself was acquired as a gift from her husband or it was acquired with the money gifted to her by the husband.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, this case is of no help, to the appellant in this appeal.	Reasoning
In Jaydayal Poddars case (supra) one of us (Sarkaria J.) while delivering the judgment on behalf of the Court w as dealing with a case where the question was whether the property purchased by Abdul Karim in the name of his wife Mst.	Reasoning
Hakimunnissa was a benami purchase in the name of the latter.	Reasoning
The Trial Court held that she was benamidar.	Reasoning
The High Court reversed the decision and held that the plaintiffs had failed to show that Mst. Hakimunnissa in whose name the saledeed stood, was only a benamida r and not the real purchaser.	Reasoning
While affirming the view of the High Court, it was aptly said at pages 9192It is well settled that the burden of proving that a particular sale is benami and the apparent purchaser is not the real owner, always rests on the person asserting it to be so.	Reasoning
This burden has to be strictly discharged by adducing legal evidence of a definite character which would either directly prove the fact of Benami or establish circumstances unerringly and reasonably raising an inference of that fact.	Reasoning
The essence of a benami is the intention of the party or parties concerned and not unoften such intention is shrouded in a thick veil which cannot be easily pierced through.	Reasoning
But such difficulties do not relieve the person asserting the transaction to be benami of any part of the serious onus that rests on him nor justify the acceptance of mere conjectures or surmises, as a substitute for proof.	Reasoning
The reason is that a deed is a solemn document prepared and executed after considerable deliberation and the person expressly shown as the purchaser or transferee in the deed, starts with the initial presumption in his favour that the apparent estate of affairs is the real state of affairs.	Reasoning
Though the question, whether a particular sale is Benami ornot, is largely one of fact, and for determining this question, no absolute formulae or acid tests, uniformally applicable inall situations, can be laid down yet in weighing the probabilities and for gathering the relevant indicate, the courts are usually guided by these circumstances (1) the source from which the purchase money came (2) the nature and possession of the property, after t he purchase (3) motive, if any, for giving the transaction a benami colour (4) the position of the parties and the relationship, if any between the claimant and the alleged benamidar (5) the custody of the titledeeds after the sale and (6) the conduct of the parties concerned in dealing with the property after the sale.	Reasoning
The above indicate are not exhaustive and their efficacy varies according to the facts of each case.	Reasoning
Nevertheless no. 1, viz.	Reasoning
the source whence the purchase, money came, is by far the most important test for determining whether the sale standing in the name of one person is in reality for the benefit of another.40.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that in the present appeal we are not concerned with a simple case of purchase of the property by the husband in the name of the wife with his own money, the purchase being with the waqf money, even applying the principles extracted above it would be noticed that the concurrent findings of the courts below that the appellant was benamidar on behalf of the waqf does not suffer from any infirmity to justify our interference with the said finding.	Reasoning
lie burden has been strictly discharged by the respondent so much so that the finding as recorded could not be assailed.	Reasoning
It was merely attempted to be availed of to support a new case in this Court.	Reasoning
It should be remembered that by far the most important test for determining whether the sale standing in the name of one person is in reality for the benefit of anothernamely the source whence the purchase money came has been established beyond doubt.	Reasoning
The nature and possession of the property after the acquisition was such that it did not lead to the conclusion that it was not a waqf property and was a property in exclusive possession of the appellant through her tenants including tile respondent.	Reasoning
The motive to, acquire the property in the name of the wife is clearly spoken of by D.W.I. brother of the Raja when he said at page 37 of the pa per book Raja Sahib was also present at the time of the execution of the lease.	Reasoning
At that time there was no debt against him.	Reasoning
On being asked by me he said that the plaintiff used to, trouble him and that in order to please her he was getting a fictitious lease executed in her favour.	Reasoning
It was argued for the appellant that the Raja wanted to make a provision for his young wife to protect her interests from being trampled with by her sons and daughters.	Reasoning
This is not correct.	Reasoning
Although the defendant was not pulling on well with the Raja after he had married the plaintiff, according to her own case pleaded in the plaint she was pulling on well with the defendant upto the year 1950 and the relations between them got strained when her daughter was married to Saiyed Mohammed Raja Ali Khan.	Reasoning
The position of the parties, namely, the Raja and the plaintiff, was such that one could be inclined to believe that in all probability the Raja could provide funds for acquisition of the property not only in the name of his wife but for her and her alone provided the funds expended were his personal funds.	Reasoning
But no such inference is possible on the unmistakable position of this case that the funds came from the coffer of the waqf estate.	Reasoning
The custody of the titledeed and other papers, except a few, were not with the plaintiff.	Reasoning
But on the facts of this case one, cannot attach much importance to this circumstance either way.	Reasoning
The conduct of the parties concerned in dealing with the property after acquisition also goes in favour the defendant and against the plaintiff.	Reasoning
It could not be shown that the plaintiff bad realised rent from the other tenants who had been there in the Kothi before 1947.	Reasoning
Nor was there anything to show that the defendant himself was inducted as a tenant in the Kothi by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that even on the application of the salutary principles of law enunciated in Jaydyal Poddars case the appellant cannot succeed.	Reasoning
This case was merely followed in Krishnanands case by Bhagwati J.We may again emphasize that in a case of this nature, all the aspects of the benami law including the question of burden of proof cannot justifiably be applied fully.	Reasoning
Once it is found, as it has been consistently found, that the property was acquired with the money of with the money of the waqf, a presumption would arise that the property is a waqf property irrespective of the fact as to in whose name it was acquired.	Reasoning
The Mutawalli by transgressing the limits of his power and showing undue favour to one of the beneficiaries in disregard to a large number of other beneficiaries could not be and should not be permitted to gain advantage by this method for one beneficiary which in substance would be gaining advantage for himself.	Reasoning
In such a situation it will not be unreasonable to sayrather it would be quite legitimate to infer, that it was for the plaintiff to establish that the property acquired was her personal property and not the property of the waqf Is it possible to decree her appeal in face of her three varying stands in the three courts ?	Reasoning
They are (1) in the Trial Courtcase of acquisition of property with her personal money (2) in the High Courtacquisition of property with the personal money of her husband and (3) in this Courtthe waqf fund invested from time to time became her personal money and enabled her to acquire the property.41.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated above, we dismiss the appeal, but with this direction that the parties will bear their own costs throughout.42.	None
Before we part with this case, we would like to put on record that a suggestion was thrown from the Court to the p arties to arrive, at some kind of lawful settlement which may not go against the terms of the waqf deed or the Mahomedan law in relation to waqf.	Decision
Pursuant to the said suggestion, an offer was made on behalf of the substituted respondents to pay a sum of Rs. 30, 000/ to the, appellant within a period of one year.	Decision
This was on the footing, as suggested by the Court, as if the leasehold in the land upon which the Kothi stands was the property of the appellant, but the Kothi was of the waqf.	Decision
Unfortunately this offer was not accepted by the appellant.	Decision
Still we hope and trust that the respondent will honour their unilateral offer and pay the sum of Rs. 30, 000/ to the appellant within a period of one year from to day, preferably in 4 threemonthly equal installments of Rs. 7, 500/ each.	Decision
The amount so paid would be over and above the duty and the obligation which is there under the waqf on the present Mutawalli out of the substituted respondents.	Decision
We have tried to take a compassionate view for the appellant to the, extent to which we thought we could justifiably go.	Decision
We have relieved her of costs in all the three Courts.	Decision
We believe that the respondents will not belie our hopes merely because an executable decree in respect of the sum of Rs. 30, 000/ in absence of them acceptance of the offer by the appellant cannot be passed.43.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
