 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
The Legislature of State of Assam and the Parliament took legislative measures to allay the difficulties faced by the small scale industries.	Facts
The State of Assam made rules known as The Assam Preferential Stores Purchase Rules in the year 1972.	Issue
The said rules having not served its purpose, the Assam Preferential Stores Purchase Act, 1989 (for short the 1989 Act) was enacted which received the assent of the Governor on 14th July, 1989.	Issue
The said Act was enacted for encouraging growth of industries in the State of Assam specially small scale and cottage industries and for taking measures ancillary thereto.	Issue
The State intended to patronize the products of the small scale and cottage industries on preferential basis and to rationalize the procedure for purchase of stores required by the State Government Institutions, Government Companies and State Government Undertakings, as would appear from the preamble thereof.	Facts
Section 2(d) of the 1989 Act defines State Board to mean the Assam State Stores Purchase Board constituted under Section 3 of the 1989 Act.	None
Small Scale Industry has been defined in Section 2(f) to mean an industrial unit in which the capital investment for plant and machinery does not exceed thirtyfive lakh of rupees or any other amount as may be decided by the Central Government from time to time and located in the State of Assam.	None
Registered Industry has been defined in Section 2(l) to mean an industrial unit registered under the Directorate of Industries in accordance with provisions thereof.	None
Requiring Authority has been defined in Section 2(r) to mean the State Government Departments and their subordinate authorities, State Government Undertaking Corporation Statutory Bodies Autonomous Bodies.	None
Section 2(s) defines ASIDC to mean the Assam Small Industries Development Corporation Limited (for short the Corporation, the appellant herein).	None
Section 3 of the 1989 Act provides for constitution of the State Store s Purchase Board on such term as may be specified in Schedule 1.	None
Preference to the small scale industries is provided in Section 7.	None
Clause (c) of Subsection (1) of Section 7 reads as under Items of stores mentioned in Schedule III shall be purchased by requiring authorities from ASIDC, ASIDC shall follow the guideline regarding fixation of price, commission, etc. as laid down in office memorandum issued by Notification No. PE61/88/1, dated 28th March, 1988 as in Schedule IV.	None
The Purchase Committee is required to be constituted in terms of Section 8 of the 1989 Act consisting of the Head of Department, Director of Industries, a representative of the Department not below the rank of Under Secretary, Financial Adviser of the Department and Finance and Accounts Officer of the concerned Directorate.	None
Section 9 postulates that the Purchase Committee shall include two representatives from the State Government, one of which shall be the Director of Industries or his representative not below the rank of Deputy Director and the other representative of the Finance Department in respect of each Government Corporation, Government Undertaking, Assam Electricity Board.	None
In the State Board, amongst others, the Managing Director of the appellant Corporation is a member.	None
Schedule III provides for the preferences to be given as required under Section 7(c).	None
Item 4 of the said Schedule is drugs and pharmaceuticals and clinical equipments.	None
An office memorandum dated 28th March, 1988 referred to in Section 7(1)(c) of the 1989 Act is based on a cabinet decision and issued in the name of the Governor of Assam laid down guidelines for strict adherence thereof by all Government departments, their subordinate authorities, Government organizations and public sector undertakings while making their purchases of any SSI products which are dealt in or manufactured by the Corporation.	None
The said office memorandum satisfies the requirements of Article 166 of the Constitution of India and has been made a part of the 1989 Act.	None
In terms of the said guidelines, the Corporation is required to publish a list of items materials products to be dealt in or manufactured by it as detailed in Annexure 1 thereof.	None
The price of such SSI products is to be fixed by any Technical Committee constituted by the Corporation with members from neutral organization and concerned departments.	None
As per the said OM, purchasing authorities shall pay to the Corporation upto 5 as commission over the price fixed by the Corporation.	None
The purchasing authorities shall pay advance to the extent of 90 of the value of the orders placed with the Corporation.	None
AnnexureA to the said guidelines is the marketing assistance scheme wherein drugs and pharmaceuticals and clinical equipments had been identified as one of the items, supply of which to the Government departments is to be taken over by the Corporation.	None
The said scheme provides for quality control, pricing, registration of units as also indenting by the Corporation.	None
The Clause relating to indenting of the goods reads as under The purchasing authorities will issue indent to the Corporation for the required products with 90 advance.	None
The Corporation will immediately allot the work to the most suitable unit or units to complete supply within stipulated time.	None
If the supply could not be completed in due time by the Corporation, the purchasing authorities will deduct 1 p.m. from bills.	None
The stores will be despatched by the units only after they are given despatch instruction by the ASIDC.	None
Normally the despatch will have to commence within the third day from the date of despatch instruction, failing which the unit may be penalized the extent of bank interest on the amount.	None
The stores will be received by the purchasing authority and the acceptance or rejection notes will be issued on the challans.	None
The Corporation will release payment upto 90 of the bills to the units on completion of supply.	None
Any advance or advances will be deducted fully.	None
The remaining 10 will be released on receipt of full payment of the bills from the purchasing authority.	None
Only if the Corporation is unable to supply some items and such inability is communicated to it in writing, the purchasing authority can purchase them from alternative sources.	None
It is not in dispute that the plaintiff is a SSI unit registered with the Corporation and fulfils all the criteria laid down in the 1989 Act and the Scheme framed thereunder.	Facts
It entered into an agreement with the Corporation on or about 19th October, 1990 wherein the plaintiff (respondent herein) was termed as a principal and the Corporation as an agent.	Facts
The said agreement was entered into in terms of the marketing support scheme formulated by the Corporation under the 1989 Act.	Facts
Para 3 of the preamble and Clauses 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8 of the said agreement read as under And whereas the Corporation has agreed to act as an Agent to market the goods manufactured by the principal as specified in the schedule appended to this agreement, under the marking support scheme formulated by the Corporation under the AP SP Act, 1989.	None
The principal hereby covenants with the Corporation as hereinafter provided 1.	None
The principal shall quote lowest rates in respect of Scheduled Goods to the Corporation and shall not quote to any party mentioned above directly or indirectly, rate lower than those quoted to the Corporation in respect of the goods for which competitive rates are being quoted by them.	None
The rates so quoted to the Corporation by the principal shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of submission of the quotation.4.	None
The principal shall, when advised to do so, supply the goods wherever required within the stipulated time at his cost.	None
In event of failure to comply with aforesaid Clause, if any penalty is imposed by the actual buyer of the goods in the event of the principal failing to comply the above provision of conditions, or if any losses are otherwise incurred, the said penalty or loss is to be borne by the principal by reimbursing the said amount to the Corporation within 15 days from the date of demand.	None
The principal shall also be responsible for losses by way of breakages, theft or pilferage etc.	None
during the transit of goods.6.	None
The principal authorises the Corporation to raise bills of sale on their behalf, disclosing or without disclosing the name of the principal, and to collect payment thereon from the buyer(s).	None
On collection of payment from the buyer(s), payment to the principal will be effected by the Corporation deduction the service charges.	None
Penalty due to delayed supplies, or other dues advance, if any.	None
The Corporation may release 90 value of the materials on delivery and acceptance of the material by the buyer after deduction of dues advance payment if any subject to receipt of payment from buyer(s).	None
The balance 10 less penalty due to the delayed supplies etc. or any other dues will be paid to the principal on receipt of full payment from the Purchasing Department.7.	None
The principal hereby agrees to the terms and conditions in the Marketing Support Scheme of the Corporation as amended from time to time and agrees to comply with general specific instructions as might be issued by the Corporation regarding the Marketing of Scheduled goods.8.	None
That in case of any shortage, leakage, damage, breakage, late supplies, late submission of R R Motor Transport Receipt, delivery challans, inadequate packing etc. or any losses in transit for whatever circumstance or reasons, it shall be on the account of the principal and the amount thus involved, shall be deducted from his bills.	None
A specimen copy of the orders placed by the Corporation on the respondent from time to time is extracted below DATED 16.6.1992ToM s. J.D. Pharmaceuticals LimitedM.C. RoadGuwahati3SUB ORDER FOR SUPPLY OF STORESDear Sir,With reference to above, we have the pleasure to order with you for supply of the under noted articles to the SubDivisional Medical and Health Officer, I C, D.M.S. Dibrugarh, as per terms and conditions shown over overleaf.	None
S. No.Name of ItemQuantityPrice1.Tab Trimetoprim	None
80 mg with sulphamethoxagole thousand tab 400 mg.75,000Rs.	None
559.35Delivery period within 30.6.1992 Some of the terms and conditions attached to the supply orders are as under The Stores must be supplied through your challan issued in favour of indenting department and should be properly a c Assam Small Industries Development Corporation Limited, Marketing Division and will be submitted to this office after duly receipted by the department and stamped.5.	None
The above prices are inclusive of packing forwarding transportation charge, but exclusive of 5 commission and tax as admissible.8.	None
After execution of the order your bill should be submitted for payment.	None
Payment will be made subject to receipt of the fund from the indenting department.	None
No interest compensation can be claimed for delay in payment.10.	None
Terms and conditions other than the above, will be as per the deed of agreement executed by you, red with other tenders quotations.	None
The Parliament also enacted Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993 (for short the 1993 Act) being Act No. 32 of 1993 which came into force with effect from 23rd September, 1992.	None
Appointed day has been defined in Section 2(b) to mean the day following immediately after the expiry of the period of thirty days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance of any goods or any services by a buyer from a supplier.	None
Section 3 provides for the liability of buyer to make payment.	None
Sections 4 and 5 thereof read as under Date from which and rate at which interest is payable.	None
Where any buyer fails to make payment of the amount to the supplier, as required under Section 3, the buyer shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between the buyer and the supplier or in any law for the time being in force, be liable to pay interest to the supplier on that amount from the appointed day or, as the case may be, from the date immediately following the date agreed upon, at such rate which is five per cent points above the floor rate for comparable lending.5.	None
Liability of buyer to pay compound interest.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between a supplier and a buyer or in any law for the time being in force, the buyer shall be liable to pay compound interest (with monthly rests) at the rate mentioned in Section 4 on the amount due to the supplier.	None
It is not in dispute that pursuant to the said agreement, the Corporation placed orders for supply of medicines manufactured by the respondent herein for the period June, 1991 to June, 1993.	Facts
The total price of the medicines supplied by the respondent in pursuance of the supply orders of the Corporation stood at Rs. 20,56,654.13 out of which only a sum of Rs.	Facts
46,512.80 was paid to the respondent.15.	Facts
It stands admitted that the payments have not been made in relation to the supplies made for the said indents.	Facts
A suit was filed by the respondent herein on 7.9.1993 claiming the aforementioned amount (Rs.20,56,654.13) together with the interest payable thereon in terms of the 1993 Act (Rs. 675,881.45).	Facts
In the said suit, the Corporation in its written statement inter alia raised the following plea That the suit is bad for nonjoinder of necessary party and on the score alone the suit is liable to be dismissed.10.	Facts
That with regard to the statements made in Paras 16 to 46 of the plaint, the defendants do not admit anything contrary to the relevant records of the case.	None
The defendants submit that the supply order placed by the defendants does not relate to a single transaction and as such, the plaintiffs cannot claim for recovery of its dues, if any, in one suit.	None
The defendants have placed orders with the plaintiff firm as per the APSP Act, 1989 and as per the indent of the Govt.	None
department.	None
It was agreed in the terms and conditions of the order that the payment of the bills would be released to the plaintiffs on receipt of payment by the defendants from the concerned Government Department.	None
This condition of payment has also been agreed to by the plaintiff and as per the terms and conditions of the agreement executed by the parties.	None
The defendants submit that it has not received payment against the value of the medicines supplied by the plaintiff to the Government Department and as such, the bill amount could not be released due to the aforesaid factor.	None
The Drug Association, Assam where the plaintiff firm is also a Member, has informed the defendants by letter that the firm registered under them, are agreeable to accept orders without 90 percent advance payment at the time of placement of the order and accordingly orders were placed and as per the terms and conditions of the agreement, the defendants were to release payment on receipt of the same from the concerned Government Department.	None
As stated earlier since the defendant has not received any payment from the Government Department against the value of the medicines supplied by the plaintiff firm, the required payment could not be released to the plaintiff firm.	None
The Trial Judge by a judgment dated 1st August, 1998 passed a decree in favour of the respondent herein in the following terms In the light of the above discussion and the decisions made therein, the plaintiffs suit is decreed for Rs.	Facts
20,10,141.33 on contest with cost.	Facts
The plaintiffs shall be entitled to realize compound interest 23 with monthly rest in respect of the concerned bill amounts till the month of June, 1991 and at the rate of Rs. 23.5 with monthly rest w.e.f.	Facts
1.7.1991 till filing of the suit.	Facts
The plaintiff shall be entitled to realise compound interest at the rate of Rs. 23.5 at monthly rest on the decretal amount from the date of filing the suit till the date of the decree and further interest at the said rate from the date of decree till realization.	Facts
An appeal preferred thereagainst, by the Corporation before the High Court was dismissed.	Facts
The Corporation is, thus, in appeal before us.	Facts
Mr. R.F. Nariman, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the Corporation would raise the following contentions in support of the said appeal Having regard to the terms and conditions of supply, the Corporation was to pay unto the respondent the price for the goods supplied only as and when the same was received from the respective departments of the State Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Corporation is an agent of the respondent and not the buyer of the goods and as per Clause 6 of the agreement until payments are received from the buyers (Departments of the State), no liability could have been fastened upon the Corporation to pay the said amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause 8 of the terms and conditions of the orders for supply also make it clear that payment will be made subject only to receipt of funds from the indenting department.(ii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The different departments of the State and other Government Corporations and undertakings being the buyers and the beneficiaries of the supplies only, they were liable to pay the price of the goods supplied over which the Corporation had no control and in that view of the matter the State of Assam was a necessary party.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, the recipient of goods, namely, the buyer being disclosed principal of the Corporation, the respondent as a principal of the Corporation could maintain a suit as against the actual buyer only.(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions of the 1993 Act for payment of interest, are not applicable in view of the fact that the same applies only to a buyer of any goods or recipient of a service from a supplier for a consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further Clause 8 of the terms and conditions of the orders for supply provide that no interest can be claimed for delay in payment.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
In the entire plaint, the respondent has admitted that it is bound by the terms and conditions of supply and in particular Clause 8 therof and, thus, it does not lie in its mouth now to contend, as has been done in the counteraffidavit filed before this Court, that the said clause is illegal and of no effect being opposed to public policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pravir Choudhary, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, on the other hand, would submit that both the 1989 Act and the 1993 Act are beneficial legislations.	Arguments of Respondent
The 1989 Act having been enacted by the State of Assam for granting certain reliefs to the SSI units as a part of its industrial policy, the terms and conditions of the agreement as also the conditions of supply shall be subservient thereto and, thus, to the extent the same is inconsistent with the Scheme, the later will prevail.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the provisions contained in the 1989 Act and the scheme, it will appear that the Corporation exercises a total control  from quality to pricing to indenting and, thus, the expressions used in the agreement as principal and agent will have no bearing.	Arguments of Respondent
An agent as is commonly understood cannot have a control over the principal.	Arguments of Respondent
As its agreement was with the Corporation, and the orders were all placed by the Corporation and as it had no privity with the departments of the State who received delivery of the goods, the Corporation is liable to pay the price with interest.20.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the fact that the respondent had no privity of contract with different departments of the Government, they were not necessary parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance in this behalf has been placed on Balvant N. Viswamitra and Others v. Yadav Sadashiv Mule (Dead) Through LRS.	Arguments of Respondent
Others, V (2004) SLT 136(2004) 8 SCC 706.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the statute and the scheme as also the guidelines issued, the question of the respondent waiving its right thereunder does not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
The 1993 Act, it was submitted, being also a beneficient statute, the same should be construed liberally.	Arguments of Respondent
The Act, Mr. Choudhary would argue, will thus, have a retrospective effect.	Arguments of Respondent
THE EFFECT OF THE 1989 ACT The 1989 Act indisputably is a beneficient legislation.	None
There was a purpose behind enacting it.	None
It was primarily enacted so as to enable the State to effectively perform a sovereign function namely health care.	None
The Marketing Assistance Scheme being appended to the provisions of the Act and marked as AnnexureA thereto forms a part of the Act.	None
The scheme envisages pervasive control over the manufacturers including quality control of the production.	None
Guidelines which were to be strictly adhered to by the authorities, as noticed hereinbefore, had also been issued by the State.	None
Such guidelines having fulfilled the requirements of Article 166 of the Constitution of India were required to be followed by the Corporation.	None
The order for supply of stores, the provisions of the agreement and the terms and conditions of supply, therefore, cannot be read in isolation.	None
They must be read in conjunction with the provisions of the Act, the scheme and the guidelines issued thereunder.	None
The provision in the scheme relating to indenting envisages that the purchasing authorities will issue indent to the Corporation for the required products with 90 advance whereupon the Corporation would immediately allot the work to the most suitable unit or units to complete supply within the stipulated time.	None
In the event, such supplies are not made within the specified time, the supplier would be subjected to penalty.	None
In view of the fact that the supplying authority will have to send advance of 90, the Corporation owes a duty to release payment upto 90 on completion of supply.	None
If the Corporation had not taken the advance in terms of the provisions of the scheme, it acted at its own peril.	None
It is not disputed that the respondent did not commit any breach or any irregularity in regard to the supplies.	None
Once the supply of the goods was completed, having regard to the Clause aforementioned, the Corporation was bound to release the payment upto 90 in view of the fact that the purchasing authorities were also obligated to issue indent to the Corporation with 90 advance.	None
If such advance had not been given, the Corporation in terms of the scheme should not have issued the indent.	None
It may be true that the terms and conditions appended with each order of supply stipulate that payment would be made subject to receipt of the fund from the indenting department.	None
But, the scheme, guidelines, the agreement as also the terms and conditions for supply of stores, if read as a whole, the only meaning which can be attributed thereto would be in relation to the 10 of the amount which the Corporation was to realize from the supplying authorities upon submission of bill by the manufacturer.	None
The said term has nothing to do with payment of 90 advance in accordance with the provision of the Scheme.	None
Clause 8 of the terms and conditions of order of supply refers to a stage when after execution of the order a bill is submitted and payment thereof, i.e., 10 of the balance amount only would be subject to the receipt of the fund from the indenting department.	Arguments of Petitioner
So read, Clause 8 may not be held to be opposed to public policy but it cannot be read in isolation.	None
It cannot be read in such a manner so as to destroy or defeat the very purpose for which the Act or the Scheme was enacted.	None
It cannot be read as laying down a term which would run contrary to the guidelines.	None
The expressions principal and agent used in a document are not decisive.	None
The nature of transaction is required to be determined on the basis of the substance there and not by the nomenclature used.	Reasoning
Documents are to be construed having regard to the contexts thereof wherefor labels may not be of much relevance.	Reasoning
The 1989 Act, the scheme and the guidelines postulate constitution of a State Board for the purpose of monitoring supplies to various departments of the State, the Government Corporations and the companies.	Reasoning
The Managing Director of the Corporation is a Member of the Board in terms of the provisions of the 1989 Act.	Reasoning
The Corporation was created for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of the Act and the scheme framed thereunder.	Reasoning
It is a statutory body and is a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
The contract by and between the parties being a statutory one, the Corporation was required to act fairly and reasonably.	Reasoning
The principal purpose of the Act was to give encouragement to the growth of industries in the State of Assam and patronizing the products of small scale and cottage industries on preferential basis.	Reasoning
The 1989 Act contemplates acts which would be for the betterment of the SSI units and not acts which would be detrimental to their interest.	Reasoning
The terms used in the agreement must, therefore, be understood in that perspective.	Reasoning
In Chairman, Life Insurance Corporation and Others v. Rajiv Kumar Bhasker, V (205) SLT 5672005 AIR SC 3636, a Bench of this Court opined Agency as is wellsettled, is a legal concept which is employed by the Court when it becomes necessary to explain and resolve the problems created by certain fact situation.	None
In other words, when the existence of an agency relationship would help to decide an individual problem, and the facts permit a Court to conclude that such a relationship existed at a material time, then whether or not any express or implied consent to the creation of an agency may have been given by one party to another, the Court is entitled to conclude that such relationship was in existence at the time, and for the purpose in question.	None
See Establishing Agency by GHL Fridman 1968 (84) Law Quarterly Review 224 at p 231.	None
It is no longer in doubt or dispute that while interpreting the terms of agreement, it is necessary to look to the substance of the matter rather than its form.	Reasoning
Use of a terminology may not be sufficient to lead to a conclusion that the parties to the contract in fact intended that the said status would be conferred.	Reasoning
In The Bhopal Sugar Industries Ltd. v. Sales Tax Officer, Bhopal, (1977) 3 SCC 147 , a 3Judge Bench of this Court referred to the dicta laid down by this Court in Sri Tirumala Venkateswara Timber and Bamboo Firm v. Commercial Tax Officer, Rajahmundry, (1968) 2	None
SCR 476 , wherein the law has been laid down in the following terms As a matter of law there is a distinction between a contract of sale and a contract of agency by which the agent is authorised to sell or buy on behalf of the principal.	None
The essence of a contract of sale is the transfer of title to the goods for a price paid or promised to be paid.	None
The transferee in such a case is liable to the transferor as a debtor for the price to be paid and not as agent for the proceeds of the sale.	None
The essence of agency to sell is the delivery of the goods to a person who is to sell them, not as his own property but as the property of the principal who continues to be the owner of the goods and will therefore be liable to account for the sale proceeds.	None
It was opined It is clear from the observations made by this Court that the true relationship of the parties in such a case has to be gathered from the nature of the contract, its terms and conditions, and the terminology used by the parties is not decisive of the said relationship.	None
This Court relied on a decision in W.T. Lamb and Sons v.Goring Brick Company Ltd. where despite the fact that the buyer was designated as sole selling agent, the Court held that it was a contract of sale.	None
In certain circumstances, even an agent can become a purchaser where an agent pays to the principal on its own responsibility.	None
See Gordon Woodroffe and Co. (Madras) Ltd. v. Shaik M.A. Majid and Co., AIR 1967 SC 181 .	None
Law contemplates different types of agency.	Reasoning
Under the Contract Act, the concept of del credere agent is wellknown.	Reasoning
A del credere agent assumes responsibility for the solvency and performance of their contract by the vendees and, thus, indemnifies his employer against loss.	Reasoning
He gives an additional security to the seller.	Reasoning
See Bowstead Reynolds on Agency, 17th Edition, para 1038.	None
However, it is not necessary to dilate thereupon as the status of the parties herein must be determined in terms of the provisons of the 1989 Act.32.	None
The 1989 Act makes a statutory provision beyond the concept of agency as contained in the Contract Act.	Reasoning
It is a special statute.	Reasoning
In terms thereof the respondent was not required to pay any commission to the Corporation, though the Corporation was described as agent of the respondent under the agreement.	Reasoning
5 commission was to be paid to the Corporation by the purchasing authorities.	Reasoning
The provisions of the 1989 Act, thus, should be given full effect.	Reasoning
The status of the parties must not, thus, be determined as to how they have described themselves but having regard to the substance of the transaction as envisaged under the Act and the scheme framed, which as noticed hereinbefore, is as a part of the Act.33.	Reasoning
As a statutory agency came into being by and between the purchasing authorities and the Corporation in terms whereof the Corporation not only exercised the control in relation to the entire supply of materials, as a part of the statutory scheme, it also undertook to collect the price of the goods supplied from the purchasing authorities and pay the same to the manufacturers subject, of course, to the payment of its commission which would be a substantial amount.	Reasoning
Under the scheme, the purchasing authorities had a duty to pay 90 of the price before the Corporation makes an indent and, thus, the latter had a statutory duty to realize the same before an indent is made, as also the remaining 10 when supplies are completed.	Reasoning
If the payment was to be made by the Corporation to the respondent both under the contract as also in terms of the statutory provision, it cannot now turn round and contend that it was not part of its duty and leave the matter at that.	Reasoning
It was obligated having regard to the statutory scheme on the part of the Corporation to realize the price for the consideration of the goods supplied.	Reasoning
It was not constituted merely to act as a conduit pipe.	Reasoning
It was bound to perform its statutory duties envisaged under the 1989 Act.34.	Reasoning
Furthermore, it is one thing to say that the respondent delivered goods without receiving 90 of the indented amount but it is another thing to say that it has waived its right.	Reasoning
No case of waiver of statutory duty has been made out.	Reasoning
Nothing has been pointed before us that the respondent gave up its claim to receive the amount directly from the Corporation.	Reasoning
Its conduct suggests contra.	Reasoning
The respondent for a period of about two years made those supplies and had been asking the Corporation to make its payment and, as noticed hereinbefore, the respondent filed a suit at the earliest possible opportunity.	Reasoning
Even during last 12 years, the Corporation made no effort to realize the amount from the State and pay the same to a small scale industry for whose benefit the 1989 Act was enacted.	Reasoning
It had shown utter despondency and behaved in a cavalier manner taking umbrage under specious plea that the State was a necessary party.	Reasoning
There was no privity of contract between the Corporation and the purchasing authorities.	Reasoning
All payment of the purchasing authorities were to be channelised through the Corporation.	Reasoning
Having regard to the transactions between the parties as also the Scheme and the Act, we are of the opinion that the State of Assam was not a necessary party.35.	Reasoning
In terms of the agreement between the parties hereto, the State of Assam would not be a necessary party but merely be a proper party.	Reasoning
In Balvant N. Viswamitra (supra) a distinction has been made between a proper party and a necessary party in the following terms It was contended by learned Counsel for the respondents that the respondents were not made the partydefendants in the suit and hence no decree could have been passed nor could be executed against them.	None
We are afraid we cannot uphold the contention.	None
It is the case of the plaintiffs that the property was let to Papamiya.	None
It is not even the case of the respondents that they were the tenants of the plaintiffs.	None
They are claiming through Papamiya.	None
At the most, therefore, they can be said to be subtenants i.e. tenants of Papamiya.	None
There was no privity of contract between the landlord and the respondents.	None
In our opinion, therefore, it was not necessary for the plaintiffs to join the respondents as defendants in the suit nor to give notice to them before initiation of the proceedings.	None
The respondents cannot be said to be necessary party to the proceedings.26.	None
As held by this Court in Udit Narain Singh Malpaharia v. Addl.	None
Member, Board of Revenue, Bihar8, there is a distinction between necessary party and proper party.	None
In that case, the Court said (SCR p. 681)The law on the subject is well settled it is enough if we state the principle.	None
A necessary party is one without whom no order can be made effectively a proper party is one in whose absence an effective order can be made but whose presence is necessary for a complete and final decision on the question involved in the proceeding.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
We respectfully adopt the same.	None
The Corporation for all intent and purport having undertaken the liability of the purchasing authorities would also be liable for all consequences arising from nonpayment of the price of the goods supplied.	None
We may summarise the effect of the 1989 Act, the marketing support scheme of the Corporation, the O.M. dated 28.3.1988 referred to in Section 7(1)(iii) of the 1989 Act, and the agreement between the Corporation and the respondent, as follows The Corporation had to collect 90 of the value of the orders placed by the purchasing departments, in advance, and release the said 90 to the respondent on supply.	None
This obligation is a statutory obligation having regard to the provisions of Section 7(1)(c) of the 1989 Act read with Clause 4 of the O.M. dated 28.3.1988 and the Clause relating to indenting contained in the Marketing Assistance Scheme.	None
This would mean that if the Corporation accepts indents from Government departments without 90 advance and chooses to place corresponding supply orders on the respondent, it (the Corporation) is liable to pay the said 90 to the respondent on supply whether the Corporation chose to receive payment from the indenting departments or not.	None
Though the respondent is described as the principal and the Corporation is described as the agent in the agreement dated 19.10.1990 between the respondent and the Corporation, the Corporation was not entitled to receive any commission or remuneration or consideration from the respondent for the orders procured placed.	None
It is entitled to receive the commission (at the rate of 5 of the price) only from the indenting departments.	None
The Corporation, thus, acted as the agent of both the respondentsupplier and the Indenting Government Departments and took the responsibility of paying the price to the respondent.	None
In fact, under Clause 6 of the agreement, the respondent specifically authorised the Corporation to raise bills of sale on behalf of the respondent, either disclosing or without disclosing the name of the respondent, and collect the payment from the buyer department.	None
The said Clause also specifically contemplates the Corporation releasing 90 of the value of the material on delivery and acceptance, and payment of balance of 10 after receipt of full payment from the purchasing department.	None
As noticed above, the statutory scheme and the O.M. required the Corporation to receive the 90 payment in advance along with the indents from the purchasing departments and any relaxation by the Corporation of that provision was done at its own risk.	None
APPLICABILITY OF THE 1993 ACT We have held hereinbefore that Clause 8 of the terms and conditions relate to the payments of balance 10.	None
It is not in dispute that the plaintiff had demanded both the principal amount as also the interest from the Corporation.	Reasoning
Section 3 of the 1993 Act imposes a statutory liability upon the buyer to make payment for the supplies of any goods either on or before the agreed date or where there is no agreement before the appointed day.	Reasoning
Only when payments are not made in terms of Section 3, Section 4 would apply.	Reasoning
The 1993 Act came into effect with effect from 23.9.1992 and will not apply to transactions which took place prior to that date.	Reasoning
We find that out of the 71 suit transactions,	Reasoning
Sl. Nos.1 to 26 (referred to in penultimate para of the Trial Court judgment), that is supply orders between 5.6.1991 to 28.7.1992, were prior to the date of 1993 Act coming into force.	Reasoning
Only the transactions at Sl.	Reasoning
No. 27 to 71 (that is supply orders between 22.10.1992 to 19.6.1993).	Reasoning
will attract the provisions of the 1993 Act.40.	Reasoning
The 1993 Act, thus, will have no application in relation to the transactions entered into between June, 1991 and 23.9.1992.	Reasoning
The Trial Court as also the High Court, therefore, committed a manifest error in directing payment of interest at the rate of 23 upto June, 1991 and 23.5 thereafter.	Reasoning
Mr. Choudhary has placed reliance upon a Full Bench decision of Guwahati High Court in Assam State Electricity Board Ors.	None
v. M s. Shanti Conductors (P) Ltd.	None
Anr., 2002 (1) GLT 547 , which having regard to the non obstante Clause contained in Sections 4, 5 and 10 of the 1993 Act opined that interest payable thereunder shall embrace within its fold even the contracts which might have been entered into prior to the enforcement of the Act stating However, in such a case interest on the delayed payment which is made after the coming into force of the Act of 1993 would be calculated under the Act from the date of the enforcement of the Act and not from the date of payment prescribed under the agreement.	None
With respect, we do not subscribe to the said view as payment of interest at an enhanced rate cannot be made in relation to the transactions where Section 3 will have no role to play.	Reasoning
We, therefore, are of the opinion that in relation to the transactions made prior to coming into force of the said Act, simple interest at the rate of 9 per annum, which was the bank rate at the relevant time, shall be payable both prior to date of filing of the suit and pendente lite and as future interest in terms of Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Decision
Interest, however, will be payable in terms of the provisions of the 1993 Act (compound interest at the rate of 23.5 per annum) in relation to the transactions made after coming into force of the Act, both in respect of interest payable upto the date of institution of the suit and pendente lite and till realisation.	Decision
The judgment and decree to that extent requires to be modified.	Decision
It is directed accordingly.44.	Decision
The appeal is, therefore, allowed in part in regard to interest and to the extent mentioned hereinbefore.	Decision
The Corporation shall bear the costs of the respondent in this appeal.	Decision
Counsels fee is assessed at Rs. 25,000/.	None
