 Harjit Singh Bedi, J. These appeals are directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh at Shimla whereby the order of the Presiding Officer of the Employees Provident Fund Appellate Tribunal dated 15th December 1999 has been upheld and the direction issued thereunder to remand the case for the redetermination of the contribution with respect to the liability of the appellant Corporation has been maintained.	Issue
The facts are as under2.	Facts
The Appellant Corporation (hereinafter called the Corporation) which is a company registered under the Companies Act, came into existence on 1st April, 1974.	Facts
Proceedings for the deposit of the provident fund under the provisions of the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 (hereinafter called the Act) were initiated by the issuance of a notice dated 12th December 1988 under section 7A of the Act for determination of the amounts due from the Corporation.	Facts
This notice pertained to the period 198288.	None
The Corporation, through its Regional Manager, contended, interalia, that the provisions of the Act were not applicable to it inasmuch as it was not an industrial establishment in terms of section 2(e) of the Industrial Employment (Standing Order) Act, 1964 nor under section 25(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner however in his order dated 14th July 1999 took the view that the Corporation was covered under Section 1(4) of the Act as it had voluntarily submitted to its coverage and had been allotted a provident fund code number as well.	Facts
The Commissioner then went into the question as to whether the persons employed by the contractor could be said to be the employees of the Corporation and hence entitled to the benefits of the Act and after examining the matter threadbare concluded that the said employees were in fact employees of the Corporation and therefore subject to the provisions of the Act and also drew up an assessment of the amounts due from the Corporation.	Facts
An appeal was thereafter preferred before the Presiding Officer, Employees Provident Fund Appellate Tribunal wherein similar contentions were raised by the Corporation.	Facts
The Tribunal in its order of 15th December 1999 held that the Corporation was indeed covered by the provisions of the Act but on the facts of the case opined that as the matter was stale and pertained to the year 1982, it would be appropriate that the matter be remitted to the Commissioner for redetermination of the amount due and for this purpose issued the following guidelinesIn view of the above discussions, the appeal is fit to be partly allowed and the case to be remanded back for redetermination of the dues with reference to the identifiable employees only.	Facts
The appellant cannot be pressed to produce such records which under any Statute they are not made liable to maintain or which they are authorized to destroy because of expiry date.	Facts
The appellants are directed to produce all the records in their possession for the disputed period and explain satisfactorily for those which they cannot produce.	Facts
Contractors may be summoned if the appellant make a prayer for that and give full details.	Facts
However, it is the appellants liability to maintain the records and produce them as held by the Honble Supreme Court.	Facts
Both the appeals are partly allowed.	Facts
Coverage of the appellant in respect of contractors employees is held valid.	Facts
The determination portion of the impugned order is set aside.	Facts
The case is remanded back for redetermination after giving reasonable opportunity to the appellants to prove their case.	Facts
The Corporation then filed a Writ Petition in the High Court impugning the order of the Commissioner the Appellate Tribunal but vide order dated 29th November 2000, the High Court upheld the order of the Tribunal and dismissed the Writ Petition.	Facts
It is in these circumstances that the matter is before us.	Facts
Mr. M.N. Rao, the learned senior counsel for the appellant has at the outset very fairly pointed out that as of today and in the light of the fact that the Corporation itself had voluntarily submitted that it was covered by the provisions of the Act the question of a dispute with regard to the liability of the Corporation was now largely academic, but has pleaded that as the employees in question were seasonal employees and the matter pertained to a long gone period i.e. 198298, the record pertaining to the employees was not available either with the Corporation or with the Contractors and that in many a case those who stood to benefit were not even traceable, it would be appropriate that the impugned orders be quashed as they would not serve any useful purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has also been pleaded that although there was no limit prescribed under the Act within which proceedings under section 7A could be initiated, but under the broad principle that a reasonable period ought to be read into the Statute, the present delay of 16 years from 1982 could not be justified.	None
The learned counsel for the respondents has, however, argued that the Tribunal and the High Court had granted a limited relief to the employees inasmuch that the examination of the claim was to be limited only to those employees who could be identified and that as the authorities below had exercised their authority with respect to a beneficent legislation for the weaker sections, it would be inappropriate to interfere with the impugned orders.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and gone through the record.	Reasoning
We do appreciate that the inaction on the part of the Commissioner to initiate proceedings within a reasonable time, has to be deplored.	Reasoning
However, as the Corporation has itself submitted that it was covered under the Act and in view of the limited relief granted by the authorities below and by the High Court, we are disinclined to interfere with the matter at this stage.	Reasoning
We accordingly dismiss the appeals but reiterate the recommendation that the amounts due from the Corporation will be determined only with respect to those employees who are identifiable and whose entitlement can be proved on the evidence and that in the event the record is not available with the Corporation (at this belated stage), it would not be obliged to explain its loss, or that any adverse inference be drawn on this score.	Decision
With this very small modification, we dismiss the appeals.	Decision
