 R. Lakshmanan, J. Leave granted in the special leave petitions.	None
Civil Appeal No. 1726 of 2005 and 119 special leave petitions (now civil appeals) have been filed by the Employees State Insurance Corporation (in short the Corporation) against the common final judgment and order dated 16.03.2004 passed by the Division Bench of High Court at Calcutta in APO No. 124 of 2001.	Issue
Civil Appeal No. 1726 of 2005 arises out of the writ petition filed by Jardine Henderson Staff Association and Others wherein they challenged the Notification dated 23.12.1996.	None
The Notification was issued by the Union of India by which the Central Government amended Rules 50, 51 and 54 of the Employees State Insurance (Central) Rules, 1950, pursuant to which the wage limit for coverage of an employee under Section 2(9)(b) of the Employees State Insurance Act (in short the Act) was enhanced from Rs. 3,000/ to Rs. 6,500/ instead of the existing wage ceiling of Rs.	Issue
3,000/ p.m. Various Employees Associations challenged the Notification.	Issue
They prayed for quashing the Notification and also, in some of the appeals, for declaring the Amended Rules as ultra vires.	Issue
Petitions were filed mostly by the Employees Union both in the original side and the appellate side of the High Court at Calcutta.	Issue
A learned Single Judge of the High Court disposed off all the writ petitions by a common judgment and order, by quashing the amendment of the Rules of 1950 with the result that there was no enhancement of wage ceiling.	Facts
About 63 appeals were filed by the Corporation as well as by the Union of India against that part of the order by which the amendment was quashed.	Facts
No appeals and or cross appeals were filed by any of the writ petitioners.	Facts
Therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court, by the impugned common judgment, allowed the appeals and set aside the judgment of the learned Single Judge of the High Court.	Facts
The High Court held that the enhancement could not be termed as ultra vires for the purpose of the Act or being inconsistent therewith as held by the learned Single Judge.	Facts
The High Court further held that all interim orders passed in this connection, inter alia, staying the operation of the said enhancement are vacated.	Facts
However, the High Court did not stop at that, but, proceeded to direct that the employers who had stay order in their favour, will implement the amendment only from the date of the impugned judgment of the High Court dated 16.03.2004 though the amendment came into operation w.e.f. 01.01.1997.	Facts
The Corporation, being aggrieved of this direction of the High Court giving liberty to the employers to comply with the Notification on and from 16.03.2004, preferred the above civil appeals.	None
The High Court also gave liberty to the employers to apply for exemption and directed the State Government to dispose off the same within two months.	Facts
Mr. C.S. Rajan, learned senior counsel ably assisted by Mr. V.J. Francis, learned Counsel argued the case on behalf of the Corporation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rajan submitted that the condition imposed by the Division Bench of the High Court is not proper for the reason that once the Notification is enforced, the applicability of the same will be from the date of Notification and not from any future date.	Arguments of Petitioner
This submission, according to him, was upheld by this Court in the case of Employees State Insurance Corporation v. Kerala State Handloom Development Corporation Employees Union (CITU), Kannur, Dist.	Arguments of Petitioner
Kannur, Kerala and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1995)IILLJ17SC and that the interim orders passed at different stages will not have any effect on the applicability and enforceability.	Arguments of Petitioner
4.	None
Mr. Rajan further argued that the principle of prospective overruling was laid down for the first time by this Court in the case of I.C. Golak Nath and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. State of Punjab and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
19672SCR762 and applied by this Court in a series of decisions till now, will not be applicable to the present case coming under the Act for various reasons.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another Constitution Bench of this Court reiterating the above principles has also observed in the case of Managing Director, ECIL, Hyderabad and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. B. Karunakar and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1994)ILLJ162SC as under It is now well settled that the courts can make the law laid down by them prospective in operation to prevent unsettlement of the settled positions, to prevent administrative chaos and to meet the ends of justice	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Rajan, the law is well settled in this case i.e. the upward revision from Rs.400/ p.m. in the ceiling of wages has been upheld by various High Courts and also by this Court inasmuch as that with the upward revision more employees will be eligible to the benefits under the Act and they will have to make a little contribution 1.75 from their wages every month.	Arguments of Petitioner
The employees share is to the extent of 4.75 p.m. under Rule 51 of the Employees State Insurance (Central) Rules, 1950.	Arguments of Petitioner
The law is also settled to the effect that once interim stay is granted with regard to the operation of the new law, and the writ petition is dismissed subsequently, the operation of the law will relate back to the original date of enforcement and, therefore, there is nothing in this case to unsettle the settled law which would have effect on past transactions and, therefore, it is not necessary to bring in the principle.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, in this case, the Act is made applicable for giving medical benefits to all those employees only, whose wages do not exceed the prescribed limit notified by the Central Government as stated above.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case, there was no dispute about the applicability of the Act but the question was about the ceiling limit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reason, as pointed out above, is to give benefits to more number of employees.	Arguments of Petitioner
The employees will not get benefit unless the proper machinery are set up for the purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
That cannot be done overnight but over a period of years.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this context, the observations made by this Court in Gasket Radiators Pvt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ltd. v. Employees State Insurance Corporation and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1985)ILLJ506SC was relied on as relevant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel relies upon the following observations from that case In fact, it may often happen that the rendering of a service or the conferment of a benefit may only follow after the consolidation of a fund from the fee levied.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hospitals, for instance, cannot be built in a day nor medical facilities provided right from the day of the commencement of the scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only after a sufficient nucleus is available that one may reasonably expect a compensating return.	Arguments of Petitioner
X X X Therefore, whether the special contribution is to be viewed as a tax, fee or neither it has sufficient constitutional protection.	Arguments of Petitioner
While replying to the arguments advanced by learned Counsel for the respondents that many employees have retired from service or have left the company or organisation, as according to Mr. Rajan, has no relevance because the liability under the Act continues till the date of employment of the employee concerned, or till the closure of the establishment.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is also settled by this Court in the case of Employees State Insurance Corporation v. Hotel Kalpaka International (1993)ILLJ939SC . 8.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Division Bench has also noticed that the Corporation has to spend approximately Rs.800/ p.a.	Arguments of Petitioner
for each insured employee who has to be given the benefit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Naturally, therefore, once the machinery is set up it must keep going and its functioning cannot be stopped merely because some employees approach the High Court and has obtained stay against extending the benefits to more employees.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	Arguments of Petitioner
While answering the complaint of efficiency of the ESIC Health System as not up to the mark comparing it with other large hospitals in the country, Mr. Rajan submitted that large hospitals are not available in every part of the country and it is at that moment the need of an ESI Hospital comes into picture.	Arguments of Petitioner
It can never be said at that time that the ESI machinery will not be useful.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also well known that the ESI Hospital which is run in a remote area also makes reference of a serious case to a big hospital at the cost of the Corporation and for that purpose a share from the wages of the employees is not deducted and for this purpose there is no limit with regard to the wages earned by the insured employees.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rajan also made reference to the principles laid down by this Court in the case of Employees State Insurance Corporation v. All India ITDC Employees Union and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2006)IILLJ547SC wherein this Court had accepted, on principle, the submission of the Corporation that it is not open to the High Court that the Notification has to operate prospectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the law in this respect has been reiterated by this Court in the said ruling of this Court and the appellant also relies on the said ruling which is the latest judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Rajan the amounts that are collected by the Corporation goes into the fund maintained under Section 26 of the Act and the same is utilized as contemplated under Section 28 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is laid down in the case of Hotel Kalpaka International (supra) as under Under Section 26 of the Act all contributions are paid into a common fund.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a fund will have to be administered for the purposes of the Act as indicated under Section 28.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the employer cannot contend that he did not collect the employees contribution and hence, he cannot be called upon to pay.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that the principle of unjust enrichment as enunciated by this Court in the case of Mafatlal Industries Ltd. and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Union of India and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
1997(89)ELT247(SC) will not be applicable to this case because this is not a case where there has been any illegal collection of any levy on the basis of an enhancement, which was declared unconstitutional and illegal by the Courts due to which the party who collected the amount had to refund the amount or otherwise it would have become an unjust enrichment.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also pointed out that this Court has noticed in the case of Bharagath Engineering v. R. Ranganayaki and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2003)ILLJ558SC that even after the death of the insured employee who survived for a day, and even before the registration with the Corporation, his dependants are entitled to receive the benefit under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it is submitted that the benefits that are granted under the Act are unique.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, if any employee or employer makes a claim that they are giving better benefits, then it is open to that party to apply to the appropriate Government for exemption under any of the provisions of ChapterVIII of the Act, i.e. Sections 87 to 91A. That only means that the liability of both the employee and the employer under the Act continue till the law takes its course as provided under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rajan, therefore, submitted that all the 120 appeals filed by the Corporation against the common judgment of the High Court are fit to be allowed with such directions as this Court may be inclined to give which will have the effect under Article 141 of the Constitutional of India. 12.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents, we heard the arguments of Mr. Gaurab Kumar Banerjee, learned senior counsel, Mr. P.H.Parekh, Mr. Gaurav Agrawal, Mr. Avijit Bhattacharjee learned Counsel, Mr. Pradip Ghosh, Mr. Kailash Vasdev, learned Senior counsel, Mr. E.C.Agrawala, Mr. K.V. Viswanathan, Mr. Rauf Rahim, Mr. Suresh Kumar, Dr. Sumeet Bhardwaj, Mr. Vipin Gogia, Mr. Maninder Singh, Ms. Meera Mathur, Mr. Deepak Sabharwal, Mr. Chiraranjan Addey, Mr. Rajindra Dhawan, Ms. Anitha Shenoy, Mr. A. Bhattacharya, Mr. Rana Mukherjee, Mr. Arun Kumar Sinha, Mr. K.V. Mohan, Ms. Kumud Lata Das, Mr. Sushil Kumar Jain, Mr. Bharat Sangal, Mr. Jatin Zaveri, Mr. Pradeep Misra, Mr. Vairav Gaggar, Mr. Ghanshyam Joshi, learned Counsel and Mr. R. Venkatramani, learned senior counsel for their respective parties.	None
M s Jardine Henderson Ltd. submitted a statement of expenditure for medical expenses incurred by the Company on the staff, during the period from the year 20012004.	Arguments of Respondent
Likewise, other respondents have also filed statement of submissions in the form of affidavit on behalf of their parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Lagan Jute Machinery Company Limited respondent No. 14 in SLP (Civil) No. 19454 of 2004 in APO No. 80 of 2001 submitted its submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted by learned Counsel for the said Company that the Company was prevented by orders of Court from making deductions for ESI contribution from wages and salaries of the employees.	Arguments of Respondent
These orders were passed in writ petitions filed by the Employees Unions and in view of the injunction order dated 22.05.1997 passed by the Calcutta High Court, the Company was prevented from deducting ESI contribution and thus was prevented from making any payment to ESI.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to provide medical facilities and benefits to the employees, the Company entered into a Settlement Agreement with the Employees Union under which the company has incurred a total expense of Rs.97,06,000/ for the period 1997 2004 till the time of passing of the impugned order.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that in the event the respondentCompany was liable to pay ESI contribution, the total payment would have been approximate at Rs. 33 lacs.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, as against a total expenditure of Rs.33 lacs under the ESI, the respondent has incurred an expense of Rs. 97 lacs for providing medical facilities.	Arguments of Respondent
After the impugned judgment in the year 2004, the respondentCompany is making payment of ESI contribution.	Arguments of Respondent
In these circumstances, it is submitted by learned Counsel that the respondent should not be made liable to make payment from the period 19972004 to the Corporation and that the order passed by the Calcutta High Court is just and fair in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
M s Philips India Limited  respondent Nos. 8 9 (arising out of APO No. 82 of 2001) also filed their statement.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jay Savla, learned Counsel submitted that in the year 1999, a Memorandum of Settlement was arrived at between this Company and the Workmen Union and by virtue of the said Memorandum, benefits extended to the employees were far superior in comparison to the medical benefits extended under the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The Memorandum of Settlement has also been annexed as AnnexureR2 with the counter affidavit filed by them.	Arguments of Respondent
The said settlement was amended in the year 2000 and thereafter in 2002 (AnnexureR3).	Arguments of Respondent
He made the following legal submissions a) the Division Bench while upholding the Notification has held that the same would apply from the date of the judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
The said observation, according to the learned Counsel, is justified in view of the following legal submissions Principles of Act us Curiae Neminem Gravabit  	Arguments of Respondent
No party shall be prejudiced for the act of Court.	None
It is submitted that interim stay order was granted on 25.03.97 which continued till the passing of the Division Bench judgment dated 16.3.2004.	Arguments of Respondent
By the interim order, the respondents were restrained from deducting the contribution required to be deposited with the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, the respondents were directed to continue to provide existing medical benefits.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Section 39 of the ESI Act employees contribution is to be deducted from their salary.	Arguments of Respondent
The contribution by the employer is to be made as per Rule 51 of The Employees State Insurance (Central) Rules, 1950 which is given below.	Arguments of Respondent
Rule 51 of the Employees State Insurance (Central) Rules, 1950 is as follows Rates of contribution The amount of contribution for a wage period shall be in respect of (a) employers contribution, a sum (rounded to the next higher multiple of five paise) equal to four and threefourth per cent of the wages payable to an employee and (b) employees contribution, a sum (rounded to the next higher multiple of five paise) equal to one and three fourth per cent of the wages payable to an employee.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of interim stay order which continued for almost seven years, the employers were restrained from making any deduction.	Arguments of Respondent
Whereas, the employers continued to provide satisfactory medical benefits to its employees.	Arguments of Respondent
The said interim order was not appealed or challenged by the Corporation nor was it stayed during the pendency of the appeal before the Division Bench.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that with the passage of time several employees would have left the organization and to deduct the employees contribution from their salary is not workable.	Arguments of Respondent
In the matter of Rajesh D. Darbar and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Narasingrao Krishnaji Kulkari and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(2003)7SCC219 , this Court held that where the nature of relief, as originally sought, has become obsolete or unserviceable on account of developments subsequent to the suit or even during appellate stage, it is unfair that the relief is moulded, varied or reshaped in the light of the updated facts.	Arguments of Respondent
In the matter of Mohammed Gazi v. State of M.P. 20002SCR871 , the facts were that on account of litigation initiated by one of the respondents, the appellant was prevented from taking benefit of the acceptance of his tender notice.	Arguments of Respondent
For no fault of his, the appellant was prevented from collecting the tendu leaves.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court directed that a sum of Rs. 30,000/ be deducted from the earnest money of the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a direction was not sustained by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The maxim of equity which is founded upon justice and good sense was applied as well as other maxim lex non cogit ad impossibilia the law does not compel a man to do what he cannot possibly perform.	Arguments of Respondent
The applicability of the aforesaid maxim has been approved by this Court in Raj Kumar Dey v. Tarapada Dey (supra) and Gursharan Singh v. New Delhi Municipal Committee (supra).	Reasoning
Prospective applicability overruling of the Judgment It is well settled that declaration of law can be made prospective i.e. operative from the date of the judgment.	None
This Court in several decisions has laid down the law and declared it to be operative only prospectively.	Arguments of Respondent
The Constitution Bench of this Court in the matter of Somaiya Organics (India) Ltd. and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. State of U.P. and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
reported in 2001251ITR20(SC) has discussed at length the principles of Prospective overruling which are enunciated in the following paras In the ultimate analysis, prospective overruling, despite the terminology, is only a recognition of the principle that the court moulds the reliefs claimed to meet the justice of the case justice not in its logical but in its equitable sense.	Arguments of Respondent
As far as this country is concerned, the power has been expressly conferred by Article 142 of the Constitution which allows this Court to pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it.	Arguments of Respondent
In exercise of this power, this Court has often denied the relief claimed despite holding in the claimants favour in order to do complete justice.	Arguments of Respondent
Given this constitutional discretion, it was perhaps unnecessary to resort to any principle of prospective overruling, a view which was expressed in Narayanibai v. State of Maharashtra at p.470 and in Ashok Kumar Gupta v. State of U.P.	Arguments of Respondent
In the latter case, while dealing with the doctrine of prospective overruling, this Court said that it was a method evolved by the courts to adjust competing rights of parties so as to save transactions whether statutory or otherwise, that were effected by the earlier law.	Arguments of Respondent
According to this Court, it was a rule.	Arguments of Respondent
Of judicial craftsmanship with pragmatism and judicial statesmanship as a useful outline to bring about smooth transition of the operation of law without unduly affecting the rights of the people who acted upon the law operated prior to the date of the judgment overruling the previous law.	Arguments of Respondent
Ultimately, it is a question of this Courts discretion and is, for this reason, relatable directly to the words of the Court granting the relief.	Arguments of Respondent
In the matter of Harsh Dhingra v. State of Haryana and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
AIR2001SC3795 , this Court held as follows Prospective declaration of law is a device innovated by this Court to avoid reopening of settled issues and to prevent multiplicity of proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also a device adopted to avoid uncertainty and avoidable litigation.	Arguments of Respondent
By the very object of prospective declaration of law it is deemed that all actions taken contrary to the declaration of law, prior to the date of the declaration are validated.	Arguments of Respondent
This is done in larger public interest.	None
This proposition of prospective overruling has been followed in several other decisions as well.	None
Undue Hardship It is submitted that if the order of the Division Bench is not held to be operative prospectively, the same would cause grave and undue hardship to the employers including	Arguments of Respondent
M s Philips India Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Philips India Ltd. have not only extended medical benefits by spending huge amount but have further not deducted any amount statutorily required from the salary of the employees in view of interim prohibition order.	Arguments of Respondent
To direct the deposit of monies, for this period would amount to undue and grave hardship and would be inequitable to the employer.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Chiraranjan Addey, who is the counsel for respondent No. 3 in civil appeal (arising out SLP (C) Nos.	Arguments of Respondent
19447451/2004 made the following submissions According to the learned Counsel, the Company had spent by way of medical benefits for such employees who came outside the purview of the Act pursuant to stay order granted by the Court is estimated for the three establishments a sum of Rs. 30 lacs upto 16.03.2004 and that the employees who have retired from the respondentOrganization during this period of 7 years when the stay order of the Court was in operation had also availed of the benefit and, therefore, if the liability of the respondentCompany towards payment of ESI contribution is made retrospective, the employer will not be able to recover the contributions from the concerned employees and the employer will have to make both the employers and the employees contribution retrospectively, notwithstanding the fact that the company has incurred huge expenditure for granting liberal medical benefits as coverage of such employees was stayed.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out that the employers were not the petitioners in the writ court and the order was imposed upon them and the management was compelled to abide by the same and so far as the Corporation is concerned, they are in the most enviable position.	Arguments of Respondent
The Corporation took full advantage of the interim order and did not provide any benefit to the employees at all nor did they move to get the order vacated and yet now they are claiming the contributions for the past period which was covered by the said interim order of the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
That will be an unjust enrichment by the Corporation at the cost of the employers.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel also cited the following decisions for invoking the doctrine of prospective overruling Raymond Ltd. v. M.P. Electricity Board (2001) 1 SCC 534Managing Director, ECIL v. B. Karunakar (1994)ILLJ162SC (supra)	Arguments of Respondent
Ashok Kr.	None
Gupta v. State of U.P. 19973SCR269 Somaiya Organics Ltd. v. State of U.P. 2001251ITR20(SC) (supra) Sarwar Kumar v. M. Agarwal (2002) 4 SCC 147	Arguments of Respondent
In the light of the principles laid down in the aforesaid decisions with regard to the innovative concept of prospective overruling which are applicable also in matters arising out of statutory interpretation for the purpose of substantial justice in the exigencies of peculiar fact situations, the counsel requested this Court to uphold the decision of the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court and that this Court in any event under Article 142 of the Constitution may make such order as may be warranted in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case for doing complete justice.	Arguments of Respondent
M s. Gaurav Agrawal, E.C. Aggarwala, Jay Salve, C.R. Addy, A.N. Bardiayar and M s P.H. Parekh and Co. counsel for the appellants respectively made their submissions in SLP (Civil) Nos. 2085564, 1945357 etc.	Arguments of Respondent
they reiterated the submissions made in their special leave petitions and submitted that, asking the respondent to pay the contribution now will cause undue hardship by citing the decisions in Shree Cement v. State of Rajasthan AIR2000SC924 and British Physical Lab India Ltd. v. State of Karnataka (1999)1SCC170 .	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. K.V. Viswanathan, learned Counsel on behalf of respondent No. 1/CESC Ltd. in SLP (Civil) No. 1946619470 made lengthy submissions both on facts and on law.	Arguments of Respondent
A written submission was also made with details of the amounts paid and spent by the management on various items.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, around 14,000 employees of the Company availed the benefits each year during the period from 19962003 and an amount of Rs.55.30 crores was incurred by CESC Ltd. in providing such benefits visvis the cost incurred for providing such benefits was also furnished.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that, as a matter of fact, that on 03.08.2004 the appropriate authority had exempted CESC under Section 87 of the Act pursuant to the application filed in February, 1997 and in the proforma prescribed as on 18.11.1997.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that the delay in disposal of the application was solely due to the inaction on the part of the Appropriate Authority.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact as can be seen from the exemption order the Assistant Director, CESC had himself reported that CESC Ltd. has been providing free medical treatment domiciliary, round the clock emergency treatment, ambulatory facility, hospitalisation facilities irrespective of the cost involved to all the permanent employees including employees termed as apprentices trainees.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also noted that M s CESC Ltd. has tie up arrangements with 40 different reputed hospitals nursing homes in Kolkata and Howrah and that the organization runs as many as 24 dispensaries with 28 appointed doctors at the factory locations and has tieup arrangements with 36 investigation centers and 42 chemist shops.	Arguments of Respondent
The Assistant Director, in his report, has indicated that 98 specialists in and around Kolkata are empanelled for medical care of CESC employees.	Arguments of Respondent
The cost of spectacles, cervical collars, hearing aid etc. are also reimbursed to the employees.	Arguments of Respondent
After noticing this report that the prayer for granting of exemption under Section 87 of the Act for the permanent employee was granted and that this order has also been accepted by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
The factual situation that emerges according to Mr. K.V.Viswanathan, therefore, are as under Today CESC Ltd. pursuant to the application dated 03.02.1997 stands exempted by order dated 03.08.2004 under Section 87 of the Act During the period from 19972003 because of operation of the injunction order, it was not able to deduct contribution and pay its contribution.	None
Moreover, it extended medical facilities as directed by the interim order In the exemption application (page 86 of the paper book at page 88) the medical benefits given by the company are set out.	None
Mr. K.V. Viswanathan submitted that once a party is injuncted, then violating the order would result in party being hauled up for contempt.	Arguments of Respondent
CESC Ltd., the respondent No. 1 herein obeyed the orders and granted its own medical facilities.	Arguments of Respondent
Order of injunction was passed since workers Union had obtained reliefs in similar writ petitions.	Arguments of Respondent
CESC Ltd. did not get any interim order from which it benefited.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact it was an order of injunction against CESC Ltd. and not an order of Stay in its favour.	Arguments of Respondent
The Corporation did not take any steps to vacate such injunction order which was passed on 17.04.1997.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, the CESC Ltd. was incurring huge expenditure on medical benefits and the employees were happy with such arrangement and as of today also the employees are not aggrieved.	Arguments of Respondent
Permitting the Corporation to recover contribution for the year 1996 to 2003, under such circumstances, would apart from resulting in undue hardship to CESC Ltd. would also result in unjustly enriching the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
As rightly held by the Division Bench of the High Court in impugned judgment, undue hardship will be caused to the CESC Limited if the arrears are asked to be paid as the employees would have to pay arrear contribution although they did not enjoy any benefits during the said period.	Arguments of Respondent
This is a fortiori in a case like the present, wherein now the CESC Ltd. has been exempted under Section 87 of the Act on the ground that its medical benefits are far superior to the medical benefits as provided by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. K.V. Viswanathan cited the following two decisions on the principles of justice, equity and good conscience.	Arguments of Respondent
By citing the same, he submitted that this Court has the power to relieve a party from undue hardship.	Arguments of Respondent
West Bengal Hosiery Association v. State of Bihar and Ors (1988)4SCC134a and 2.	Arguments of Respondent
Sree Cement Ltd. and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. State of Rajasthan and Ors. 2001	Arguments of Respondent
(1) SCC 765	None
He next submitted that the act of Court can prejudice no party.	None
He said the maxim act us curiae nominee grave bit fully applies to the present case as pointed out in Mohammed Gazi v. State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
20002SCR871 .	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned Counsel, the judgment cited by the counsel for the Corporation in All India ITDC Employees Union case (supra) has no application to the facts of the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
This is for the reason that the nature of relief sought by the Petitioner in the said case was different and also the interim order as passed in the said case was different from the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
In the said case relied by the Corporation, the prayer in the Writ Petition was for exemption on the ground that the employer was the Government of India undertaking and employee stood covered under Section 1(4) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Furthermore in the said case there was no positive direction injuncting the employer from making contributions and deductions and the only order in that case was an order of stay.	Arguments of Respondent
This can be distinguished from the present case as despite being an order of stay, the employer could have made contributions and deductions in the said case, however in the present case since there was a specific order injuncting the CESC Ltd. from making contributions and deductions such contributions and deductions could not have been made by the Respondent No. 1.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover none of the circumstances which have been set out herein above were present in the said case as cited by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
Concluding his submission, learned Counsel submitted that no case has been made out by the Corporation which warrants interference by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Gaurab Kumar Banerjee, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of respondent Nos. 6 7 in civil appeals (arising out of SLP (Civil) Nos. 2084147 of 2004) Hindustan Lever Ltd submitted that, during the 7 years period under dispute and as a result of the High Courts order, the Company has spent far greater amount on the medical facilities to the 39 covered employees who would otherwise have been covered by the Corporation and the Corporation would have had to provide the medical benefits.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel submitted that this Court will not interfere with an order simply because it is lawful to do so even if it has legal errors, if the impugned order results in substantial justice.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied on Council of Scientific and Industrial Research v. K.G.S. Bhatt (1990)ILLJ246SC of ONGC v. Sendhabhai Vastram Patel .	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that under Article 142 of the Constitution, this Court is empowered to pass such orders as would do complete justice between the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that it is permissible in law to prospectively overrule a judgment as has been done recently in the case of SBP and Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. AIR2006SC450 .	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned senior counsel, the decision of this Court in All India ITDC Employees Union (supra) is clearly distinguishable as unlike in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the High Court did not give any positive directions and the decision of the High Court was not reversed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Concluding his argument, the counsel submitted that if the respondent now starts recovering from the erstwhile employees, it would severely affect industrial relations.	Arguments of Respondent
M s K.L. Mehta Co. advocates argued for respondent No. 2 BOC India Limited.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel also submitted that the principle of act us curiae neminem gravabit i.e. the act of Court shall prejudice no man is fully applicable and, therefore, the Division Bench qua the respondent directed the said Notification to operate prospectively.	Arguments of Respondent
Referring to the decision in Union of India and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Murugan Talkies (1996)ILLJ1154SC , learned Counsel submitted that this Court has also applied the above principle in several decisions including 1988CriLJ1661 and in (1996)ILLJ1154SC and observed as follows It is contended for the respondents that the High Court has granted the relief taking into consideration that some workmen had retired and it would be inequitable to deduct from the meagre wages of existing employees with retrospective period.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the High Court directed deduction of their share from the date of the judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
It is needless to mention that since some of the workmen have already retired and from some existing workmen deduction from date of enforcement of the notification would cause great hardship to them, so it cannot be made to bear the burden of their contribution with retrospective effect from the date of the notification towards their share of contribution.	Arguments of Respondent
To that extent, the order of the High Court is upheld Learned Counsel further submitted that because of the interim final order passed by the High Court, the Corporation has not rendered any service like medical benefits to the employees whose wages were above Rs.3,000/ but less than Rs.6,500/ p.m. Therefore, in absence of any quid pro quo for the said period of 7 years, no contribution can be claimed by the ESI either from the respondentCompany or from the employees especially, when no service benefit was rendered to the concerned employees.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Gaurab Banerji, learned senior counsel also made submissions on behalf of respondent No. 4 Modern Food Industries Ltd. in SLP (Civil) No. 20861 of 2004.	Arguments of Respondent
He made similar submissions and cited the same authorities as others did.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rana Mukherjee, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 5, Engel India Machines Tools (1987)	Arguments of Respondent
Limited made the following submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that various labour Unions of different industries including that of respondent No. 5 challenged the said Notification by filing separate writ petitions in the Calcutta High Court and the High Court by different orders from time to time granted injunction with regard to the said Notification.	Arguments of Respondent
The said injunction was extended from time to time which, in effect, injuncted the Management from either collecting or making any contributions towards the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
Such injunctions were extended and continued from time to time.	Arguments of Respondent
On 30.06.1997, by judgment and order, the learned Single Judge of the High Court declared the said amendments as ultra vires.	Arguments of Respondent
Being aggrieved by the said order, the appellantCorporation filed 120 appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court which stood disposed off by the impugned judgment and order on 16.03.2004.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that respondent No. 5 by way of abundant caution had also in the meantime applied for exemption for the said period of 19972004 i.e. the date of the impugned judgment and order under Section 87 of the Act of 1948 which is still pending before the appropriate Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel has also annexed certificates, details of expenditure and extracts from the annual report.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the respondent should not be proceeded against by the Corporation under Section 68 of 1948 inasmuch as the contributions towards ESI fund had not been made during the period since the Company was prevented by an order of injunction of the Calcutta High Court and that the said directions, therefore, require no interference by this Court and this Court may exercise its powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India to do complete justice to the respondent No. 5herein.	Arguments of Respondent
Ms. Mridula Ray Bhardwaj, learned Counsel for the respondent in Civil appeal arising out of SLP 2088220891 of 2004 etc. submitted repeatedly the same arguments on behalf of respondent No. 5 Westinghouse Saxby Farmer Limited.	Arguments of Respondent
An application in the prescribed PerformaA for exemption from the provisions of the Act as per and after the Calcutta High Courts direction passed in this order dated 07.06.2004 in writ petition No. 8791 of 2004.	Arguments of Respondent
On 03.08.2004, the Company further submitted another set of application in PerformaA as asked for by the West Bengal Labour Departments letter dated 22.07.2004.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter, pursuant to the Government of West Bengal Labour Departments notice dated 30.08.2004, 29.10.2004, 16.11.2004 and 26.11.2004, the Companys representative duly attended the hearing in connection with the Companys exemption application.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that the Company has submitted the Comparative Table of Benefits given by the Company to its employees and benefits under the ESI scheme etc.	Arguments of Respondent
However, no order has yet been passed or communicated by the Labour Department in regard to the respondentCompanys application for exemption.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel has also furnished the amount of medical expenses paid by the respondent Company to its employees since 199697.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. C.K. Ganguli, learned Counsel for the respondent in civil appeal (arising out of SLP (Civil) Nos. 2093320939 of 2004 made submissions on behalf of	Arguments of Respondent
Hahnemann Publishing Company Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel furnished the details about the medical allowances given to the employees and submitted that if the liability is made retrospective, the employer will not be able to recover the contributions from the concerned employees and the employer will have to make both employers and employees contribution.	Arguments of Respondent
Notwithstanding the fact that the company has incurred huge expenditure for granting liberal medical benefits as coverage of such employees since the notification was stayed.	Arguments of Respondent
The Central Inland Water Transport Corporation, respondent No. 21 through Mr. S.D. Gupta who is the Head of the Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Ltd. filed an affidavit.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that some employees workers Union Associations in CIWIC filed a writ petition in the High Court praying for their exemption from the provisions of the ESI Act, 1948.	Arguments of Respondent
That pursuant to an order dated 07.09.2004 passed by the High Court, the Government of India, Ministry of Labour and Employment issued a notice dated 16.02.2005 informing that in connection with exemption from provisions of the Act it has been decided that hearing would be held on 04.03.2005 in the said Ministry and all the concerned parties were requested to attend the hearing and make their submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
The representative of CIWIC Ltd. attended the aforesaid hearing on 04.03.2005 and made his submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
As decided in the said meeting, CIWIC under cover of its letter dated 23.03.2005 submitted two separate applications both dated 22.03.2005 for exemption from the provisions of the ESI Act as amended upto date in respect of its factory establishments which were covered under the provisions of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
That due consideration of the aforesaid appeal and the two applications dated 22.03.2005, the Ministry of labour and Employment issued a notification S 38014/6/2005SSSI dated 05.01.2006 thereby granting exemption to CIWIC Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
From the operation of the ESI Act, 1948 for the period from 01.01.1997 to 30.09.	Arguments of Respondent
The order reads as follows In exercise of the power conferred by Section 88 read with Section 91A of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) the Central Government hereby exempts the regular employees in respect of two units of M s Central Inland Water Transport Corporation Limited i.e. M s. Marine Workshop and M s Rajabagan Dock yard both in Kolkata, West Bengal from the operation of the said Act for the period from 01.01.1997 to 30.09.2006.	Arguments of Respondent
A copy of the said Notification has also been annexed and marked as R4.	None
It is submitted that in view of the above, CIWIC has been exempted from the provisions and operations of the ESI Act, 1948 for the relevant period from 01.01.1997 to 15.03.2004 for which the special leave petition has been filed by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also further submitted that the Corporation has also been granted exemption from the operation of the ESI Act for further period upto September, 2006.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the above, learned Counsel submitted that the special leave petition Nos. 20938 and 39 of 2004 be dismissed against respondent No. 21.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. P. Gaur, learned Counsel for respondent No. 4 in S.L.P. No. 20840 of 2004 (Siemens Workers Union and Ors.) submitted that this Court will be reluctant to interfere with the discretion exercised by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, he cited Municipal Corporation of Faridabad v. Siri Niwas (2004)IIILLJ760SC .	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that it is not the case of the Corporation that the said exercise of jurisdiction is irrational.	Arguments of Respondent
In Union of India v. Murugan Talkies (supra) similar relief granted by the High Court was not interfered with by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, he submitted that the discretion exercised by the High Court is justified in view of various facts and circumstances and thus prayed that the appeal filed by the Corporation be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given our thoughtful consideration to the questions and issues involved in this matter.	None
We have also perused the pleadings, the order passed by the learned Single Judge and the orders passed by the Division Bench and the written submissions made by the respective parties along with the annexures filed therein.	None
We have already noticed that the respondentCompanies have spent large amount of money on the employees and provided medical facilities in view of the order of the High Court granting stay injunction etc.	Reasoning
If the High Court had not passed the order of injunction, the respondentcompanies would have contributed the ESI contribution instead of spending monies on the medical facilities and allowances.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, the submissions made by learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents that it would be unfair and unjust to make the employer to pay contribution towards ESIC since in lieu of the contribution to ESIC, the employer provided better medical facilities, in our view holds water and it would cause extreme and grave hardship to the employer if they are required to pay contribution for the past several years for no fault of their own.	Reasoning
In our view, no party much less the respondents should suffer because of the orders of the Court if duly complied with.	Reasoning
We see much force, substance and merit in the submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the respective respondents and as duly adopted by the other learned Counsel appearing for other civil appeals.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the High Court was fully justified in passing the judicious order after considering the equities by directing the employer and the employees to make ESIC contribution for the future and should not bear with the liability for the past inasmuch as the employees of the respondents have not availed any medical facilities from ESIC and at the same time the employer was providing the medical facilities due to interim orders of the High Court.	Reasoning
The order passed by the High Court, in our considered opinion, meets the ends of justice and does not require interference by this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
In our view, passing of the final order by the High Court directing the payment of the ESI contribution from the date of the said judgment does not amount to postponing the enforcement of notification and the same is also not in violation of the principles laid down by this Court in various judgments referred to above.	Reasoning
There has been no postponing of the enforcement of the Notification in view of the peculiar circumstances of the case, namely, the nonavailability of the facilities, nondeduction of contribution from the members of the union for several years and provision of medical relief by the Management.	Reasoning
The High Courts direction for deduction of contribution w.e.f.	Reasoning
the date of the judgment in our view, is perfectly justified.	Reasoning
This apart, the members of the union included casual, temporary contractual and it will be practically impossible to find each and every member of the union to recover their contribution for the past several years and in fact some of the workmen who would have been the employees during all these years would have left, expired etc.	Reasoning
and on account thereof also their contribution cannot be recovered.	Reasoning
The order passed by the High Court, in our opinion, is perfectly justified in view of the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
The High Court, in our opinion, while disposing of the matter has taken a just, pragmatic, fair and judicious view after considering all the equities and facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
Extreme hardship might have been caused to both the employer as well as the employee since no medical facilities admittedly have been availed by the workmen from ESIC and the employer had provided medical facilities to the workmen as per the Court orders and in view of the interim order also had paid medical allowances.	Reasoning
A similar view was taken by us in the case of Employees State Insurance Corporation v. Distilleries Chemical Mazdoor Union and Ors.	Reasoning
in Civil Appeal Nos. 1727 of 2005, 3002 and 3003 of 2006 by the very same Bench comprising of Dr. AR.	Reasoning
Lakshmanan and Lokeshwar Singh Panta, JJ.	Reasoning
We have also considered the submissions both factual and legal made by Mr. C.S.Rajan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the ESI Corporation.	Reasoning
In our opinion, his argument has no merits in the facts and circumstances of this case and the interim orders passed by the High Court which prevented employer and employee from making any contribution towards ESI.	Reasoning
In the present case, the law as well as the facts are in favour of the respondents.	None
The High Court has correctly appreciated the tremendous hardship that will be caused if arrears are sought to be paid and nobody stands to gain, neither the employer nor the employee under the circumstances.	Reasoning
Even assuming that the law is in favour of the ESI, keeping in view the special facts and circumstances of the present case, relief can be denied under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
In view of the judgment reported in Chandra Singh and Ors.	None
v. State of Rajasthan and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
AIR2003SC2889 (Three Judges Bench), Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan, J speaking for the Bench held as follows In any event, even assuming that there is some force in the contention of the appellants, this Court will be justified in following Taherakhatoon v. Salambin Mohammad 19991SCR901 wherein this Court declared that even if the appellants contention is right in law having regard to the overall circumstances of the case, this Court would be justified in declining to grant relief under Article 136 while declaring the law in favour of the appellants.	None
Issuance of a writ of Certiorari is a discretionary remedy.	None
See Champalal Binani v. CIT, West Bengal 197076ITR692(SC) .	None
The High Court and consequently this Court while exercising their extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 or 32 of the Constitution of India may not strike down an illegal order although it would be lawful to do so.	None
In a given case, the High Court or this Court may refuse to extend the benefit of a discretionary relief to the applicant.	None
Furthermore, this Court exercised its discretionary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India which need not be exercised in a case where the impugned judgment is found to be erroneous if by reason thereof substantial justice is being done.	None
See S.D.S. Shipping Pvt.	None
Ltd. v.	None
Jay Container Services Co.	None
Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. 2003 (4) SCC 44.	None
Such a relief can be denied, inter alia, when it would be opposed to public policy or in a case where quashing of an illegal order would revive another illegal one.	None
This Court also in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is entitled to pass such order which will do complete justice to the parties.	Reasoning
44.	None
This Court said that this principle applies to all kinds of appeals admitted by special leave under Article 136, irrespective of the nature of the subjectmatter.	None
So even after the appeal is admitted and special leave is granted, the appellant must show that exceptional and special circumstances exist, and that, if there is no interference, substantial and grave injustice will result and that the case has features of sufficient gravity to warrant a review of the decision appealed against on merits.	None
So this Court may declare the law or point out the lower courts error, still it may not interfere if special circumstances are not shown to exist and the justice of the case on facts does not require interference or if it feels the relief could be moulded in a different fashion.	None
The observations made in paras 1520 of the Taherakhatoon (supra) can be usefully applied to the facts and circumstances of the case on hand.	None
In the instant case, we are dealing with the higher judicial officers.	None
We have already noticed the observations made by the committee of three Judges.	None
The nature of judicial service is such that it cannot afford to suffer continuance in service of persons of doubtful integrity or who have lost their utility.	None
48.	None
We, therefore, would although dismiss the appeals, but we would direct the High Court and the State government to pay all retiral benefits to the appellants herein as expeditiously as possible preferably within a period of three months from the date of communication of this order.	None
No Costs.	Decision
This Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is empowered to pass such orders as would do complete justice between the parties.	Reasoning
This Court is also empowered to mould the relief in such a manner so that it is not only just but also equitable even while declaring the law as observed in para 25 of ONGC Ltd. v. Sendhabhai Vastram Patel and Ors.	Reasoning
JT2005(7)SC465 and Raj Kumar and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Union of India and Anr.	Reasoning
IR2006SC938 .	Reasoning
It is also permissible in law to prospectively overrule the judgment as has been done recently in the case of SBP Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. AIR2006SC450 .	Reasoning
If the respondent is now allowed to recover from the erstwhile covered employees, it would severely affect industrial relations.	Reasoning
Reversal of the impugned order would lead to prosecution, penalty and also interest against the respondent without any fault of the respondent.	Reasoning
The decision of this Court in ITDC Employees Union (supra) is clearly distinguishable as unlike in the present case.	Reasoning
In that case, the High Court did not give any positive direction.	Reasoning
The decision of the High Court was not reversed by this Court.	Reasoning
The High Court under Article 226 and this Court under Article 136 read with Article 142 of the Constitution of India have the power to mould the relief in the facts of the case.	Reasoning
Likewise, the judgment cited by learned Counsel for the appellantCorporation are in a different context altogether and the ratio of the said cases are not applicable to the present case.	Reasoning
This apart the maxim of equity which is founded upon justice and good sense was applied as well as other maxim lex non cogit ad impossibilia (i.e. the law does not compel a man to do what he cannot possibly perform)	Reasoning
The applicability of the aforesaid maxim has been approved by this Court in Raj Kumar Dey and Ors.	Reasoning
v. Tarapada Dey and Ors.	Reasoning
19881SCR118 and Gursharan Singh and Ors.	Reasoning
v. New Delhi Municipal Committee and Ors.	Reasoning
19961SCR1154	Reasoning
The ESI Act has enacted to provide for certain benefits to employees in case of sickness, maternity and employment injury.	Reasoning
Under the scheme of the Act, function of the ESI Corporation is to derive insurance fund from the contribution from employees and workmen.	Reasoning
The employer is entitled to recover workmens share from the wages of the workmen concerned.	Reasoning
It was argued by the respondent that the employer is providing better medical facilities to the workmen and, therefore, the object and purpose of the Act has been fully satisfied.	Reasoning
It is pertinent to notice that none of the employees of the Union have complained about medical services provided by the employer since the object is otherwise fulfilled.	Reasoning
No further direction, in our opinion, is required to be passed.	Reasoning
The act of Court can prejudice no party either the ESI or the respondentcompanies.	Reasoning
We, therefore, relieve the respondents from making any contributions for the period in question and direct them to make the contribution as directed by the Division Bench of the High Court.	Reasoning
It is stated that some of the respondents have already filed exemption applications and that the appellantCorporation has also granted them necessary relief.	Reasoning
We also permit the other respondents who have not filed any exemption application may now file the same and if such application for exemption is filed, it is for the authorities to consider the same on merits and in accordance with law.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, we dismiss all the appeals filed by the appellantCorporation in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the cases.	Decision
The High Court while upholding the Notification has held that the same would apply from the date of the judgment.	Decision
The said observation is justified in view of the facts and circumstances and the legal submissions made and considered in paragraphs supra.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
