 K. Das, J. (On behalf of himself, B. P. Sinha C. J. and Rajagopala Ayyangar, J,)1.	None
These four appeals which have been brought to this Court on certificates granted by the then High Court of Saurashtra under Art.	None
133 of the Constitution fall into three groups, and have been heard together.	None
The essential facts relating to these appeals are the same, and a common question of law now falls for determination on those facts.2.	None
The State of Gujarat, within whose territories the disputed properties are now situate, is the appellant in the appeals.	Facts
The respondents and in some cases their ancestors, obtained grants from the then Nawab of Junagadh, which was then a ruling State, in respect of lands and, in one case, of a building known as Datar Manzil.	Facts
These grants were repudiated or cancelled and the property, subject of the grant, was resumed by the Administrator who took over charge of the administration of Junagadh on behalf of the Dominion of India in 1947 in circumstances which we shall presently state.	Facts
The respondents brought suits challenging the validity of the orders made by the Administrator.	Facts
These suits were decreed by the lower court and the decrees were substantially upheld by the High Court of Saurashtra.	Facts
The principal point for decision in these appeals is whether the impugned orders made by the Administrator arose out of and during an act of State which was not justiciable in the municipal courts.	Facts
This is the only point which has been agitated before us on behalf of the appellantState and very strong reliance has been placed on the decision of this Court in the State of Saurashtra v. Memon Haji Ismail Haji, 1960l SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ), where, in circumstances same as those of the appeals before us, it was held that the act of the Dominion of India in assuming the administration of Junagadh was an act of State pure and simple and the resumption of the grant in question therein having been made by the Administrator before that act was completed and at a time when the people of Junagadh were aliens outside the State, the act of resumption, however arbitrary, was an act of State on behalf of the Government of India and was not, therefore, justiciable in the municipal courts.	Facts
It may be here noted that by that decision this Court overruled the earlier decision of the Saurashtra High Court in State of Saurashtra ,v. Haji Ismail, AIR 1953 Sau 180, a decision on the basis of which the High Court decided the cases under consideration in these appeals.3.	Facts
The learned Attorney General has submitted that the decision of this Court in 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ), completely covers and concludes the present appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents it has been contended that the decision aforesaid proceeded on a finding that the act of State was not completed before the impugned orders were made and that finding being a finding of fact does not bind the respondents who were not parties in the case in which the decision was rendered, In the appeals before its the main contention on behalf of the respondents his been that the impugned orders were made after the assumption of sovereignty by the Dominion of India was completed, and therefore the decision of this Court in 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ) is not determinative of the problem which arises in these appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been further argued that after full sovereignty had been assumed by the Dominion of India, the position of the people of Junagadh including the respondents was not that of aliens outside the State, but their position on such assumption of sovereignty was that of citizens of India against whom there could be no act of State and they had rights as such citizens in respect of which they could ask for relief in the municipal courts.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have set out above, in brief outline, the principal point.	None
which falls for decision in these appeals and the respective contentions of the parties relating thereto in order to highlight the main problem presented for solution in these appeals.5.	None
But we must first set out the essential facts which are relevant for the solution of the problem.	None
We have already stated that the essential facts are the same in these appeals, though the facts relating to each of the grants made in favour of the respondents are different.	None
We shall state the essential facts bearing upon the main problem and then briefly refer to the grants made in each of the cases.6.	None
India attained independence in 1947.	Facts
As from the 15th day of August, 1947, two independent Dominions were set up known respectively as India and Pakistan under the Indian Independence Act, 1947 (10 and 11 Geo. VI.	Facts
C.30)	Facts
Under S.7 of the said Act, the suzerainty of His Majesty over the Indian States including Junagadh lapsed.	Facts
It released those States from all their obligation to the Crown.7.	Facts
The White Paper on Indian States said (at page 32)	None
It was evident that if in consequence the Indian states became separate independent entities, there would be a serious vacuum not only with regard to the political relationship between the Central Government and the states, but also in respect of the coordination of allIndia policies in the economic and other fields.	Facts
All that the Dominion Government inherited from the Paramount Power was the proviso to S. 7 of the Indian Independence Act, which provided for the continuance, until denounced by either of the parties, of agreements between the Indian States and the Central and Provincial Governments in regard to specified matters, such as Customs, Posts and Telegraphs, etc.	Facts
(Appendix IV).A process of accession was therefore begun and by August 15, 1947 all the States in the geographical limits of India barring Hyderabad, Kashmir and Junagadh had acceded to the Indian Dominion.	Facts
The Nawab of Junagadh, however, did not accede to the new Dominion of India by executing an Instrument of Accession as did the other Rulers in Saurashtra.	Facts
He fled the country and the affairs of Junagadh State fell into disorder and chaos.	Facts
At the request of the Nawabs council, the Government of India decided to take over the administration of the State.	Facts
On November 9, 1947 the Regional Commissioner, Western India and Gujarat States Region, assumed charge of the administration of the State on behalf of the Government of India.	Facts
A proclamation was issued on that date which said that the Regional Commissioner had assumed charge of the administration of the Junagadh State at 1800 hours on November 9,1947.	Facts
On November 14, 1947 the Regional Commissioner appointed Shri S. W. Shiveshwarkar as Administrator of Junagadh State.	Facts
The Administrator passed certain orders which are the orders impugned in these appeals and to which we shall presently refer, but we must first complete the general picture of political changes that took place in Junagadh.	Facts
In February, 1948 the Government of India field a referendum in Junagadh State to ascertain the choice of the people in regard to accession and the people voted by a large majority in favour of accession to the Dominion of India.	Facts
The Administrator then decided with the approval of the Government of India to appoint an Executive Council with himself as President and three other persons as members thereof.	Facts
In December, 1948 the elected representatives of the people of Junagadh resolved that the administration of the State be made over to the Government of Saurashtra and that the representatives of Junagadh be enabled to participate in the Constituent Assembly of Saurashtra State with a view in framing a common Constitution for Saurashtra and the Junagadh State.	Facts
It is necessary to state now how this integration took place.	Facts
On January 23, 1948 thirty rulers of the principal States of Kathiawar signed Covenant bringing into existence the United State of Kathiawar (later known as the United State of Saurashtra) comprising the territories at their States for the welfare of the people and entrusted to a Constituent Assembly the tusk of drawing up a democratic Constitution for that State within the framework of the Constitution of India to which they had already acceded.	Facts
On that date Junagadh State had no Ruler nor was any Covenant signed on behalf of the Junagadh State.	Facts
Laser, in December, 1948 the elected representatives of the people of Junagadh, Manavadar, Mangrol, Bantwa, Babariawad and Sardargarh recommended to the Government of India and the Government of the United State of Saurashtra, as it was then called, that the administration of the States mentioned above be integrated with the United State of Saurashtra.	Facts
The Rulers of the Covenanting States thereupon entered into a Supplementary Covenant with the concurrence of the Government of India to provide for such integration and for the participation of the elected representatives of the people of these States into the Saurashtra Constituent Assembly.	Facts
Article 3 of the supplementary Covenant was in these terms (See White Paper on Indian States, page 249)From a date to be agreed upon between the Government of the said States and the Government of the United State of Saurashtra, with the concurrence of the Government of India, the administration of the said States shall be integrated with that of the United State of Saurashtra and thereafter the legislative and executive authority, powers and jurisdiction of the United State of Saurashtra shall extend to the said States to the same extent as it extends to the territory of any Covenanting State. . . . .	Facts
.The	Facts
Administration of the Junagadh State was thereafter integrated with that of the United State of Saurashtra on January 20, 1949.	Facts
Therefore, as from that date the legislative and executive authority and jurisdiction of the United State of Saurashtra extended to the Junagadh State to the same extent as it extended to the rest of the territories of the Covenanting States.8.	Facts
Further political changes took place after January 20, 1949 but with those changes we are not concerned in the present appeals.	Facts
The two dates which are important for our purpose are November 9, 1947 when the Regional Commissioner first took over change of the administration of Junagadh and January 20, 1949 when Junagadh merged into the United State of Saurashtra.9.	Facts
Now, as to the impugned orders made by the Administrator.	Facts
In Civil Appeal No. 349 civil 1958 the ancestor of the respondents had obtained grants from the then Nawab of Junagadh of two villages called Handla and Venderwad sometime between the years 1865 and 1868.	Facts
A detailed history of the grants so made is not necessary for our purpose.	Facts
On December 6, 1947 the Administrator made the following orderIt has come to the Administrators notice that Aba Salem Bin Aba Mahmed Hindi the alienee of Handla village.(i) was maintaining many Arab employees of Timbdi at his house in Junagadh,(ii) was uttering threats to massacre all Hindus of Handla village,(iii) was keeping in Handla fifty animals at the expense of the poor village people.(iv) did not pay any remuneration to Dhedh employees of his garden and was exacting Veth from them,(v) was buying exhorbitant cesses from the village people,(vi) had converted into Islam three Hindus, and(vii) had taken the following arms from Handla to Junagadh about a month ago (a) 12 bore guns and (b) one M. I. Gun.	Facts
It is, therefore, ordered that the village of Handla should be taken under the State management.	Facts
The Revenue Commissioner should make necessary arrangements for the same and report compliance.	None
By that order the management of Handla was taken over by the State.	None
Though there is no reference to the other village Venderwad in the order, the admitted position is that the management of both the villages was taken over.	Facts
Then, on January 8, 1949 the Administrator passed the following orderThe Junagadh State Government is pleased to order that the land and villages comprising the Handla estate which is an Inam grant be resumed by the State forthwith.	Facts
This order also refers only to the Handla estate, but the admitted position is that both the villages were resumed by the order of the Administrator.	None
It is the order dated January 8, 1940 which is impugned by the respondents, in this appeal.10.	Facts
In Civil Appeal No. 497 of 1958 the grant was in respect of a bungalow or building known as Datar Manzil.	Facts
On March 9, 1948, the Administrator made the following order The State building situated near Gadhrup Wada at Junagadh, was granted to Khan Shri Abdulakanmiyan Mahomedkhanmiyan, hereditarily by way of gift, under Dewan Daftar Tharav No. 3379 dated 1st August, 1930.The said Tharav is hereby cancelled and it is hereby ordered in the interest of the State that the said building along with all the superstructures thereon should be resumed and managed by the State as State property.11.	Facts
In Civil Appeals Nos. 220 and 221 of 1958 the impugned order is dated July 27, 1948 and is in these termsTwenty five Santis of land from the village of Khokharda under Vanthali Mahal was granted as a gift hereditarily to Mr. Mohamed Abdulla, son of late Jamadar Abdulla Moosa under Hazur Farman No. 279 dated 30th April, 1943.In view of the principles of Alienation settlement of 1897 no grant can be wantonly favoured to anybody in contravention of the well established principles of resumption attaching to such grants.	Facts
It is hereby ordered that Hazur Farman No. 279 dated 30th April, 1943, is cancelled and the land in question should be resumed by the State forthwith by setting aside the settlement made thereon.	Facts
It will be noticed from what has been stated above that the impugned orders were all made after November 9, 1947, but before January 20, 1949.	None
The question before us is whether the orders were made in pursuance of acts of State not justiciable in the municipal courts.12.	Issue
There can be no doubt that if the decision of this Court in 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ) applies, then these appeals must be allowed.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents has however sought to distinguish that decision on the ground that the decision proceeded on the tooting that the Dominion of India assumed sovereignty over Junagadh on January 20, 1949.	Arguments of Respondent
His contention is that when the Dominion of India assumed charge of the administration of Junagadh State on November 9, 1947, through the Regional Commissioner, Western India and Gujarat States Region, there was a complete changeover of sovereignty, the act of State was complete and the Dominion of India became the new sovereign thereafter, the people of Junagadh including the respondents, so the argument proceeded, became citizens of the Dominion of India and had rights as such citizens in respect of which they could ask for relief in the municipal courts.	Arguments of Respondent
It would be apparent that this argument consists of two steps the first step in the argument is that there was a complete changeover of sovereignty on November 9, 1947, and the act of State was completed the second step in the argument which is really based on the correctness of the first stem is that on such a chargeover of sovereignty the people of Junagadh, including the respondents became citizens of the Dominion of India and were no longer aliens outside the Dominion.	Arguments of Respondent
We shall now consider the validity of the first step in the argument.	None
In doing so we must make it clear that we must not be understood to have assented to the submission of learned counsel for the respondents that a finding as to changeover of sovereignty or completion of an act of State, is a finding of fact pure and simple.	None
In our view, the question essentially is what inference in law should be drawn from the facts proved or admitted relating to the changeover of sovereignty.	None
As the matter was not argued from this stand point in 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 )	None
we have allowed learned counsel for the respondents to address us on this question.13.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents has made a twofold submission firstly, he has submitted that the question as to when the changeover of sovereignty took place is a political question and must or should be referred to the Government of India for opinion and the Court should abide by that opinion secondly, he has submitted that on the facts admitted in this case, it should be held that there was a complete changeover of sovereignty on November 9, 1947 and the act of State was complete.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think that either of these two submissions of learned counsel for the respondents is correct.	None
On the first submission he has drawn our attention to para.	None
603 at pages 285286, Vol. 7 of Halsburys Laws of England, 3rd Edn.	None
That paragraph is in these terms There is a class of facts which are conveniently termed facts of State.	None
It consists of matters and questions the determination of which is solely in the hands of the Crown or the government of which the following are examples (1) Whether a state of was exists between the British Government and any other State, and it so, when it began, the municipal courts have no power of inquiring into the validity, of a declaration by the Crown whether a state of war exists, or whether it has ended(2)	None
Whether a particular territory is hostile, or foreign, or within the boundaries of a particular state(3)	None
Whether and when a particular government is to be recognised as the government of an independent state(4)	None
The status of a person claiming immunity from judicial process on the ground of diplomatic privilege.	None
The court takes judicial notice of such facts of state, and for this purpose, in my case of uncertainty, seeks information from a Secretary of State and the information so received is conclusive.	None
Learned counsel has also referred us to some of the English decisions on which the statements in the paragraph quoted above are based.	None
We consider it unnecessary to examine those decisions.	None
It appears to us that the question with which we are concerned in the present appeals is not a question on which it is necessary to seek information from, the relevant department of the Government of India for one thing, it does not appear to us that there is any uncertainly in the matter secondly, as we shall presently show, the Government of India in the relevant department has already spoken with sufficient clarity in the White Paper on Indian States with regard to the political changes in Junagadh and what the Government of India has stated therein shows clearly enough that there was no changeover of assumption of sovereignty on November 9, 1947 in the sense which learned counsel for the respondents has contended for lastly, it appears to us that the question with which we are concerned in these appeals is not essentially a question as to any disputed facts of state the determination of which is solely in the hands of government rather it is a question which must be determined by the court.	Arguments of Respondent
What we have to determine in these appeals is not the status or boundaries of a particular state territory, but the validity or otherwise of the plea taken on behalf of the appellant State that the impugned orders made by the Administrator were acts of State not justifiable in the municipal courts.	None
There is a long line of decisions in which such a plea has been determined by courts of law without the necessity of obtaining the opinion of Government.	None
The plea is really a plea with regard to the maintainability of the suits brought by the respondents and must be determined by the courts concerned.	None
At one stage of the arguments learned counsel for the respondents referred us to S. 6 of the Extra Provincial Jurisdiction Act, 1947 (Act XLVII of 1947) and contended that under that section it was obligatory on this court to refer the question to the Central Government.	None
When however it was brought to his notice that S. 6 in terms did not apply to the proceedings out of which these appeals have arisen, he submitted that even if it be not obligatory to refer the question to the Central Government, it is expedient that it should be so referred inasmuch as the answer to the question depends on the extent of the jurisdiction which the Dominion of India assumed in Junagadh on November 9, 1947.	None
This, according to learned counsel, is a fact of state which only Government can determine.14.	None
We have already stated there is no uncertainty about the facts on which the plea of the appellant state is based and Government has already spoken about them with sufficient clarity.	None
What are these facts and how has Government spoken ?	None
We refer to para.	None
223 at, pages l13 and l14 of the White Paper on Indian states issued by the Government of India, Ministry of States, a publication to which this Court has referred in several earlier decisions as containing the authentic opinion of Government, on the political questions involved.	None
The position of Junagadh and certain other adjoining States in Kathiawar may also be briefly stated here.	None
After the Nawab of Junagadh had left the State for Pakistan, the administration of this State was taken over by the Government of India on November 9, 1947, at the request of the Nawabs Council.	None
Obviously, the action taken by the Government of India had the fullest approval of the people of Junagadh in that the results of the referendum held in Junagadh and the adjoining smaller States in February 1948, showed that voting in favour of accession to India was virtually unanimous.	None
During the period the Government of India held charge of the state, an Administrator appointed by the Government of India assisted by three popular representatives conducted the administration of the State.	None
In December1948, the elected representatives of the people of Junagadh resolved that the administration of the State be made over to the Government of Saurashtra and that the representatives of Junagadh be enabled to participate in the Constituent Assembly of Saurashtra State with a view to framing a common Constitution for Saurshtra and the Junagadh State.	Facts
Similar resolutions were adopted by the representatives of Manavadar, Mangrol, Bantwa, Babariawad and Sardargarh.	None
Accordingly a Supplementary Covenant (Appendix XXXVI) was executed by the Rulers of Kathiawar States with a view to giving effect to the aforementioned resolutions.	None
The administration of Junagadh was taken over by the Saurashtra Government on January 20,1949, and of the other states some time calling (sic ?).	Facts
Accordingly the Constitution treats Junagadh and these states as part of Saurashtra.	None
It would be clear from the aforesaid paragraph that the various steps in the assumption of sovereignty over Junagadh by the Dominion of India, between the dates November 9, 1947 and January 20,1949 were these(1)	None
The administration of Junagadh was taken over by the Government of India on November 9, 1947 at the request of the Nawabs Council(2) during the period the Government of India held charge of the State, an Administrator appointed by the Government of India assisted by three popular representatives conducted the administration of the State(3) in February, 1948 there was a referendum and the People of Junagadh voted in favour of accession to India but no actual accession took place by the execution of any Instrument of Accession(4) in December, 1948 the elected representatives of the people of Junagadh resolved that the administration of the State be made over to the Government of Saurashtra and the representatives of Junagadh be enabled to participate in the Constituent Assembly of Saurashtra State(5) a Supplementary Covenant (Appendix XXXVI of the White Paper) was executed by the Rulers of Kathiawar States with a view to giving effect to the resolutions aforesaid and(6) lastly, the administration of Junagadh was taken over by the Government of Saurashtra on January 20, 1949.15.	Facts
In Dalmia Dadri Cement Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, 1959 SCR 729 (AIR 1958 SC 816 ) this Court observed at p. 741 (of SCR) (at p. 823.	None
of AIR)In law, therefore, the process of acquisition of new territories is one continuous act of State terminating on the assumption of sovereign powers de jure over them by the new sovereign and it is only thereafter that rights accrue to the residents of those territories as subjects of that sovereign.	None
In other words, under the dominion of a new sovereign, the right of citizenship commences when the act of State terminates and the two therefore cannot coexist.	None
There may be cases where by a treaty or an agreement there is a changeover of de jure sovereignty at one and the same time and in such a circumstance the changeover may not be a process, but that is not what happened in the case of Junagadh.	None
The administration of Junagadh fell into chaos and disorder and the Government of India stepped in at the request of the Nawabs Council and took charge of the administration through an Administrator on November 9, 1947, the Ruler having fled the country before that date.	None
It is clear to us that there was no changeover of de jure sovereignty on that date.	None
Junagadh State still continued as such and did not cease to exist otherwise there would be no meaning in the referendum held in February, 1948, or the resolutions passed in December, 1948 by the elected representatives of the people of Junagadh.	None
Nor, would there be any meaning in the Supplementary Covenant executed by the Rulers of Kathiawar States.	None
It is also worthy of note that there was no accession to India by the Junagadh State by the execution of any Instrument of Accession.	None
We may in this connection refer to Ss. 5 and 6 of the Government of India Act, 1935, as they stood at the relevant time Section 5 stated inter alia that the Dominion of India shall, as from the l5th day of August, 1947, be a Union comprising (a) the Governors Provinces (b) the Chief Commissioners Provinces (c) the Indian States acceding to the Dominion in the manner provided by S. 6, and (d) any other arms that may with the consent of the Dominion be included in the Dominion, Junagadh was neither a Governors nor a Chief Commissioners Province.	None
It did not accede in the manner laid down in S. 6.	None
It was not, therefore, a State acceding to the Dominion.	None
Nor do we think that the territory of Junagadh State was included within the territory of the Dominion in the sense of cl.	None
(d) of S. 5 as from November 9, 1947.	None
The process of assumption of sovereignty was not yet complete and the Dominion of India did not treat the territory of Junagadh as part of its own territory.	None
The Dominion Government gave its concurrence to the Supplementary Covenant executed by the Rulers of Kathiawar by which the States of Junagadh, Manavadar, Mangrol, Bantwa, Babariawad and Sardargarh were to be integrated with Saurashtra.	None
It is significant that in this Supplementary Covenant Junagadh was mentioned as a separate State, the administration of which was to be integrated with the United State of Saurashtra.	None
It was only when this integration took place that Junagadh ceased to be a separate State.	None
This position appears to us to be beyond any doubt and as been made sufficiently clear by the statements made in para.	None
223 of the White Paper on Indian States.16. learned counsel for the respondents has relied on certain observations made in wellknown textbooks on International Law and has contended that State sovereignty and State jurisdiction are complementary and coextensive and a right of property and control exercised by the State is really a right of territorial sovereignty and therefore the acquisition of territory by a State can mean nothing else than the acquisition of sovereignty over such territory.	None
(See Schwarzenberger International Law, 1945, Vol. 1, page 79 Charles Cheney Hyde International Law, 2nd revised edition, Vol. 1, page 319 Oppenheims International Law, 8th Edn., Vol. 1, page 545).	None
He has contended that in view of the aforesaid observations, it must be held that the Dominion of India assumed sovereignty over Junagadh on November 9, 1947 because, so learned counsel contends, exercising control over a particular territory is exercising sovereignty over it.	None
We do not think that the observations to which learned counsel has referred help in the solution of the problem before us.	None
In cases where the acquisition of new territory is a continuous process, a distinction must be made between de facto exercise of control and de jure assumption of sovereignty.	None
The problem before us is, as was stated in 1959 SCR 729 (AIR 1958 SC 816 ) as to when the act of State was complete in other words, when did the assumption of sovereign powers de jure by the view sovereign over territories acquired by it take place?	None
The problem is really one of State succession namely succession to International Persons as understood in International law.	Reasoning
Such a succession takes place when one or more Internationa1 Persons take the place of another International Person in consequence of certain changes in the latters condition there may be universal succession or partial succession.	Reasoning
In the case before us, as long as Junagadh State continued as such, there was no such succession and even though the Dominion of India took over the administration of Junagadh and exercised control therein, it did not assume de jure sovereignty over it.	Reasoning
Therefore, the act of State did not terminate till January 20, 1949, when the Dominion of India assumed de jure sovereignty over Junagadh by its integration into the United State of Saurashtra.17.	Reasoning
It is perhaps necessary here to refer, to two decision on which learned counsel for the respondents has relied In re Southern Rhodesia 1919 AC 211 and Sammut v. Strickland,1938 AC 678.	None
In the first decision it was observed in connection with the conquest of certain territories in Southern Rhodesia, that a proclamation of annexation is not essential to constitute the Crown owner of the territory as completely as any sovereign can be owner of lands public juris a manifestation of the Crowns intention to that effect by Orders in Council dealing with the lands and their administration, is sufficient for the purpose.	None
These observations were made in the context of a question not between State and State but between sovereign and subject.	None
Lord Sumner saidNo doubt a Proclamation annexing a conquered territory is a wellunderstood mode in which a conquering Power announces its will urbi et orbi.	None
It has all the advantages (and the disadvantages) of publicity and precision.	None
But it is only declaratory of a state of fact.	None
In itself it is no more indispensable than is a declaration of war at the commencement of hostilities.	None
As between State And State special authority may attach to this formal manner of announcing the exercise of sovereign rights, but the present question does not arise between State and State.	None
It is one between sovereign and subject.	None
The Crown has not assented to any legislative act by which the declaration of its will has been restricted to one definite form or confined within particular limits of ceremonial or occasion.	None
The Crown has not bound itself towards its subjects to determine its choice upon a conquest either out of hand or once and for all.	None
If her Majesty Queen Victoria was pleased to exercise her rights, when Lobengula was defeated by her and her subjects, as to one part of the dominions in 1894 and as to another part not until 1898, if she was pleased to do so by public acts of State which indicate the same election and confer the same supreme rights of disposition over his conquered realm as annexation would have done, it is not for one of her subjects to challenge her policy or to dispute her manner of giving effect to it.18.	None
We do not think that these observations help to establish the contention of learned counsel for the respondents that any exercise of administrative control in acquired territory must mean at once that there is an assumption of sovereignty by the incoming State so as to terminate the act of State.	Reasoning
The observations made by Lord Sumner merely show that with regard to territory which the Crown has conquered, the Crowns intention can be manifested in more than one way, and not necessarily by a proclamation.	Reasoning
In the case before us a proclamation was issued by the Administrator, but that merely announced that he had assumed charge of the administration of Junagadh State under orders of the Government of India.	Reasoning
It made no announcement as to assumption of sovereignty.19.	Reasoning
In the second decision one of the questions raised was the true nature of the title of the Crown to the sovereignty of Malta, and a distinction was sought to be drawn between ceded territories, those acquired by an act of cession from some sovereign power, and those ceded by the general consent or desire of the inhabitants.	None
It was held that so far as concerned the prerogative right of the Crown to legislate by Letters Patent or Orders in Council for the ceded colony, the distinction was of no materiality.	None
It is difficult to see how this decision affords any assistance to the respondents.	None
It is indeed true that the people of Junagadh voted for accession to the Dominion of India but no accession actually took place, and later there was a merger in the United State of Saurashtra with the consent of the people of Junagadh and the Government of India.	Reasoning
Till such merger there was no cession of territory in the legal sense either with or without the consent of the people.20.	None
In our view, the only conclusion which follows from the facts which we have earlier stated is that there was no assumption of sovereignty by the Dominion of India over Junagadh before January 20, 1949.21.	None
This disposes of the main argument advanced on behalf of the respondents, and it is unnecessary in these appeals to consider the further argument as to what rights the subjects of the exsovereign in the acquired territory carried with them as against the new sovereign.	None
At one stage of his arguments, learned counsel for the respondents commended for our acceptance the view of Chief Justice John Marshall in United States v. Percheman, (183134) 7 Pet 51 at pp. 8687 that when the inhabitants of the acquired territory change their allegiance and their relation to the old sovereign is dissolved, their rights of property remain undisturbed, and he suggested that this view was consistent with modern usage of nations and was accepted by the Permanent Court of International Justice.	None
(See the Advisory Opinion of the Permanent Court on the Settlers of German Origin in Territory ceded by Germany to Poland, Series B. No. 6 particularly pp. 3536).	None
He conceded however, that this Court has accepted the view expressed by the English Courts in Cook v. Sprigg, 1899, AC 572 and the decisions which followed it.	None
That view proceeds on the doctrine that acquisition of territory by conquest, cession or annexation being an act of State, municipal tribunals have no authority to give a remedy in respect of any actions arising therefrom.	None
(See 1959 SCR 729 (AIR 1958 SC 816 ) and 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ) ).	None
Therefore, learned counsel was at great pains to establish that the act of State was complete of November 9, 1947 and he argued that thereafter the respondents became citizens of the Dominion of India and under S. 299 of the Government of India Act.	None
1935 they could not be deprived of property save by authority of law.	None
He relied on two decisions of this Court Bholanath J. Thakkar v. State of Saurashtra, AIR 1954 SC 680 and Virendra Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh, 19551	None
SCR 415 (AIR 1954 SC 447 ), In view of our finding that the act of State did not terminate till the process of acquisition was complete on January 20, 1949, it becomes unnecessary to consider this second step in the argument of learned counsel.	None
But perhaps it is necessary to add that the decision in 19551 SCR 415 (AIR 1954 SC 447 ) was based on the special circumstances mentioned therein which led to the making of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
The learned AttorneyGeneral appearing for the appellantState has submitted that the principle of Virendra Singhs case, 19551 SCR 415 (AIR 1954 SC 447 ) cannot be extended to the entirely different set of circumstances in which the Government of India Act, 1935 was made and S. 299 thereof did not affect the doctrine that municipal tribunals have no authority to give a remedy in respect of actions arising from an act of State.	Reasoning
He also drew our attention to a decision of this Court in Jagannath Agarwala v. Slate of Orissa, Civil Appeals Nos. 666 and 667 of 1957 D  831961 (AIR 1961 SC 1361 ) in which in respect of some claims made against the State before the coming into force of the Constitution but enquired into and rejected by Government after the coming into force of the Constitution, it was held that unless the new sovereign had expressly or impliedly admitted the claims, the municipal courts had no jurisdiction in the matter.22.	Reasoning
We consider it unnecessary to give our decision on these submissions, because it is obvious that before the Dominion of India assumed de jure sovereignty over Junagadh, the respondents were not in a position to call to their aid the provisions of S. 299 of the Government of India Act, 1935.23.	None
In the appeals before us we are dealing with orders made by the Administrator before the act of State was complete.	None
The action taken by the impugned orders arose out of and during an act of State.	None
That being the position, it is clear that the muncipal tribunals had no authority to give a remedy in respect of such action.24.	None
It remains now to consider the last argument advanced on behalf of the respondents.	None
As was observed in 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ) an act of State is an exercise of sovereign power against an alien and is neither intended nor purports to be legally founded.	None
On behalf of the respondents it has been contended that the Administrator purported to cancel or resume the grants under consideration in these appeals in pursuance of law therefore, it was not open to the appellant  State to take up fine plea of an act of State.	None
We do not think that there is any substance in this argument.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondents in Civil Appeal No. 349 of 1958 has drawn our attention to the pleadings, particularly to para.	Arguments of Respondent
8 of the written statement filed on behalf of the appellantState.	None
In that paragraph it was stated that the order of resumption dated January 8, 1949, was legal and the Administrator had authority to resume such inam grant.	None
On the basis of this paragraph it has been contended that inasmuch as the Administrator purported to act under authority of law, it was not open to the appellantState to raise the plea of an act of State.	None
In this connection we must also refer to para.	None
17 of the written statement where the appellantState specifically pleaded that the plaintiffrespondent had no right to bring the suit against Government.	None
In the trial court a specific issue was struck on the question as to whether the court had jurisdiction to hear and determine the suit, and under this issue the argument advanced was that the order of resumption war an act of State not justiciable in the municipal courts.	None
It appears, however, that the appellantState also took a plea in the alternative that the order of resumption was justified under the rules in force in the Junagadh State.	Reasoning
The that court held that the order of resumption was not an act of State.	Reasoning
It further held that the order of resumption was not justified by the rules in force in the Junagadh State.	Reasoning
In these circumstances it cannot be said that the appellantState did not plead an act of State nor can it be said that it was not open to the appellantState to raise that plea.	Reasoning
In the High Court also the same plea of act of State was urged on behalf of the appellant  State but was rejected by the High Court on the basis of its decision in AIR 1953 Sau 180.	Reasoning
That decision, we have stated earlier, was overruled by this Court in 1960l SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383).25.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents then referred us to an order dated February 9, 1949, in which it was stated that inam grants were resumable at the pleasure of Government and therefore the orders passed on January 8, 1949, could not be cancelled.	None
Apparently the order dated February 9, 1949, was passed on some representation made at the instance of the plaintiffsrespondents.	None
We have to read the two orders, one dated January 8, 1949 and the other dated February 9, 1949 together.	None
If so read, it is clear that the order dated January 8, 1949 was made by the Administrator not under the authority of any law but as an act of State.26.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents relied on the decision in Forester v. Secretary of State 18 Suth WR 349 (PC).	None
In that case, the Privy Council, upon a construction of the treaty or agreement made by the British Government in August, 1805 with Begum Sumroo, held that the Begum was not a sovereign princess but a mere Jagirdar under obligation to keep up, a body of troops to be employed when called upon in the service of the sovereign.	None
On that finding it was held that the resumption of the lands by the British Government upon the death of the Begum was not an act of State but an act done under legal title.	None
We do not think that the principle of that decision applies to the facts of these cases.	None
In Vajesinghji Joravarsingji v. Secretary of State 51 Ind App 357 (AIR 1924 PC 216 )	None
Lord Dunedin said that no plea specifically using the words act of State was required and the moment cession of territory was admitted, the onus was on the plaintiffsrespondents to prove that the right which they claim had been expressly or tacitly recognised by the new sovereign.	None
If there was no such recognition and none was pleaded in these cases, the municipal courts would have no jurisdiction to give any relief.	None
In this view of the matter it was not open to the courts below to enquire into the powers of the Nawab to resume or derogate from the grants made and whether similar powers were inherited by the Dominion Government or its agents.	None
The action being an act of State was, not justicible in the municipal courts, even if the same were arbitrary.27.	Reasoning
We have, therefore, come to the conclusion that the courts below were wrong in holding that the suits were maintainable and in enquiring into the merits of the cases.	Decision
The appellantState is entitled to succeed on the plea that the orders of resumption made by the Administrator arose out of and during an act of State and were not, therefore, justiciable in the municipal courts.28.	Decision
We would accordingly allow these appeals and the suits will stand dismissed with costs throughout.	Decision
There will be one bearing fee for the bearing in this court.	Decision
Mudholkar, J (On behalf of himself and A. K. Sarkar J.)29.	None
We also agree that the appeals be allowed but we wish to say a few words.	None
To appreciate the points which arise in these cases certain broad facts common to all appeals may well be stated.	None
The respondents held certain properties in that part of the present State of Gujrat which was formerly the ruling State of Junagadh, by virtue of grants from its Ruler.	None
After India attained independence on August 15, 1947 the suzerainty which the British Crown held over the State of Junagadh lapsed and that State became completely sovereign.	None
That was the effect of the Indian Independence Act.	None
Shortly thereafter, the Ruler of Junagadh went to Pakistan leaving the State to its fate, with the result that the affairs of that State fell into disorder.	None
At the invitation of the people of the State the Government of India decided to step in and accordingly took over its administration through the Regional Commissioner, Western India and Gujrat States Region on November 9, 1947.	None
A proclamation was issued by him to the effect that he had assumed the administration of Junagadh as from that date.	None
On November 14, 1947 he appointed an Administrator for administering the territory.	None
The Administrator passed orders on different dates resuming the grants in favour if the respondents and dispossessed them.	None
Thereafter.	None
on January 20, 1949 the territory of Junagadh was with the approval of the Government of India integrated with the United States of Saurashtra and the Administrator ceased to exercise any functions as from that date.30.	None
The resumption of the grants and the validity of their dispossession were challenged by the respondents by instituting suits for possession of the property after the integration of Junagadh with the United State of Saurashtra upon the found that they could not be deprived of their properties by executive action.	None
According to them the act of the Dominion of India in taking ever the administration of Junagadh territory on November 9, 1947 amounts to assumption of sovereignty over it, that thereby its residents became citizens of the Dominion of India is from that date and, therefore, no act of State such as resumption of their properties could be committed against them by the Indian Dominion.	None
According to the appellants no municipal court could grant the relief claimed by the respondents because the act complained of was an act of state.31.	None
The plea of the respondents was accepted by the High Court of Saurashtra following the decision in AIR 1953 Sau 180.	None
The present appeals are from its judgment.32.	None
The Attorney General who appeared for the appellants stated that this Court has reversed that decision in 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ) and that, therefore, these appeals should be allowed.	None
In that case this Court held that the Indian Dominion merely assumed the administration of Junagadh State on November 9, 1947 at the request of the Rules Council but did not formally annex it till January 20, 1949.	None
Mr. Pathaks contention is that as the respondents were not parties to the decision in Memon Hajis case, 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 )	None
they are not bound by the finding of this Court that the Junagadh state was annexed by the Indian Dominion on January 20,1949,33.	None
It seems to us, however, that the question whether Junagadh was annexed on January 20, 1949 or earlier would make little difference to the result of the appeals before us.	None
Nor again would the question whether the ExtraProvincial Jurisdiction Act was applicable to the orders made by the Administrator and this was a display of sovereignty, as contended for by Mr. Pathak would make any difference.34.	None
In a long catena of cases beginning from 1899 AC 572 and going upto Asrar Ahmed v. Durgah Committee, Ajmer, AIR 1947 PC 1 the Privy Council has stated the legal position of the subjects of a displaced sovereign visavis the new sovereign.	None
In the words of Lord Dunedin in 51 Ind App 357.	None
(AIR 1924 PC 216 )	None
it is as followsWhen a territory is acquired by a sovereign state for the first time that is an act of state.	None
It matters not how the acquisition has been brought about.	None
It may be by conquest, it may be by cession following on treaty, it may be by occupation of territory hitherto unoccupied by a recognised ruler.	None
In all cases the result is the same.	None
Any inhabitant of the territory can make good in the municipal courts established by the, new sovereign only such rights as that sovereign has through his officers, recognized.	None
Such nights as he had under the rule of predecessors avail him nothing.	None
Nay more, even if in a treaty of cession it is stipulated that certain inhabitants should enjoy certain rights, that does not give a title to those inhabitants to enforce those stipulations in the municipal courts.	None
The right to enforce remains only with the high contracting parties.35.	None
This statement of the law has been accepted by this Court in 1959 SCR 729 (AIR 1958 SC 816 upon which reliance has been placed in 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ) and recently also in Civil Appeals Nos. 666 and 667 of 1957 D  831961 (AIR 1961 SC 1361 ).36.	None
Thus even if on the respondents own showing that the Junagadh territory must be deemed to have been annexed by the Indian Dominion by assuming administration over it and thereupon its residents became citizens of India, they could assert and establish in the municipal courts of the new sovereign only such rights as were recognized by the Indian Dominion.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents claim to be grantees from the Ruler of Junagadh but their grants avail them nothing in the courts of the new sovereign unless they were recognized by that sovereign.	None
The burden of showing that they were so recognized lay on the respondents.	None
A perusal of the orders passed by the administrator would clearly show that far from recognizing those grants they were in effect repudiated by him.	None
The administrator in fact resumed the grants but whatever the form his orders took in truth and in substance they were no more than a clear and unequivocal declaration of the fact that the right claimed by the respondents to the properties in question by virtue of the grants made in their favour by the former Ruler were not recognized by the new sovereign.	None
Recognition or refusal of recognition of rights of erstwhile aliens who had no legal enforceable rights cannot be said to be an act of State because the choice to do one or the other had already vested in the Indian Dominion at the moment it occupied Junagadh territory.37.	None
The right to retain possession was also dependent upon recognition by the Dominion of India and by dispossessing the respondents, the former exercised its choice land refused to recognise their rights.	None
On the principle accepted by this Court in the decisions already referred to, the respondents were disentitled from obtaining any redress from a court in the Indian Dominion, and after the coming into force of the Constitution, from a court in the Union of India, in the absence of recognition of their rights by it or by the Union of India.38.	None
We may now advert to another point urged by Mr. Pathak.	None
According to him, if we understood him correctly, the Extra Provincial Jurisdiction Act was applied to Junagadh, that thereunder the local laws prevailing therein were continued and that the Alienation settlement Act which was one of such laws, conferred on the grantees rights against the Ruler.	Arguments of Respondent
By continuing this law the Dominion of India, according to him, must be deemed to have recognized the respondents rights under the grants.	Arguments of Respondent
For enabling us to consider the point it was necessary for the respondents to place before us the Order of the Dominion of India under S. 4 of the Extra Provincial Jurisdiction Act, 1947 which alone empowered it to prescribe the laws which would prevail in territories other than the provinces of the Indian Dominion, over which it had assumed sovereignty or administrative control.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly they had to place the Alienation settlement Act of Junagadh before us.	None
In the absence of this material we cannot consider the argument at all.39.	None
Mr. Pathak, however, contended that if sovereignty was assumed on November 9, 1947, the residents of Junagadh became the citizens of the Indian Dominion and were, therefore, entitled to the protection of S. 299 (1) of Constitution Act 1935.	Arguments of Respondent
This provision runs thus No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.40.	None
What S. 299 (1) protects are the rights of a person to property which he had when S. 299 (1) came into force or applied to him.	None
It does not add to any property right of any person though it contains an admonition to the State against depriving any person of his property by mere executive action.	None
For ascertaining whether the provision has been violated we must first examine the existence and the nature of the rights possessed by the respondents on November 9, 1947, that is at the moment of assumption of administration by the Dominion of India over Junagadh territory (assuming of course that this amounted to assuming of course that this amounted to assumption of sovereignty over Junagadh).	None
Their rights were as grantees ought not to be affected no municipal court has the right to enforce the obligation of the new sovereign to respect them.	None
For, as pointed out by Venkatarama Iyer J., who delivered the judgment of this court in 1959 SCR 729 at p. 741 (AIR 1958 SC 816 at p. 823)	None
It is also well established that in the new setup these residents do not carry with them the rights which they possessed as subjects of the exsovereign, and that as subjects of the new sovereign, they have only such rights as are granted or recognised by him41.	None
One of the decisions relied on by this Court in that case is that of the Privy Council in Secretary of State for India v. Bai Rajbai, 42 Ind App 229 (AIR 1915 PC 59) in which they have observed The relation in which they stood to their native sovereign before this cession, and the legal rights they enjoyed under them, are, save in one respect, entirely irrelevant matters.	None
They could not carry on under the new regime the legal rights, if any, which they might have enjoyed under the old.	None
The only legal enforceable rights they could have as against their new sovereign, were those, and only those, which that new sovereign, by agreement express or implied, or by legislation, chose to confer upon them.42.	None
Thus, before the respondents could claim the benefit of S. 299(1) of the Constitution Act, 1935 they had to establish that on November 9, 1947 or thereafter they possessed legally enforceable rights with respect to the properties in question as against the Dominion of India.	None
They could establish this only by showing that their preexisting rights, such as they were, were recognized by the Dominion of India.	None
If they could not establish this fact, then it must be held that they did not possess any legally enforceable rights against the Dominion of India and, therefore, S. 299(1) of the Constitution Act, 1935 avails them nothing.	None
As already stated S. 299(1) did not enlarge anyones right to property but only protected the one which a person already had.	None
Any fight to property which in its very nature is not legally enforceable was clearly incapable of being protected by that section.43.	None
Upon the view taken in Memon Hajis case, 19601 SCR 537 (AIR 1959 SC 1383 ) by this Court as to the date of annexation it held that the resumption of grants by the administrator were acts of State.	None
That must be so because if sovereignty had not been assumed by the Indian Dominion aver the Junagadh territory at the time of the dispossession of the respondents consequent on the nonrecognition of their grants its acts were those of a sovereign state against aliens within alien territory and were, therefore, acts of state.	Arguments of Petitioner
A municipal court of the sovereign which commits such acts of state has no right to question such acts or to give any relief to the persons who complain of them.44.	None
Thus, upon either view the respondents were not entitled to the reliefs claimed by them in our courts.	None
As Mr. Pathak does not contend that the Dominion of India could be said to have assumed sovereignty over Junagadh State earlier than November 9, 1947 or later than January 20, 1949 his plea that we should refer to the Government of India the question as to the date on which sovereignty was assumed over it does not arise for consideration.45.	None
The decisions of the High Court are not in accordance with the rule laid down by the Privy Council and accepted by this Court and are erroneous.	None
We, therefore, agree that they should be set aside and the suits dismissed with costs throughout.	None
Since the appeals were argued together there will only be one hearing fee.46.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
