 Grover, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave from a judgment of the Mysore High Court allowing a petition filed under Article 226 of the Constitution by Respondent No. 1 and granting him certain reliefs.	Issue
2.	None
The facts may be briefly stated.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 joined as a Veterinary Inspector in December 1953.	Facts
In September, 1961, he was posted as Lecturer in Clinical Medicine in the Medical College of Bangalore.	Facts
On 25th October, 1961, he was temporarily promoted without prejudice to the seniority of others as General Manager, HubliDharwar Milk Supply Scheme in the scale of Rs. 2502036025500 (revised scale) with immediate effect.	Facts
On 13th December, 1962, Respondent No. 2 was promoted as Dairy Extension Officer in the grade of Rs. 175400.	None
On 2nd April, 1963, Respondent No. 2 was posted as General Manager of the Dharwar Milk Supply Scheme in the grade of Rs. 250500.	Facts
By another order made on the 15th May, 1966 in modification of the previous order, Respondent No. 2 was posted as Superintendent, Bangalore Milk Supply Scheme on his own pay and scale of General Manager.	Facts
That was a Class II post.	Facts
On 19th October, 1963, the grade of Class II was given to Respondent No. 2 in the scale of Rs. 275600.	None
It may be mentioned that all these postings were done in an officiating capacity.	None
In December, 1964, the post of General Manager of the HubliDharwar Milk Supply Scheme was upgraded to Class II.	Facts
The Respondent represented that although he was occupying a Class II post he was drawing a salary of Class III post and, therefore, he should be given the salary in the grade of Rs. 275600 being the salary of Class II grade.	Facts
His claim was negatived by an order dated July 23, 1966.	Facts
Ultimately, he filed a petition under Article 226 challenging the order negativing his claim and asking for other reliefs.	Facts
3.	None
The High Court took the view that when Respondent No. 1 became a Dairy Development Officer in the year 1962 which was a Class II post, he could not be given the emoluments less than those payable to the occupant of Class II post.	Facts
Rule 32 of the Mysore Civil Services Rules was held to be inapplicable to him.	Facts
The High Court does not appear to have gone into the question which had been raised in the petition that Respondent No. 2 who was junior to him was given the promotions and other benefits which offended the fundamental right of the equality of opportunity in the matter of promotion.	Facts
In addition to quashing the impugned order, the High Court issued a direction for payment to Respondent No. 1 of the emoluments of Class II post from the appropriate date.	Facts
4.	None
On behalf of the State, which is the Appellant before us, it had been pointed out that Respondents Nos. 1 and 2 did not belong to one cadre and that the appointments which had been made from time to time were purely on ad hoc and temporary basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further argued that the real claim of Respondent No. 1 was that he should be considered as Class II Officer because the post of General Manager, HubliDharwar Milk Supply Scheme, was upgraded in December, 1964.	Arguments of Petitioner
That contention, it is said, is wholly untenable but what has to be seen are the terms of appointment of Respondent No. 1.	None
Although on 5th October, 1962, the Respondent No. 1 was transferred and posted as Dairy Development Officer, Headquarters, but that was on his own pay and grade.	Reasoning
The mere fact that he was holding a Class II post did not entitle him in these circumstances to claim the emoluments of a person holding a Class II post.	Reasoning
There was no order ever made by any competent authority by which the Respondent No. 1 was appointed to Class II service that as per the existing cadre and Recruitment Rules of the Department the gazetted posts were to be filled up in the ratio of 60 per cent by promotion from the officials in the cadre of Veterinary Assistant Surgeons on senioritycummerit basis and 40 per cent by direct recruitment through the Public Service Commission.	Reasoning
The promotion of Respondent No. 1 was only on a temporary basis and he had no lien on the post of General Manager.	Reasoning
Consequent upon the upgrading of his post, his lien was changed to his original service of Veterinary Assistant Surgeon.	Reasoning
When Respondent No. 1 was posted on 5th October, 1962 as Dairy Development Officer on his own pay and grade, his temporary promotion to the post of the General Manager ceased as soon as that post was upgraded to Class II.	Reasoning
It was emphasised that the lien which the Respondent No. 1 had was on the post of Veterinary Assistant Surgeon.	Reasoning
As regards the reliance placed by the Respondent No. 1 on Rule 42 of the Mysore Civil Services Rules, it was averred that he was not entitled to the benefit of that Rule.	Reasoning
The reason was that after the post of the General Manager had been upgraded to Class II the lien of Respondent No. 1 on that post had come to an end and had shifted to that of Veterinary Assistant Surgeon with effect from 1st January, 1965.	Reasoning
5.	None
Before us reliance had also been placed on behalf of Respondent No. 1 on Rule 42B of the Mysore Civil Services Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
Rule 43 had also been referred to.	Reasoning
None of these essential and material matters has been considered by the High Court.	Reasoning
We are unable to uphold the judgment of the High Court on the reasoning contained in it.	Reasoning
In our judgment certain points which had material bearing on the controversy between the parties did not engage the attention of the High Court fully and no decision was given with regard to them.	Reasoning
6.	None
In the result, we allow this appeal and set aside the judgment of the High Court.	Decision
The matter is remanded to the High Court for a fresh decision after disposing of all the points raised by both the parties.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in this Court.	Decision
7.	None
Appeal allowed, case remanded.	Decision
