 N. Variava, J. Leave granted.	None
These Appeals are against the Judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court dated 21st November, 2001.	Issue
Briefly stated the facts are as follows.	None
Prior to July 2000, Companies like the 1st RespondentCompany which are engaged in the production of milk products, like Ghee, Skimmed milk, Powder, Butter and Cream, were subjected to a purchase tax at 4 and a surcharge at 10 of the purchase tax.	Facts
On 19th July 2000, the Governor of Punjab promulgated the Punjab Dairy Development Board Ordinance, 2000.	Facts
The Ordinance provided for creation of Punjab Dairy Development Board inter alia for coordination between the organizations engaged in the dairy sector, to uplift professional standard of the dairy industry in the State and to develop modern dairy farming technology system.	Facts
Under the Ordinance, cess was levied on milk plants by abolishing purchase tax on milk.	Facts
On 17th August, 2000, the Director, Dairy Development, Punjab, issued a notice to certain milk companies directing them to pay cess at 10 paise per litre of their licenced capacity for the period 19th July, 2000 to 30th September, 2000.	Facts
Many dairy companies filed Writ Petition in the High Court.	Facts
While these Writ Petitions were pending, Act No. 20 of 2000 was promulgated.	Facts
The Act was published in the Official Gazette on 20th October, 2000.	Facts
All the Petitions were allowed to be amended challenging the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The challenge to the Act was on the ground (a) that the substance of the levy was a tax on the licenced capacity of an Industry and that the State Legislature was not competent to levy tax under any Entry in List II of Schedule VII to the Constitution of India and (b) that the impost on the licenced capacity was arbitrary and discriminatory.	Facts
The High Court has held that this levy was in effect a tax.	Facts
The High Court so held following the principles laid down by the Court in the case of M s Kishan Lal Lakhmi Chand Others.	Facts
vs State of Haryana Others.	Facts
(1993)	Facts
Supp.	Facts
(4) SCC 461.	Facts
The High Court held that there was no special service being provided to the milk plants in the milkshed areas and that there was no evidence to show that the levy would be used for the benefit of the milk plants.	Facts
The High Court notes that the principles laid down in M s Kishan Lal Lakhmi Chand case (supra) have been diluted in subsequent decisions but still prefers to follow the ratio laid down in that case.	Facts
The High Court also holds the levy to be illegal and invalid as the State Legislature has impinged upon a field that was already occupied by a Central Legislation, namely, the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951.	Facts
The High Court holds that both the Legislations are aimed at improvement in production and marketing by employing suitable equipments and materials.	Facts
The High Court holds that both the Legislations are aimed at training personnel for running the facilities.	Facts
The High Court holds that the functions of the Board are not, in pith and substance, any way different from those assigned to the Development Councils.	Facts
The High Court also holds that as far as the milk are concerned, there is no direct benefit to them and that, therefore, the levy on only those milk plants having a capacity of more than 10,000 litres is arbitrary and discriminatory.	Facts
The High Court thus quashed the Act.	Facts
It must be mentioned that by the Punjab Dairy Development Board (Amendment) Act, 2004, with effect from 11th September, 2002 Section 12 of the Act has been deleted.	None
We are told that after the deletion of the cess, purchase tax has again been levied on milk.	None
The relevant provisions of the Act need to be set out at this stage.	None
They read as follows To provide for the creation of Punjab Dairy Development Board for coordination between the organizations engaged in dairy sector to uplift professional standard of the dairy industry in the State and to the develop modern diary farming technology system and to levy cess on the milk plants by abolishing purchase tax on milk.	None
1. (1) This Act may be called the Punjab Dairy Development Board Act, 2000.	None
It shall come into force at once.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, (a) (b) (c) (d) milk plant means a milk handling, processing or manufacturing unit registered under the Milk and Milk Products Order, 1992 of the Government of India and (e) The Board shall be a nodal agency for coordinating, planning and organising programmes of dairy development in consultation with the State Government so as to promote dairy sector on modern, scientific and commercially viable lines.	Reasoning
Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, the Board shall exercise the following powers and perform the following functions, namely to effect coordination between all organizations engaged in dairy sector viz., the Directorate of Dairy Development, the Directorate of Animal Husbandry, the Punjab Milkfed and other agencies, such as milk plants in the joint sector as well as in the private sector to uplift professional standards of the dairy industry in all its aspects through the Directorate of Dairy Development, Punjab, the Directorate of Animal Husbandry, the Punjab Milkfed and milk plants in the joint sector as well as in the private sector to coordinate formulation of policies in regard to production of milk and milk products to develop modern dairy farming technologies and systems for meeting the local demand of high quality milk and for promotion of the dairy industry for socioeconomic uplift of milk producers to establish centres in rural areas for demonstration in the manner in which programmes can be taken up to plan and formulate policies for quick genetic upgradation and development of milk animals, where necessary, by arranging for transfer of technology from abroad with Government of Indias prior approval to arrange and import new varieties of fodder seeds to increase the yield and nutrition of fodder crops and also equipment or machinery for their harvesting and conservation to take requisite measures to increase consumption of drinking milk and milk products through proper advertisement and other related channels of media to provide assistance of any kind to enhance the scope of export of dairy products to plan and execute programmes of high level education, research and training in dairy technology and husbandry to secure funds from the State Government and the other agencies and to exercise the necessary authority in respect of all matters which are incidental and ancillary to the aforesaid for attaining the objectives of the Board.	None
11.	None
(1) The Board may, with the prior approval of the State Government, create such posts and appoint such officers and other employees thereon, as it may consider necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions.	None
The conditions of service of the officers and other employees referred to in subsection (1), and their functions and duties shall be such, as may be determined by the regulations made by the Board under this Act. 12.	None
(1) Subject to the rules made under this Act, there shall be levied for the purpose of this Act, a cess at the rate of ten paise per litre of the licenced capacity of a milk plant by abolishing the purchase tax being charged on milk.	None
The cess levied under subsection (1), shall be paid by the owner of the milk plant in such manner and to such person or officr as may be prescribed.	None
The arrears of the cess levied under subsection (I), shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue.	None
13.	None
(1) There shall be constituted a Fund to be called the Punjab Dairy Development Fund, which shall vest in the Board.	None
The Fund constituted under subsection (I).	None
shall be administered by the MemberSecretary of the Board.	None
The amount of cess paid to the person or officer prescribed under subsection (2) of Section 12, shall be credited to the Fund within such period as may be prescribed and grants from this State Government and local shall also be credited to this Fund.	None
The accounts of the Fund shall be audited annually by the Examiner, Local Fund Accounts, Punjab.	None
Before us lengthy arguments have been made on whether the levy was a tax or a fee.	None
Large numbers of authorities were cited by both sides in support of their respective contentions.	None
On behalf of the Appellants, it was submitted that the levy was a fee, which had been imposed under Entries 15 and 27 of List II of the Constitution of India and was imposed in order to preserve, protect and improve stock and prevent animal diseases and give veterinary training and practice and for improving production, supply and distribution of goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that Section 10, which laid down the powers of the Board, clearly indicated that the cess was being levied under the above mentioned Entries.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that Entry 66 of List II permitted fees to be levied in respect of such items.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the ratio set out in M s Kishan Lal Lakhmi Chands case (supra) has been held by this Court to be obiter and that the High Court was wrong in relying upon the ratio laid down in that case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this, reliance was placed upon a case of Krishi Upai Mandi Samiti Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. Orient Paper Industries Ltd. (1995) 1 SCC 655 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed upon in B.S.E. Brokers Forum, Bombay Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2001) 3 SCC 482 .	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made to the cases of Sreenivasa General Traders Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. State of Andhra Pradesh Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1983) 4 SCC 353 , City Corporation of Calicut vs. Thachambalath Sadasivan Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1985) 2 SCC 112 , and Sirsilk Ltd. vs. Textiles Committee Others.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1989) Supp.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) SCC 168.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, on behalf of the 1st Respondent it was submitted that the High Court has correctly held it to be a tax and not a fee.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed upon in The Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras vs. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt 1954	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 1005 , M.P.V. Sundararamier Co. vs. The State of Andhra Pradesh Another 1958 SCR 1422 and Municipal Corporation of Delhi Others vs. Mohd.	Arguments of Respondent
Yasin (1983) 3 SCC 229 .	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that on the basis of the principles laid down in these cases the High Court has correctly held that the levy was a tax.	Arguments of Respondent
In our view, the law is quite well settled.	Reasoning
As the High Court has itself noticed the principles laid down in M s Kishan Lal Lakhmi Chands case (supra) have been diluted by subsequent decisions.	Reasoning
It has been held that the observations in the above case are obiter.	Reasoning
This being the position, the High Court was not correct in following the principles laid down in M s Kishan Lal Lakhmi Chands case (supra).	Reasoning
Even otherwise we find that the High Court was wrong in concluding that the field was already occupied by a Central Legislation, namely, the Industries (Development and Regulation Act, 1951.	Reasoning
As laid down in the case of Ch.	None
Tika Ramji Others, etc vs. The State of U.P. Others. reported in 1956 SCR 393 and Belsund Sugar Co. Ltd. vs. State of Bihar Others.	None
reported in (1999 9 SCC 620 repugnancy must exist as a fact and not as a mere possibility.	None
In the absence of any specific order or provision the question of repugnancy cannot arise.	None
Admittedly, the Central Legislation levies no cess or fee.	None
Thus, there can be no question of repugnancy if a fee were to be levied.	None
While the High Court was wrong in these conclusions, the question would still remains whether the levy was a tax or a fee.	None
In the view which we are taking, and which is set out hereinafter, it is not necessary for us to decide this question.	None
We have the question open.	None
We find that the High Court was, however, right in concluding that the levy, even if it be a fee, is arbitrary and discriminatory.	Reasoning
The levy is ostensibly for the purpose of coordination between organizations engaged in dairy sector and to develop modern dairy farming technology.	Reasoning
However, the levy is on milk plants at the rate of 10 paise per litre of the licenced capacity.	Reasoning
The term milk plant has been defined under Section 2(d) to mean a milk handling, processing or manufacturing unit registered under the Milk and Milk Products Order, 1992 of the Government of India.	Reasoning
The Order has been issued under the Essential Commodities Act.	Reasoning
Under this Order, only milk plants having an installed capacity for handling milk in excess of 10,000 litres per day or milk products in excess of 500 tones per annum require registration.	Reasoning
Thus, only such milk plants, i.e. milk plants which have an installed capacity to handle 10,000 litres per day or who produce milk products in excess of 500 per annum have to pay cess.	Reasoning
Further, the levy is not on the basis of actual production but on the licenced capacity of their plants.	Reasoning
Thus if a milk plant had a licenced capacity of 40,000 litres, even though the actual consumption was only 10,000 litres, they would still have to pay cess at the rate of 10 paise per litre on 40,000 litre.	Reasoning
It could not be denied that milk production and consumption vary from month to month and from season to season.	Reasoning
Irrespective of such variation and without any regard to the actual production or consumption, the levy is on the installed capacity only.	Reasoning
The levy was for the purposes of uplifting the standards of the Dairy Industry.	Reasoning
Yet there is no levy on the farmers or cooperative societies, who produces the milk, nor on plants whose installed capacity is less than 10,000 litres per day.	Reasoning
No rational explanation could be given as to why the levy was only on these plants.	Reasoning
The only explanation given was that these plants could apply for reduction of the installed capacity in case they were not capable of using their entire capacity.	Reasoning
It was stated that on such an application being made they would be allowed to reduce their installed capacity.	Reasoning
We are not impressed by this explanation.	Reasoning
One fails to understand why a milk plant should apply for reducing its capacity.	Reasoning
It may consume, as per its capacity in seasons when that quantity of milk is available, but it may not be able to consume, as per its capacity in seasons or at times when milk of that quantity is not available.	Reasoning
Further, due to temporary closure of some machines for purposes of repairs or maintenance they maybe consuming less during a particular period.	Reasoning
Further, even if there is no production consumption and even if the plant is shut down the cess would still have to be paid.	Reasoning
This would be so even if the closure is for more than six months in any particular year.	Reasoning
Irrespective of what their consumption production is, these plants would have to continue to pay cess at the rate of 10 paise per litre of their installed capacity.	Reasoning
We find that such a levy is arbitrary.	Reasoning
We also find that the levy is discriminatory.	Reasoning
There is no levy on the farmers and cooperative societies, who produce the milk and or milk plants whose capacity is less than 10,000 litres per day.	Reasoning
No explanation is given which justified this discrimination.	Reasoning
Faced with this situation, it was submitted that this Court could read down the Act.	Reasoning
It was submitted that from the definition of the term milk plant in Section 2(d) of the Act, the words which was registered under the Milk and Milk Products Order, 1992 be deleted.	Reasoning
It was submitted that the words licenced capacity in Section 12 be also deleted.	Reasoning
It was submitted that it is settled law that wherever it is possible to uphold legislation by reading it down the Court must do so.	Reasoning
There can be no dispute with the principle that if possible the provision of the Statute must be saved by, if necessary, reading them down.	Reasoning
However, in this case, we are unable to accept this submission.	Reasoning
As stated above, the Act has been amended in 2004.	Reasoning
This levy is already abolished.	Reasoning
At present, the purchase tax is again being levied.	Reasoning
For the period during which the Act subsisted, it is not possible for us to read it down inasmuch as it would now affect persons, who never went to Court because during the period it existed it did not apply to them.	Reasoning
Such parties are not before Court.	Reasoning
We thus see no reason to delete the words as suggested on behalf of the Appellants.	Reasoning
It was next submitted that the ground that the Act is discriminatory and violative and, therefore, liable to struck down, has not been taken in the Writ Petitions.	None
We are unable to accept this submission.	Reasoning
In our view, the Writ Petitions contain the necessary averments and these have also been met in the reply of the Respondents.	None
Thus, even though the reasoning of the High Court may be erroneous, the ultimate result is that the levy of cess requires to be struck down as being arbitrary and discriminatory.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, we see no reason to interfere.	Reasoning
The Appeals shall stand dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
