 P. Sethi, J. Despite independence of the country about half a century back and the establishment of a democratic set up with the declaration in the Constitution to have a Secular, Socialist Republic in the country	None
, there are people and organisations who have not mentally reconciled with the realities of life and the writings in the chapters of history for various reasons including their vested interests.	None
Ignoring the establishment of the rule of law and the development of the constitutional set up, they have made and are making fanatic efforts to sabotage the path of the goal intended to achieve the welfare of the society.	None
Ignoring the verdicts of this Court in Keshvananda Bharati v. State of Kerala, 1973 Suppl.	None
SCR 1, R.C. Cooper v. Union of India, 1970(3) SCR 530 and Madhav Rao v. Union, 1971(3) SCR 9 and various other pronouncements, efforts have been made to reverse back the wheel of history merely for personal gains to quench the lust for money and power.	None
The case of respondent No. 1 in this litigation is one of such persons who has done everything possible to utilise the forum of the Courts for the attainment of his personal benefits by attempting to utilise the alleged constitutional guarantees in his favour.	None
A ruler of the yester years, the respondent No. 1, approached the High Court for issuance of the command to the State Forest Corporation by treating him equivalent to the Government of Himachal Pradesh with conferment of monetary gains which were permissible to the State Government on the basis of the decision of the Pricing Committee.	None
The High Court granted prayer sought for by the judgment impugned in this appeal.	None
The Maharaja was held, to have been equated with the Government and entitled to the relief claimed by him as according to the High Court he was found to have been deprived of the right to life as envisaged by Article 21 of the Constitution of India.	None
The High Court observed We have held that the petitioner is entitled to enforce his claim particularly the right to his livelihood through this writ petition.	None
It was further held, he was, for all purposes, possessed power of the government.	None
The Court further observed, infact the Pricing Committee on behalf of the Government, in its wisdom, appear to have equated the petitioner with the government and directed that the decision regarding the aforesaid payments taken in respect of the government product shall also apply to Kutlehar Forest as well.	None
By way of issuance of the writ of mandamus, the respondent No. 1 was held entitled to the interest on the delayed payment of royalty, damages with respect to illicit felling plus 100 per cent penalty for the illegally felled trees.	None
He was further conferred with the grant of interest on interest and share in the levy of extension fee chargeable by the State from the respondentcorporation under the terms of the agreement or the provisions of law applicable in the case.	None
The judgment impugned in this appeal has been assailed on various grounds including the ground of nonmaintainability of the writ petition, error on the part of the High Court to equate the State Government with a private person, disentitlement of the respondent to claim a share in the penal interest and levies which the State was entitled to impose and recover as a consequence of its sovereign functions.	Issue
The relevant facts for deciding the present appeal are, that the dispute relates to Kutlehar Forest located in the district of Kangra, now a part of Himachal Pradesh State which was earlier a Princely State.	Facts
The aforesaid Princely State was founded by one Shri Narendra Pal about 300400 years back whose descendant is respondent No. 1, the said State was conferred 16 Tappas (chunks of land), four were Jagir Tappas and twelve Khalsa Tappas.	Facts
In Four Jagir Tapas, the land revenue to the extent of Rs. 10,000/ was assigned to the forefathers of respondent No. 1 by way of Jagir.	Facts
In addition to four Tappas, about twenty thousand acres of land belonging to the Baratandars (right holders) which was not used for agricultural purposes, was also assigned.	Facts
The forefathers of respondent No. 1 are stated to have grown larger number of trees over the said land from the period before 1868 A.D. Respondent No. 1 claimed that this ancestors protected and maintained those trees while Baratandars were granted various rights including the right to get timber on concessional rate for their domestic requirements and the right to graze their cattle.	Facts
During the settlement operation of civil district of Kangra in 1869, Mr. James Lyall, Settlement Officer, had made a proposal vide the letter 12.2.1868 that the management of forests in four Tappas be granted to the Raja of Kutlehar.	Facts
The aforesaid proposal is claimed to have been accepted by the Government of Punjab not only with respect to four Jagir Tappas but also for all 16 Tappas including 12 Khalsa Tappas.	Facts
The predecessorininterest of respondent No. 1 are stated to have started managing the Kutlehar Forest subject to the conditions contained in the approval dated 11.1.1869.	Facts
The then Government is stated to have started laying claims to the threes grown on the aforesaid land in the year 1915 which was resisted and resulted in the commencement of the fresh correspondence between the parties.	Facts
The controversies are said to have been set at rest by the Lt. Governor of Punjab in the year 1916 vide letter dated 25.5.1916 by which it was made clear that All trees growing in the protected forests, subject to the right of Bartandars and to the other conditions and exceptions hereinafter specified, belong to Government, but have been assigned by Government to the Raja so long as he abaides by the conditions of management hereunto appended.4.	Facts
In exercise of his powers vested under Section 28, 29(a) and 31 of the Indian Forests Act, 1878, the Lt. Governor of Punjab issued Notification dated 31.8.1915 by which various lands within the limits of various Jagirs including the Jagir of Kutlehar in the district of Kangra, the management of the forests was assigned to the Rajas including the predecessorininterest of the respondent No. 1, subject to the terms and conditions specified in the aforesaid orders.	Facts
The Rajas were directed to maintain proper account of the trees standing on the land which could be sold to traders only after the trees were marked by the Forest Department.	Facts
The trees could be sold only at the rates approved by the Forest Department.	Facts
The Raja was held entitled to continue to realize grazing fees from the Gaddies at the rates fixed by government or by mutual agreement the Raja and the Gaddi subject to the approval by the Deputy Commissioner.	Facts
However, vide Notification No. 4531FT.	Facts
9CH58/523 dated 1.10.1958 issued under Section 2(2) of the Forest Act, the respondent was appointed as a Forest Superintendent and the employees working under him in the aforesaid forest declared as Forest Officers with respect to Kutlehar Forest.	Facts
As per terms of his appointment, the respondent was held entitled to retain 3/4 of the income derivable from the forest whereas 1/4 of the gross income was payable to the government.	Facts
The conditions explicitly provided  The Raja shall keep a register showing all the receipts from the sale of timber, bamboos and other forest produce whether to zimdars or to traders.	Facts
Of this income the Raja shall in case of Kutlehar, receive 3/4 and Government 1/4.	None
The various forest produces such as resin, timber, bamboo and bhabar grass etc. were required to be auctioned by the respondent like the manner such auctions were held by the Forest Department in respect of government forests in accordance with the working plan and the highest bidder was to be granted the lease.	None
This practice was discontinued after the forests were nationalised by the AppellateState in the year 1974, when Himachal Pradesh Forest Corporation was incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
Produce of the government forests, thereafter, could be sold only to the Forest Corporation.	Facts
Ever since its incorporation the respondentcorporation continued purchasing timber and other forest produces from respondent No. 1 in accordance with the working plan.	Facts
The said respondent alleged that in addition to his entitlement of the sale price of the various forest produces sold by him out of the Kutlehar forest to the respondentcorporation, he was also entitled to share the interest on delayed payment, interest on interest and compensation for damages caused to the trees in the course of extraction of timber etc.	Facts
The basis for his claim as pleaded in writ petition and noticed by the High Court was Firstly, the Government of Himachal Pradesh constituted a Committee of officers for determination of the price and terms and conditions of the supply of forest produce sold in favour of the second respondent (HP Forest Corporation) vide notification dated 18.5.1974 (AnnexureC) whereby the fourth respondent (Pricing Committee) on behalf of the Government in its wisdom had equated the petitioner with the Government and directed that the decision regarding the aforesaid payments taken in respect of the Government produce should apply to Kutlehar Forest as wellSecondly, that according to the practice prevailing and trade custom, the petitioner is entitled to his share in the above said additional income andThirdly, that the Government and the petitioner were similarly circumstanced in so far as the sale of the forest produce is concerned and, therefore, any discrimination of the share of additional amount by way of income is offensive to Article 14 of the Constitution.	Facts
The respondent asserted that the additional amounts claimed by him were payable even by the private lessees to whom he and the government had sold various forest produces before coming into the existence of the respondentcorporation.	Facts
The appellantState was claimed to have constituted a Pricing Committee which decided to apply the decisions taken by it in regard to the sales made by Forest Department to the sales made by the respondent out of the Kutlehar forest as well.	Facts
To strengthen his claim, the respondent relied upon Article 51 of the Article of Association of the respondentcorporation which provided that the Government could issue directions from time to time which the directors of the company were bound to comply with.	Facts
The respondent claimed that the corporation had an inescapable obligation to pay to him all the amounts claimed which it had failed to pay despite repeated written requests.	Facts
The decision qua interest on interest is stated to have been taken by the Pricing Committee with the object to curb the pendency of belated payments attributed to the respondentcorporation.	Facts
The decision regarding penalty of the illicit outshaped blazes was stated to have been taken on 17.8.1982.	Facts
Levy of extension fee was imposed vide decision of the Pricing Committee dated 4.12.1986.	Facts
The aforesaid decisions are stated to have been made applicable in the case of the respondent vide Item No. VIII recorded in the minutes of the proceedings of the meeting held on 16.5.1988.5.	Facts
The Pricing Committee in its meeting held on 6.10.1990 was stated to have reviewed the guidelines issued earlier in respect of the dealings of the Himachal Pradesh State Forest Corporation with the Government and the royalty to be charged from, and levies and penalties to be imposed upon the corporation in respect of the working of the forest by the corporation.	Facts
The Kutlehar Forest is stated to have been resumed by the State of Himachal Pradesh vide Notification dated 19.1.1990 issued under Section 3 of the Punjab Resumption of Jagir Act, 1957.	Facts
The Principal Chief Conservator of Forests was directed to take over management and possession of Kutlehar forest from respondent No. 1 with the assistance of the Collector.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 filed a writ petition (WP No. 42/90) with respect to his preexisting rights as also his entitlement to retain the forest by challenging the validity of the notification.	Facts
Thereafter, he also challenged the Himachal Pradesh (Acquisition of Management) Act, 1992 by filing a writ petition (W.P. No. 707/92).	Facts
During the pendency of the aforesaid writ petition No. 42/90, respondent No. 1 filed CWP No. 528/91 in the High Court of Himachal Pradesh claiming the relief on the basis of the decisions of the Pricing Committee being applicable to him.	Facts
The claim of the respondent No. 1 was resisted on various grounds including  (1) that the petitioner is not the owner of the forest(ii) that it is a case of enforcing contractual rights which can be done by way of a Civil Suit and not through this writ petition.	Facts
Therefore, the writ petition is not maintainable(iii) that the decision of the fourth respondent (Pricing Committee) regarding the payment of additional amounts in question, such as, interest on belated payments, interest on interest, penalty on illicit out shaped blazes, levy of extension fees etc. to the petitioner is not binding on the first or the second respondent (HP Forest Corporation)(iv) that the threes are not revenue but capital and that since the property in the trees is that of the first respondent, the first respondent is not liable to pay the share out of the damage caused to the trees etc. etc.	Facts
Rejecting the pleas of the appellant, the High Court allowed the writ petition vide the judgment impugned in this appeal.	None
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant has vehemently argued that the writ petition filed was not maintainable as the High Court was not justified in entertaining the same and consequently granting the relief to the respondent No. 1.	Arguments of Petitioner
The rights of respondent No. 1, if any, are stated to be based upon a contract for which he was obliged to avail of the alternative efficacious remedy of filing a suit either for the recovery of the money or for rendition of accounts.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the discretionary powers vested in the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution could not have been exercised in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though, we find substance in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant, yet we are not inclined to allow the appeal and dismiss the writ petition of respondent No. 1 only on this ground.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that the powers conferred upon the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution are discretionary in nature which can be invoked for the enforcement of any fundamental right or legal right but not for mere contractual rights arising out of an agreement particularly in view of the existence of efficacious alternative remedy.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Constitution Court should insist upon the party to avail of the same instead of invoking the extraordinary writ jurisdiction of the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
This does not however debar the Court from granting the appropriate relief to a citizen under peculiar and special facts notwithstanding the existence of alternative efficacious remedy.	Arguments of Petitioner
The existence of the special circumstances are required to be noticed before issuance of the direction by the High Court while invoking the jurisdiction under the said Article.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case, the High Court did not notice any special circumstance which could be held to have persuaded it to deviate from the settled proposition of law regarding the exercise of the writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
For exercise of the writ jurisdiction, the High Court pressed into service the alleged fundamental right to livelihood of the respondent which was found to have been violated by not making him the payment of the amounts claimed in the writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that Article 21 of the Constitution is of utmost importance, violation of which, as and when found, directly or indirectly, or even remotely, has to be looked with disfavour.	Arguments of Petitioner
The violation of the right to livelihood is required to be remedied.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the right to livelihood as contemplated under Article 21 of the Constitution cannot be so widely construed which may result in defeating the purpose sought to be achieved by the aforesaid Article.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also true that the right to livelihood would include all attributes of life but the same cannot be extended to the extent that it may embrace or take within its ambit all sorts of claim relating to the legal or contractual rights of the parties completely ignoring the person approaching the court and the alleged violation of the said right.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court appears to have adopted a very generous, general and casual approach in applying the right to livelihood to the facts and circumstances of the case apparently for the purpose of clothing itself with the power and jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are sure that if the High Court had considered the argument in the right perspective and in the light of various pronouncements of this Court, it would not have ventured to assume jurisdiction for the purposes of conferring the State largess of public money, upon an unscrupulous litigant who preferred his claim on his proclaimed assumption of being as important as the Government of the State and equal thereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
Despite holding that the High Court had wrongly assumed the jurisdiction in the facts of the case, as earlier noticed, we are not inclined to dismiss the writ petition of the respondent No. 1 on this ground at this stage because that is likely to result in miscarriage of justice on account of the lapse of time which may now result in the foreclosure of all other remedies which could be availed of by the respondent in the ordinary course.	Arguments of Petitioner
The alternative remedies available to the respondent admittedly not being efficacious at this stage has persuaded us to decide the claim of the respondent on merits.	None
To justify the claim of the respondent based upon the decision of the Pricing Committee, the learned senior counsel, Dr. L.M. Singhvi, has submitted that as the Pricing Committee was the quasi judicial tribunal constituted by the State Government in exercise of its statutory as well as plenary power, the respondents in the writ petition were bound to abide by its decision and in case of their failure to perform the obligations, the writ petitioner was justified in approaching the Court by way of writ petition to seek the enforcement of rights arising on account of the decision of the alleged statutory Pricing Committee.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not disputed that the Pricing Committee was constituted by a Notification No. 1026/72SF dated 18.5.1974 which was initially presided over by the Chief Secretary and later on by the Minister of Forests.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also not disputed that the said Committee was established to determine the terms and conditions for the supply of resin, resin blazes, standing trees and other forest produce to be handed over by the Himachal Pradesh Forest Department to the Himachal Pradesh State Forest Corporation Ltd. from time to time.	Arguments of Respondent
However, there is nothing on the record to suggest that the said committee was constituted in exercise of any statutory power.	Arguments of Respondent
Despite mentioning the provisions of State Forest Corporation Act of 1974, the learned counsel for the respondent No. 1 could not refer to any statutory obligation under the said Act requiring the appointment of the Pricing Committee.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument appears to be afterthought and contradictory to the pleadings.	None
In his writ petition, the respondent No. 1 referred to Clause 51 of the Memorandum of Association of Articles of Association and submitted That in exercise of the powers conferred by clause 51 of the Memorandum, the Government of Himachal Pradesh vide Notification No. 1026/72SF, Shimla dated 18.5.1974 constituted a committee of officers to determine the price and terms and conditions for the supply of resin, resin blazes, standing trees and other forest produce to be sold to the Himachal Pradesh Forest Corporation Ltd. from time to time.	None
A copy of the said notification is annexed to this petition as Annexure C. ?	None
39?3	None
That this notification was subsequently amended in the year 1986 vide notification Fts (B)(A) 414/84II dated 28.11.1983.	None
By this notification the earlier notification on 1974 was partially modified so as to include the State Minister for Forests, Himachal Pradesh as the Chairman of the said Committee.	None
That the aforesaid Committee has been holding meetings from time to time and taking decisions regarding the prices at which the Corporation would purchase the forest produce from the Forest Department.	None
The petitioner further submitted that the State and all its functionaries were duty bound to act fairly and reasonably in the discharge of their official functions.	None
The conduct of the respondentcorporation in allegedly denying to the writ petitioner the benefit of the Pricing Committee which was stated to be otherwise binding on the corporation in accordance with the Clause 51 of the Memorandum of Association, was alleged to be amounting to actionable wrong which entitled the petitioner to seek appropriate directions from the Court to direct the respondentcorporation to give effect to the said decision and the appellant to issue direction to the Corporation to carry out all the directives of the Pricing Committee in relation to the forest produce sold in favour of the corporation by the writ petition out of Kutlehar forest.	Arguments of Petitioner
A Committee constituted for the purposes of settling the matters between the Government and the Forest Corporation in pursuance of Clause 51 of the Memorandum of Association could not be termed to be a quasi judicial tribunal, the decision of which could be binding upon the State for the purposes of the writ petitioner as well.	None
Clause 51 authorises the State Government to issue appropriate directions, from time to time, as might be considered necessary in regard to the exercise and performance of the function of the Corporation in the matters involving substantial public interest and in like manner might vary and annul any earlier direction.	None
Directions thus issued are required to be duly complied with and given immediate effect to.	None
Memorandum and Articles of Association regulated the conduct of the appellant and respondent Nos. 2 herein, which was not in any way, intended to be made applicable to other persons such as the respondent No. 1 herein.	None
The submission that the Princing Committee was a quasi judicial tribunal constituted by the State Government in exercise of its statutory as well as plenary executive powers can also not be accepted in the light of the functions assigned to the Committee.	None
Quasi judicial acts are such acts which mandate an mandate an officer the duty of looking into certain facts not in a way which it specially directs but after a discretion, in its nature judicial.	None
The exercise of power by such tribunal or authority contemplates the adjudication of rival claims of the persons by an act of the mind or judgment upon the proposed course of official action as to an object of the corporate power, for the consequences of which the official will not be liable, although his act was not welljudged.	None
A quasi judicial function has been termed to be one which stands midway a judicial and an administrative function.	None
The primary test is as to whether the authority alleged to be a quasi judicial, has any express statutory duty to act judicially in arriving at the decision in question.	None
If the reply is in affirmative, the authority would be deemed to be quasi judicial, and if the reply is in the negative, it would not be.	None
The dictionary meaning of the word quasi is not exactly.	None
It follows, therefore, that an authority is described as quasi judicial when it has some of the attributes or trappings of juridical functions, but not all.	None
This Court in Province of Bombay v. Khusaldas S. Advani, 1950 SCR 621 dealt with the action of the statutory body and laid down tests for ascertaining whether the action taken by such body was a quasi judicial act or an administrative act.	None
The Court approved the celebrated definition of the quasi judicial body given by Atkin L.J., as he then was in Rex v. Electricity Commissioners, 1924(1) KB 171 in which it was held Whenever any body of persons having legal authority to determine questions affecting rights of subjects, and	None
having the duty to act judicially act in excess of their legal authority they are subject to the controlling jurisdiction of the Kings Bench Division exercised in these writs.	None
The aforesaid definition was accepted as correct in Rex v. London County Council, 1931(2) KB 215 and many subsequent cases both in England and in India.	None
Again this Court in Radshyam v. State of M.P., AIR 1959 SC 107 relying upon its earlier decision held  It will be noticed that this definition insists on three requisites each of which must be fulfilled in order that the act of the body may be quasi judicial act, namely, that the body of persons (1) must have legal authority, (2) to determine questions affecting the rights of parties, and (3) must have the duty to act judicially.	None
Since a writ of certiorari can be issued only to correct the errors of a court or a quasi judicial body, it would follow that the real and determining test for ascertaining whether an act authorised by a statute is a quasi judicial act or an administrative act is whether the statute has expressly or impliedly imposed upon the statutory body the duty to act judicially as required by the third condition in the definition given by Atkin L.JRelying on paragraphs 114 and 115 of Halsburys Laws of England 3rd Edition Volume 11 at pages 5558 and citing the case of R. v. Manchester Legal Aid Committee 19522 QB 413 learned counsel for the appellants contends that where a statute requires decision to be arrived at purely from the point of view of policy or expediency the authority is under no duty to act judicially.	None
He urges that where, on the other hand, the order has to be passed on evidence either under an express provision of the statute or by implication and determination of particular facts on which its jurisdiction to exercise its power depends or if there is a proposal and an opposition the authority is under a duty to act judicially.	None
As stated in paragraph 115 of Halsburys Laws of England Volume 11 pages 57, the duty to act judicially may arise in widely differing circumstances which it would be impossible to attempt to define exhaustively.	None
The question Applying the tests noticed hereinabove, it cannot be said by any stretch of imagination that the said committee was or intended to be a quasi judicial tribunal as argued on behalf of the respondent No. 1.	None
This committee can also not be stated to have been constituted in exercise of the plenary administrative power of the appellantState.	None
It has been conceded before us that the said Committee was not constituted in terms of Section 6 of the Himachal Pradesh Forest Produce (Regulation of Trade) Act, 1982.	None
No other statutory provision has been relied either.	None
The Committee appears to have been constituted for settlement of the claims and disputes between the appellantState and the respondentcorporation.	None
The decisions of the Committee were applicable to the parties to the said Committee and not to any third person.	None
The said Committee had no source of its constitution in any statutes nor was it intended to determine or adjudicate the claims of parties with respect to the matters referred to it for opinion and suggestion or even for settlement between the parties concerned.	None
The decision of the Committee, not being statutory, thus could not be given effect to by the High Court.	None
Assuming that the Committee was of a quasi judicial character, it has to be seen as to whether its decisions recommendations were applicable to the respondent No. 1 in so far as Kutlehar Forest was concerned.	None
It is admitted that the Committee dealt with various items of disputes between the State of Himachal Pradesh and the Forest Corporation such as handing over of charging of extension fee, fixation of rates for resin blazes for the year 198889, 198990, adjustment of rebate, royalty rates for timber lots (deodar, kail, fir and chill, sal lots, Eucalyptus Lots, shisham, sain and tuni, khair lots, interest on belated payments, damages in geltu lots, interest on interest, royalty for private trees and levy of extension fee.	None
It is not disputed before us that on the basis of the arrangement prevalent before the constitution of the corporation, respondent No. 1 was entitled to a share of 75 per cent of the sale profits of the forests.	None
In other words, it is conceded that respondent No. 1 was entitled to 75 per cent of the royalty received from the Kutlehar Forest.	None
It is also not disputed that respondent No. 1 has already been paid his due share of royalty on the basis of the price fixed by the Pricing Committee from time to time.	None
The dispute is with respect to item Nos. XI, pertaining to interest on belated payments, item No.	None
XII damage in geltu lots, item No. XIII interest on interest and item	None
No.	None
XVII levy of extension fee, mentioned in the Processing of the Pricing Committee dated 6.10.1990 (Annexure C).	None
To claim the share in the aforesaid items, the respondent No. 1 relied upon the decision of the Pricing Committee meeting held on 16.5.1988 which inter alia provided It was decided and clarified that the royalty will be charged for Kutlehar Forests on the same lines as fixed for Govt.	None
lots linked with the nature of trees and intensity of making.	None
No differential rates or system can be fixed for Kutlehar Forests.	None
It is contended that the words no differential rates or system mentioned in the aforesaid item of the decision of the Pricing Committee entitled the respondent No. 1 to a share in all types of charges received recovered by the Government from the State Forest Corporation.	None
The submission is superficial having no foundation to stand inasmuch as it ignores the heading of the item No. VIII dealing with charging of royalty for Kutlehar Forest.	None
The reference to the words, no differential rates or system is relatable only to the royalty and not to the other recoveries which the appellantState was entitled to recover as a sovereign being admittedly the owner of the forest and its produce.	None
The High Court appears to have committed a mistake in reading something between the lines which in fact did not exist.	None
Finding difficult with the conclusions arrived at by the High Court, the learned senior counsel appearing for respondent No. 1 vehemently urged that the items regarding which the respondent No. 1 had preferred his claim, in fact, were the attributes of the royalty, the payment of which the appellantState could not have denied to his client.	None
In support of his submission he has referred to various judgments.	None
Whatever be the meaning of the word royalty,l its connotation and use in the context of the case has to be understood in the light of the peculiar facts and attending circumstances.	None
The practice prevalent for exploitation of the forest produce, cannot be ignored, which generally authorised the owner of the forest to recover the royalty for the felling of trees and extraction and utilisation of the other forest produce.	None
The extension fee, interest, interest on interest, payment for out shaped illicit blazes, and damages cannot be held to be covered by the term royalty as used in item No. VIII of the proceedings of the Pricing Committee.	None
The respondent NO. 1 as already noticed could not be equated with the State Government of Himachal Pradesh, and had no basis to claim the ownership in the trees grown in the Kutlehar forest after he accepted his appointment as a Forest Superintendent in the year 1958 under Section 2(2) of the Forest Act.	None
The acceptance of his position as a Forest Superintendent in law, a forest officer appointed under Section 2(2) of the Forest Act clearly established that the respondent No. 1 had accepted the State Government to be dominant owner of the property and that he was merely an officer appointed by the Government in exercise of its sovereign power.	None
But for his position as a Forest Officer, he had no jurisdiction to deal with the forest or even enter into it.	None
The arrangements made earlier in the form of conferment of rights upon his forefather stood extinguished and merged with his position as a Forest Officer of the State Government.	None
He was entitled only to such benefits to which the forest officer is entitled.	None
His entitlement in the present case was restricted only to the extent of sharing of the royalty and not for anything more.	None
Even in the settlement report of 1916 which was amended on 30.7.1945 regarding Kutlehar Forest it was provided that all trees growing in the protected forest subject to the rights of Burtandars and to the other conditions and exceptions specified therein belonged to the Government which were assigned to the Raja so long as he abides the conditions of management or such other conditions as were specified at the time or which might be substituted by other terms at any time.	None
Reliance upon the judgment of this Court in State of Orissa and others v. Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. and another, AIR 1985 SC 1293 is also of no help to respondent No. 1.	None
In that case it was observed that royalty is not a term used in legal parlance for the price of goods sold.	None
It was observed that the royalty was defined to mean, a payment reserved by the grantor of a patent, lease of a mine or similar right, and payable proportionately to the use made of the right by the grantee, which shall on payment of money, but may be a payment in kind being the part of the produce of the exercise of the right.	None
The judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Raja Bahadur Kamakshya Narain Singh v. Commissioner of Income Tax Bihar and Orissa, AIR 1943 PC 153 had held that royalty was an income flowing from the convenant in the lease.	None
While dealing with the question of royalty.	None
It was held These are periodical payments, to be made by the lessee under his convenants in consideration of the benefits which he is granted by the lessor.	None
What these benefits may be is shown by the extract from the lease quoted above, which illustrates how inadequate and fallacious it is to envisage the royalties as merely the price of the actual tons of coal.	None
The tonnage royalty is indeed only payable when the coal or coke is gotton and despatched but that is merely the last stage.	None
As preliminary and ancillary to that culminating act, liberties are granted to enter on the land and search, to dig and sink pits, to erect engines and machinery, coke ovens furnaces and form railways and roads.	None
All these and the like liberties show how fallacious it is to treat the lease as merely one for the acquisition of a certain number of tons of coal, or the agreed item of royalty as merely the price of each ton of coal.	None
Neither the Judicial Committee of the Privy council nor this Court had held or referred to that the item like extension fee, interest, interest on interest, and payment for damage caused could be included within the ambit of them royalty.	None
The aforesaid payments were thus recoverable only on the basis of the contract or the statutory provisions.	None
In Inderjeet Singh Sial and another v. Karamchand Thapar and others, 1995(6) SCC 166 it was held In its primary and natural sense royalty, in the legal world, is known as the equivalent or translation of jura regalia or jura regia.	None
Royal rights and prerogatives of a sovereign are covered thereunder.	None
It its secondary sense the word royalty would signity, as in mining leases, that part of the reddendum, variable though, payable in cash or kind, for rights and privileges obtained.	None
It is found in the clause of the deed by which the grantor reserves something to himself out of that which he grants.	None
But What is in a name ?	None
A rose by any other name would smell as sweet.	None
So said Shakespeare.	None
The Court further held that the commodity goes by its value and not by the wrapper in which it is packed.	Reasoning
If the thought is clear, its translation in words, spoken or written, may more often than not, tend to be faulty.	Reasoning
The same substance under the facts of the particular case has to be understood before applying it in legal manner.	Reasoning
This Court has very clearly held that royalty in general connotes the States share in the goods upon which the rights of its exploitation are conferred upon any person or the group of persons.	Reasoning
If the royalty cannot be claimed by any individual, much less the controvercial items being its attribute, even if assumed, can be claimed by a citizen.14.	Reasoning
The subjects covered by item Nos. XI, XII, XIII and XVII have thus to be understood in this context which leave no doubt in our mind that the said claims against the forest corporation covered by the aforesaid items owed their origin to the exercise of the sovereign rights vested in the appellant State.	Reasoning
No private citizen, unless specifically authorised in that behalf under the provisions of law could prefer such claims.	Reasoning
The High Court was, therefore, not justified in allowing the aforesaid claims in favour of the respondent No. 1.	Reasoning
The observations in Para No. 21 of the impugned judgment are, therefore, benefit of any legal substance and thus cannot be upheld.15.	Reasoning
We, are, therefore, satisfied that the impugned judgment of the High Court cannot be sustained even on merits and is liable to be quashed inasmuch as no statutory right enforceable under law existed in favour of the respondent No. 1 regarding the enforcement of which a command could have been issued in the form of a writ of mandamus.	Reasoning
The appeal of the State is accordingly allowed and the judgment of the High Court is set aside dismissing the writ petition filed by respondent No. 1.	Decision
Interim order issued in the case shall stand vacated and the respondent No. 1 held liable to refund all the sums of money which he has received in pursuance of the judgment of the High Court and interim order of this Court dated 16.10.1995.	Decision
The excess amount shall be refunded within a period of three months.	Decision
In case, the excess amount is not refunded within the time specified, the respondent No. 1 shall be liable for its refund along with interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum from the date of this order till the actual payment is made.	Decision
Respondent No. 1 is also held to pay costs which we quantify at Rs.	Decision
5,000/.	Decision
The amount of costs be deposited in the Registry for the Funds of the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee.	Decision
