 M. Khanwilkar, J. These appeals challenge the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Madras, dated 22.11.2013, in Writ Appeal Nos. 2082 and 2083 of 2013.	Issue
Briefly stated, the respondent was employed as a driver by the appellant on 14.04.1986.	Facts
While on duty on 15.01.2003, on vehicle TN380702, during a trip from Kovai Ukkadam to Pollachi, near Vadakkipalayam he caused an accident with a car bearing No.	Facts
TMA 4845 coming from the opposite direction resulting in fatal injuries to persons travelling in that car.	Facts
Disciplinary enquiry was instituted against the respondent inter alia on the charge of driving the bus in a rash and negligent manner.	Facts
The Enquiry Officer found the respondent guilty of the charges framed in Charge Memo dated 22.01.2003.	Facts
The Disciplinary Authority after giving opportunity to the respondent passed order of dismissal on 13.10.2003.	Facts
The appellant then submitted an application, being Approval Petition No. 480 of 2003, under Section 33(2)(b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, before the Joint Commissioner Labour (Conciliation), Chennai as an industrial dispute was pending for conciliation before him.	Facts
The Labour Commissioner, after analysing the material placed before him in the said proceeding noted that the Department only examined two witnesses who were also crossexamined by the respondent.	Facts
The respondent examined himself as defence witness, but was not crossexamined by the Department.	Facts
The Commissioner, however, found that the enquiry against the respondent was conducted in accordance with the principles of natural justice and also in conformity with the Standing Orders.	Facts
While dealing with the quality of evidence adduced by the Department, the Commissioner found that the same, by no standard would substantiate the charges framed against the respondent.	Facts
The first witness was the Junior Engineer.	Facts
He had submitted a site inspection report and stated in his evidence that the car came with speed to the left side from Vadakkipalayam branch road to the main road and then came to the centre of the road.	Facts
His evidence about the occurrence of accident was on presumption.	Facts
The second witness examined by the Department was the Assistant Manager.	Facts
He stated that the bus driver as well as car driver had driven their vehicles speedily.	Facts
He also stated that car was driven in the middle of the road with speed at the time of accident.	Facts
The defence of the respondent was that when he was approaching Vadakkipalayam branch road, an ambassador car driven by a 17 year old boy named Sivakumar came on the wrong side of the road at a high speed and, after entering the main road went to the left side of the bus in wrong direction.	Facts
The respondent, therefore, first thought of driving the bus to the left.	Facts
But, as some pilgrims were going in a procession on the left side of the road and as the car was being driven rashly and had come to the left side of the bus, he was left with no option except to take the bus to the right side to avoid a head on collision.	Facts
This averted a fatal accident to pedestrians and minimized the damage to the car coming from the opposite direction on the wrong side.	Facts
This also ensured the safety of the bus passengers.	Facts
In substance, the respondent pleaded that the accident was caused due to unavoidable circumstances and in spite of all precautions and applying his best judgment in maneuvering the vehicle.3.	Facts
The Commissioner found that the respondent had deposed about these facts as defence witness, but was not crossexamined by the Department.	Facts
No eye witness was examined by the Department nor the conductor of the bus or passengers travelling in the same bus were examined by the Department.	Facts
The Commissioner, therefore, concluded that the finding reached by the Enquiry Officer by merely relying on the evidence of the Junior Engineer and the Assistant Manager (who were not eye witnesses), was perverse.	Facts
In that, the charges were not proved against the respondent by independent legal evidence of eye witnesses.	Facts
The Commissioner held that the Enquiry Officers report was vitiated being perverse.	Facts
The Commissioner also relied on the decision of the Division Bench of Madras High Court in Writ Appeal No. 2238 of 2000 in the case of A. Mariasundararaj vs. Cheran Transport Corporation Ltd., which had deprecated the practice of not examining eye witness or other relevant evidence during the enquiry in respect of accident cases by the State Transport Corporation, and as it results in not confirming the charges and punishments awarded against its drivers involved in accidents.	Facts
The Commissioner, therefore, refused to accord approval for dismissal of the respondent.4.	Facts
Being aggrieved by this decision, the appellantManagement preferred Writ Petition No. 2425 of 2010.	Facts
Even the respondent preferred Writ Petition No. 23155/2009 for issuing writ of mandamus against the Corporation to implement the order passed by the Joint Commissioner of Labour, Chennai dated 25.05.2009 in Approval Petition No. 480/2003 and to reinstate him with continuity of service, backwages and all other attendant benefits.	Facts
Both the writ petitions were heard analogously by the learned Single Judge.	Facts
The Single Judge noted the seven reasons recorded by the Commissioner to disapprove the dismissal of the respondent, as follows  Except examining witnesses, who are employees of the petitioner Corporation, the petitioner has not examined any independent witness to prove that the accident took place because of the rash and negligent driving of the 2nd respondent resulting in the death of 9 persons.b)	Facts
The Engineers report, which was marked as Ex.	None
A2 shows that the car came fast from the branch road to the main and came to the centre of the road and the bus was coming on the right side of the road instead of the left side on high speed.	Facts
The report fixed prime responsibility on the bus driver and part responsibility on the car driver.	Facts
Though the Junior Engineer, who gave this report, deposed that the car and the bus came with speed, he was not an eye witness to the occurrence and he had described the occurrence only on presumption.c) P.W.1, the Assistant Manager of the petitioner Corporation, though deposed that the bus driver as well as the car driver had driven the vehicles in high speed, he was also not an eye witness to the occurrence and hence, his evidence also cannot be taken into consideration to fix the responsibility on the 2nd respondent.d)	Facts
The conductor of the bus, who could have been examined on the side of the petitioner Corporation, had not been examined.e)	Facts
Not even a single passenger of the bus was examined to prove or establish that the 2nd respondent, the driver of the bus, had driven the vehicle in a rash and negligent manner.f)	Facts
The Enquiry Officer had relied on the evidence of the Engineer and the Assistant Manager, who were not eye witnesses to the occurrence and their evidence was uncorroborated by any independent witness.g)	Facts
The 2nd respondent had denied that he was responsible for the accident and stated that the ambassador car, which took a left turn from the branch road and came driving to its right side, suddenly turned to the left and therefore, the accident had occurred.	Facts
However, the 2nd respondent was not subjected to crossexamination.	Facts
The Single Judge then opined that the view so taken by the Commissioner was well founded and did not warrant any interference.	Facts
Reliance was also placed on an unreported decision of Division Bench of the same High Court in Writ Appeal No. 2238 of 2000 in the case of A. Mariasundararaj (Supra).	Facts
The relevant dictum in that decision has been reproduced in paragraph 7 by the Single Judge, as follows We have to point out that when we come across such accident case, where disciplinary actions are initiated by the State Transport Corporations, invariably except the statement of the inspecting official, the sketch and photographs, no other evidence is placed before the Inquiry Officer.	Facts
It is also repeatedly being pointed out that in the absence of such independent evidence before the Court, it is difficult for the Court to confirm the punishment awarded as against such erring drivers.	Facts
Accordingly, the Single Judge dismissed the writ petition preferred by the appellant and allowed the writ petition preferred by the respondent and issued direction to the appellant Corporation to reinstate the respondent with backwages and continuity of service and all other attendant benefits.7.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the appellant preferred Letters Patent Appeal bearing Writ Appeal Nos. 2082 and 2083 of 2013.	Facts
The Division Bench affirmed the view taken by the Single Judge.	Facts
The Division Bench distinguished the decision of this Court in the case of Cholan Roadways Ltd.	Facts
Vs.	Facts
G. Thirugnanasambandam (2005) 3 SCC 241 )which was pressed into service by the appellant, on the principle of res ipsa loquitur.	Facts
The Division Bench held that merely on the basis of evidence of the Assistant Manager and the Engineer, who were not the eye witnesses, the charges against the respondent remained unsubstantiated.	Facts
Hence, the writ appeals came to be dismissed.	Facts
This decision is the subject matter of challenge in the present appeals.	None
According to the appellant, the evidence produced by the Department was sufficient to bring home the charge of rash and negligent driving by the respondent on the day of accident.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Commissioner exceeded his jurisdiction in recording a contrary finding while refusing to accord approval to the order of dismissal of the respondent passed by the Department, considering the fact that the accident admittedly caused fatal injuries to passengers travelling in the car.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that considering the seriousness of the charges and the fact that the respondent was driving the bus in a rash and negligent manner, the approach of the Commissioner was hypertechnical.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is not only a manifest error but has also resulted in grave injustice.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent on the other hand contends that the Commissioner has applied the well settled legal position that there can be no presumption of misconduct by the employees.	Arguments of Respondent
That, charge must be proved by the Department during the inquiry.	Arguments of Respondent
Non examination of the material witnesses such as eye witnesses present on the spot, conductor and passengers, travelling on the same bus was fatal.	Arguments of Respondent
For, it entails in not substantiating the charges against the respondent and failure to discharge the initial onus resting on the Department to prove the charge as framed.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the respondent, no fault can be found with the tangible reasons recorded by the Commissioner as noticed by the Single Judge (reproduced above) and resultantly, the conclusion of the Commissioner of not according approval to the order of dismissal is just and proper.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the Single Judge was justified in allowing the writ petition preferred by the respondent and issuing direction to the appellant to reinstate him with backwages and continuity of service and all attendant benefits accrued to him.	Arguments of Respondent
The moot question is about the jurisdiction of the Joint Commissioner of Labour (Conciliation) whilst considering an application for approval of order of punishment under Section 33(2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	None
It is well settled that the jurisdiction under Section 33(2)(b) of the Act is a limited one.	None
That jurisdiction cannot be equated with that of the jurisdiction under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
This Court in the case of Cholan Roadways (Supra) observed thus The jurisdiction of the Tribunal while considering an application for grant of approval has succinctly been stated by this Court in	None
Martin Burn Ltd.	None
Vs R.N. Banerjee (AIR 1958 SC 79 ).	None
While exercising jurisdiction under Section 33(2) (b) of the Act, the Industrial Tribunal is required to see as to whether a prima facie case has been made out as regard the validity or otherwise of the domestic enquiry held against the delinquent keeping in view the fact that if the permission or approval is granted, the order of discharge or dismissal which may be passed against the delinquent employee would be liable to be challenged in an appropriate proceeding before the Industrial Tribunal in terms of the provision of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
In Martin Burns case (supra) this court stated A prima facie case does not mean a case proved to the hilt but a case which can be said to be established if the evidence which is led in support of the same were believed.	None
While determining whether a prima facie case had been made out the relevant consideration is whether on the evidence led it was possible to arrive at the conclusion in question and not whether that was the only conclusion which could be arrived at on that evidence.	None
It may be that the Tribunal considering this question may itself have arrived at a different conclusion.	None
It has, however, not to substitute its own judgment for the judgment in question.	None
It has only got to consider whether the view taken is a possible view on the evidence on the record.	None
(See Buckingham Carnatic Co. Ltd.	None
Vs The Workers of the Company (1952) Lab.	None
AC 490 (F).	None
(emphasis supplied)	None
This judgment was relied by the appellant before the Division Bench.	None
The Division Bench, however, brushed it aside by observing that the principle of Res ipsa loquitur is not applicable to the case on hand.	None
That approach, in our opinion is untenable.	None
In that, the said decision not only deals with the principle of Res ipsa loquitur but also with the scope of jurisdiction of the Commissioner under Section 33(2)(b) of the Act.	None
It also delineates the extent of scrutiny to be done at this stage to ascertain whether prima facie case is made out for grant or nongrant of approval to the order of punishment.	None
In doing so, the Commissioner could not substitute his own judgment but must only consider whether the view taken by the Disciplinary Authority is a possible view on the evidence on record.	None
In the present case, the sole reason which weighed with the Commissioner was that no independent witness was produced  not even a single passenger of the bus was examined by the Department.	None
The decision relied by the appellant squarely deals even with this reasoning.	None
It has been held that, in the case of State of Haryana Others Vs. Rattan Singh (1977) 2 SCC 491 )the Court held that mere nonexamination of passenger does not render the finding of guilt and punishment imposed by the Disciplinary Authority invalid.	None
Similar view has been taken in the case of Divisional Controller KSRTC (NWKRTC) vs. A.T. Mane (2005) 3 SCC 254 ).	None
Both these decisions have been noticed in the reported decision relied by the appellant.	None
The burden to prove that the accident happened due to some other cause than his own negligence, is on the employee, as expounded in the case of Thakur Singh vs. State of Punjab (2003) 9 SCC 208 )referred to in the reported decision.	None
In the reported case relied by the appellant, it has been noted as under In the instant case the Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal as also the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court misdirected themselves in law insofar as they failed to pose unto themselves correct questions.	None
It is now wellsettled that a quasijudicial authority must pose unto itself a correct question so as to arrive at a correct finding of fact.	None
A wrong question posed leads to a wrong answer.	None
In this case, furthermore, the misdirection in law committed by the Industrial Tribunal was apparent insofar as it did not apply the principle of Res ipsa loquitur which was relevant for the purpose of this case and, thus, failed to take into consideration a relevant factor and furthermore took into consideration an irrelevant fact not germane for determining the issue, namely, the passengers of the bus were mandatorily required to be examined.	None
The Industrial Tribunal further failed to apply the correct standard of proof in relation to a domestic enquiry, which in preponderance of probability and applied the standard of proof required for a criminal trial.	None
A case for judicial review was, thus, clearly made out.	None
Applying the principle stated in Cholan Roadways Ltd. (Supra), what needs to be considered is about the probative value of the evidence showing the extensive damage caused to the bus as well as motorcar the fatal injuries caused to several persons resulting in death and that the nature of impact raises an inference that the bus was driven by the respondent rashly or negligently.	None
The material relied by the Department during the enquiry supported the fact that the respondent was driving the vehicle at the relevant time and because of the high speed of his vehicle the impact was so severe that the two vehicles were extensively damaged and the passengers travelling in the vehicle suffered fatal injuries resulting in death of five persons on the spot and four persons in the hospital besides the injuries to nine persons.	None
These facts stood established from the material relied by the Department, as a result of which the doctrine of Res ipsa loquitur came into play and the burden shifted on the respondent who was in control of the bus to establish that the accident did not happen on account of any negligence on his part.	None
Neither the Commissioner nor the High Court considered the matter on that basis nor posed unto themselves the correct question which was relevant for deciding the application under Section 33(2)(b).	None
On the other hand, the order of punishment dated 13th October, 2003, ex facie, reveals that the report of the Enquiry Officer referring to the relevant material established the factum and the nature of accident warranting an inference that the respondent had driven the bus rashly and negligently.	None
Further, the observation in the unreported decision of the Division Bench of the same High Court was not relevant for deciding the application under Section 33(2)(b).	None
Significantly, the order of punishment also adverts to the past history of the respondent indicative of respondent having faced similar departmental action on thirty two occasions, including for having committed minor as well as fatal accidents while performing his duty.	None
In our opinion, the Commissioner exceeded his jurisdiction in reappreciating the evidence adduced before the Enquiry Officer and in substituting his own judgment to that of the Disciplinary Authority.	Reasoning
It was not a case of no legal evidence produced during the enquiry by the Department, in relation to the charges framed against the respondent.	Reasoning
Whether the decision of the Disciplinary Authority of dismissing the respondent is just and proper, could be assailed by the respondent in appropriate proceedings.	Reasoning
Considering the fact that there was adequate material produced in the Departmental enquiry evidencing that fatal accident was caused by the respondent while driving the vehicle on duty, the burden to prove that the accident happened due to some other cause than his own negligence was on the respondent.	Reasoning
The doctrine of Res ipsa loquitur squarely applies to the fact situation in the present case.13.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, we would have remitted the matter back to the Commissioner for consideration afresh, but as the matter is pending for a long time and as we are satisfied that in the fact situation of the present case approval to the order of punishment passed by the appellant against the respondent should have been granted, we allow the application under Section 33(2)(b) preferred by the appellant but with liberty to the respondent to take recourse to appropriate remedy as may be available in law to question the said order of dismissal dated 13th October, 2003.14.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we set aside the impugned decisions of the High Court as well as of the Joint Commissioner.	Decision
The appeals are allowed in the above terms with no order as to costs.	Decision
