 Vaidialingam, J.1.	None
The question that arises for consideration in this appeal, by special leave, relates to the proper interpretation to be placed on S. 18, subsection (1) cl.	Issue
(2) of the U. P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 (U. P. Act No. 1 of 1951) hereinafter referred to as the Abolition Act.2.	Issue
In order to appreciate the claim of the plaintiff based upon the provision quoted above, it is necessary to set out the pedigree which is as follows It will be noted from the above pedigree that the plaintiff is the son of Mst. Ramrati and the grandson of Ram Adhare.	Facts
After the death of Ram Adhare, the defendantsrespondents got their names recorded over the properties on the allegation that Ram Adhare was a member of a joint family with them.	Facts
Mst. Ramrati, mother of the appellant, filed suit No. 918 of 1945 in the Court of Civil Judge for a declaration that she was entitled to the property inherited from her father Ram Adhere.	Facts
Relief for possession of the properties was also claimed.	Facts
As she died during the pendency of the suit, the appellant before us, Kailash Rai, got himself substituted as heirson of Ramrati.	Facts
On May 16, 1947, the Additional Civil Judge decreed the appellants claim.	Facts
On June 13, 1947, the plaintiff obtained dakhal dahani through Court.	Facts
The respondents, who are defendants in the said suit, filed an appeal in the High Court which was dismissed on March 18, 1952.3.	Facts
On July 1, 1952, the Abolition Act came into force.	Facts
The appellant filed suit No. 1132 of 1953 in the Court of the Munsif, Gorakhpur for the division of the holdings on the ground that all the plots were joint bhumidhari and that his onefourth share should be separated.	Facts
The defendants contested the claim on the ground that they alone have got bhumidhari rights in the properties and the plaintiff has no right, title or interest.	Facts
The learned Munsif accepting the defence dismissed the suit.	Facts
On appeal by Kailash Rai, the learned District Judge of Gorakhpur upheld his claim under S. 18 (1) (a) and decreed his suit, thus reversing the judgment of the trial Court.	Facts
The defendants carried the matter in Second Appeal No. 397 of 1956 to the Allahabad High Court.	Facts
In the first instance, the High Court by its order dated July 27, 1965, called for a finding from the District Court on the following question Whether the defendantsappellants were in exclusive possession of the khudkasht and sir plots in dispute and if so, since when ?	Facts
The District Court submitted its finding to the effect that the defendants were in exclusive possession of the khudkasht and sir plots in dispute since 1947.	Facts
The High Court accepted the finding and by its judgment and order dated September 19, 1956, allowed the defendants appeal and dismissed the plaintiffs suit on the ground that he was not in cultivatory possession of the plots in dispute.	Facts
This appeal is against the said judgment of the High Court.4.	Facts
The contention of Mr. J. P. Goyal, learned counsel for the appellant, is that as the plaintiff and the defendants were admittedly cosharers and the appellants right, title and interest have been declared in suit No. 918 of 1945, the possession by the defendants, who are some of the cosharers, is, in the eye of law, possession for and on behalf of the appellant also.	Arguments of Petitioner
If so, the appellant is a person, who is in possession of the lands as khudkasht.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any event, the lands must be considered to be held or deemed to be held, by the appellant as khudkasht so as to attract S. 18 (1) (a) of the Abolition Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
His further contention is that suit No. 1132 of 1953 out of which these proceedings arise, is really a suit under Section 176 of the Abolition Act for partition of the bhumidhari rights as between the cosharers.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. K. Bagga, learned counsel for the defendants, urged that the appellant should have really filed an appeal against the order of the High Court dated July 27, 1965, in and by which it called for a finding regarding the possession of the properties.	Arguments of Respondent
Not having challenged that order, the counsel urged, it is no longer open to the appellant to challenge the final order of the High Court accepting the finding submitted by the District Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel further contended that the decision of the High Court is in accordance with the view held in a previous decision reported in Rama Kant Singh v. Deputy Director of Consolidation, AIR 1966 All 173 .	Arguments of Respondent
When the defendants have been found to be in cultivatory possession of the properties, the view of the High Court negativing the appellants claim is, according to Mr. Bagga, fully justified.6.	Arguments of Respondent
This will be the convenient stage to refer to the material provisions of the Abolition Act.	None
Section 3 defines the various expressions.	None
In clause 26, it is provided that certain other expressions referred to therein, including khudkasht and sir, shall have the meaning assigned to them in the United Provinces Tenancy Act, 1939 (hereinafter referred to as the Tenancy Act).	None
Section 3 (9) of the Tenancy Act defines khudkasht as land other than sir cultivated by a landlord, and underproprietor or a permanent tenureholder as such either himself or by servants or by hired labour.	None
Sir is defined in Section 6 occurring in chapter II of the Tenancy Act.	None
Section 4 of the Abolition Act provides for vesting of estates from a date to be specified by notification.	None
Section 18 (1) of the Abolition Act, which is relevant for our purpose, runs as follows 18.	None
Settlement of certain lands with intermediaries or cultivators as bhumidhars  (1) subject to the provisions of Sections 10, 15, 16 and 17, all lands (a) In possession of or held or deemed to be held by an intermediary as sir, khudkasht or an intermediarys grove,(b) held as a grove by, or in the personal cultivation of a permanent lessee in Avadh,(c) held by a fixedrate tenant or a rentfree grantee as such, or(d) held as such by (i) an occupancy tenant,) possesing the (ii) a hereditary tenant,)right to transfer (iii) a tenant on patta damami or istamrari reffered to in section 17 ) the holding by sale.	None
(e) held by a groveholder,on the date immediately preceding the date of vesting shall be deemed to be settled by the State Government with such intermediary, lessee, tenant, grantee or groveholder, as the case may be, who shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be entitled to take or retain possession as bhumidhar thereof.x x x x7.	None
There is no controversy that the date of vesting is 171952 and the date immediately preceding the date of vesting is 3061952.	None
Under Section 18 (1) (a), broadly speaking, it will be seen, all lands in possession of, or held, or deemed to be held by an intermediary as sir, khudkasht or an intermediarys grove on 3061952, shall be deemed to be settled by the State Government with such intermediary.	None
The said intermediary is entitled to take or retain possession as bhumidhar subject to the provisions of the Abolition Act.	None
In order to claim rights under clause (a), it is necessary that the lands should be (1) in possession of an intermediary as khudkasht or sir or (2) held by an intermediary as khudkasht or sir or (3) deemed to be held by an intermediary as khudkasht or sir.	None
If any one of these alternatives is established, clause (a), will stand attracted.	None
Khudkasht, as we have already pointed out, means land, other than sir cultivated by a landlord either by himself or by servants or by hired labour.8.	None
The question is whether the appellant can be considered to be in possession of the lands as khudkasht or whether it can be considered that the lands are held or deemed to be held by him as khudkasht.	Issue
The finding sent by the District Court is no doubt prima facie against the appellant.	None
But we cannot ignore the decree that has been obtained by him in suit No. 918 of 1945 and the further fact that he is working out the said decree by asking for partition in the present proceedings.	Reasoning
According to the High Court, as possession is with the defendants, the plaintiffappellant cannot get any relief.9.	Reasoning
It should be remembered that the District Court has recorded a definite finding that the defendants have not set up any plea of ouster.	None
This finding, so far as we could see has not been disturbed by the High Court.	None
The decree in suit No. 918 of 1945 clearly recognises the right of the appellant as a cosharer along with the defendants.	None
In law the possession of one cosharer is possession both on his behalf as well as on behalf of all the other cosharers unless ouster is pleaded and established In this case, as pointed out by us earlier, the finding is that the defendants have not raised the plea of ouster.	None
There is no indication in the Abolition Act or the Tenancy Act that bhumidhari rights are not intended to be conferred on all the cosharers or coproprietors, who are entitled to the properties, though only some of them may be in actual cultivation.	None
One can very well visualise a family consisting of father and two sons, both of whom are minors.	None
Normally, the cultivation will be done only by the father.	None
Does it mean that when the father is found to be cultivating the land on 3061952, he alone is entitled to the bhumidhari rights in the land and that his two minor sons are not entitled to any such rights?	None
In our opinion, the normal principle that possession by one cosharer is possession for all has to be applied.	Reasoning
Further, even when one cosharer is in possession of the land, the other cosharers must be considered to be in constructive possession of the land.	Reasoning
The expression possession in clause (a), in our opinion, takes in not only actual physical possession, but also constructive possession that a person has in law.	Reasoning
If so, when the defendants were in possession of the lands and when no plea of ouster had been raised or established, such possession is also on behalf of the plaintiffappellant.	Reasoning
Under such circumstances, the lands can be considered to be in the possession of the appellant or, at any rate, in his constructive possession.10.Clause (a), as we have pointed out takes in two other contingencies also namely, lands held as khudkasht or lands deemed to be held as khudkasht.	Reasoning
Even assuming that, in view of the finding of the District Court, the defendants are in possession and on that basis the plaintiff cannot be considered to be also in possession, nevertheless, the lands in question can be considered to be held or deemed to be held by the appellant also.	Reasoning
The expression held occurs in S. 9 of the Abolition Act.	None
In interpreting the said expression, this Court in Budhan Singh v. Nabi Bux, (1970) 2	None
SCR 10 (AIR 1970 SC 1880 ) has held that it means lawfully held.	None
This Court has further observed that According to Websters New Twentieth Century Dictionary the word hold is technically understood to mean to possess by legal title.	None
Therefore by interpreting the word held as lawfully held there was no addition of any word to the section.	None
According to the words of S. 9 and in the context of the scheme of the Act it is proper to construe the word held in the section as lawfully held.11.	None
Mr. Bagga, however, contended that the expression held in clause (a) denotes actual possession.	Arguments of Respondent
As the finding on that point is against the appellant, the lands cannot be considered to be held by him.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not inclined to accept this contention.	None
In clause (b) occurs the words held as a grove by.	Reasoning
If the expression held occurring in clause (a) means actual possession, then the same meaning must be given to the same word occurring in clause (b) also.	Reasoning
But it will be seen that in the latter part of cl.	Reasoning
(b), the legislature has used the expression personal cultivation with reference to Avadh, whereas it has not used any such expression in the first part of clause (b).	Reasoning
Therefore, the expression held must have a meaning different from personal cultiviation.	Reasoning
In our opinion the expression held can only be taken to connote the existence of a right or title in a person.	Reasoning
The appellants right and title as holder of the lands has been declared and settled in suit No. 918 of 1945.	Reasoning
It can also be held that the lands can be considered to be deemed to be held by the appellant.	Reasoning
The expression deemed to be held has been used by the legislature to treat persons like the appellant bhumidhars by creating a fiction.12.	Reasoning
We cannot accept the contention of Mr. Bagga that the appellant should have challenged the order of the High Court dated July 27, 1965, calling for a finding from the first appellate Court.	Reasoning
That other was passed at an intermediary stage and the appellant was justified in waiting for the final decision of the High Court to be given.13.	Reasoning
It is now necessary to consider the decision of the Allahabad High Court in AIR 1966 All 173 following which the present decision under appeal has been rendered.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that the said decision does support the respondents in the sense that it holds that only that Coproprietor who is in cultivatory possession, becomes khudkasht holder and that possession over proprietary rights by itself does not confer khudkasht holders rights.	Reasoning
The said decision, we find, has laid undue emphasis on cultivatory possession, which alone will attract clause (a) of S. 18 (1).	Reasoning
There is no consideration in the said decision of the various aspects referred to by us and we are not inclined to agree with the view taken by the High Court in the said decision.14.	Reasoning
In the result, the judgment and order of the High Court under appeal are set aside and the decision of the District Judge, Gorakhpur, in Civil Appeal No. 494 of 1955 will stand restored.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in this appeal.15.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
