 Krishna Iyer, J.1.	None
The core of the contention urged by the appellants in these various appeals filed by certificate under Article 133(1)(a) and (c) of the Constitution is that the excise duty on matches sought to be levied on these medium sized manufacturers of Shivakashi wears the mask of equality but in its true face bears the marks of unequal justice violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.2.	Issue
Shri Chitale, learned counsel for the appellants, has focused his arguments on one grievance only  and, we think, with good reason  that the discriminatory fiscal treatment of his clients is unconstitutional, the vice being treatment of dissimilar categories similarly.	Arguments of Petitioner
To compress his whole argument in a single sentence, it is that the appellants, small manufacturers of matches, have been subjected by the impugned notification to excise duty at the same onerous rate as has been applied to larger producers, wilfully indifferent to a historically wellrecognised classification between the smaller and the larger group of match manufacturers, and the injury sustained flows from this failure to classify and deal differentially with sets of producers who are unequal in their economic capabilities in the matter of production and marketing  a sort of traumatic egality.	Arguments of Petitioner
In brief, equal treatment of unequal groups may spell invisible yet substantial discrimination with consequences of unconstitutionality.	Arguments of Petitioner
That dissimilar things should not be treated similarly in the name of equal justice is of Aristotelian vintage and has been, by implication, enshrined in our Constitution.3.	None
The facts which unfold the case of the appellants may now be set out.	Facts
The match industry in India has grown over the decades and Shivakashi occupies an important place in the production geography of matches.	Facts
From the point of view of manufacturing techniques, the safety match industry in our country comprises two distinct categories  the mechanised sector occupied by a few big whales and the nonmechanised sector comprising varying sizes of production units ranging from the small fry organised on a cottage industry basis to considerable producers who have developed manufacturing and marketing muscles sufficient to compete with the powerusing big four  the WIMCO, the AMCO, the ESAVI, and the Pioneer.	Facts
The Tariff Commission Report on this Industry has stated Unlike units in the mechanised sector which have powerdriven equipment for carrying out all the important operations including manufacture of splints and veneers, frame filling, dipping, box making, etc., those in categories B and C follow almost identical manufacturing process, obtaining their splints and veneers from outside suppliers and getting such important operations as boxmaking and frame filling done by outside domestic labour on piecerate basis.	Facts
Only such of the processes as dipping, box filling, banderolling and packing which under Excise or Explosive Act regulations cannot be entrusted to outside labour are carried out in the factory sheds of the units and the workers employed for these also are mostly paid on pricerate basis.	Facts
All the operations, whether undertaken in the factory premises or passed on to outside piecework labour to be carried out in the homes of the latter conjointly with other members of the family, are done by manual process.	Facts
The same system is followed by D category units as well, except those sponsored by K. and V. I.C. some of which manufacture their own splints and veneers.4.	Facts
Classified on the basis of quantity, turnout and other germane factors, a fourfold categorisation into A , B, C and D was extant in the industry roughly corresponding to the techniques of production and the use of power adopted by each.	Facts
The Tariff Commission explained this aspect and reported on the operation of the differential excise levy system on production and trade practices.	Facts
Counsel for the appellants has rested his case of discrimination by subversive equality or rather nondiscrimination where a deserving differentiation is the desideratum, on the findings of the Tariff Commission Report.	Facts
We might as well give copious but relevant excerpts from it to discern the foundation of the argument.	Facts
The report runs on to stateAs indicated in Appendix II, according to the excise tariff classification, units in the match industry now stand grouped into four classes, namely, A, B, C and D not on any technological differentiation but on the basis of output  A class comprising factories whose annual output exceeds 4, 000 million match sticks, B class comprising factories whose annual output exceeds 500 million match sticks but does not exceed 4,000 million match sticks, C class comprising factories whose annual output exceeds 50 million match sticks but does not exceed 500 million match sticks and D class comprising factories whose annual output does not exceed 50 million match sticks.	Facts
According to this classification the factories belonging to WIMCO, AMCO and ESAVI fall under category A, the rest comprising the units in the nonmechanical sector fall under the other three categories, namely, B, C and D	None
Selling system(iv) Small producers  The system of selling adopted by these manufacturers varied according to their status and financial resources.	None
The system almost universally followed by such producers is to make outright sales, without any discount or commission to wholesalers, both outstation and local.	Facts
The bigger, among such producers belonging to category B are reported in some cases to sell as well through dealers and sole selling agents.	Facts
Many of them have also got their own depots and regular stockists in a limited number of outstation centers.	Facts
As regards C and D class producers, the system of sales covers the following variants according to facilities available to them (i) outright sales to wholesale merchants, local or outstation (ii) sales through joint schemes of depots which stock different brands from several producers (iii) sales by sending goods in their own vans in bulk to distributors and dealers in nearby States and (iv) sales through their own salesmen who deliver goods in local markets on the shopkeepers on bicycles (a special feature of D class units).From the replies received by us from units in the small scale sector it would appear that those in category B situated in the Sivakasi Sattur Kovilpatti area have over some years in the past established contacts and developed a fairly wide selling system enabling them to cater to the markets in distant States including West Bengal, U.P., Delhi, Gujarat and practically all the States in the South.	Facts
The size of their operations has all along enabled them to undertake supply in wagonloads at the concessional rates, which is an important consideration for developing distant markets to be served by rail transport Although they are not comparable to WIMCO in having a countrywide distributive organisation, these units evinced till recently all the symptoms of a steady and healthy development, some of them having reached the maximum limit (400 million sticks) of Category B with a reputation for their brands in far off markets.	Facts
They had the resources to support this progressive development and a few of them have represented that with an improvement of the climate of the trade which has been completely vitiated by the slab system of excise duties (see paragraph II) and given necessary facilities they would be able to reestablished the markets they had assiduously built up and even initiate a scheme of gradual mechanisation of important processes in their factories for the betterment of the quality of their products.	Facts
In the present context, it is worth taking note of the fact that the credit for an expanding market for matches produced in the nonmechanised sector is attributable largely to the sales endeavours of factories which had grown to be B class units that had necessary resources for the purpose and were able to maintain quality In contrast to the B class units, the selling system of those in category C betokens a position of serious weakness.	Facts
Except the C class units which have been brought into existence by fragmentation of bigger units and still operate under the protecting wing of the sponsor (see paragraph II), the newcomers in this class, who have no tradition, functions mostly with meager financial resources and have no comparable advantage.	Facts
Unable to sell their output in wagon loads they are compelled to dispose of it to local financingcumtrading agencies at rock bottom prices dictated by the latter for what has now come to be called consignments of Assorted labels.	Facts
This, in effect, involves a complete surrender by the C class producers to the benefit of differential excise rebate allowed to them to the detriment of others as well.	Facts
The low purchase prices of the goods enable such agencies to sent consignments of mixed brands to distant places in wagonloads and find a market by offering to the wholesalers there extremely competitive rates visavis the usual rates charged by B class units, the retail selling prices being the same for both.	Facts
Our examination of the problem of the small scale units in category C indicates that basically their problem is not different from other small industries suffering similar exploitation by middlemen.	Facts
As in other cases they can best be extricated from the grip of the middleman by the establishment of suitable sales cooperatives.	None
We draw the attention of the State Governments to this problem for initiating necessary measures for the purpose particularly of the Government of Madras, as the concentration of such units is in that State, where the problem presents itself in the most acute form, but offers favourable prospects for the establishment of several fullfledged sales cooperatives with adequate membership There is sufficient, evidence to indicate that the effects have been quite widespread and recourse has been taken to fragmentation on a fairly extensive scale The Sivakasi Chamber has stated as followsIn the face of such unhealthy competition from C factories and the disadvantages over A, the B is unable to market its production resulting in heavy accumulation of stocks.	Facts
It is now felt by B class factories that there is no other salvation for them except to convert B into C class factories in benami names, as few have since done.	Facts
It may be pointed out that 16 long established B factories have reduced themselves to C class with effect from 1st April, 1963 in this Division alone in addition to the numerous factories who have already converted from B to C as regards similar fragmentation of the larger units in category C almost identical views have been expressed by the Tirunelevely Match Association, representing 150 C class match factories, in the following words In view of the vast difference of excise duty between 1st and 3rd slab of excise duty in C class there is a tendency and practice among the manufacturers to work in the first slab only and to stop therewith.	Facts
In this way starting of small new units with the motive to enjoy rebate in the first slab of excise duty has become common and this has clearly resulted in loss of revenue, as well as working of units in less than the permitted capacity.	Facts
It has been brought to our notice that the situation has deteriorated to such an extent as a result of the slab system that some erstwhile B units have suspended their manufacturing activities altogether and instead found it more profitable to patronage a number of newly established C class units.	Facts
Their taking over the products of the latter in their new role as a tradingcumfinancing agency has been facilitated by their established market connection and resourcefulness.	Facts
Instances of B category units owned by individual proprietors downgrading themselves into category C and having a number of C class units set up in the name of near relations have also been noticed by us in the course of our visits to factories in the Sivakasi Sattur Kovilpatti area.	Facts
The allegations about extensive fragmentation were not denied by anybody at the public inquiry The volume of evidence, both direct and indirect, that we have received in this connection fully testified to the fact that large scale fragmentation of B and C class units has taken place directly as a result of the slab system  all motivated by the attraction offered by the large duty differential of 65 np for the lowest slab rate under category C From the evidence received by us B and C class units have to offer their match boxes generally at a discount of Rs. 2 to Rs. 3 per bundle of 5 gross boxes i.e. at about 40 to 60 np.	Facts
per gross less than the price charged by WIMCO.	Facts
While the quality of matches produced by B class manufacturers has the reputation of being generally good and comparable to WIMCOs matches, the C class units do not have such reputation in the market.	Facts
The C class manufacturers are handicapped by a further disadvantage on account of the lower scale of their production, inasmuch as they cannot usually offer a wagonload of matches at a time for despatch to the upcountry markets for sale and have generally to bear the Central Sales Tax.	Facts
After carefully considering all aspects of the case including estimate of costs of the manufacturers, we are of opinion that a differential of 20 np.	Facts
in the rates of excise duty per gross of match boxes between A and B class units and a differential of 30 np. between B and C class manufacturers would be quite adequate to safeguard their respective interests.	Facts
On similar consideration a differential of 35 np.	Facts
between C and D class units would also be justified.	Facts
For reasons stated in paragraph 11 and as stressed therein we are definitely against continuance of the slabs introduced in classes A, B and C carrying differential rates of excise duty which have entailed serious repercussions on the entire industry.	Facts
We, therefore, recommend the following scales of excise duty to be levied for the four classes respectivelyFor A classRs.	Facts
4.60 per gross boxesFor B classRs.	Facts
4.40 per gross boxesFor C classRs.	Facts
4.10 per gross boxesFor D classRs.	Facts
3.75 per gross boxes5.	Facts
The Tariff Commission recommended, the abolition of subclassification for the purpose of excise duty and suggested separate scales of excise duty to be levied for the four classes of units, namely, A, B, C and D. Based on these recommendations, the slab system of excise duty was abandoned by Government and the category wise rate was adopted.	Facts
The impact on production of the differential duty scheme was a process of splintering of the B group to inhale the advantages offered to the C group resulting in a reduction in total production, thanks to the thinning tendency in the B group.	Facts
Indeed, the fiscal misdirections, the showing concessional rates to the C category as against B category, generated pseudo  C category producers from out of the erstwhile B category so that the bona fide small scale manufacturers falling in the C category were flooded out.	Facts
Moreover, the genuine C category manufacturers were exploited by the middlemen who snapped up the margin of tax concession for themselves, defeating the object of the concessional duty for the small producer.	Facts
This dilemma induced government to revise its fiscal thinking and led to the impugned notification which withdrew the tax concession to the C category and equated it with the B category.6.	Facts
Section 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act 1944 empowers the levy and collection of duties on goods produced or manufactured in the State, the rate being set forth in the first Schedule to the Act.	Issue
Item 38 in the first schedule relates to matches, Section 37 contains the rulemaking power and Section 37(1) confers power on the Central Government by rules to exempt any goods from the whole or any part of the duty imposed by the Act.	Facts
Under this power the Central Government issued a notification adopting a classification approach for extending concessional rates.	Issue
Originally, a broad classification was made as between matches manufactured by use of machinery and those by other means.	Issue
Among the second category a subclassification was made as B, C and D for the purposes of concessional rates.	None
In 1966, a uniform levy of Rs. 4.15 per gross of match boxes was made doing away with B to D classes.	Issue
In 1967 this position was revised by notification No. 162 of 1967 which is challenged before us.	Facts
It readsIn exercise of the powers conferred by subrule (1) of R. 6 of the Central Excise Rules, 1955, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue and Insurance)	Facts
No. 115/67 Central Excise, dated the 8th June, 1967 the Central Government hereby exempts matches specified in column (2) of the Table below, falling under Item No. 38 of the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944) and cleared by an manufacturer for home consumption, from so much of the duty of excise leviable thereon as is in excess of the rate specified in the corresponding entry in column (3) of the said tableCategoryDescription of matchesRate(Rs.	Facts
per gross of boxes 50s matches each)1.Matches in or in relation to the manufacture of which any process is ordinarily carried on with the aid of power4.602.Matches in or in relation to the manufacture of which no process is ordinarily carried on with the aid of power4.30Provided that (1) Matches referred to in category 2 and cleared for home consumption during the financial year from a factory from which the total clearance of matches during that year is not, as per declaration made by the manufacturer under this notification, estimated to exceed 75 million matches, shall be allowed to be cleared at the rate of Rs. 375 per gross of boxes 50 matches each, up to 75 million matches and the quantity of matches, if any, cleared in excess, and up to 100 million matches shall be allowed to be cleared at the rate of Rs. 4.30 per gross of boxes of 50 matches each and if the clearance in such factory exceeds 100 million matches during the financial year, the manufacturer shall be required to pay at the rate of Rs. 4.30 per gross of boxes of 50 matches each, on the entire quantity cleared during the financial year7.	Facts
The upshot of this system of duty is that B and C categories of old will now be treated equally and the grievance of the petitioners, who are C category manufacturers is that clubbing them together with the far stronger B type manufacturers is virtually condemning them to gradual extinction.	None
Treating unequals as equals and compelling both to bear equal burden is to show the C type manufacturers the way out.	None
It is urged that the test of capacity of each group in the industry to bear the levy, recognised in the past and approved in the Tariff Commission Report, is given the gobye now.8.	None
The contention, in reply, by the State is that at present the classification of the manufacturers is based on the use of power which in turn has a rational relation to the techniques and process of production and their ability to bear the burden of the levy.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further argued that the Government did give effect to the recommendations of the Tariff Commission regarding the fourfold classification but, finding certain evils developing, the Central Excise Reorganisation Committee went into the subject and suggested methods to reorient the scale and scope of excise duty.	Arguments of Respondent
This Committees report led to the current notification and the dichotomy between mechanised and nonmechanised industry proceeds on a rational differentia which has a substantial relation to the legislative end.9.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no doubt that in the past among the nonmechanised manufacturers of matches a further classification based on viability had been made.	None
It is also true that the financial resources the capacity to command a market on their own without depending on intermediaries, etc, marked off the B category from the C category.	Reasoning
But then experience gathered subsequently disclosed certain evils which the state took note of and endeavored to set right.	Reasoning
Ultimately, the present notifications was issued obliterating the distinction which gave a concessional edge to the C group over the B group.10.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the appellants persuasively pleaded that this unsocialistic step has left the small producers like his clients in the cold and virtually compelled them to retire from the industry.	Arguments of Petitioner
May be, there is force in this grievance.	None
Instead of protecting the tiny manufacturer from the injurious intermediary and inhibiting the larger producer from resorting to the device of selfdivision and other makebelieve tactics, the State has resorted to a policy of equal levy from both which, according to the counsel hits the poor and helps the betteroff.	Reasoning
This is criticism of legislative judgment, not a ground of judicial review.11.	None
We agree that bare equality of treatment regardless of the inequality of realities is neither justice nor homage to the constitutional principle.	Reasoning
Anatole Frances cynical statement comes to our mind in this context The law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich as well as the poor to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets, and to steal bread.12.	None
The forensic focus turns on unconstitutional nonclassification of the B and C categories and the vice of lugging all nonmechanised producers together into one mass.	Reasoning
The Court is being invited to compel the legislative and executive wings to classify, but we feel that from the judicial inspection tower the Court may only search for arbitrary and irrational classification and its obverse, namely, capricious uniformity of treatment where a crying dismissilarity exists in reality.13.	Reasoning
Right at the threshold we must warn ourselves of the limitations of judicial power in this jurisdiction.	None
Mr. Justice Stone of the Supreme Court of the United States has delineated these limitations in United States v. Butler, (1936) 297 US 1 56 Sup Ct 312 80 Law Ed 477 American Constitutional Law  third edn.	None
by Tresolini and Shapiro thus The power of courts to declare a statute unconstitutional is subject to two guiding principles of decision which ought never to be absent from judicial consciousness.	None
One is that courts are concerned only with the power to enact statues, not with their wisdom.	None
The other is that while unconstitutional exercise of power by the executive and legislative branches of the Government is subject to judicial restraint, the only check upon our exercise of power is our own sense of selfrestraint.	None
For the removal of unwise laws from the statute books appeal lies not to the courts but to the ballot and to the processes of democratic Government.14.	None
In short, unconstitutionality and not unwisdom of a legislation is the narrow area of judicial review.	None
In the present case unconstitutionality is alleged as springing from lugging together two dissimilar categories of match manufacturers into one compartment for like treatment.15.	Reasoning
Certain principles which bear upon classification may be mentioned here.	None
It is true that a State may classify persons and objects for the purpose of legislation and pass laws for the purpose of obtaining revenue or other objects.	Reasoning
Every differentiation is not a discrimination.	Reasoning
But classification can be sustained only if it is founded on pertinent and real difference as distinguished from irrelevant and artificial ones.	Reasoning
The constitutional standard by which the sufficiency of the differentia which form a valid basis for classification may be measured, has been repeatedly stated by the courts.	Reasoning
If it rests of a difference which bears a fair and just relation to the object for which it is proposed, it is constitutional.	Reasoning
To put it differently, the means must have nexus with the ends.	Reasoning
Even so, a large latitude is allowed to the State for classification upon a reasonable basis and what is reasonable is a question of practical details and a variety of factors which the Court will be reluctant and perhaps illequipped to investigate.	Reasoning
In this imperfect world perfection even in grouping is an ambition hardly ever accomplished.	Reasoning
In this context, we have to remember the relationship between the legislative and judicial departments of Government in the determination of the validity of classification.	Reasoning
Of course, in the last analysis courts possess the power to pronounce on the constitutionality of the acts of the other branches whether a classification is based upon substantial differences or is arbitrary, fanciful and consequently illegal.	Reasoning
At the same time, the question of classification is primarily for legislative judgment and ordinarily does not become a judicial question.	Reasoning
A power to classify being extremely broad and based on deverse considerations of executive pragmatism, the judicature cannot rush in where even the legislature warily treads.	Reasoning
All these operational restrints on judicial power must weigh more emphatically where the subject is taxation.16.	Reasoning
One facet of the equal protection clause, upheld by the Indian Courts and relevant to the present case, is that while similar things must be treated similarly, dismilar things should not be treated similarly.	Reasoning
There can be hostile discrimination while maintaining a facade of equality.	Reasoning
Procrustean cruelty cannot be equated with guarantee of constitutional equality, and we have to examine whether such is the lot of the appellants.17.	None
This Court has in several rulings highlighted this sensitive underside of equal protection.	Arguments of Petitioner
Indeed, the complaint of the petitioners is that by abolition of the differences in fiscal burden between categories B and C an insidious subversion of equal treatment has been affected.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another proposition which is equally settled is that merely because there is room for classification it does not follow that legislation without classification is always unconstitutional.	Reasoning
The Court cannot strike down a law because it has not made the classification which commends to the Court as proper.	Reasoning
Nor can the legislative power be said to have been unconstitutionally exercised because within the class a subclassification was reasonable but has not been made.19.	Reasoning
It is well established that the modern State, in exercising its sovereign power of taxation, has to deal with complex factors relating to the objects to the taxed, the quantum to be levied, the conditions subject to which the levy has to be made, the social and economic policies which the tax is designed to subserve, and what not.	Reasoning
In the famous words of Holmes, J. in Bain Peanut Co. v. Pinson, (1930) 282 US 499 501We must remember that the machinery of Government would not work if it were not allowed a little play in its joints.20.	Reasoning
In the present case, a pertinent principle of differentiation, which is visibly linked to productive process, has been adopted in the broad classification of power users and manual manufacturers.	Reasoning
It is irrational to castigate this basis as unreal.	Reasoning
Indeed, the soundness of this distinction is not denied.	Reasoning
The challenge is founded on the failure to miniclassify between large and small sections of manual match manufacturers.	Reasoning
But ours is not to reason why, that being a policy decision of Government dependent on pragmatic wisdom playing on imponderable forces at work.	Reasoning
Our jurisdiction halts where the constitution touchstone of a rational differntia having a just relation to the legislative end to revenue raising is satisfied.	Reasoning
Gratuitous judicial advice on the socialistic direction of fiscal policy is de trop.	Reasoning
We desist from that enterprise and leave the petitioners and men of his ilk to seek other democratic remedies in that behalf, it being beyond our area normally to demolish the tax structure because microclassification among a large group has not been done by the State.	Reasoning
Absolute justice to every producer is a selfdefeating adventure for any administration and general direction, not minute classification, is all that can be attempted.	None
For these reasons we find ourselves in agreement with the High Court in its refusal to strike down the notification under S. 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944.21.	Reasoning
Before concluding we may make a passing reference to the few decision cited by appellants counsel.	Reasoning
In K. T. Moopi Nair v. State of Kerala, (1961) 3 SCR 77 (AIR 1961 SC 552 ) Sinha, C.J., emphasized that Art. 14 may be violated even though the law may, on the face, be equal if in substance unequal things are treated equally.	Reasoning
In State of Kerala v. Haji K. Haji Kutty Naha, Civil Appeals Nos. 1052 etc. of 1968 judgment D  1381968 (reported in AIR 1969 SC 378 ), Shah J., observedWhere objects, persons or transactions essentially dissimilar are treated by the imposition of a uniform tax, discrimination may result, for, in our view, refusal to make a rational classification may itself in some cases operate as denial of equality.	Reasoning
A similar view has been taken in Khandige Sham Bhat v. The Agricultural Incometax Officer, (1963) 3	None
SCR 809 , 817 (AIR 1963 SC 591 ).22.	Reasoning
It is sound law that refusal to make rational classification where grossly dissimilar subjects are treated by the law violates the mandate of Art.	Reasoning
14.	Reasoning
Even so, where the limited classification adopted in the present case is based upon a relevant differentia which has a nexus to the legislative end of taxation, the Court cannot strike down the law on the score that there is room for further classification.	Reasoning
Refusal to classify is one thing and it bears on constitutionality, not launching on microclassification to work out perfect justice is left to executive expediency and legislative judgment and not for forensic wisdom.	None
The relationship between the legislative and judicial departments of Government in the determination of the validity of classification is wellsettled the authorities state with unanimity that the question of classification is primarily for the legislature and that it can never become a judicial question except for the purpose of determining, in any given situation whether the legislative action is clearly unreasonable.	Reasoning
The legislative classification is subject to judicial revision only to the extent of seeing that it is founded on real distinctions in the subjects classified, and not on artificial or irrelevant ones used for the purposes of evading the constitutional prohibition.(American Jurisprudence 2d Vol. 16 para 496).In a classification for Governmental purposes there cannot be an exact exclusion or inclusion of persons and things.	Reasoning
The constitutional command for a state to afford equal protection of the law sets a goal not attainable by the invention and application of a precise formula.	None
Classification in law, as in the other departments of knowledge or practice, is the grouping of things in speculation or practice because they agree with one another in certain particulars, and differ from other things in those particulars.	None
It is almost impossible in some matters to foresee and provide for every imaginable and exceptional case, and a legislature ought not to be required to do so at the risk of having its legislation declared void, although appropriate and proper upon the general subject upon which such legislation is to act, so long as there is no substantial and fair ground to say that the statute makes an unreasonable and unfounded general classification, and thereby denies to any person the equal protection of the laws.	None
Hence, a large latitude is allowed to the States for classification upon any reasonable basis, and what is reasonable is a question of practical details into which fiction cannot enter.	None
(ibid para 504).23.	None
We have said enough to delineate the finer frontiers of the jurisdiction of the Court and the legislature.	Reasoning
Having sensitive regard to the obligation of the State to bring the law, including the tax law, into pulsing relationship with life, including the life of the countrys economy, we see nothing so grossly unfair as to attract the lethal power of the Court to strike down the notification under challenge.24.	Reasoning
We dismiss the appeals but in the circumstances without costs to the respondents.25.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
