 H. Bhagwati, J. 1.	None
This appeal with a certificate of fitness under S. 110 of the Code of Civil Procedure raises an important question as to the rights and remedies of a bailor in the event of nondelivery of the goods by the bailee.	Facts
2.	None
The appellants carried on business in partnership in the firm name and style of Ishwarsing Dhiansingh and were the owners of two motor trucks, one bearing No.	Facts
AWB 230 (V8 Ford 1938 Model) and the other earring No. AWB 253 (Oldsmobile Model 1938).	Facts
On May 4, 1942, the appellants entered into an agreement for the hiring out of these trucks to the respondent for imparting tuition to the military personnel.	Facts
Rs. 17 per day per truck was stipulate as the hire and the agreement was terminable on one months notice by either side.	Facts
3. Pursuant to the said agreement truck No.	Facts
AWB 230 was handed over to the respondent on April 29, 1942, and	Facts
truck No.	Facts
AWB 253 was given on May 4, 1942.	Facts
The respondent used truck No. AWB 230 from April 29, 1942, to July 31, 1942, excepting the period from June 4, 1942, to June 9, 1942, and truck No.	Facts
AWB 253 from May 4 1942, to July 31, 1942, accepting the period from June 1, 1942, to June 9, 1942.	Facts
On 2961942, the respondent gave notice to the appellants terminating the agreement with effect from August 1, 1942, and asked them to remove the trucks on the expiration of that period.	None
The appellant No. 1 attended upon the Officer Commanding 4 M. T. T. Centre, Kamptee at about 9 a. m. on August 1, 1942, for removing the trucks but they were not delivered to him by the transport in charge and by his letter of the same date addressed to the S. S. O., Kamptee, the appellant No. 1 put the above fact on record.	None
4.	None
The respondent did not return the trucks to the appellants nor did it pay any hire charges to them.	Facts
The respondent took up the position that the amount of hire had been paid and the trucks had been delivered by it to one Surjan Singh who was alleged to have been a partner of the appellants and thus entitled to receive the said payment and the delivery of the trucks in question.	Facts
The appellants controverted the said position and claimed that the respondent was liable to pay the hire money as well as return the trucks to them.	Facts
5.	None
On August 4, 1942, the appellants gave the requisite notice under S. 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure to the respondent and claimed (i) the hire money up to July 31, 1942, at R. 17 per day for AWB 230 from April 29, 1942, and for AWB 253 from May 4, 1942, and interest at 6 per cent on the hire money from the due date till realization (ii) damages at Rs. 17 per day per truck from and inclusive of August 1, 1942, onwards till delivery of possession and (iii) return of the trucks Nos.	Facts
AWB 253 and AWB 230 in good running order with spare wheels, accessories and tools and in goods condition or in the alternative Rs. 3,500 being the price of the said two trucks.	Facts
6.	None
The respondent failed and neglected to comply with the requisitions contained in the said letter with the result that on January 8, 1943, the appellants filed a suit against the respondent and the said Surjan Singh claiming the aforesaid reliefs together with future damages from the date of suit to the date of the delivery of the trucks and costs.	Facts
7.	None
In the plaint as filed the cause of action was stated to be the failure of the respondent to pay hire money and the nondelivery of the trucks to the appellants by reason of their having been wrongfully delivered by the respondent to the said Surjan Singh.	Facts
It was averred that the appellants were entitled to the return of their trucks or their value at the date of the decree.	Facts
The appellants reserved their right to claim excess amount if the price of the trucks at that time was found more than what was claimed by them owing to the rise in prices thereof, by paying additional court fee.	Facts
The action was one for wrongful detention and the appellants claimed a return of the trucks or in the alternative the price thereof at the date of the decree, payment of hire and damages for wrongful detention of the said trucks.	Facts
The respondent reiterated its contentions in the written statement which it filed and the parties went to a hearing on these pleadings.	Facts
8.	None
The Trial Court held that the respondent was not justified in paying the rent and delivering the trucks to the said Surjan Singh.	Facts
It awarded to the appellants the price of the two trucks which had been fixed by the appellants at Rs. 3,500 both in the notice under S. 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure and the evidence led on their behalf.	Facts
It also awarded to the appellants interest on that sum at 6 per cent.	Facts
per annum by way of damages.	Facts
It, however, refused to grant any mesne profits holding that for either detention or conversion, the value of the goods on the date of the tort was sufficient compensation.	Facts
The rent of the trucks was calculated at Rs. 2,380 and it awarded to the appellant that sum together with interest thereon at 6 per cent, per annum from August 1, 1942 to January 7, 1943.	Facts
It accordingly passed a decree in favour of the appellant for Rs.	Facts
6,03240 with proportionate costs against the respondent as well as Surjan Singh.	Facts
9.	None
The appellants preferred an appeal to the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur.	Facts
They claimed a total sum of Rs. 11,985 as also the highest market value of the trucks.	Facts
In so far as a decree for Rx. 6,032 had already been passed by the Trial Court in their favour, they valued the subjectmatter of the appeal at Rs. 5,953 and accordingly furnished courtfee stamp for that amount.	Facts
10.	None
The Office of the Registrar took objection to the amount of that courtfee and on February 19, 1945, a Bench of the High Court passed an order that the appellants must pay courtfee on Rs. 16,626 being the claim for rent from the date of the suit till the date of the filing of the appeal and the appellants accordingly paid the additional courtfee of Rs. 1,279110 on February 28, 1945.	None
11.	None
The appeal was heard by a Division Bench of the High Court on April 1, 1948.	None
The High Court disallowed the appellants claim for the higher value of the trucks on the ground that the appellants had merely claimed Rs. 3,500 as the price of the said trucks in the notice under S. 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
The learned Judges were of the opinion that although it might be permissible to allow some latitude when the substance of the claim was clear it would not be right to tell the respondent that only Rs.3,500 was being claimed if the trucks were not returned and then in the suit to demand something like Rs. 14,000.	None
They accordingly upheld the decree of the Trial Court in this regard.	None
As regards the claim for damages for wrongful detention of the trucks the learned Judges held that the appellants should be compensated for being deprived of the use of the trucks between August 1, 1942, the date of the breach and July 7, 1944, the date of the Trial Courts decree.	None
They, however, observed that the appellants might not have been able to keep the trucks in use for every day all over the period, that there might be days when the trucks would be out of use, that there might be days when there would lie ideal for repairs and overhaul and so forth.	None
Even though all this was taken into consideration the learned Judges thought that compensation at the rate of Rs. 17 per day per truck for a substantial portion of the period stated above would be fair.	None
Having arrived at the above conclusion the learned Judges observed that the appellants had no doubt paid an additional courtfee at a later stage but the fact that they had originally limited their claim to Rs. 5,953 showed that they considered that a fair sum in the beginning.	None
The learned Judges therefore limited the enhancement of the Trial Courts decree to Rs.	None
5,953 the sum which the appellant had originally claimed in the appeal.	None
The Trial Courts decree was accordingly enhanced by Rs. 5,953 thus allowing the appellant a further sum of Rs. 5477 for compensation under that head and the appeal was allowed with costs to that extent.	None
12.	None
The appellants thereafter applied for a certificate of fitness to appeal under S. 110 of the Code of Civil Procedure and hence this appeal.	Facts
13.	None
The two main points which have been urged by the appellants before us are (i) that the appellants suit was one for wrongful detention and the appellants were entitled to return of the two trucks or in the alternative to the value thereof as on the date of the decree, that the value of the two trucks at the date of the decree was Rs. 7,000 each and the Trial Court should have awarded to them a sum of Rs. 14,000 in the alternative and (ii) that in addition to the above relief the appellants were entitled to damages for wrongful detention of the trucks calculated at the rate of Rs. 17 per day per truck from August 1, 1942, being the date of the accrual of the cause of action till 771944, which was the date of the decree passed by the Trial Court in their favour.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reply of the respondent was (i) that at its worst the respondent was to the knowledge of the appellant guilty of wrongful conversion of the said trucks from August 1, 1942, and that the appellants were only entitled to damages for wrongful conversion which are commensurate with the price of the trucks at the date of such wrongful conversion and (ii) that even if the appellants were entitled to any further damages since August 1, 1942, they were merely the damages for nonpayment of the value of the trucks by the respondent and should be assessed at only 6 per cent interest per annum from the date of such conversion till payment.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent further contended that even on the basis of wrongful detention the appellant would not be entitled to anything more than the price of the said trucks as at the date of the Trial Courts decree plus nominal damages for the wrongful detention of the trucks from August 1, 1942, till July 7, 1944.	Arguments of Respondent
In so far however as the High Court had awarded to the appellants the sum Rs. 5,953 in addition to the sum of Rs. 6,032 in addition to the sum of Rs. 6,032 already awarded by the Trial Court in their favour, the appellants were not entitled to anything more and that therefore the appeal was liable to be dismissed.	None
15.	None
It would be relevant to consider what is the exact scope of the two forms of action, viz., action for wrongful conversion and action for wrongful detention, otherwise known as action in trover and action in detinue.	None
A conversion is an act of willful interference, without lawful justification, with any chattel in a manner inconsistent with the right of another, whereby that other is deprived of the use and possession of it.	None
If a carrier or other bailee wrongfully and mistakenly delivers the chattel to the wrong person or refuses to deliver it to the right person, he can be sued as for a conversion.	None
Every person is guilty of a conversion, who without lawful justification deprives a person of his goods by delivering them to some one else so as to change the possession.	None
(Salmond on Torts, 11th Edition, pages 323, 324, 330).	None
16.	None
The action of detinue is based upon a wrongful detention of the plaintiffs chattel by the defendant, evidence by a refusal to deliver it upon demand and the redress claimed is not damages for the wrong but the return of the chattel or its value.	None
If a bailee unlawfully or negligently loses or parts with possession he cannot get rid of his contractual liability to restore the bailors property on the termination of the bailment and if he fails to do, he may be sued in detinue.	None
(Clerk and Lindsell on Torts, 11th Edition, pages 441 and 442 paras 720 and 721).	None
17.	None
Detinue at the present day has two main uses.	None
In the first place, the plaintiff may desire the specific restitution of his chattels and not damages for their conversion.	None
He will then sue in detinue, not in trover.	None
In the second place, he will have to sue in detinue if the defendant sets up on claim of ownership and has not been guilty of trespass but the original acquisition in detinue sur bailment was lawful.	None
Detinue lies against him who once had but has improperly parted with possession.	None
At common law the natural remedy for the recovery of chattels was the action in detinue.	None
In that action the judgment was in the alternative that the plaintiff do recover the possession of the chattels or their assessed value in case possession cannot be had together in any case with damages for their detention.	None
(Salmond on Torts, 11th Edition, pages 351, 352 and 353).	None
18.Judgment for the petitioner in trover is for recovery of damages for the conversion Judgment for the petitioner in detenue is for delivery of the chattel or payment of its value and damages for detention.	None
(Halsburys Laws of England, Hailsham Edition, Vol. 33, p. 78, para 135).	None
19.	None
These forms of action are survivals of the old forms of action in trover and in detinue and it is interesting to note the evolution of the modern causes of action for wrongful conversion or for detention.	None
Denning, J., (as he then was) in Beaman v. A. R. T. S. Ltd., 19842 All ER 89 (A), gave the following history of their evolution at page 92	None
The modern causes of action for wrongful detention or for conversion are very different from the old forms of action for detinue or for trove, and must not be confused therewith.	None
Detinue in its original form was a real action founded on a bailment which was extended later to cases against a finder.	None
It had, however, many procedural disadvantages, and, in particular, the defendant could wage his law.	None
On this account, it was superseded in the course of time by trover, which for over 150 years was in practice the common remedy in all cases of taking away or detention of chattels or of their misuse or destruction.	None
In 1833 the defendant in detinues lost his right to wage his law.	None
In 1852 the old forms of actions were abolished.	None
In 1854 the plaintiff gained the right to adorer for specific delivery of the chattel detained.	None
Since that time there have developed the new causes of action of conversion and wrongful detention, the names of which are derived from the old forms of action, but the substance of which is quite different.	None
I attempt no prices definition, but, broadly speaking, the cause of action in conversion is based on an unequivocal act of ownership is based on an unequivocal act of ownership by the defendant over goods of the plaintiff without any authority or right in that behalf.	None
The act must be an unequivocal act of ownership, i.e., an act such as acquiring dealing with, or disposing of the goods, which is consistent only with the rights of an owner as distinct from the equivocal acts of one who is entrusted with the custody or handling or carriage of goods.	None
A demand and refusal is not, therefore, itself a conversion, but it may be evidence of a prior conversion.	None
The cause of action in wrongful detention is based on a wrongful withholding or the plaintiffs goods.	None
It depends on the defendant being in possession of the plaintiffs goods.	None
If such a defendant, without any right so to do, withholds the goods from the plaintiff after the plaintiff had demanded their return, he is, for such time as he so withholds them, guilty of wrongful detention	None
This is the trot of which a bailee or finder is guilty who is in possession of the goods and fails to deliver them up within a reasonable time after demand, though it may also, in the case of a bailee, be a breach of contract.	None
If the bailee or finder subsequently disposes of the goods, he is guilty of conversion, but the wrongful detention then comes to an end and is swallowed up in the conversion.	None
20.	None
Paton on Bailment in the Common Law (1952 Edition) has the following observations to make in regard to these two forms of causes of action at page 404	None
The following maxim has been suggested as a guide for plaintiffs if the market is falling sue in conversion, if it is rising sue in detinue.	None
This is the orthodox view and it shows that even today the distinction between the old forms of action is important.	None
21.	None
Whether the plaintiff files an action for wrongful conversion or for wrongful detention this is essentially matter for his election he can sue the bailee who has parted with wrongful possession of the goods in favour of a third person either in trover or in detinue or where the goods have been sold he may waive the tort and sue as upon an implied contract for money had or received.	None
(Halsburys Laws of England, Hailsham Edition, Vol. 33, page 69, para 115).	None
The defendant cannot be heard to say that the plaintiff knew or ought to have known of the conversion of the goods by him and therefore should pursue his remedy only in conversion.	None
He cannot take advantage of his own wrong.	None
It was held as early as 1858 in Reeve v. Palmer, 18585 CB (NS) 84 at pp.	None
90, 91 (B), by Cockburn, C. J.	None
It has been held from a very early time that where a chattel has been bailed to person, it does not lie in his moth to set up his own wrongful act in answer to an action for detinue, though the chattel has ceased to be in his possession at the time of the demand Williams, J., also observed All the authorities, from the most ancient time, shew that it is no answer to an action of detinue, when a demand is made for the redelivery of the chattel to say that the defendant is unable to comply with the demand by reason of his own breach of duty.	None
The said decision was affirmed in appeal before the Exchequer Chamber and that may be taken to be the settled law on this point.	None
22.	None
Wilkinson v. Verity, 18716 CP 203 (C) also laid down the same principle of election of the remedies and the following objections of the remedies and the following observations of Willes, J., page 210 are apposite	None
The misconduct of the party who acts in fraud of the bargain in such cases gives the other party thereto the election of suing either for the first violation or for nonperformance at the day and it does not furnish the wrongdoer with any answer to the latter On the other hand, if the action of detinue is resorted to as it may be (Com,.	None
Dig.	None
Detinue A) for the purpose of asserting against a person entrusted for sage custody a breach of his duty as bailee, by detention after demand, independent of any other act of conversion, such as would make him liable in an action of trover, it should seem that the owner is entitled to sue, at election, either for a wrongful parting with the property (if he discovers and can prove it) or to wait until there is a breach of the bailees duty in the ordinary course by refusal to deliver up on request and that in the latter case, it is no answer for the bailee to say that he has by his own misconduct incapacitated himself from complying with the lawful demand of the bailor.	None
In that case, the principle that a man intrusted with property for safe custody cannot cannot better his position by wrongfully parting with possession of it, but must be answerable as if he retained the possession, was applied both in this Court and in the Exchequer Chamber to the action of detinue And this is agreeable to the maxim, Qui dolo desiit possidere pro possidente Damnatur.	None
23.	None
It may be noted that this case of Wilkinson v, Verity (c), was followed by the Court of Appeal in England in Rosenthal v, Alderton and Sons Ltd., 19461 KB 374 (D), and by the High Court of Australia in John F. Goulding Proprietary Ltd. v. The Victorian Railways Commissioners, 48 CLR 157 at p. 167 (E).	None
24.It is clear therefore that a bailor in the event of the nondelivery of the goods by the bailee on a demand made by him in that behalf is entitled at his election to sue the bailee either for wrongful conversion of the goods or the wrongful detention thereof and if the bailor pursues his remedy against the bailee for wrongful detention of the goods it would be no answer for the bailee to say that he was guilty of wrongful conversion of the goods at an earlier date which fact of conversion of the goods the plaintiff knew or ought to have known at or about that time and is therefore not liable to the plaintiff for wrongful detention thereof.	Reasoning
It is the option of the plaintiff to pursue either remedy against the bailee just as it suits him having regard to all the circumstances of the case and the bailee cannot be heard to say anything to the contrary for the simple reason that he cannot take advantage of his won wrong and cannot ask the plaintiff to chose a remedy with may be less beneficial to him.	Reasoning
25.This is of course the normal rule, though the Courts have tried to soften its rigour by importing the consideration that the plaintiff should not be allowed to delay his action in order to get the advantage of a rising market.	None
A speculative element might enter into the matter and a shrewd plaintiff might attempt to take unfair advantage of a fluctuating market.	None
Just as plaintiff may not waive a conversion so as to pick his own time to demand return and thus evade being statute barred, so he may not bide his time after a conversion so as to make his demand when the market price is highest.	None
(Kialfray (12) Modern Law Review at page 427).	None
26.	None
In the present case, however, we are not fettered by any such consideration.	Reasoning
The respondent was the bailee of the two trucks and was bound to return the same to the appellants on the termination of the bailment.	Reasoning
The bailment came to an end on August 1, 1942, and the appellants attended the office of the Officer Commanding 4 M. T. T. Centre, Kamptee on the said date for having the trucks redelivered to them.	Reasoning
When the said trucks were not so delivered the appellants immediately on August 14, 1948, gave the statutory notice to the res under S. 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
The period of the said notice expired on or about October 14, 1942, and the appellants filed their action for wrongful detention on January 8, 1943.	Reasoning
There was no delay on the part of the appellants which would spell out any intention on their part to take advantage of the rising market or to waive their remedy in wrongful conversion with a view to take advantage of the statute of litigation.	Reasoning
There is no evidence to show that the market value of the trucks had appreciated perceptibly between August 1, 1942, and January 8, 1943, and it is significant to note that the only claim which the appellants had made in their notice dated August 4, 1942, was for specific delivery of the said trucks by the respondent.	Reasoning
Even though the appellants knew that the said trucks had been redelivered by the respondent to Surjan Singh and they could have, if they had been so minded, sued the respondent for wrongful conversion of the said trucks, they elected to have the said trucks redelivered to them and asked for the specific delivery thereof and filed their action for wrongful detention of the said trucks.	Reasoning
They were, in our opinion, perfectly entitled to do so	Reasoning
and we have to consider the further questions that arise before us on the basis that the action for wrongful detention had been rightly instituted by the appellants against the respondent.	None
27.	None
This leads us to the question as to what relief the appellants are entitled to obtain against the respondent.	None
The claim for the rent already due by the respondent to the appellants up to August 1, 1942, has been settled by the judgments of the Courts below and we are not called upon to canvass these findings of fact any further.	None
The more important questions that require to be dealt with are (1)What is the amount which the appellants are entitled to recover from the respondent as and by way of the value of the two trucks in the alternative  the respondent being admittedly not in a position to redeliver the said trucks to them and (2) what are the damages which the appellants are entitled to recover by reason of wrongful detention of the trucks till the date of judgment.	Issue
28.	None
As regards the first question the Trial Court unfortunately did not properly appreciate the evidence which was led by the appellants before it.	None
That evidence was given on or about February 1, 1944, more than a year after the institution of the suit and about five months before the date of the decree.	None
The evidence such as it stalled was to the effect that the prices of similar trucks had considerably appreciated after August 1, 1942, and broadly stated were at least twice those which obtained on or about that date.	None
The claim of the appellants as laid was no doubt exaggerated and on the evidence the Trial Court would not have been justified in awarding to the appellants anything like the sum of Rs. 7,000 per truck which had been claimed.	None
The evidence however was sufficient to enable the Trial Court to come to the conclusion that the price of the said two trucks which had been fixed at Rs. 3,500 both in the notice under S.80 of the Civil Procedure Code as well as in the plaint had appreciated at least by 100 per cent and if the Trial Court had come to the conclusion that the appellants were entitled to the value of the trucks as at the date of the judgment it would certainly have been justified in awarding to the appellants an aggregate sum of Rs. 7,000 in the alternative.	None
The Trial Court however understood the position in law to be that for either detention or conversion the value on the date of the tort was sufficient compensation and awarded to the appellants only a sum of Rs. 3,500 which was the value thereof on August 1, 1942, together with interest at 6 per cent per annum as and by way of damages.	None
The Trial Court was obviously wrong in awarding this sum and interest to the plaintiff for the reasons which we shall presently discuss.	None
29.	None
When the matter went to the High Court the learned Judges of the High Court did not discuss this aspect of the question at all but dismissed the claim of the appellants merely on the ground that the appellants had only claimed Rs. 3,500 in the notice which they had served on the respondent under S. 80 of the Code of Civil Procedure and that they were therefore not entitled to recover anything more than the sum of Rs. 3,500 and they accordingly upheld the decree of the Trial Court in this behalf.	None
30.	None
We are constrained to observe that the approach of the High Court to this question was not well founded.	None
The Privy Council no doubt laid down in Bhagchand Dagadusa v. Secretary of State, 54 Ind App 338 (AIR 1927 PC 176 ) (F), that the terms of this section should be strictly compile with.	None
That does not however mean that the terms of the notice should be scrutinized in a pedantic manner or in a manner completely divorced from common sense.	None
As was stated by Pollock C. B. in Jones v. Nicholls, (1844) 13 M and W 361 (363) 153 ER 149, at p. 150 (G), We must import a little common sense into notices of this kind.	None
Beaumont, C. J., also observed in Chandu Lal Vaduilal v. Government of Bombay, ILR 1943	None
Bom 128 (AIR 1943	None
Bom 138 ) (H) One must construe S. 80 with some regard to common sense and to the object with which it appears to have been passed If the terms of the notice in question be scrutinized in this manner it is abundantly clear that the relief claimed by the appellant was the redelivery of the said two trucks or in the alternative payment of Rs. 3,500 being the value thereof.	None
The value which was placed by the appellants on the trucks was the then value according to them  a value as on August 1,1942, the date on which the delivery of the trucks ought to have been given by the respondent to the appellants.	None
The appellant could only have demanded that sum as on the date of that notice.	None
They could not sensibly enough have demanded any other sum.	None
If the respondent had compiled with the terms of that notice then and there and redelivered the trucks to the appellant, nothing further needed to be done.	None
If on the other hand instead of redelivering the trucks it paid to the appellants the value thereof then also it need not have paid anything more than Rs. 3,500 to the appellants, on that alternative.	None
If, however, the respondent failed and neglected to comply with the requisitions contained in that notice the appellants would certainly be entitled to recover from the respondent the value of the said trucks in the alternative on the failure of the respondent to redeliver the same to the appellants in accordance with the terms of the decree ultimately passed by the Court in their favour.	None
That date could certainly not be foreseen by the appellants and it is contrary to all reason and common sense to expect the appellants to have made a claim for the alternative value of the said two trucks as of that date.	None
The respondent was and ought to have been well aware of the situation as it would develop as a result of its noncompliance with the terms of that notice and if on January 8, 1943, the appellants in the suit which they filed for wrongful detention of the said trucks claimed redelivery of the said trucks or in the alternative Rs. 3,500 as their value and reserved their right to claim the further appreciation in the value of the trucks by reason of the rise in prices thereof up to the date of the decree by paying additional courtfee in that behalf, it could not be laid at their door that they had not made the specific demand in their notice to the respondent under S.80 of the Code of Civil Procedure and that therefore their claim to recover anything beyond Rs. 3,500 was barred under that section.	Arguments of Petitioner
A common sense reading of the notice under S.80 would lead any Court to the conclusion that the strict requirements of that section had been complied with and that there was no defect in he same such as to disentitle the appellants from recovering from the respondent the appreciated value of the said two trucks as at the date of the judgment.	None
It is relevant to note that neither was this point taken by the respondent in the written statement with it filed in answer to the appellants claim nor was any issue framed in that behalf by the Trial Court and this may justify the inference that the objection under S.80 had been waived.	None
The point apears to have been taken for the first time before the High Court which negatived the claim of the appellants for the appreciated value of the said trucks.	None
31.	None
Turning then to the question whether the appellants were entitled to the value of the said trucks in the alternative as at the date of the judgment or at the date of the tort,  whether it be conversion or wrongful detention, the position appears to be little confused.	None
Recent cases indicate that there is much conflict concerning the true rule to apply as to the measure of damages in detinue and conversion.	None
As to the time at which the value of the goods which are the subjectmatter of the tort should be assessed it is not certain (a) whether the rule is the same in trover as in detinue (b) whether damages should be calculated at the moment of the wrong, or of the verdict or at some intermediate period and (c) whether the doctrine of special damage can be used as to compensate the owner for fluctuations in value.	None
(Paton on Bailment in the Common Law, page 404).	None
32.	None
Up to 1946 the trend of the authorities in England was to assess the value of the goods at the date of the breach where the action was for breach of contract and as at the date of the tort where the action was for wrongful conversion or for wrongful detention.	None
There was an old authority of Mercer v. Jones, (1813) 3 Camp 477 170 ER 1452 (I), which laid down that the damages should be the value as the time of the conversion.	None
This authority was relied upon by the AttorneyGeneral in Greening v. Wilkinson, 18251 Car and P. 625 171 ER 1344 (J), but Abbott C. J. observed that that case was hardly law, and that the amount of damages was for the jury, who might give the value at the time of the conversion, or at any subsequent time in their discretion, because the plaintiff might have had a good opportunity of selling the goods if they had not been detained.	None
He expressed the opinion that the jury were not at all limited in giving their verdict by what was the price of the article on the day of the conversion.	None
This case was considered and not applied in Johnson v. Hook, 188331 WR 812 (K), and the position which obtained was that the damages were to be assessed on the value of the property at the date of the conversion.	None
33.	None
Bodley v. Reynolds, 1846QB 779 115 ER 1066 (L), was an action in trover for goods and chattels comprising of carpenters tools.	None
Special damages were also claimed and proved and the Court awarded not only the value of the goods at the date of conversion but also special damages as valid in the declaration.	None
Lord Denman C. J. observed that where special damages was laid and proved, there could be no reason for measuring the damages by the value of the chattel converted.	None
In effect this confirms the position that apart from this circumstance the damages would be measured by the value of the chattel converted which value was taken as at the date of conversion.	None
34.	None
Reid v. Fairbanks, (1853) 13 CB 692 138 ER 1371 (M), was also an action in trover .It was held that the proper principle on which to estimate such damages, would be, the value of the ship and all her store, etc., on the date when the third party took possession of her and that, as a mode of ascertaining such value, the referee should consider what would have been the value of the ship, if she had been completed by the defendant according to his contract with the plaintiff and deduct there from the money that would necessarily have been laid out by the defendant after that date, in order to complete her according to the contract.	None
The value of the shop was thus calculated as at the date of the conversion even though the method of computation was prescribed by the circumstances of the case.	None
35.	None
In S. S. Celia v. S. S Volturno, 19212 AC 544 (N), the House of Lords had to consider the question whether the proper date for ascertaining the rate of exchange for the purpose of converting the amount payable into English currency was the date on which the detention occurred or the date on which the damages were assessed or payment made.	None
Lord Buckmster at page 548 said A judgment, whether for breach of contract or for tort, where, as in this case, the damage is not continuing, does not proceed by determining what is the sum which, without regarding other circumstances, would at the time of the hearing afford compensation for the loss, but what was the loss actually proved to have been incurred either at the time of the breach or in consequence of the wrong.	None
With regard to an ordinary claim for breach of contract this is plain.	None
Assuming that the breach complained of was the nondelivery of goods according to contract, the measure of damage is the loss sustained at the time of the breach measured by the difference between the contract price and the market price of the goods at that date.	None
Similar considerations apply to an action for tort.	None
In cases where, as in the present, the damage is fixed and definite, and due to conditions determined at a particular date, the amount of damage is assessed by reference to the then existing circumstances and subsequent changes would not affect the result.	None
If these damages be assessed in a foreign currency the judgment here, which must be expressed in sterling, must be based on the amount required to convert this currency into sterling at the date when the measure was properly made, and the subsequent, fluctuation of exchange, one way or the other, ought not to be taken into account.	None
Lord Summer expressed himself in these terms at page 555 The matter may be tested in this way.	None
Suppose that, as an incident of the collision, some seaman belonging to the Celia had taken possession on behalf of her owners of a parcel of Italian currency notes, the property of the owners of the Volturno, and that the former had received and kept it.	None
The owners of the Volturno could have clamed damages for conversion of the notes or their return with damages for their detention, as they chose.	None
In the first case the value of the notes would be taken and exchanged into sterling as at the date of the conversion, and as the foundation of the damages in the second case the same date would have been taken.	None
36.	None
The following passage from Lord Wrenburys speech at page 563 clearly sets out the position in law The argument to the contrary is that the defendant is bound by a pecuniary payment to put the plaintiff in a position as good as that in which he stood before the tort was committed.	None
That is true, but it is necessary to add the consideration of which we have recently heard so much, in the from of a fourth dimension  namely, that of time.	None
The defendant is bound to make such pecuniary payment as would put the plaintiff at the date of the tort in as good a position as he would have been in had there been no tort.	None
If the date taken be that not of the tort but of the judgment, it is giving the plaintiff not damages for the tort, but damages also for the postponement of the payment of those damages until the date of the judgment.	None
If such later damages can be recovered as under circumstances they may be if the defendant improperly postpones payment, they would be recovered in the form of interest.	None
They would be damages not for the original tort, but for another and a subsequent wrongful act.	None
37.	None
In the Arpad, 1934 P 189 (O), where the plaintiff laid alternative claims in contract and tort it was held that the true measure of damages was the value of the goods at the date of the nondelivery, disregarding circumstances peculiar to the plaintiffs and that on the alternative claim in tort for damages for conversion also, the measure of damages was the same.	None
Scrutiny L. J. observed in the course of his judgment at page 205 In my opinion the damages in conversion should be the value to the purchaser or goods owner at the time of the conversion.	None
38.	None
The last case in this series is that of Caxton Publishing Co. v. Sutherland Publishing co., 1939 AC 178 (P).	None
Lord Porter in his speech at page 201 defines conversion in the terms following As to (3) conversion was defined by Atkin, L., as he then was, in Lancashire and Yorkshire Rly. Co. v. MacNicoll, (1918) 88 LJ KB 601 at p. 605 (Q) Dealing, he said, with goods in a manner inconsistent with the right of the true owner amounts to a conversion, provided that it is also established that there is also an intention on the part of the defendant in so doing to deny the owners right or to assert a right which is inconsistent with the owners right.	None
This definition was approved by Scrutton L. J. in Oakley v. Lyster, (1931)	None
I KB 148 at p. 153 (R).	None
Atkin, J. goes on to point out that, where the act done is necessarily a denial of the owners right or an assertion of a right inconsistent therewith intention does not matter.	None
Another way of reaching the same conclusion would be to say that conversion consists in an act intentionally done inconsistent with the owners right though the doer may not know of or intend to challenge the property or possession of the true owner.	None
After thus defining conversion the learner law Lord proceeded to consider the measure of damages suffered from that act and he observed at page 203 As to (4) there is no dispute as to the principle on which in general the measure of damages of conversion is calculated.	None
It is the value of the thing converted at the date of the conversion, and this principle was accepted by both sides in the present case.	None
While thus enunciating the principle on which the measure of damages for conversion is to be calculated the noble law Lord referred to the statement of Abbott C. J., in Greening v. Wilkinson (J) (supra), and stated I should wish to leave open for consideration in a case in which it directly arises the question whether the statement of Abbott C. J., in Greening v. Wilkinson (J), that the jury may give the value at the time of the conversion or at any subsequent time can be supported or not.	None
The catena of authorities quoted above shows that but for the reservation made by Lord Porter in the last mentioned case in regard to the statement of Abbott C. J., in Greening v. Wilkinson (J) (supra), the consensus of opinion was that the damages for tort were to be measured as at the date of the tort, though it may be noted that most of these cases were concerned with wrongful conversion of the goods and not with the wrongful detention thereof.	None
39.	None
In 1946 the Court of Appeal in England laid down in the case of Rosenthal v. Alderton and Sons Ltd. (D) (Supra), that in detinue the value of the goods should be measured as at the date of the judgment or verdict, and not at the date of the refusal to return the goods.	None
The action there was one of detinue.	None
The plaintiff who was a tenant of the defendants surrendered his tenancy in June, 1940, and, by arrangement with the defendants left on the premises certain goods belonging to him.	None
In 1943.	None
after his return from a period of military service, the plaintiff found that the goods were missing, some of them having been sold by the defendant.	None
On October 6, 1943, the plaintiff through his solicitors demanded the return of the goods, and, on the defendants refusal to comply, brought an action against them claiming the return of the goods and, in the alternative, the payment to him of their value and damages for their detention.	None
It was contended on behalf of the defendants that a demand by the plaintiff for the return of the goods having been refused by the defendants several months before the issue of the writ, the proper assessment of the value of such of the goods as had not been returned by the defendants should have, in accordance with their value on the date when the cause of action arose, which was (as it was claimed), notoriously less than their value as assessed by the official referee after action was brought.	None
This contention of the defendants was negatived and the Court held that in an action of detinue, the value of the goods to be paid by the defendants to the plaintiff in the event of the defendants failing to return the goods to the plaintiff must be assessed as at the date of the verdict or judgment in his favour and not at that of the defendants refusal to return the goods.	None
Evershed, J., who delivered the judgment of the Court dealt with this contention at page 378 as under In our judgment an assessment of the value of the goods detained (and not subsequently returned) at the date of the accrual of the cause of action (i.e., of the refusal of the plaintiffs demand) must presuppose that on that date the plaintiff abandoned his property in the goods and such a premise is inconsistent with the pursuit by the plaintiff of his action of detinue.	None
The significance of the date of the refusal of the plaintiffs demand is that the defendants failure to return the goods after that date becomes and continues to be, wrongful.	Reasoning
Moreover, the plaintiff may recover damages in respect of the wrongful detention after that date, e.g., where the plaintiff has suffered loss from a fall in value of the goods between the date of the defendants refusal and the date of actual return, (See Willan v, Archer, (1847) 5 CB 318 (S) and such damages must equally continue to run until the return of the goods or (in default of return) until payment of their value.	Reasoning
There is (as appears from the forms of judgment mentioned) a clear distinction between the value of the goods claimed in default of their return and damages for their detention, whether returned or not.	Reasoning
The date of the refusal of the plaintiffs demand is the date from which the latter commence to run, but appears to be irrelevant to the former and cannot convert a claim for the return of the goods into a claim for payment of their value on that date.	None
40.	None
A further contention was urged on behalf of the defendants in that case that the value of certain of the goods which they had in fact sold could not in any event be assessed at any higher value than at the date of the sale.	None
This contention was negatived by the Court in the terms following at page 379 In other words they say We have proved that we converted some of your goods and therefore, we can have the benefit of any lower value prevailing at the date of the conversion.	None
It is, however, clear that it is no answer for a bailee, when sued in detinue, to say that he has by his own misconduct incapacitated himself from complying with the lawful demand of the bailorcf.	None
Wilkinson v. Verity (c) (Supra).	None
It seems to us that the defendants are, in effect, saying Your real remedy is in conversion, but the bailor can, in such circumstances elect to sue in detinue (at any rate where he was not aware of the conversion at the time), and there is no reason why the value of the goods in fact converted should be assessed on a different basis from the value of the goods which the bailee has not converted but which for some other reason he fails to redeliver.	None
41.	None
These observations are the basis of the headnote which says that the same principle applies whether the defendant has converted the goods by selling them or has refused to return them for some other reason.	None
42.	None
This decision of the Court of Appeal lays down that where the defendant has been guilty of wrongful conversion of the goods or the wrongful detention thereof, the plaintiff is entitled to damages for such tort committed by the defendant measured at the value of the goods which are the subjectmatter of the tort computed as at the date of the verdict or judgment and not at the date of the tort.	None
If this is the true position it would run counter to the rule which had been settled all along up to 1946 that the measure of damages in an action for tort would be the value of the goods at the date of the tort.	None
As a matter of fact Denning J. (as he then was) commented on this position in Beaman v. A. R. T. S. Ltd. (A) (Supra), at page 93 A recent decision of the Court of Appeal holds that the damages in such cases are to be assessed at the date of the judgment or verdict in the plaintiffs favour See Rosenthal v. Aldertion and Sons.	None
Ltd. (D) (Supra)	None
but that does not mean that the cause of action accrues at that time.	None
The observations of Lord Goddard C. J. in Sachs v. Miklos, (1948)1 All ER 67 (T), considerably limit the scope of Rosenthal v. Alterton (D) and, should prices hereafter fall, the Courts will probably be faced with the task of reconciling Rosenthal v. Alderton (D), with the settled rule that damages, whether in contract or tort, are to be assessed as at the date of the accrual of the cause of action and that subsequent fluctuations upwards or downwards in rates of exchange or commodity prices, before or during legal proceedings are irrelevant See the decision of the House of Lords in S. S. Celia v. s. S. Voltunno (N) (Supar) particularly the speeches of Lord Buck master ((1921) 2 AC 544, at p. 548 (N), of Loped Sumner (ibid., 556), and Lord Wrenbury (ibid., 563), and the long line of cases of buyers who sue sellers for conversion of, or for failure to deliver, goods bargained and sold(such as France v. Gaudet, (1871) 6 QB 199 (U) ), where the damages are always assessed as at the date of the breach.	None
43.	None
The qualification added by the Court of Appeal on the bailors right to elect to sue in detinue, at any rate where he was not aware of the conversion at the time, has also been commented upon by Paton on Bailment in the Common Law at page 405, that on a strict historical basis, this qualification is unnecessary, but the Courts have added it to prevent a plaintiff delaying his action in order to get the advantage of a rising market.	None
44.	None
In 19482 KB 23 (T), the Court of Appeal discussed the measure of damages in a case that raised the point very neatly.	None
In 1940 a bailor agreed with a bailee that the latter should gratuitously store his furniture in her house.	None
In 1944, the bailee wished to get rid of the furniture and, after fruitless attempts to get in touch with the bailor, sold it.	None
The furniture realised and 13 at a public auction.	None
In 1947 the bailor sued for detinue and conversion, and the current value of the furniture was now assessed at and 115.	None
Lord Goddard, C. J., (with whom Tucker, L. J., and Jenkins, J., concurred) stated that the measure of damages is the same in conversion as in detinue, where the facts are only that a defendant has the goods in his possession and could hand them over, and would not do so and as a result the damages fall to be assessed as at the date of the verdict or judgment.	None
These observations of Goddard, C. J., were understood by Denning, J., in Beaman v. A. R. T. S. Ltd. (A) (Supra) as considerably limiting the scope of Rosenthal v. Alderton (D) (Supra).	None
The following comment on the case by Winfield on tort, 6th Edition at page 442 may be noted with interest It seems, however, that Rosenthals case (D), simply laid down that where the plaintiff sues in detinue the same principle of assessment of damages applies whether the defendant refuses to return the goods because he has converted them or for some other reason fails to return the goods.	None
This hardly warrants the conclusion that the measure of damages is the same in detinue as in conversion.	None
As we have seen the two actions are distinct in their nature and purpose.	None
45.	None
Paton on Bailment in the Common Law at page 405 has the following comment to make on this position The Court reached a conclusion that was based on common sense and a desire to do justice to both parties, but in certain respects breaks new ground.	None
The crucial question was What was the plaintiffs loss?	None
What damage did he suffer by the wrongful act of defendant?	None
In the plaintiff knew or ought to have known in 1944 of the defendants intention to sell, the damages would be justly calculated at and 13.	None
If he did not know, or ought not to have known, till 1946 that his goods were sold, then the damages should be assessed at and 115.	None
The case was remitted to the County Court Judge in order that the facts might be further elucidated.	None
The Court also emphasised one further factor.	None
It was clear that the plaintiff knew of the sale in January, 1946, but he did not begin the action till January, 1947.	None
If the County Court Jude found that there was an undue delay in bringing the action and that there had been a rise in price between 1946 and 1947, then allowance must be made.	None
This point disposes of the criticism that a speculative element enters into the matter and that a shrewd plaintiff might attempt to take unfair advantage of a fluctuating market.	None
46.	None
Paton further states that this is an interesting decision, but a short survey of the cases shows that the earlier authorities, especially with regard to conversion, are by no means clear.	None
(See also Salmon on Torts, 11th Edition at page 347).	None
47.	None
The difficulty, however, arises when there is an increase in the value of the goods which are the subjectmatter of the tort between the date of the tort and the date of the verdict or judgment and there is authority for the proposition that any increment in value due to the act of the defendant is not recoverable by the plaintiff,.	None
Salmond thus summarises the position in his treatise on Torts, 11th Edition at page 348 If, on the other hand, where the property increases in value after the date of the conversion, a distinction has to be drawn.	None
If the increase is due to the act of the defendant, the plaintiff has not tile to it, and his claim is limited to the original value of the chattel.	None
Thus, in Munro v. Wilmot, (1949) 1 KB 295 (V), the plaintiff in 1941 deposited ascar in the defendants yard.	None
In 1945, the defendant, after endeavouoring without success to communicate with the plaintiff, sold the carm, having spent and 85on repairs necessary to put it into a saleable state.	None
Lynskey, J., assessed the value of the car at the date of the judgment as and 120, but held that the defendant is entitled to credit, not from the point of view of payment for what he has done, but in order to arrive at the true value of the property which the plaintiff has lost if the repairs had not been done the car could only have been sold for scrap.	None
It may be noted that Lynskey, J., approved of this statement of the law as enunciated in Salmon.	None
48.	None
Paton, however, in his Bailment in the Common Law points out at p. 412 that there is a tendency to consider the merits of each case in order to reach a reasonable selection although the theoretical rule is that the defendant is entitled to credit not as payment for what he has done, but rather to arrive at the true value of the property converted.	None
He further points out that American cases also emphasise the state of mind of the tortfeasor.	None
An innocent converter is allowed to deduct the value of his improvements, but one who knowingly commits conversion may be forced to pay damages for the value of the res in its improved state.	None
This is justified on the ground that it is fair to award punitive damages where the wrong was willful.	None
49.	None
Where, however, the increase in value is not due to the act of the defendant the plaintiff is also entitled to recover the extra value as special damage resulting from the conversion in addition to the original value of the property in addition to the original value of the property converted.	None
The following passage from Paton at page 409 further elucidates this position The plaintiff can always recover, in addition to the value of the property, any special damage which the law dies nor regard as too remote.	None
Thus if a carpenters tools are converted, it has been held that he may recover their value and also special damages for the loss of employment.	None
France v. Gaudet (U) (Supra), explained this decision on the ground that the defendant had some notice of the existing contract.	None
Such special damage must be pleaded.	None
If this rule is applied to fluctuations in value, the result is as follows (a) If the value increases and is highest at the date of verdict, the result is the same as taking the test of the value at the time of verdict, for the plaintiff obtains the value at the time of conversion, and in addition the increase in value as special damages.	None
(b) If the value decreases, then the plaintiff can still secure the value at the time of conversion he can claim no special damage and the defendant has no claim to reduce the damages.	None
It is doubtful, however, whether the rule as to special damage should be applied to the question of fluctuations of value.	None
There is some authority for it, but it cannot be regarded as established.	None
If it is accepted, the argument as to the date of the moment of calculating damage loses much of its practical importance.	None
A commentator in the Harward Law Review (1947) 61 Harv LR states that in measuring damages for conversion the Courts started with the traditional but over simplified value at the time and place of the wrong.	None
But where the goods are so much a nature that their value fluctuates greatly the Courts have been prepared to depart from this rule.	None
Thus in New York, where stock is concerned, the Courts allow the owner to recover the highest value to which the stock rose a reasonable time after he learnt of the conversion, the emphasis on the reasonable time being to prevent speculation by delaying unduly the initiation of the action.	None
California allows the highest value reached between the date of the conversion and the time of trial.	None
In Taxas the highest intermediate value is allowed in cases of willful wrong or gross negligence, but only the value at the date of the conversion as against a blameless defendant.	None
(See also Restatement of the Law, Volume on Torts, page 650 and 653 and 927).	None
And further at page 410 The decision illustrate the way in which the merits of the defendants case have been allowed to determine the technical question of the method of calculating damages.	None
In England, these considerations have not been discussed so openly, but their influence on decisions is seen in the judgments in Sachs v. Miklos (T) (Supra), where the question of reasonable speed in bringing the action was discussed and in Lord Atkins speech in Solloway v. McLaughlin, (1938)	None
AC 247 (W), where he finds delight in using a technical rule to award damages against the unjust steward.	None
50.	None
It follows from the above that the position in law in regard to the measure of damages in an action for wrongful conversion is far from clear and the law in regard to the same cannot be said to be perfectly well settled.	None
Whatever be the position in regard to the same in actions for wrongful conversion, one thing is quite clear that in actions for wrongful detention the measure of damages can only be the value of the goods as at the date of the verdict or judgment.	None
The tort is complete the moment the goods are wrongfully converted by the defendant and no question can arise in those cases of any continuing wrong.	None
In a case of wrongful detention, however, the cause of action may certainly arise the moment there is a refusal by the defendant to redeliver the goods on demand made by the plaintiff in that behalf.	None
But even though the cause of action thus arises on a refusal to redeliver the said goods to the plaintiff the wrongful detention of the goods is a continuing wrong and the wrongful detention continues right up to the time when the defendant redelivers the goods either of his own violation or under compulsion of a decree of the Court.	None
There is moreover this distinction between actions for wrongful conversion and those for wrongful detention that in the former the plaintiff abandons his title to the goods and claims damages from the defendant on the basis that the goods have been wrongfully converted by the defendant either to his own use or have been wrongfully dealt with by him.	None
In the latter case, however, the plaintiff asserts his tile to the goods all the time and sues the defendant for specific delivery of the chattel or for redelivery of the goods title bailed to him on the basis that he has a title in those goods.	None
The claim for the redelivery of the goods by the defendant to him is based on his title in those goods not only at the time when the action is filed but right up to the period when the same are redelivered by the defendant to him.	None
The wrongful detention this being a tort which continues all the time until the redelivery of the goods by the defendant to the plaintiff, the only verdict or judgment which the Court can give in actions for wrongful detention is that the defendant do deliver to the plaintiff the goods thus wrongful detained by him or pay in the alternative the value thereof which can only be ascertained as on the date of the verdict or judgment in favour of the plaintiff.	None
51.	None
Winfield thus enunciates the position in his treatise on Tort, 6th Edition at page 414 The significance of the date of the refusal of the plaintiffs demand is that the defendants failure to return the goods after that date becomes, and continues to be, wrongful, and damages are recoverable for wrongful detentention or payment of their value.	Reasoning
The date of the defendants refusal cannot convert a claim for the return of the goods into a claim for payment of their value at that date.	None
52.It is, therefore, clear that in actions for wrongful detention the plaintiff is entitled on default of the defendant in redelivering the goods to him, to payment in the alternative of the value of the goods thus wrongfully detained as at the date of the verdict or judgment, in other words, at the date of the decree.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of opinion, that the appellants were entitled to recover from the respondent the value of the said trucks which, as has been already stated, was Rs. 7,000 in the alternative on default committed by the respondent in redelivery of the same to the appellants.	Reasoning
53.	None
The next question to consider is what damages are the appellants entitled to recover from the respondent by reason of the wrongful detention of the said trucks from August 1, 1942, up to the date of the decree.	None
It is well settled that in an action for wrongful detention the plaintiff is entitled besides the redelivery of the chattel or payment of its value in the alternative, also to damages for such wrongful detention.	None
There is however no definite criterion laid down by the decided cases as to what the measure of such damages should be.	None
As was observed by Denning L. J. in Strand Electric and Engineering Co., Ltd. v. Brisford Entertainments, 19522 QB 246 at p. 253 (X) The question in this case is What is the proper measure of damages for the wrongful detention of goods?	None
Does it fall within the general rule that the plaintiff only recovers for the loss he has suffered or within some other, and if so what, rule?	None
It is strange that there is no authority upon this point in English law but there is plenty on the analogous case of detention of land.	None
The rule there is that a wrongdoer, who keeps the owner out of his land, must pay a fair rental value for it, even though the owner would not have been able to use it himself or to let it to anyone else.	None
So also a wrongdoer who uses land for his own purpose without the owners consent, as, for instance, for a fair ground, or as a wayleave, must pay a reasonable hire for it, even though he has done no damage to the land at all Whitwham v. Westminster Brymbo Coal Company, (1896) 2 Ch 538 (Y).	None
I see no reason why the same principle should not apply to detention of goods.	None
54.	None
In that case certain protable switchboards were lent by the plaintiff to a Theatre Co., pending the manufacture and installation by the plaintiffs of permanent switchboards.	None
The hiring out of protable switchboards was a normal part of the plaintiffs business and it was agreed between the plaintiff and the Theatre Co., on a subsequent date that the company should pay to the plaintiff the hiring charges at a certain rate per week.	None
Later on the defendant took possession of the theatre and gave instructions that nothing whatsoever must be removed, and the Theatre Co., disclaimed any responsibility for the plaintiffs hire equipment as from that date.	None
The plaintiffs thereafter wrote a number of letters to the defendant demanding the return of their equipment but received neither their property nor any satisfactory reply, and they issued a writ claiming the return of their equipment or its value, and damages for the period of its detention, which at the trial was shown to be fore 43 weeks.	None
The question that arose for consideration as what was the quantum of damages which the plaintiffs were entitled to recover and it was held that in an action in detinue in respect of a chattel which the plaintiff, as part of his business, hires out to users, the plaintiff, if the defendant has during the period of detention made beneficial use of the chattel, is entitled to recover as damages the full market rate of hire for the whole period of detention.	None
After setting out the passage above quoted Denning L. J. continued at page 254 If a wrongdoer has made use of goods for his own purpose, then he must pay a reasonable hire for them, even, though the owner has in fact suffered no loss.	None
It may be that the owner would not have used the goods himself, or that he had a substitute readily available, which he used without extra cost to himself.	None
Nevertheless the owner is entitled to a reasonable hire.	None
If the wrongdoer had asked the owner for permission to use the goods, the owner would be entitled to ask for a reasonable remuneration as the price of his permission.	None
The wrongdoer cannot be better off by doing wrong than he would be by doing right.	None
He must therefore pay a reasonable hire.	None
55.	None
Mr. B. Sen, who appeared on behalf of the respondent, urged before us on the authority of Anderson v. Passman, 18357 C and P 193 (Z), that as the gist of the grievance is mere unlawful detention, the damages will be nominal unless the plaintiff proves that he has suffered special damage.	Arguments of Respondent
This position is, however, of no avail to the respondent because it cannot be said that the appellants grievance here is merely in regard to the wrongful detention of the trucks.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants in this instant case have also claimed to recover from the respondent future damages from the date of detention till the date of delivery of the trucks and apart from any claim laid in special damages, these are damages which naturally flow for the wrongful act of the respondent and which the appellants would be entitled to recover in the event of nondelivery of the trucks to them by the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
56.	None
This is certainly not a case of nominal damages.	None
As Earl of Halsbury L. C. pointed out in Owners of the Steamship Mediana v. Owners, Master and Crew of Lightship Comet 1900 AC 113 at p. 118 (ZI) the unlawful keeping back of what belongs to another person is of itself a ground for real damages, not nominal damages at all.	None
The quantum of damages may be big or small but it does not make any difference to the principle.	None
The principle of assessing the damages is the same and that is that where by the wrongful act of one man something belonging to another is either itself so injured as not to e capable of being used or is taken away so that it cannot be used at all, that of itself is a ground for damages.	None
(Ibid p. 116).	None
57.	None
In the case before us the appellants were the owners of the two trucks and they used to hire out the same to others.	None
Hiring out of the trucks was regular business of theirs and if the said trucks had been redelivered by the respondent to them on August 1,1942 they would have immediately put the same to the user viz.	None
, that of hiring them out to outsiders and earning thereby a certain sum by way of rent for each truck per day.	None
The appellants might not have been able to hire them out for every day of the period of wrongful detention by the respondent viz., from August 1,1942 to July 7, 1944.	None
As the learned Judges of the High Court have observed, there might be days when the days when the trucks would be out of use there might be days when the trucks would lie idle for repairs and overhaul and so forth that would only go to reduce the number of days for which the appellants would be entitled to recover the damages for such wrongful detention.	None
If the learned Judges of the High Court had on taking all the circumstances into consideration arrived at the figure of Rs. 5,953 as the amount of hire which could have been reasonably earned by the appellants in the event of the redelivery of the trucks by the respondent to them on August 1,1942, their judgment in this behalf could not have been successfully impeached.	None
What they did, however was to confine the appellants claim to Rs. 5,953 on the ground that the appellants had claimed that amount in the first instance and had paid the courtfee on the same.	None
They, therefore, took it that that sum of Rs. 5,953 represented a fair amount of damages for wrongful detention of the trucks according to the appellants.	None
58.	None
We are of opinion that the High Court was clearly in error in adopting this basis for the award of damages.	Reasoning
The payment of court fee stamp of Rs.5,953 was certainly not conclusive against the appellants because on its being pointed out by the Office of the Registrar, the appellants paid an additional courtfee stamp of Rs.	Reasoning
1,279110 on February 28, 1945, and that was done because the appellants did not confine their claim merely to the said sum of Rs. 5,953.	Reasoning
If, according to the judgment of the learned Judges of the High Court the appellants were entitled to damages for the wrongful detention of the said two trucks at the rate of Rs. 17 per day per truck from August 1,1942 to 771944, they ought to have made a reasonable calculation of the number of days for which the trucks would have been put to use by the appellants and awarded damages to the appellants accordingly.	None
This, however, they failed to do.	None
59.	None
In our opinion, the appellants are entitled to recover such damages from the respondent at the rate of Rs. 17 per truck per day for such reasonable period between August 1, 1942 to July 7, 1944, for which the appellants would have hired out the trucks to outside parties.	Reasoning
The trucks were in a fairly good running conditions but were old models of 1938 and it will be quite reasonable to hold that they would have been in commission approximately for one year during that period.	Reasoning
Calculating the hire of these trucks at the rate of Rs. 17 per truck per day the total amount of damages which the appellants would be entitled to recover from the respondent works out at Rs. 12,410.	Reasoning
The appellants would therefore be entitled to recover over and above the sum of Rs. 5,953 already awarded to them by the High Court an additional sum of Rs. 6,457 by way of damages for wrongful detention of the said trucks by the respondent.	Reasoning
60.	None
We accordingly allow this appeal and pass in favour of the appellants in addition to the enhanced decree which they have already obtained from the High Court, a decree against the respondent for Rs. 3,500 being the appreciated value of the said trucks together with interest thereon at 6 per cent.	Decision
per annum from July 7, 1944, till this date as also for a sum of Rs. 6,457 by way of additional damages for wrongful detention of the said trucks, additional proportionate, costs both in the Trial Court as well as in the High Court as also the costs of this appeal, subject of course to the payment of additional courtfee for the excess amount awarded hereby.	Decision
The whole of the decretal amount as above will carry further interest at the rate of 6 per cent.	Decision
per annum from this date till payment.	Decision
61.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
