 N. KIRPAL, J. Leave granted.	None
Delay condoned.	None
In these appeals, the appellants are aggrieved by the common judgment of the Kerala High Court which has held Section 59A of the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963 (for short the Act) as being invalid.	Issue
The respondents in these appeals manufacture and sell various commodities like copper sulphate, batteries, battery plates, electrical goods, laboratory apparatus, battery spare parts etc.	Facts
If during the course of their assessment proceedings under the Act any question used to arise relating to the rate of tax leviable on the goods sold by various dealers or the entry under which a particular item sold by a dealer would fall, the same used to be decided by the assessing and the appellate authorities under the Act.	Facts
By an amendment, Section 59A was inserted in the Act with effect from 141978.	Facts
This section sought to give power to the Government to determine the rate of tax and it reads as follows.	Facts
59A. Power of Government to determine rate of tax.  	None
If any question arises as to the rate of tax leviable under this Act on the sale or purchase of any goods, such question shall be referred to the Government for decision and the decision of the Government thereon shall, notwithstanding any other provision in this Act, be final.	Facts
In exercise of the powers given by the said Section 59A, the State Government issued orders from time to time, purporting to clarify the rate of sales tax.	Facts
On 2341984, an order was issued by the State Government purporting to clarify the rate of sales tax on various items.	Facts
One of the items contained in this order was tinned foods like Horlicks, Viva, Boost, Bournvita, Ovamalt etc.	Facts
By this order, the Government stated that the said items of tinned food were covered by Entry 6 of the First Schedule of the Act.	None
M s Parry and Company, one of the respondents in these appeals, wrote a letter dated 11121984 to the Secretary, Board of Revenue, with regard to the classification of the aforesaid item  Horlicks.	None
It was stated in this letter that they were registered dealers since 3061957 and all along, successive officers had accepted their classification of Horlicks as a milk product falling under Sl.	Facts
No. 3 of the First Schedule and, therefore, they were liable to pay tax at a lesser rate and not at the rate of ten per cent which was payable under Sl.	Facts
No. 6 of the First Schedule.	Facts
To this letter, the reply which was received was to the following effect.	None
No. OS 2661/85/TX Ldis.	None
Office of the Board of Revenue(Taxes)	Facts
Trivandrum1dated3111985FromThe Secretary, Board of Revenue (Taxes), TrivandrumToM s Parry Company Ltd., DARE HOUSE Post Box No. 12, Madras600 001GentlemenSub	Facts
Taxes  Sales tax rate of tax on Horlicks etcRef Your letter dated 11121984The case at issue has already been examined previously and the Government in GO Rt. 314/84/TD dated 2341984 have clarified that Horlicks would come under Entry 6 of the First Schedule to the KGST Act, 1963Yours faithfullysd Secretary (Taxes)	Facts
It is in view of such decisions taken by the State Government in determining the entries under which different items would fall, in exercise of its power under Section 59A of the Act, that the respondents in these appeals filed different writ petitions in the Kerala High Court challenging the constitutional validity of	None
Section 59A.	Facts
The main contention of the dealers was that Section 59A gave the Government arbitrary and unguided power in determining the rate of tax applicable to different items and, furthermore, the said power had in fact been exercised in an arbitrary manner.	Facts
The High Court in the impugned judgment referred to an earlier Bench decision of that Court in Dadha Pharma (P) Ltd. v. State of Kerala (1990) 2 Ker LT 307.	None
That was a case by way of revision before the High Court under Section 41 of the Act.	Facts
The High Court had to deal with the applicability of Section 59A in that case.	Facts
As it was exercising limited jurisdiction of tax revision, it obviously could not pronounce on the constitutional validity of	Facts
Section 59A.	Facts
The Court observed that if literal meaning was given to the words used in that section, then such literal interpretation would render the section vulnerable to attack of being vague and uncertain and as one taking away guaranteed rights.	Facts
The Court, however, read down the section in a drastic manner and sought to provide some safeguards against the arbitrary exercise of power by the Government.	Facts
In the present case, the High Court exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution, felt unfettered and proceeded to examine the constitutional validity of the said provision.	Facts
After analysing the provision and seeing the manner in which the power had been exercised under Section 59A of the Act, the High Court came to the conclusion that the said section had all the features of deleterious vagueness and it was unconstitutional, being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Facts
On behalf of the appellants, it was contended by Mr. K. N. Bhat, learned Senior Counsel, that Section 59A is a piece of delegated legislation conferring power on the Government to decide any question regarding rate of tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
The section, it was submitted, furnishes the limitations subject to which the power could be exercised.	Arguments of Petitioner
This power, it was contended, was in respect of classification under the Schedule and not for levying a tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondents submitted that effect of Section 59A is that whenever a direction is issued under the said provision, the statutory right of appeal etc. is taken away and the section itself contains no guidelines and gives unbridled powers to the Government to act in any manner it feels like.	Arguments of Respondent
Like other taxing statutes, the Kerala General Sales Tax Act contains elaborate provisions relating to assessment of tax and filing of appeals and revisions to the higher authorities.	None
Chapter IV deals with assessment, collection and levy of tax.	None
Section 17 contains the procedure which is to be followed by the assessing authority.	None
If the assessing authority does not accept the return as submitted by the dealer then he is under an obligation to give a reasonable opportunity to the dealer of being heard before finalising the assessment.	None
In the event of the dealer being aggrieved by the assessment order so passed Chapter VII contains provisions for appeals and revisions.	None
Appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner is filed under Section 34 Section 36 gives the power to the Deputy Commissioner to revise an order on an application being made and power of revision is also given to the Board of Revenue under Section 38 of the Act.	None
Section 39 is a provision which provides for appeal to the Appellate Tribunals against certain orders.	None
Section 40 enables an appeal to be filed to the High Court by any person objecting to an order affecting him which was passed by the Board of Revenue under Section 37, while Section 41 gives a person the right to file a revision in the High Court from an order passed by the Tribunal under Section 39 of the Act.	None
It is apparent from a reading of these provisions that questions like the rate of tax or the entry under which sale of particular goods are to be taxed can be raised and determined before various quasijudicial and judicial authorities.	None
There is a right of appeal and revision which is given to a person who is aggrieved by any order.	None
A plain reading of Section 59A shows that if any question relating to the rate of tax leviable under the Act on any goods is referred to the Government then its decision thereon, notwithstanding any other provision in this Act is final.	Reasoning
This section does not indicate as to who can make a reference to the Government.	Reasoning
There is no obligation on the Government to hear any dealer before it decides as to the rate of tax leviable on the sales or purchase of any type of goods.	Reasoning
In fact, as we have noticed earlier, by an omnibus order dated 2341984, the Government decided rates of tax payable in respect of various items without any opportunity of being heard having been granted to any of the dealers.	Reasoning
Lastly, Section 59A clearly states that the decision so given by the Government shall be final and would have an overriding effect.	None
There is no warrant in our opinion in trying to read down the provisions of Section 59A.	None
The words of the said provision are clear and unambiguous.	None
The said section gives absolute power to the Government to decide any question regarding the rate of tax leviable on the sale or purchase of goods in any manner it deems proper and finality is given to such a decision.	None
Section 59A enables the Government to pass an administrative order which has the effect of negating the statutory provisions of appeal, revision etc. contained in Chapter VII of the Act which would have enabled the appellate or revisional authority to decide upon questions in relation to which an order under Section 59A is passed.	Reasoning
Quasijudicial or judicial determination stands replaced by the power to take an administrative decision.	Reasoning
There is nothing in Section 59A which debars the Government from exercising the power even after a dealer has succeeded on a question relating to the rate of tax before an appellate authority.	Reasoning
The power under Section 59A is so wide and unbridled that it can be exercised at any time and the decision so rendered shall be final.	Reasoning
It may well be that the effect of this would be that such a decision may even attempt to override the appellate or the revisional power exercised by the High Court under Section 40 of the Act as the case may be.	Reasoning
The section enables passing of an executive order which has the effect of subverting the scheme of a quasijudicial and judicial resolution of the lis between the State and the dealer.	None
We are unable to agree with the submission of Mr. Bhat that the section furnishes a limitation subject to which the power can be exercised.	None
The section does not contain and guidelines as to at what stage the power can be exercised and nor does the exercise of such a power make it amenable to the appellate or revisional provisions provided by the Act.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that in certain enactments of other States, the Government has the power but such power is not unbridled.	None
For example, under Section 49 of the Delhi Sales Tax Act, 1975, power has been given to the Commissioner of Sales Tax to determine certain disputed questions.	None
The said section reads as under.	None
Determination of disputed questions.  	None
(1) If any question arises, otherwise than an proceedings before a court, or before the Commissioner has commenced assessment or reassessment of a dealer under Section 23 or Section 24 whether for the purposes of this Act, (a) any person, society, club or association or any firm or any branch or department of any firm is a dealer or(b) any particular thing done to any goods amounts to or results in the manufacture of goods within the meaning of that term as given in clause (h) of Section 2 or(c) any transaction is a sale, and if so, the sale price therefor or(d) any particular dealer is required to be registered or(e)	None
any tax is payable in respect of any particular sale, or if the tax is payable, the rate thereofthe Commissioner shall, within such period as may be prescribed, make an order determining such questionExplanation.  	None
For the purposes of this subsection, the Commissioner shall be deemed to have commenced assessment or reassessment of a dealer under Section 23 or Section 24, when the dealer is served with any notice by the Commissioner under Section 23 or Section 24, as the case may be(2)	None
The Commissioner may direct that the determination shall not affect the liability of any person under this Act as respects any sale effected prior to the determination(3) If any such question arises from any order already passed under this Act or under the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941, Bengal Act VI of 1941, as then in force in Delhi, no such question shall be entertained for determination under this section but such question may be raised in appeal against, or by way of revision of such order.	None
The aforesaid section itself provides that a question for determination must arise otherwise than in proceedings before a court or before the Commissioner has commenced assessment or reassessment.	None
Furthermore, subsection (2) enables the Commissioner to direct that the determination of the question shall not affect the liability of any person under that Act in respect of any sale effected prior to the determination.	Reasoning
No such safeguard or guideline as provided in the said Section 49 of the Delhi Sales Tax Act is present in the main provision.	None
We are in complete agreement with the view of the Kerala High Court that Section 59A of the Act is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and the High Court was, therefore, right in striking down the said provision.	None
For the aforesaid reasons, these appeals are dismissed with costs.	Decision
