 Satyanarayana Raju, J.1.	None
This is an appeal, by special leave, against the judgment of a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court dismissing an application for the issue of a Writ of certiorari under Art 226 of the Constitution to quash the order of the State Industrial Court at Nagpur.2.	Issue
For a proper appreciation of the questions that have been raised in the appeal it would be necessary to state the material facts.	Facts
That Model Mills, Nagpur (hereinafter referred to as the Mills) is a public limited company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act.	Facts
On July 18, 1959 in exercise of the power conferred by S. 18A of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act 1951 the Central Government took over the management of the Mills and appointed the 3rd respondent as the authorised Controller of the Mills.	Facts
On March 25, 1960 the State of Bombay (now the State of Maharashtra) in exercise of the powers conferred by Ss. 3 and 4 of the Bombay Relief Undertakings (Special Provisions) Act 1958 (hereinafter referred to as the Bombay Act) made a notification declaring the Mills to be a relief undertaking for a period of one year commencing from March 26, 1960 and ending with March 25, 1961.	Facts
The appellants eight in number, were at the relevant time, the permanent employees of the Mills.	Facts
It would be convenient to refer to them as employees.	Facts
On December 15, 1960 when the notification made by the State Government under the Bombay Act was in force, the employees abstained from work.	Facts
There upon, the 1st respondent who is the Factory Manager of the Mills issued notices to the employees to show cause why they should not be dismissed from service for joining an illegal strike On January 6, 1961 the Factory Manager passed orders dismissing the employees from service.	Facts
On January 12, 1961 the employees filed an application the High Court of Bombay for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing the employees to be reinstated in service.	Facts
On April 4, 1961 the exemption of the Mills from the application of S. 16 of the Central Provinces and Berar Industrial Disputes Settlement Act (XXIII of 1947) (hereinafter called the State Act) was made (sic).	Facts
On April 25, 1961 the employees filed applications before the Assistant Commissioner of Labour claiming reinstatement with back wages.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the Writ Petition filed by the employees with liberty to file a fresh petition, if necessary, since they were prosecuting their applications for relief of reinstatement before the Assistant Commissioner of Labour.	Facts
In and by his order dated September 29, 1961, the Assistant Commissioner allowed the applications filed by the employees.	Facts
He held that as there was no illegal strike the orders of dismissal were unsustainable and should be set aside.	Facts
He directed that the employees should be reinstated with back wages3.	Facts
Against the orders passed by the Assistant Commissioner, the Mills preferred applications in revision to the State Industrial Court by its order dated February 16, 1962, the Industrial Court allowed the revision applications filed by the Mills on the ground that the applications before the Assistant Commissioner were not maintainable.	Facts
On the merits the Industrial Court agreed with the Assistant Commissioner that there was no illegal strike.4.	Facts
Aggrieved by the orders of the Industrial Court, the employees filed an application under Arts.	Facts
226 and 227 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ of certiorari to quash the orders of dismissal passed by the Factory Manager and to direct their reinstatement with back wages.	Facts
By its judgment dated August 12, 1963 the High Court dismissed the Writ Petition filed by the employees.5.	Facts
The High Court has held that the right to claim reinstatement is not a right which is available to an employee under the Common Law and that the relief of reinstatement is a special right which has been conferred on an employee under S. 16 of the State Act.	Facts
In the opinion of the High Court.	Facts
The essential precondition for an employee to claim relief under S 16 is that he is an employee in an industry to which that section is applicable and in respect of which a notification under S. 16 (1) also has been issued.	Facts
The High Court has reached this conclusion by reason of the fact that the State Government issued a notification exempting the Mills from the operation of S.16 of the State Act and that the exemption was withdrawn only on April 4, 1961 while the employees were dismissed on January 6, 1961.	Facts
In the opinion of the High Court, by reason of the fact that S. 16 of the Act was not applicable, the dismissal of the employees even if it was wrongful did not give them a right to claim reinstatement and that to hold otherwise would be to give retrospective operation to S. 16 of the State Act which became applicable to the Mills on and from April 4, 1961 by reason of the withdrawal of the exemption.	Facts
In the result, the High Court confirmed the finding of the State Industrial Court that the employees had no right to file applications under S. 16 of the State Act and Assistant Commissioner were not maintainable.6.	Facts
Now it is contended by Mr.Sathe on behalf of the employees that though the industry was exempt from the operation of certain sections including S. 16 of the Act, on the date when the appellants were dismissed, there was an existing industrial dispute relating to an industrial matter between the employees and the Mills on April 4,1961 when the notification withdrawing the exemption in favour of the Mills from the operation of S. 16 of the State Act was issued by the Government, that on the date when the employees filed an application under S. 16.	Arguments of Petitioner
before the Commissioner of Labour, the period of six months provided by that section had not elapsed and that therefore the employees could invoke the provisions of S. 16 and claim reinstatement.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the Mills, Mr. Phadke has endeavoured to support the judgment of the High Court and the reasons on which its conclusions were rested.7.	Arguments of Respondent
The questions which arise for determination in this appeal are1.	Issue
Whether the right of a dismissed employee to claim reinstatement, in appropriate cases exists de hors S. 16 of the State Act?2.	Issue
Whether by reason of the State Governments exemption of the industry from the operation of S. 16 on the date when the employees were dismissed from service, their right to apply for reinstatement ceased to exist?For a proper determination of the above questions, it is necessary to refer to the material statutory provisions.	None
The State Act became law on June 2, 1947.	None
Section 15 of the State Act empowers the State Government to appoint any person as Labour Commissioner for the State and he shall exercise all or any of the powers of the Labour Commissioner.	None
Now S. 16 of the State Act as it stood at the relevant date provides as follows(1)	None
Where the State Government by notification so directs, the Labour Commissioner shall have power to decide an industrial dispute touching the dismissal, discharge, removal or suspension of an employee working in any industry in general or in any local area as may be specified in the notification.(2) Any employee, working in an industry to which the notification under subsection (1) applies may, within six months from the date of such dismissal, discharge, removal or suspension, apply to the Labour Commissioner for reinstatement and payment of compensation for loss of wages.	None
8.	None
The different powers that could be exercised by the Labour Commissioner are then set in subsection (3)On receipt of such application, if the Labour Commissioner, after such enquiry as may be prescribed, finds that the dismissal was in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or in contravention of a standing order he may direct that the employee shall be reinstated forthwith or by a specified date and paid for the whole period from the date of dismissal to the date of the order of the Labour Commissioner9.	None
It is common ground that S. 16 is made applicable to the textile industry with effect from March 1 1951 by a notification dated February 22, 1951.	None
The provisions of S. 16 were thus applicable to the Mills till March 25, 1960 , on which date however, the State Government issued the notification in exercise of the powers conferred under Ss. 3 and 4 of the Bombay Act declaring the Mills to be a relief undertaking.	None
The notification directed that the provisions of S.16 of the State Act and Chapter VA of the or the Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of 1947) (Layoff and Retrenchment) shall not apply to the Mills and that it shall be exempt therefrom.	None
This notification was extended by the State Government on March 8, 1961 for a further period of one year.	None
A subsequent notification dated April 4, 1961 issued by the State of Bombay amended the earlier notification by withdrawing the exemption in so far as it related to S. 16 of the State Act.10.	None
The alleged participation by the employees in an illegal strike occurred on December 15, 1960 and the 1st respondent dismissed the employees in and by his order dated January 6, 1961.	None
It was during the period between March 25, 1960 and April 4, 1961 when the exemption was in force that the incident which resulted in the Mills framing a charge against the employees and the subsequent orders of dismissal were passed.11.	None
It is submitted by the learned counsel on behalf of the Mills that the right of an employee to clam reinstatement has been granted by S. 16 of the State Act and since the Mills were exempt from the provisions of that section on the material dates the employees had no right to claim reinstatement.	None
This Industrial Disputes Act (XIV of 1947) came into force on April 1, 1947.	None
For our present purposes, it is not necessary to consider whether the right to claim reinstatement by a dismissed employee existed before the Central Act became law.	None
The question about the jurisdiction of an Industrial Tribunal to direct reinstatement of a dismissed employee was raised as early as 1949, before the Federal Court in Western India Automobile Association v. Industrial Tribunal, Bombay 1949 FCR 321 (AIR 1949 FC 111).	None
In that case the Federal Court considered the larger question about the powers of industrial tribunals in all its aspects and rejected the argument of the employer that to invest the tribunal with jurisdiction to order reinstatement amounts to giving it authority to make a contract between two persons when one of them is unwilling to enter into a contract of employment at all.	None
This argument, it was observed, overlooks the fact that when a dispute arises about the employment of a person at the instance of a trade union or a trade union objects to the employment of a certain person the definition of industrial dispute would cover both these cases.	None
In each of those cases, although the employer may be unwilling to do, there will be jurisdiction in the tribunal to direct the employment or nonemployment of the person by the employer.	None
The Federal Court also addedThe disputes of this character being covered by the definition of the expression industrial disputes, there appears no logical ground to exclude an award of reinstatement from the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal.	None
For nearly two decades the decision of the Federal Court has been accepted without question.	None
Therefore, after the Industrial Disputes Act 1947, at any rate, the right of a dismissed employee to claim reinstatement in proper cases has been recognised.	None
It is no doubt true that under the Central Act the right to claim reinstatement has to be enforced in the manner laid down by that statute, whereas under the State Act it is open to an employee to claim reinstatement without the intervention of the appropriate Government.	None
This would not however make any difference.12.	None
It is argued that by reason of the exemption granted by the Bombay by State when it declared the Mills to be a relief undertaking rights and obligations which accrued to the employees or were incurred by the Mills during the period of exemption, stood abrogated.	None
This takes us to the question as to the legal effect of the exemption granted by the State of Bombay.	None
The notification issued by the State of Bombay is in the following termsThe Government of Bombay hereby directs that in relation to the said relief undertaking and in respect of the said period of one year for which that relief undertaking continues as such, the provisions of (i) Ss. 16, 31 and 37 S, 40 (in so far as it relates to lockout) and S. 51 and S.61 in so far as is relates to Cls.	None
(b) and (c) of Rule 36 or the Central Provinces and Berar Industrial Disputes Settlement Rules, 1949 Central provinces and Berar Act No, XXIII of 1947 and (ii) Chapter VA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) shall not apply and the said relief undertaking shall be exempt from the aforesaid provisions of the Central Provinces and Berar Industrial Disputes Settlement Act, 1947 (Central Provinces and Berar Act No. XXII of 1947 ) and the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947).The contention urged on behalf of the Mills proceeds on the assumption that the right to claim reinstatement has been granted by S. 16 of the State Act.	None
As we have already stated, S. 16 only recognises the right of a dismissed employee, in appropriate cases, to claim reinstatement but does not confer the right.	None
The section provides the procedure for enforcing the right.	None
In this view, the right of the dismissed employee to claim reinstatement was in existence even during the period of exemption, but only it could not be enforced under S.16.	None
Once the exemption is withdrawn he status quo ante is restored and it is open to the employee to file an application for reinstatement provided, however, his application is within the period of six months from the date of his dismissal.13.	None
Under S. 4(1) (a), on a notification being made, the industry becomes a relief undertaking and the laws enumerated in the Schedule to the Bombay Act shall not apply.	None
The Schedule specifies Chapter VA of the Industrial Disputes Act and S. 16 of the State Act.	None
Section 4 (1) (a) (i) also provides that the relief undertaking shall be exempt from the operation of the Acts mentioned in the Schedule.14.	None
Learned counsel drew a distinction between the expressions exemption and suspension by relying upon the meanings given to these words in the Oxford Dictionary Exemption means immunity from a liability whereas the word suspension means put it off.	None
Basing himself on the dictionary meanings, learned counsel for the Mills has contended that the word exemption is of a vider connotation than suspension and means that the industry shall be immune from the liabilities arising under the statutes specified in the Schedule and that the order of dismissal having been passed while the exemption was in force the Mills were immune from liability to reinstate the employees on their dismissal being held to be wrongful.15.	None
The order dismissing the employees was passed on January 6, 1961 when the notification was in force.	None
The employees filed applications before the Commissioner of Labour on April 25, 1961.	None
On the date of their applications the exemption granted to the Mills by the State Government was no longer in operation.	None
The decision in Birla Brothers, Ltd. v. Modak, ILR (1948) 2 Cal 209, has firmly established the principles that for a dispute which originated before the Industrial Disputes Act came into force but was in existence on the date when that Act became law, the Act applied to the dispute since it was in existence and continuing on that date and no question of giving retrospective effect to the Act arose.	None
At p. 221, the learned Chief Justice, Harries, who spoke for the Court stated thusIn my judgment, the Act of 1947 clearly applies to the present dispute without any question arising of giving the Act any retrospective effect.	None
It is true the dispute arose before the Act was passed, but on April 1, 1947 when the Act came into force, the dispute was in existence and continuing.	None
The employees were on strike and the strike actually continued until May 19, that is, five days after the Government made the order referring the dispute to arbitration.	None
In my judgment, the Act must apply to any dispute existing after it came into force, no matter when that dispute commenced.	None
There is nothing in the Act to suggest that it should apply only to disputes which originated after the passing of the Act.	None
On the contrary, the opening words of S. 10 of the Act make it clear that the Act would apply to all disputes existing when it came into force.	None
The opening words of S. 10 (1) areIf any industrial dispute exists or is apprehended, the appropriate Government may, by order in writing etc.	None
It seems to me that these words make it abundantly clear that the Act applies to any industrial dispute existing when it came into force and therefore, the Act applies to this dispute.16.	None
It is argued by Mr. Phadke that the notification dated April 4, 1961 withdrawing the exemption is only prospective and no retrospective effect can be given to it.	None
This argument proceeds on a fallacy.	None
There is no question of the notification withdrawing an exemption being prospective or retrospective.17.	None
It is finally submitted by learned counsel for the Mills that the validity of the orders passed by the Factory Manager dismissing the employees from service has not been determined by the High Court and that the matter must be remitted to that Court for a consideration of that question.	Arguments of Respondent
We may point out that the Assistant Commissioner of Labour has held that the dismissal is wrongful.	None
This conclusion is affirmed by the Industrial Court.	None
The validity of the dismissal was therefore, finally concluded in favour of the employees.	None
There is therefore, no question of the validity of the dismissal order now being considered by the High Court.18.	None
We may now summarise the conclusions reached by us as a result of the above discussion.	Reasoning
The right of an employee to claim reinstatement on a wrongful dismissal exists de hors S. 16 of the State Act Section 16 provides a forum for a dismissed employee to claim reinstatement but does not create a right.	Reasoning
The effect of an exemption granted by the notification issued under the Bombay Act is not to destroy the right but to suspend the remedy prescribed by S. 16 for enforcing that right during the period when the exemption remains in force,.	Reasoning
The right can be enforced by a dismissed employee by resorting to the provisions of S.16 of the Act provided he makes the application within six months from the date of his dismissal.	Reasoning
In the present case, the appellants filed their applications within the period specified in S. 16 of the State Act.	Reasoning
The High Court was in error in holding that the applications were not maintainable.19.	Reasoning
In the result the judgment of the High Court and the order of the Industrial Court are set aside and the award made by the Assistant Commissioner of Labour is restored.	Decision
The appeal is allowed and the appellants will have their costs in this Court paid by respondent No. 1.20.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
