 MOHAN, J. Leave granted2.	None
The appellant is a government company being wholly owned by the Government of Maharashtra.	Facts
Respondent 1 M s. Motiram Budharmal is a partnership firm carrying on business as builders and contractors.	Facts
Respondent 3 is a Chief Engineer of the appellant company3.	Facts
On February 8, 1982, the appellant firm issued work order to the first respondent for construction of E type building in Sector 10, Vashi, New Bombay.	Facts
It was stipulated that the work should be completed by August 7, 1983.	Facts
The work was not completed by the first respondent within that date.	Facts
On June 30, 1984, the work was completed.	Facts
On June 29, 1987 the first respondent wrote to the appellants Executive Engineer alleging breach on the part of the appellant.	Facts
He also put forth various claims.	Facts
The first respondent invoked the arbitration clause in the agreement.	Facts
It was contested by second respondent stating that claims put forth were not arbitrable.	Facts
Thereafter, the first respondent by a letter dated October 15, 1987 protested and alleged bias against Respondent 3.	Facts
He also prayed for removal of Respondent 3 as arbitrator.	Facts
After a gap of nearly 2 1/2 years on May 15, 1990, the first respondent issued notice requesting Respondent 3 to proceed with the arbitration alleging that if this was not done, proceedings for revocation of his authority and or for his removal would be adopted4.	Facts
The first respondent filed Arbitration Petition No. 125 of 1990 in the Bombay High Court.	Facts
In that proceeding, he prayed for removal of Respondent 3 as arbitrator and for revocation of his authority.	Facts
It was directed that Respondent 3 should decide on the question whether the claims are arbitrable or not and to render a decision on the claims on merits by December 31, 1992.	Facts
In view of this discretion, the third respondent wrote to the parties intimating that he proposed to enter upon the reference and fixed the meeting for that purpose.	Facts
However, the letter erroneously stated that the meeting was to take place on February 17, 1992.	Facts
On receipt of this letter, the first respondent stated that since the letter was received only on May 15, 1992, it was not possible to attend the meeting.	Facts
Therefore, on April 15, 1993, the first respondent filed another Arbitration Petition No. 78 of 1993 seeking the removal of the third respondent as sole arbitrator.	Facts
On this petition, the High Court passed the impugned order on June 14, 1993 directing the removal of third respondent as sole arbitrator and appointed an Advocate of the High Court as arbitrator in his place.	Facts
It is the correctness of this order, which has been questioned in this appeal5.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellant would urge that having regard to the terms of arbitration clause where there is a named arbitrator namely, the Chief Engineer, it is not open to the court to appoint an advocate arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the intention of the parties was that the dispute being technical in nature, it should be decided by a person with technical expertise, appointment of an advocate will not remedy the situation In order the invoke Section 8 of the Arbitration Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) it has to be decided first whether the parties intended to supply the vacancy.	Arguments of Petitioner
When the arbitration agreement evinces an intention not to supply the vacancy, the court will have no power under Section 8(1)(b) of the Act.	None
This is not a case where the contract is silent about supplying the vacancy The High Court, it is urged, had failed to take into account the conduct of the first respondent, the party applying for removal.	None
Such a conduct clearly shows that he was not interested in proceeding with the arbitration.	None
After writing the letter dated May 18, 1922, no step, whatever, was taken by the first respondent.	None
When the first respondent was not interested, the High Court should have held that the arbitration agreement ceased to have effect.	None
A declaration to that effect ought to have been made that would have been in consonance with Section 12 of the Act8.	None
In opposition to this, the learned counsel for the respondents would urge that this is a case in which the arbitration agreement stipulated only the Chief Engineer to be the arbitrator.	Arguments of Respondent
The parties did not intend not to supply the vacancy.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the High Court was fully competent to appoint another arbitrator after the removal of named arbitrator.	Reasoning
Such a power is available to High Court under Section 12(2)(a) of the Act.	Reasoning
In support of this argument, reliance is placed on Chief Engineer, Rural Engineering Organisation v. R. C. Sahu ( 1980 (49) CLT 259 (Ori)).	Reasoning
The present case falls under Sections 11 and 12 of the Act9.	Reasoning
If the agreement is silent as regards supplying the vacancy, the law, it is urged, presumes that the parties intended to supply the vacancy.	Reasoning
Where, therefore, the court is moved under Section 8 of the Act to appoint an arbitrator, it was well within its jurisdiction to appoint arbitrator.	Reasoning
Reliance is placed on Prabhat General Agencies v. Union of India ( 1971 (1) SCC 79 1971 AIR(SC) 2298)10.	Reasoning
The arbitrator named in the agreement was removed because he failed to use all reasonable dispatch in proceeding with the reference and making an award.	Reasoning
Therefore, no exception could be taken to the impugned order11.	Reasoning
Before we go into the question of law, a factual analysis may be highly necessary in this case to determine the applicability of Section 8 of the Act12.	Reasoning
When on October 7, 1987, the third respondent wrote a letter in answer to the first respondent that the claims put forth were not arbitrable, what the first respondent did was to write a reply on October 15, 1987.	Reasoning
In that letter, he alleged bias against the third respondent.	Reasoning
On that score, he should be removed.	Reasoning
After this letter, no action was taken for more than 2 1/2 years by the first respondent.	Reasoning
It was only on July 9, 1990, he filed an arbitration petition for removal of the arbitrator.	Reasoning
But the learned Single Judge dismissed the petition on January 6, 1992 and directed the third respondent to hold a preliminary meeting on the question as to whether the claims are arbitrable.	Reasoning
The third respondent informed the parties that he proposes to enter upon reference and fixed the meeting on February 17, 1992.	Reasoning
No doubt, the date mentioned as February 17, 1992 was a mistake.	Reasoning
But after writing the letter on May 18, 1992 the first respondent, took no step whatever, for almost a year.	Reasoning
All these facts will clearly point out the remiss on the part of first respondent.	Reasoning
If really the third respondent did not fix a meeting, nothing prevented the first respondent to call upon him to fix the meeting.	Reasoning
In the context of unexplained delay of first respondent from October 7, 1987 to May 10, 1990, from May 15, 1992 to April 15, 1993, the delay on the part of the arbitrator from May 1992 to December 1992 was not such as to warrant the removal nor could it be said that there was a lack of such dispatch on his part warranting removal.	Reasoning
Therefore, we find it difficult to appreciate when the learned Single Judge in his impugned order dated June 14, 1993 held that on May 18, 1992, first respondent addressed a letter to Respondent 3 regarding convening of meeting but respondent 3 did nothing and that he did not fix any meeting for conducting the arbitration13.	Reasoning
Hence, this is not a case which would fall under Section 11 of the Act.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the exercise of the power by the High Court under the order appealed against cannot be upheld.	Reasoning
Once, we reach this conclusion, it is unnecessary to go into the legal aspect and decide whether the parties intended that the vacancy should not be supplied and, therefore, a new arbitrator should not have been appointed.	Reasoning
Besides, this is a case in which the parties intended that Respondent 3, Chief Engineer, alone should be the arbitrator, having regard to the facts that he is possessed of technical expertise the dispute itself being of technical nature in relation to building construction.	Reasoning
Therefore, the appointment of advocate arbitrator will not be effectual.	Decision
Respondent 3, Chief Engineer is directed to enter upon arbitration and shall complete the proceedings before March 31, 1994 after due notice to parties14.	Decision
With the result, the impugned order is set aside and the appeal is allowed.	Decision
