 Gajendragadkar, J. (On behalf of himself, B. P. Sinha C. J., K.N. Wanchoo and K C. Das Gupta, JJ.)	None
1.	None
This is a petition under Art.	None
32	Arguments of Respondent
and it raises an interesting and important question about the validity of one of the Rules made by this Court in exercise of its powers under Art. 145 of the Constitution.	None
The impugned Rule is Rule 12 in Order XXXV.	None
It provides that the Court may, in the proceedings to which the said Order applies, impose such terms as to costs and as to the giving of security as it thinks fit.	None
One of the proceedings covered by Order XXXV is a petition under Art.	None
32.	Reasoning
The petitioners Prem Chand Garg and Anr., partners of M s. Industrial Chemical Corporation, Ghaziabad, have filed under Art.	Facts
32 Petition No. 348 of 1961 impeaching the validity of the order passed by the Excise Commissioner refusing permission to the Distillery to supply power alcohol to the petitioners.	Facts
This petition was admitted on the 12th December, 1961 and a Rule was ordered to be issued to the respondents, the Excise Commissioner of UP., Allahabad, and the State of U.P.	Facts
At the time when the rule was thus issued, this Court directed under the impugned Rule that the petitioners should deposit a security of Rs. 2,500/ in cash within six weeks.	Facts
According to the practice of this Court prevailing since 1959, this order is treated as a condition precedent for issuing rule nisi to the impleaded respondents.	Facts
The petitioners found it difficult to raise this amount and so, on the 24th January, 1962, they moved this Court for a modification of the said order as to security.	Facts
This application was dismissed, but the petitioners were given further time to deposit the said amount by March 26, 1962.	Facts
This order was passed on March 15, 1962.	Facts
The petitioners then tried to collect the requisite fund, but failed in their efforts, and that has led to the present petition filed on March 24, 1962.	Facts
By this petition, the petitioners contend that the impugned Rule, in so far as it relates to the giving of security, is ultra vires, because it contravenes the fundamental right guaranteed to the petitioners under Art.	Facts
32 of the Constitution.	Facts
That is how the question about the validity of the said Rule falls to be determined on the present application.	Facts
2. Article 32 (I) provides that the right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed, and sub Art.	None
(4) lays down that this right shall not be suspended except as otherwise provided for by this Constitution.	None
There is no doubt that the right to move this Court conferred on the citizens of this country by Art.	None
32 is itself a guaranteed right and it holds the same place of pride in the Constitution as do the other provisions in respect of the citizens fundamental rights.	None
The fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III which have been made justiciable, form the most outstanding and distinguishing feature of the Indian constitution.	None
It is true that the said rights are not absolute and they have to be adjusted in relation to the interests of the general public.	None
But as the scheme of Art. 19 illustrates, the difficult task of determining the propriety or the validity of adjustments made either legislatively or by executive action between the fundamental rights and the demands of socioeconomic welfare has been ultimately left in charge of the High Courts and the Supreme Court by the Constitution.	None
It is in the light of this position that the Constitutionmakers thought it advisable to treat the citizens right to move this Court for the enforcement of their fundamental rights as being a fundamental right by itself.	None
The fundamental right to move this Court can, therefore, be appropriately described as the corner stone of the democratic edifice raised by the Constitution.	None
That is why it is natural that this Court should, in the words of Patanjali Sastri J., regard itself as the protector and guarantor of fundamental rights.	None
and should declare that it cannot, consistently with the responsibility laid upon it, refuse to entertain applications seeking protection against infringements of such rights.	None
(Vide Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras. 1950	None
SCR 594 at p. 597 AIR 1950 SC 124 at p. 126).	None
In discharging the duties assigned to it, this Court has to play the role of a sentinel on the qui vive (Vide State of Madras v. V. G. Row, 1952	None
SCR 597 at p. 605 (AIR 1952 Sc 196 at p. 199)), and it must always regard it as its solemn duty to protect the said fundamental rights zealously and vigilantly (Vide Daryao v. State of U. P., 19621	None
SCR 574 at p. 582 (AIR 1961 SC 1457 at p.1461)).	None
Mr. Pathak for the petitioners contends that the right guaranteed under Art. 32 (1) is not subject to any exceptions as are the rights guaranteed by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
The right to move this Court is an absolute right and the content of this right cannot be circumscribed or impaired on any ground, such as the interests of the general public.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is in this connection that Mr. Pathak preferred to describe the guaranteed right under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32 as absolutely absolute.	Arguments of Petitioner
The key role assigned to the right guaranteed by Art. 32 and the width of its content are writ large on the face of its provisions, and so, it is, in our opinion unnecessary and even inappropriate to employ hyperboles or use superlatives to emphasise its significance or importance.	Arguments of Petitioner
3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pathak however, conceded that the right to move this court can be validly regulated by rules of procedure and regulations made with a view to aid the assertion and vindication of the right and to provide for a fair trial of the points raised by the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
For instance, he agrees that a rule can be made that the petition proposed to be filed under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32 should be legibly written, or typed, before it is filed or that the relevant paper book should be prepared in the prescribed manner in order to facilitate the reference in Court or that a notice should be issued to the respondent, or for the making of the affidavit in the prescribed manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
These rules, he argues, can be legitimately made because they serve to aid and facilitate a fair disposal of the petition made by the petitioner on the merits.	Arguments of Petitioner
If however, a rule is made which retards or obstructs the petitioners attempt to assert his fundamental right under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32, that rule must be struck down as being violative of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Reasoning
His argument is that the impugned rule imposes upon the petitioners an obligation to deposit a certain amount in Court as security for the respondents costs, and far from adding or assisting the petitioners assertion of fundamental right, it has the effect of retarding or obstructing the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
If, as in this case the petitioners are unable to deposit the security, their petition is liable to be dismissed for nonprosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
That clearly illustrates the hardship that the rule will work, and thus brings out how it contravenes Art. 32.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the learned SolicitorGeneral who has appeared for the registrar of this Court, has argued that the rule cannot be said to contravene Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 because it is a discretionary rule and it vests discretion in this Court either to make an order as to the giving of the security or not to make it, as it may deem fit according to the circumstances of each case.	Arguments of Respondent
He conceded that for sometime past, it has been the practice of this Court generally to make an order as to security in Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 petitions, though in some cases, on the motion of the petitioner, the amount of security has been reduced and sometimes security has even been dispensed with.	Arguments of Respondent
But he argues that if the prevailing practice is found to be unsatisfactory or inconsistent with the spirit of the rule itself, the remedy is to change the practice there is, however, no vice in the rule.	Arguments of Respondent
In a proper case, security can be demanded from the petitioner because that is the normal rule of procedure recognized by the Civil Procedure Code.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, he relied on the provisions of O. 25 Rr. 1 and 2 O. 41, R. 10.	Arguments of Respondent
Like all judicial trials, even in respect of the trial of the petition filed under Art. 32, the Court must act fairly by both the parties, and so, if it appears to the Court that it is in the interest of justice that the costs of the respondent should be secured, it would be open to the Court to make an order of security in that behalf and a rule which permits such an order to be made in a proper case, cannot be said to be inconsistent with Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Reasoning
In support of this argument, the SolicitorGeneral relied upon the provisions of Art. 145	Arguments of Respondent
(1) (f) and more particularly on the wide power conferred on this Court under Article 142 (1) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
He also suggested that in determining the effect of the wide provisions of Art. 142, we ought to adopt the rule of harmonious construction so as to reconcile the said powers with Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Reasoning
5.	None
If the present dispute had been confined to the narrow question about the construction of the impugned rule and the propriety or otherwise of the prevailing practice, it would have become necessary for us to consider whether the rule can be said to be valid and the practice prevailing irregular inasmuch as in some cases security may perhaps have been demanded from the petitioner without full examination as to the special features of the case.	None
In that case, it would have become necessary also to consider whether the rule cannot be sustained in so far as it vests the discretion in the highest Court of this country and can be used only in cases where for reasons like those contemplated by Order 25, Rr.	None
I and 2 and O. 41, R. 10 an order of security is made.	None
In this connection two rival contentions have been urged before us.	None
Mr. Pathak argues that the rule is very wide and would justify the making of an order for security even in cases which do not satisfy the tests laid down, for instance, by O. 25 R. 1 and O. 41 R. 10 of the Code and he argues that in such a case, the rule must be struck down as a whole.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention, Mr. Pathak has relied on the decisions of this Court in 1950 SCR 594 (AIR 1950 SC 124) , Chintaman Rao v. State of Madhya Pradesh. 1950	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 759 (AIR 1951 SC I 118) and Kameshwar Prasad v. State of Bihar, AIR 1962 SC 1166 .	None
On the other hand, the SolicitorGeneral contends that the rule should be so construed as to enable this Court to make orders of security only in proper cases and on that narrow construction its validity should be upheld.	None
If, in some cases, orders have been passed without a full examination of the merits of the question, that may only mean that the said orders may not have been properly passed under the rule.	None
The exercise of the power conferred on the Court in such cases will not, however, invalidate the rule itself.	None
In support of this argument, reliance has been placed on the decisions of this Court in the cases of R. M.D. Chamarbaugwalla v. Union of India, 1957 SCR 930 (AIR 1957 SC 628 ) and Kedar Nath Singh v. State of Bihar AIR 1962 Sc 955 .	None
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
As we have just indicated, it would have become necessary for us to examine these contentions if the power to make an order for security in appropriate cases had been conceded by the petitioners.	None
But since the existence of the power is disputed, we have to decide the larger issue raised by Mr. Pathak.	None
Mr. Pathak argues that even in cases to which the relevant provisions of O. 25 and O. 41 may ordinarily apply, this Court has no power to make an order of security in a petition under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32.	Reasoning
The only test, says Mr. Pathak, which can be legitimately applied in dealing with the matter is does the rule aid or assist the assertion or vindication of the fundamental right, or does it retard or obstruct it?	Arguments of Petitioner
If the answer to the question is that the rule retards or obstructs the assertion or vindication of the fundamental right by imposing a pecuniary obligation on the petitioner, the rule is bad and there is no authority in this Court to make such a rule under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
145	Arguments of Petitioner
and there is no jurisdiction in the Court to make such an order under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
142.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is this larger question which calls for our decision in the present petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his argument that this Court has no power to make such a rule, Mr. Pathak has relied on the decision of this Court in the case of Kavalappara Kottarathil Kochunni Moopil Nayar v. State of Madras, (1959)	Arguments of Petitioner
Supp (2) SCR 316 at p. 335 (AIR 1959 SC 725 at p. 784).	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, Das C.J. has examined the scope and effect of the provisions of Art. 32 and has observed that an application made under Art.	None
32 cannot be rejected on the simple ground that the petitioner has an alternative remedy open to him.	None
Then the learned C. J. addressed himself to the question as to whether such an application could be dismissed on the ground that it involves the determination of Disputed questions of fact, and in answering this question in the negative, he has stated his conclusion in these words But we do not countenance the Proposition that, on an application under Art.	None
32, this Court may decline to entertain the same on the simple ground that it involves the determination of disputed questions of fact or on any other ground.	None
It is on the last clause of the sentence that Mr. Pathak relies.	None
He contends that the statement of the learned C. J. is categorical that a petition under Art.	None
32 cannot be dismissed on the ground that it involves the decision of disputed questions of fact or on any other ground, and that excludes the ground of nonpayment of security.	None
We do not think that this argument is well founded.	Reasoning
The words or on any other ground, on which the argument rests, cannot be torn from their context.	Reasoning
The context shows that any other ground which the learned C J. had in mind must be similar to the ground which he had enumerated before using the said clause.	Reasoning
Take, for instance the case of a petition which is barred by res judicata.	Reasoning
This Court has held that the principles of res judicata apply to petitions under Art.	Reasoning
32 (Vide 19621 SCR 574 (AIR 1967 SC 1457).	Reasoning
Take also the case where a petition under Art.	Reasoning
32 would he liable to be dismissed on the preliminary ground that it purports to challenge an order of assessment made by an authority under a taxing statute which is intra vires, on the sole ground that it is based on a misconstruction of a provision of the Act or of a notification issued thereunder, Vide Smt.	Reasoning
Ujjam Bai v. Stat. of UttarPradesh,	Reasoning
W.P. No. 79 of 1959, D  1041962 (AIR 1962 SC 1621).	Reasoning
if the words or on any other ground, used by Das C. J. are literally construed they would have to be treated as inconsistent with these subsequent decisions.	Reasoning
That, however, is plainly not the true position and so, the argument based on the said words used by Das C. J. cannot, in our opinion, be accepted.	Reasoning
It would, we think, be unfair to assume that in using the words or on any other ground this Court wanted to imply, as Mr. Pathak seems to assume, that once a petition is made under Art.	Reasoning
32, there is no alternative but to consider its merits apart from considerations like resjudicatata or the competence of the petition itself.	Reasoning
Therefore, the argument that the rule is inconsistent with the decision in Kochunni Moopil Nayars case, (1959) Supp (2) SCR 316 (AIR 1959 SC 725 ) must be rejected.	Reasoning
8.	None
The next question to consider is whether an order for security can be said to retard or obstruct the assertion or vindication of a fundamental right under Art.	Issue
32.	Reasoning
For analogy, we may refer to 0.	None
25 R. 1 and 0.	Reasoning
41 R. 10.	Reasoning
These rules give us an idea as to the circumstances in which orders of security are made under the code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
O. 25, R. 1 provides, inter alia, that if the plaintiffs reside out of India and do not possess any sufficient immovable property within India other than the property in suit, the Court may, on its own motion or on the application of any defendant, order security to be deposited by them.	Reasoning
A similar order can be passed where any party to the suit leaves India under circumstances which would show that in all probability he will not be forthcoming to pay the costs of his opponent when called upon to do so.	Reasoning
Such an order can also be passed if the plaintiff happens to be a woman and the Court is satisfied that she does not possess sufficient immovable property within India.	Reasoning
Order 41, R. 10 confers on the appellate Court discretion to demand from the appellant security for the costs of the appeal or of the original suit or of both in somewhat similar circumstances.	Reasoning
Now if an order is made calling upon the petitioner to furnish security in cases similar to those covered by O. 25 R. 1 and 0.	Reasoning
41 R. 10 would it not be reasonable to say that the order of security would retard the assertion or vindication of the fundamental right?	Reasoning
The order imposes on the petitioner a financial obligation and if he is not able to comply with the order his petition would fail.	Reasoning
In our opinion, there is no doubt that an order of security for the respondents costs would, in some ceases effectively bar, and in all cases amount to a hindrance in the further progress of the petition.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that the said order aids a fair hearing of the petition like the order prescribing the manner in which the paper books have to be prepared, or other steps in connection with the petition have to he taken.	Reasoning
It may be conceded that the order is intended to protect the interest of the respondent and in that sense, may be treated as fair but the fairness of the order or of the object intended to be achieved by it will not disguise the tact that its effect is not to aid the petition but to retard it to some extent.	Reasoning
In considering the constitutionality of the order or the rule which permits the order to be made, the fact that the object intended to be achieved is good, just or unexceptionable would be immaterial, (vide State of Bombay v. Bombay Education Society, 19551	Reasoning
SCR 568 at p. 583 (AIR 1954 SC 561 at p. 567) and Punjab Province v. Daulat Singh, 73 Ind App 59 atp.74 (AIR 1946 PC 66 at p. 70).Therefore, we do not see how it is possible to escape the conclusion that the order for security retards the assertion or vindication of the fundamental right under Art.	Reasoning
32 and in that sense, must be held to contravene the said right.	None
9.	None
It is true that the statistics of the Art.	None
32 petitions filed in this Court during the last decade may show that the majority of the petitions are filed by citizens who complain about the contravention of their fundamental right under Art. 19 (1) (f) and (g) and in that sense, the validity of the impact of the welfare policies of the States or the Union Government on the property rights of the citizens has more frequently fallen to be considered by this Court.	None
Contravention of fundamental rights in respect of the freedom of speech and expression, and the freedom to form assemblies, associations or Unions, which some jurists describe as preferred freedoms has not given rise to as many petitions as the contravention or property rights has and in that sense, it may be permissible to assume that the petitioners who complain against the infringement of their property rights may be able to comply with the orders of security passed by the court under the impugned rule but that, in our opinion, is hardly relevant.	None
If the right under Art.	None
32 is circumscribed or impaired by such an order, the fact that the petitioner may be able to comply with the order would not help to make the order or the rule valid.	None
Therefore, the practical considerations to which reference was made during the course of the arguments have no material bearing in deciding the validity or the constitutionality of the rule or the existence of the relevant power in this Court under Art. 142.	None
10.	None
It is, however, urged by the learned SolicitorGeneral that the powers of this Court under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
142 are very wide and cannot be controlled by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Reasoning
He has put his argument in two ways.	Arguments of Respondent
He urges that the words used in Art. 142 are very wide and since they constitute the constitutional charter of this Courts powers they must be very liberally construed.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention is undoubtedly wellfounded.	None
Article 142(1) provides that in exercise of its jurisdiction, this Court may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matters pending before it and it adds that a decree or order so made shall be enforceable throughout the territory of India in the manner prescribed by any law made by Parliament and, until provision in that behalf if so made, in such manner as the President may by order prescribe.	Reasoning
The SolicitorGeneral wants us to compare Art.	Reasoning
142(1) with Art. 194	Reasoning
(3) and he suggests that just as the powers, privileges and immunities specified by the latter Article are not subject to the provisions in respect of fundamental rights, so is the power specified by Art. 142(1) not subject to the said rights.	Reasoning
11.	None
In support of this argument, he has relied on the decision of this Court in the case of Mr. S. M. Sharma v. Krishna Sinha, (1959)	Arguments of Respondent
Supp (1) SCR 806 at pp.	Arguments of Respondent
859860 (AIR 1959 SC 395 at p. 410).	Arguments of Respondent
It may be recalled that Art.	None
194 deals with the powers, privileges and immunities of State Legislatures and their members and Art.	Reasoning
194(3) provides that in other respects, the powers, privileges and immunities shall be such as may from time to time be defined by the Legislature by law, and, until so defined, shall be those of the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, and of its members and committees, at the commencement of this Constitution.	Reasoning
The effect of this provision is that until law is made in that behalf, the powers enjoyed by the members of the House of Commons and its committees at the commencement of this Constitution shall continue to be enjoyed by the members of the State Legislatures and their committees.	Reasoning
One of the points which fell to be considered by this Court in the case of Sharma, (1959) Supp (1) SCR 806 (AIR 1959 SC 395 ), was whether the rights, power and privileges of the members of the House of Commons which could be claimed by the members of the State Legislatures had to stand the scrutiny of the test prescribed by Art. 19.	Reasoning
In other words, if it appears that the said rights were inconsistent with the provisions of Art.	Reasoning
19(1), had the said rights to yield before the fundamental rights guaranteed by Art. 19(1) and this Court held that Art. 19(1) (a) and Art.	Reasoning
194(3) have to be reconciled and the only way of reconciling the same is to read Art.	Reasoning
19(1) (a) as subject to the latter part of Art.	Reasoning
194(3) just as Art. 31 has been read as subject to Art.	Reasoning
265 in the earlier decisions of this Court.	Reasoning
in other words, the effect of this decision is that if there is a conflict between the rights claimed under the latter part of Art.	Reasoning
194(3) and the fundamental rights of citizens under Art. 19, the validity of the said rights cannot be impeached on the ground that they are inconsistent with the provisions of Art. 19 (1)(a).	Reasoning
12.	None
Basing himself on this decision, the SolicitorGeneral argues that the power conferred on this Court under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
142(1) is comparable to the privileges claimed by the members of the State Legislatures under the latter part of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
194(3), and so, there can be no question of striking down an order passed by this Court under Art. 142(1) on the ground that it is inconsistent with Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32.	Reasoning
It would be noticed that this argument proceeds on the basis that the order for security infringes the fundamental right guaranteed by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32	Arguments of Respondent
and it suggests that under Art. 142(1) this Court has Jurisdiction to pass such an order.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, the argument thus presented is misconceived.	None
In this connection, it is necessary to appreciate the actual decision in the case of Sharma, (1959).	None
Supp (1) SCR 806 (AIR 1959 SC 395 ), and its effect.	None
The actual decision was that the rights claimable under the latter part of Art.	None
194(3) were not subject to Art. 19(1)(a), because the said rights had been expressly provided for by a constitutional provision, viz., Art.	None
194(3), and it would be impossible to hold that one part of the Constitution is inconsistent with another part.	None
The position would, however, be entirely different if the State Legislature was to pass a law in regard to the privileges of its members.	None
Such a law would obviously have to be consistent with Art. 19(1)(a).	None
If any of the provisions of such a law were to contravene any of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III, they would be struck down as being unconstitutional.	None
Similarly, there can be no doubt that if in respect of petitions under Art.	None
32 a law is made by Parliament as contemplated by Art.	None
145(1), and such a law, in substance, corresponds to the Provisions of 0.	None
25 R. 1 or 0.	Reasoning
41 R. 10, it would be struck down on the ground that it purports to restrict the fundamental right guaranteed by Art.	None
32.	Reasoning
The position of an order made either under the rules framed by this Court or under the jurisdiction of this Court under Art. 142(1) can be no different.	None
If this aspect of the matter is borne in mind, there would be no difficulty in rejecting the SolicitorGenerals argument based on Art.	None
142(1).The powers of this Court are no doubt very wide and they are intended to be and will always be exercised in the interest of justice.	Arguments of Respondent
But that is not to say that an order can be made by this Court which is inconsistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed by Part 111 of the Constitution.	None
As order which this Court car make in order to do complete justice between the parties, must not only be consistent with the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but it cannot even be inconsistent with the substantive provision of the relevant statutory laws.	None
Therefore, we do not think it would be possible to hold that Art. 142(1) confers upon this Court powers which can contravene the provisions of Article 32.	None
13.	None
In this connection, it may be pertinent to point out that the wide powers which are given to this Court for doing complete justice between the parties, can be used by this Court, for instance, in adding parties to the proceedings pending before it, or in admitting additional evidence, or in remanding the case, or in allowing a new point to be taken for the first time.	Reasoning
It is plain that in exercising these and similar other powers, this Court would not be bound by the relevant provisions of procedure if it is satisfied that a departure from the said procedure is necessary to do complete justice between the parties.	Reasoning
14.	None
That takes us to the second argument urged by the SolicitorGeneral that Art.142 and Art.	Reasoning
32 should be reconciled by the adoption of the rule of harmonious construction.	Reasoning
In this connection, we ought to bear in mind that though the powers conferred on this Court by Art.	Reasoning
142(1) are very wide, and the same can be exercised for doing complete justice in any case, as we have already observed, this Court cannot even under Art. 142(1) make an order plainly inconsistent with the express statutory provisions of substantive law, much less, inconsistent with any Constitutional provisions.	Reasoning
There can, therefore, be no conflict between Art. 142(1) and Art.	Reasoning
32.In the case of K. M. Nanavati v. State of Bombay, 19611 SCR 497 (AIR 1961 SC 112 ), on which the SolicitorGeneral relies, it was conceded, and rightly, that under Art. 142(1) this Court had the power to grant bail in cases brought before it, and so, there was obviously a conflict between the power vested in this Court under the said Article and that vested in the Governor of the State under Art.	Reasoning
161.	Reasoning
The possibility of a conflict between these powers necessitated the application of the rule of harmonious construction.	Reasoning
The said rule can have no application to the present case, because on a fair construction of Art. 142(1), this Court has no power to circumscribe the fundamental right guaranteed under Art.	Reasoning
32.	Reasoning
The existence of the said power is itself in dispute, and so, the present case is clearly distinguishable from the case of K. M. Nanavati, 19611 SCR 497 (AIR 1961 SC 112 ).	Reasoning
15.	None
Let us now consider whether a rule can be made under art.	None
145(1) providing for the making of an order for furnishing security in cases of petitions under Art.	Issue
32 where the Court is satisfied that in case the petition fails the petitioner may not be able to pay the costs of the respondent.	Issue
The impugned rule is presumably based upon the provisions of Art.145(1)(f).	Reasoning
It may be assumed that the expression costs of and incidental to any proceedings in the Court used in cl.	Reasoning
(f) may cover an order of security but it an order for security amounts to a contravention of Art.	Reasoning
32, there would be no power to make such a rule under Art. 145(1)(f).	Reasoning
After all, rules framed under Art. 145 are in exercise of the delegated power of legislation, and the said power cannot e exercised so as to affect the fundamental rights.	Reasoning
If the wide words used in Art. 142 cannot justify an order of security in an Art.	Reasoning
32 petition, it follows that a rule made under Art 145 cannot authorise the making of such an order.	Reasoning
We ought to add that cases of frivolous petitions filed under Art.	Reasoning
32 can be eliminated at the preliminary hearing of such petitions.	Reasoning
Since 1959, petitions filed under Art.	Reasoning
32 are set down for a preliminary hearing and it is only after the Court is satisfied that a prima facie case has been made out by the petitioner that a rule nisi is ordered to be issued against the respondent.	Reasoning
In order to decide this question, sometime notice is issued to the respondent even at the preliminary hearing and it is after hearing the respondent that a rule is issued on the petition.	Reasoning
It may be that in some cases, the respondent may not be able to recover its costs from the petitioner even if the petition is dismissed on the merits.	Reasoning
But that in our opinion, cannot justify the making of an order for security, because even impecunious citizens, or citizens living abroad, must be entitled to move this Court if they feel that their fundamental rights have been contravened.	Reasoning
Similarly, women who own no property would be entitled to move this Court in case their fundamental rights are contravened, and following the analogy of 0.	Reasoning
25 R. 1(3)	Reasoning
, no order for security can be made against them because that would make their right illusory.	Reasoning
That obviously is the content of the fundamental right guaranteed under Art. 32, and since the impugned rule, in so far as it relates to security for costs, impairs the content of that right, it must be struck down as being unconstitutional.	Reasoning
Rules framed under Art. 145 which govern the practice and procedure in respect of the petitions under Art.	Reasoning
32 with the object of aiding and facilitating the orderly course of their presentation and further progress until their decision, cannot be said to contravene Art.	Reasoning
32.	Reasoning
All proceedings in Court must be orderly and must follow the wellrecognised pattern usually adopted for a fair and satisfactory hearing petitions under Art.	Reasoning
32 are no exception in that behalf.	Reasoning
Besides, orders can be passed on the merits of the petitions either at an interlocutory stage or after their final decision, and no objection can be taken against such orders on the ground that they contravene Art.	Reasoning
32.	Reasoning
In a proper case, proceedings threatened against the petitioners may be stayed unconditionally or on conditions or may not be stayed, or a Receiver may be appointed in respect of the property in dispute, or at the end of the final hearing if the petition fails, the petitioner may be ordered to pay the costs of the respondent.	Reasoning
All these are matters whose validity cannot be challenged on the ground that they contravene Art.	Reasoning
32.	Reasoning
But if a rule or an order imposes a financial liability on the petitioner at the threshold of his petition and that too for the benefit of the respondent, and noncompliance with the said rule or order brings to an end the career of the said petition, that must be held to constitute an infringement of the fundamental right guaranteed to the citizens to move this Court under Art.	Reasoning
32.	Reasoning
That is why we think Rule 12 in respect of the imposing of security is invalid.	Reasoning
16.	None
There is another aspect of the matter to which reference must incidentally be made.	Reasoning
The rule is obviously intended to secure the costs of the respondent in a proper case.	Reasoning
Let us see how this rule will work if it is interpreted and acted upon in the manner suggested by the learned SolicitorGeneral.	Reasoning
In practice, at present, an order of security is normally made unless a request is made by the petitioner either for the reduction of the amount or for dispensing with the security altogether.	Reasoning
If the petitioner is not impecunious, an order for security will not serve any essential purpose, because if the costs are awarded against him after the final hearing, the respondent may be able to secure his costs.	Reasoning
If, however, the petitioner is impecunious, the Court may not, after granting a rule on the petition in its discretion, pass an order of security and in that sense, the very object of securing the respondents costs would not be served.	Reasoning
It is true that if the discretion is exercised by the Court in favour of impecunious petitioners and orders for security are not passed in their cases, no hardship will be caused to them.	Reasoning
But it seems to us that what would be left to the discretions of the Court on this construction of the rule, is really a matter of the right of impecunious petitioners under Art.	Reasoning
32.	Reasoning
That is why we think that the impugned rule in so far as it relates to the giving of security cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
17.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the result, the petition is allowed and the order passed against the petitioners on the 12th December, 1961, calling upon them to furnish security of Rs. 2,500/ is set aside.	Decision
There would be no order as to costs.	Decision
Shah, J. 18.	None
The petitioner filed petition No. 348 of 1961 invoking jurisdiction of this Court to issue a writ under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution on the plea that certain orders passed by the Excise Commissioner, U. P. were invalid.	None
The petitioner was directed on December 12, 1961 when rule was ordered to issue to the respondents  Excise Commissioner.	None
U. P. Allahabad, and the State of Uttar Pradesh to  furnish security in the sum of Rs. 2,500/ in cash within six weeks for the costs of the respondents.	None
The petitioner failed to comply with the order, and moved this court for modification thereof.	None
This application was dismissed but at the request of the petitioner time for furnishing security was extended till March 26, 1962.	None
Stating that his efforts to collect the requisite amount were unsuccessful, the petitioner presented this petition and prayed that the order requiring him to furnish security in the sum of Rs. 2,500/ be vacated because Rs. 12, O. XXXV of the Supreme Court Rules under which presumably the order was made contravened the fundamental right guaranteed by Art.	None
32 (1) of the Constitution.	Facts
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner contends that the rule infringes the fundamental right to move this Court guaranteed by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
32(1) of the Constitution.	Facts
Prima facie, by the rule no restriction is placed directly upon the right of a litigant to move this Court for relief against infringement of fundamental rights.	None
The rule merely envisages exercise of jurisdiction of this Court in appropriate cases to impose upon a party under an order  final or interlocutory such terms as to cost, and to security for costs or for other purposes, as the Court thinks fit.	None
Undoubtedly an order directing the petitioner to furnish security for the costs of the respondent raises some obstacle to the prosecution of a petition for relief against infringement of fundamental rights claimed by the petitioner.	None
Are the order, and the authority in exercise of which the order is made on that account void?	None
20.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 32 substantially makes two provisions.	None
By the first clause it guarantees the right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings.	None
As a corollary thereof by cl.	None
(4) it is provided that the guarantee under cl.	None
(1) shall not be suspended except as provided by the Constitution.	None
Clause (2) declares the jurisdiction of the Court to issue directions, orders or writs including certain specified writs for enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III.	None
A truly democratic Constitution recognizes not only certain important natural rights which are the attributes of a free citizen, but also sets up adequate machinery for protection against invasion of those rights.	None
Our Constitution has in Ch. 111 enumerated certain fundamental rights such as equality before the law, with the concomitant guarantee against discrimination, right of freedom of speech, assembly, association, movement and residence, right to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to practice any profession or to carry on occupation, trade or business, freedom of conscience and the right to practice and propagate religion freedom to manage religious affairs and cultural and educational rights.	None
After enunciating the rights some in terms positive, some in negative, exercisable absolutely or subject to reasonable restrictions the Constitution has rendered all laws inconsistent therewith if preexisting, or made in contravention thereof if enacted after the commencement of the Constitution, void to the extent of the inconsistency or contravention.	None
For relief against infringement of these rights by action legislative or executive by the State, recourse may undoubtedly be had to the ordinary Courts by institution of civil proceedings for appropriate relief.	None
But the Constitution has conferred upon the High Courts and the Supreme Court power to issue writs for the protection of those fundamental rights, and the Constitution has guaranteed by Art.	None
32 (1) the right to move this Court for enforcement of those rights.	None
The right to move this Court for enforcement of the fundamental rights is therefore itself made a fundamental right.	None
Law which is repugnant to the effective exercise of the right to move this Court in enforcement of the rights described in Ch.	None
III therefore to the extent of inconsistency or contravention would be void.	None
Is it that the exercise of the right is to be so unfettered, that any law which imposes any restriction in any form whatever against the exercise of that right direct or indirect must be regarded as void?	None
Counsel for the petitioner using the language of hyperbole submitted that the right was absolutely absolute, and even a law which by itself does not place any restriction upon the exercise of the right but which contemplates the exercise of the jurisdiction of this Court to impose restriction upon the exercise of the right, must be regarded as void.	Arguments of Petitioner
21.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the right guaranteed is not wholly unfettered or unrestricted as claimed.	None
Art. 32(1) guarantees a right to move by appropriate proceedings there is therefore in the Article itself limitation upon the exercise of the right.	None
Appropriate proceedings would include the procedure relating to form, conditions of lodgment of petitions, and compliance with all reasonable directions imposed which would conduce to the smooth conduct of proceeding in this Court.	None
Power to make rules for practice and procedure of this Court read with the guarantee under Art.	None
32 (1) to move by appropriate proceedings implies the power to impose procedural restrictions conducive to the orderly progress of the petition for relief for breach of a fundamental right.	None
22.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument of counsel of the petitioner that the right to move this court for enforcement of a fundamental right is absolute, may involve the plea that rules of the Court which require a petition to be filed, legibly written, typewritten or lithographed, submission of translation of documents not in the English language, presentation of affidavits, payment of court fee on the petition and process fee for service of notice upon the parties concerned and similar rules would be invalid, for all these rules in a sense obstruct the exercise of the right, and impose financial obligations which are not insignificant.	None
But this rather extravagant view of the absolute character of the right to move this Court was very properly not attempted to be sustained.	None
It was conceded that the right conferred by Art.	None
32 (1) to move this Court may be regulated by all such directions general or ad hoc which serve to aid and facilitate a fair disposal of the case, according to an orderly procedure.	None
23.	None
What the Constitution has guaranteed is the right to move this Court i.e. the right to claim redress against an alleged infringement of a fundamental right.	None
This Court is doubtless made the custodian of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution and we would be failing in our duty if we were to refuse to entertain a petition for enforcement of a fundamental right or to decline to adjudicate upon the same.	None
We cannot direct the litigant to seek relief by recourse to a Civil Court or other remedy where prima facie an infringement of the fundamental right is made out, but that is not to say that, after the petition is entertained the Court is not bound to hold the scales even between the litigating parties.	None
The party complaining of infringement of a fundamental right has undoubtedly the right to demand that his petition shall be entertained and heard and disposed of according to law, but in the investigation of the claim to relief the petitioner is not entitled to any higher privileges than any other litigant would be entitled to in respect of a lis which is brought up for adjudicating before this Court.	None
The claim of the parties must be supported by evidence, witnesses in support must be brought before the Court or examined on commission if the party dies or ceases legally to exist representative of the party should be brought on record, if the pleadings are not proper they may be struck off or amended and if the claim sought to be litigated has been previously ad judicated upon the rule of res judicata would apply.	None
The procedure for trial and adjudication of a claim which does not involve enforcement of a fundamental right is in substance the same as in the case of a petition for enforcement of a right under Ch. III.	None
An order for security for costs of the respondent or for other purposes is a procedural order, and unless imposition of an order for furnishing security may be regarded as amounting substantially to a denial of the right to move this Court, the insistence of a special rule warranting an exception in proceedings for enforcement of fundamental rights cannot be appreciated.	None
It may be observed that the impugned rule does not contemplate that the order is to be made as a matter of course.	None
It merely recognises the jurisdiction of the Court in appropriate cases to demand security it does not prescribe or even indicate the stage at which this order has to be made.	None
The jurisdiction of the Court is declared in the most general terms and is to be exercised only when the Court thinks it necessary in order to do justice in the proceeding.	None
24.	None
Undoubtedly a practice has grown up lately that when rule is issued in petition for enforcement of a fundamental right, the Court is requested to consider whether the petitioner should furnish security for the costs of the respondent.	None
The matter is then judicially considered and an order requiring the petitioner to furnish security if the Court is satisfied about the necessity of passing such an order, is made.	None
But even orders so passed are often recalled and modified having regard to the justice of the case.	None
The practice of considering the question at the initial stage of issuing the rule may require to be altered but there is nothing in the rule which requires that practice to be followed.	None
In an appropriate case the Court may make an order suo motu at the threshold of the proceeding, or at any time, in another on the request made by the respondent.	None
All such orders are in the exercise of the jurisdiction of the Court, having regard to the circumstances and for doing complete justice between the parties.	None
25.	None
In considering the nature of the jurisdiction exercised by the Court reference must be made to Art.	None
142 of the Constitution which in so far as it is material in this case provides by the first clause that the Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it The jurisdiction of the Court so described undoubtedly embraces power to make an order requiring security in appropriate cases, and the impugned rule does no more than enunciate a facet of the jurisdiction of this Court which is conferred by Art. 142.	None
The expression as it thinks fit must in the context in which it occurs mean that where the Court deems it necessary for doing complete justice in the cause or matter pending before it, the Court may make the order as to giving of security.	None
26.	None
It is not necessary to consider whether in exercise of the delegated power of legislation conferred by Art. 145 (1) it is open to this Court to make a rule requiring security for costs from a litigating party which may apparently place a restriction upon the exercise of the fundamental right under Art.	None
32.	Reasoning
The impugned rule is not in substance a rule relating to practice and procedure, but deals primarily with the jurisdiction of the Court.	None
which has its source in Art. 142.	None
27.	Reasoning
Can the petitioner claim immunity from an order for furnishing security for cost or for other purposes merely because he has commenced a proceeding under Art.	None
32 (1) of the Constitution, even if the Court is of the opinion that it is necessary in doing complete justice to make the order?	None
The impugned rule does not contemplate that the order is to be made as a matter of course.	None
It merely recognises the jurisdiction of the Court in appropriate cases to make an order demanding security.	None
It also does not prescribe the stage at which the order is to be made.	None
28.	Reasoning
Assuming that an order made in a given case may be erroneous the jurisdiction of the court conferred by the Constitution under Art.	None
142 to make such orders as may be necessary for doing complete justice is not on that account affected.	None
I am unable to countenance the proposition that in dealing with a claim for relief for infringement of a fundamental right in a petition under Art.	None
32 the power which is inherent in its constitution to demand security for costs of the responded cannot be exercised even if the Court is satisfied that such an order is preeminently called for.	None
It frequently happens that mixed up with pleas of constitutional invalidity of statutes or executive acts having an impact upon fundamental rights, allegations of bad faith, arbitrariness, exercise of power for ulterior purposes and similar allegations are made by litigants resorting to this Court, and there is no recognised procedure by which investigation of such allegations of improper conduct may be disentangled from those to be dealt with on a strictly interpretational plane.	None
The Court has, therefore, to hear the entire case dealing both with the validity of the statutes or executive acts and the allegations of improper conduct before it can finally adjudicate upon the claim made by the petitioner.	None
If because of the nature of the proceeding brought before it, the court is precluded from ordering even in appropriate cases an applicant for redress to furnish security before exercising his privilege of prosecuting his claim, the Court would be acting not as a Court of justice but as an instrument of oppression.	None
29.	Reasoning
The impugned rule being merely declaratory of the jurisdiction which is defined by Article 142 of the Constitution no question of conflict between law made by the State, and the guarantee of right to move this court under Art. 32 (1) by appropriate proceedings for enforcement of fundamental rights arises.	None
The provisions of the Constitution contained in Art. 142 and Art.	None
32 (1) must be read harmoniously.	None
On the one hand there is the guaranteed right in favour of the litigant by an appropriate proceeding to move this Court for enforcement of a fundamental right, on the other there is the jurisdiction vested in this Court to pass all such orders as may be necessary in the interests of justice  such orders including an order for payment of costs by the petitioner.	None
There is no warrant for assuming that the exercise of this jurisdiction had to be subordinated to the exercise of the right to move this Court.	None
Article 32 (1) is included in Ch. III and the right to move this Court is itself made a fundamental right, whereas Art.	None
142 falls in Part V dealing with Union Judiciary.	None
But these being parts of a constitutional document no special sanctity attaches to the provisions contained in Ch. 111 so as to prevail over the other provisions.	None
In (1959) Supp (1) SCR 806 (AIR 1959 SC 395 )	None
this Court had to consider whether Art.	None
194 dealing with the powers, privileges and immunities of the State Legislatures and of their members was subordinate to fundamental right of speech under Art.	None
19(1) (a) of the Constitution.	None
The petitioner in that case urged that rights, powers and privileges of the members of the House of Commons in England which could be claimed by the members of the State Legislatures by virtue of Art.	None
194 had still to stand the test of reasonableness prescribed by Art. 19(2), and to the extent of inconsistency the right had to yield before the fundamental right guaranteed by Art. 19	None
(1).	None
It was held by the Court that Art. 19 (1) (a) and Art.	None
194 have to be harmoniously interpreted and the only method of reconciling the two is to read the general provision of Art. 19	None
(1) (a) as subject to Art.	None
194	None
just as Art.	None
31 is read as subject to Art.	None
265.	None
Generality of the provision is not however the sole criterion.	None
Clauses (1) and (2) of Art. 13 render laws either preexisting or enacted since the Constitution, void if they are inconsistent with or take away or abridge any fundamental rights.	None
Exercise of legislative authority under powers derived from the Constitution is undoubtedly hit by Art. 13(2).	None
But one part of the Constitution cannot render nugatory another part the two must be read together and harmonized.	None
So read the guarantee of the right to move this Court by appropriate proceedings, for enforcement of the fundamental rights cannot be permitted to encroach upon the jurisdiction of the Court, where exercise thereof is necessary for doing complete justice.	None
Therefore even in a proceeding under Art. 32 (1), this Court is competent to make all such orders as it deems proper including an order for security for costs of the respondent.	None
30.	Reasoning
The impugned rule which enunciates the jurisdiction of the Court to impose terms as to giving of security is not therefore void.	None
ORDER SINHA, J. 31.	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, the writ petition is allowed and the Order calling upon the petitioners to furnish security of Rs. 2,500/ is set aside.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.	Decision
32.	Reasoning
Petition allowed.	None
