 P. WADHWA,	None
J. This is the assessees appeal against the judgment dated 2941981 of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court on a reference under Section 66(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1922 (1922 Act for short) on the following question.	Issue
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the payment of gratuity in the sum of Rs. 4, 08, 622 which the assessee made to M s. Rallis India Ltd. was an allowable deduction ?	Reasoning
The High Court answered the question in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.	None
As to how the reference arose, we may notice a few facts.	Facts
The assessee, a private limited company, was wholly owned subsidiary of Rallis India Ltd.	Facts
One of its activities was the distribution of the products of M s. Taddington Chemical Factory Private Ltd. which was also another wholly owned subsidiary of the Rallis India Ltd.	Facts
With effect from 151959 the assessee closed its unit for distribution of the products of Taddington Chemical Factory Private Ltd. which business was taken over by Rallis India Ltd.	Facts
On 2241959, the assessee wrote letters to employees working in the unit dealing with distribution stating that arrangements had been made for the business conducted by the assessee to be taken over by Rallis India Ltd. and that the transfer would take effect from 151959.	Facts
By this letter the employees were further informed that arrangements had also been made whereby all the employees of the assessee of the distribution unit would be offered similar employment with Rallis India Ltd. on and from 151959.	Facts
The employees were, therefore, informed that their employment was to cease on and from 3041959.	Facts
The employees were further told as under If, for any reason, any member of the staff does not wish to accept employment with Rallis India Ltd., retiring gratuity on the normal scale will be paid to him on the close of his service with us as also one months salary in lieu of notice(B) (C) You will see that, in their offer of employment, Rallis India Ltd. undertake that, if you accept service with them from 1st May, 1959, it shall be assumed that there has been no break or interruption in your employment and they undertake to assume liability to pay on that basis any retrenchment compensation that may become payable in the event of any subsequent retrenchment.	Facts
By separate letter of the same date Rallis India Private Ltd. also informed the employees of the assessee offering employment with that company from 151959 on the following terms and conditions The general terms and conditions, grades and rates of pay are set out in the terms of services of which a copy is attached Your actual work and position in the office will remain as it has been herebefore 3. 4.	Facts
As mentioned by W.T. Suren and Co. Private Ltd. in their separate letter to you of todays date, we confirm that your past service with W.T. Suren and Co. Private Ltd. shall count as continuous with future service with Rallis India Limited and that the change of employment on 1st May, 1959 shall not constitute a break in or interruption of employment and we hereby assume liability to pay on that basis any retrenchment compensation that may become payable in the event of any subsequent retrenchment If you accept this offer of employment, will you please sign and return to us immediately the letter of acceptance which is attached.	Facts
Some of the employees of the assessee did accept the offer given by Rallis India Ltd. and some did not.	Facts
On 151959 Rallis India Ltd. issued a Circular No. 1/59/60 to all the members of the staff.	Facts
A part of the circular concerned payment of gratuity to the employees who had come from the assessee and this was to the following effect Re Gratuity In order to dispel any doubt which might have arisen from our letter of appointment dated 22nd April, 1959, we wish to make it clear that continuity of service will operate in all respects including the computation of gratuity.	Facts
In this respect, as there may be certain cases in which there will be difference between the gratuity accrued in the service of W.T. Suren and Co. Private Ltd. and the gratuity as calculated under our gratuity scheme, it is understood that any members of the staff so affected will, on leaving the company be paid the gratuity accrued to them in the service of W.T. Suren and	Facts
Co. Pvt.	Facts
Ltd. as on 30th April, 1959, if it is higher than the gratuity as calculated under our scheme.	Facts
The assessee had announced a gratuity scheme for its employees on 3181953.	Facts
It is as under The Management have pleasure in announcing a gratuity scheme for the members of the staff as under No. of completed years of For each year of service gratuity service equivalent to 5, 6, and 7 Halfamonths basic salary 8 and 9 3/4 months basic salary 10 and above 1 months basic salary with a maximum of 15 months or Rs. 15, 000 whichever is lower Gratuity will not be payable to those staff members who have been dismissed for misconduct, etc.	Facts
The above Scheme is being introduced as from 191953.	Facts
In respect of the employees whose services had been terminated and who had accepted the offer to join Rallis India Ltd. with continuity of service as offered, their gratuity amounting to Rs. 4, 10, 177.75 was paid over by the assessee to Rallis India Ltd. on 3041959.	Facts
This amount was held by Rallis India Ltd. on trust for the benefit of the staff of the assessee and a declaration was made to the effect that Rallis India Ltd. had no beneficial interest in the said sum of Rs. 4, 10, 177.75 or any part thereof.	Facts
Though a part of the business of the assessee was closed and taken over by Rallis India Ltd.	Facts
the other business of the assessee continued.	Facts
In its return of income for the Assessment Year 196061 the assessee claimed the amount of Rs. 4, 08, 622 as deduction.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer was, however, of the view that the correct procedure was that Rallis India Ltd. alone would be entitled to claim the amount when paid by them to the employees of the assessee at the time of their respective retirement.	Facts
He, therefore, declined to allow the claim of deduction of gratuity to the assessee.	Facts
Being aggrieved the assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner contending that payment of gratuity to Rallis India Ltd. should be held to be an allowable deduction on the ground that the assessee had a liability to pay such amount on the date when the employees of the assessee were transferred to	Facts
Rallis India Ltd.	Facts
It was also the contention of the assessee that the amount of gratuity was actually paid to the trustees of Rallis India Ltd. and that, therefore, the payment of the gratuity to the trustees should be treated as the discharge of the liability of the assessee.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner concurring with the Income Tax Officer held that there was no actual termination of the services of the employees and the discharge of the liability in question was capital in nature and he also rejected the claim of the assessee.	Facts
The appeal was then taken by the assessee to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal where again the assessee asserted that the payment of the amount to Rallis India Ltd. had been necessitated by business considerations, viz., to keep the employees contended and satisfied and, therefore, the amount should be allowed as a deduction.	Facts
It was submitted that the assessee had addressed a letter dated 2341959 to its employees about ceasing of their employment on and from 3041959.	Facts
According to the assessee this letter terminated the services of the employees and the assessee was bound to pay gratuity till that point of time.	Facts
It, therefore could not be said that there existed no liability to pay any gratuity.	Facts
It was also submitted that if the assessee had not paid the gratuity amount to Rallis India Ltd.	Facts
the employees were well within their legal right to claim it from the assessee.	Facts
The Revenue on the other hand asserted that the employees had waived their claim with the assessee in regard to their gratuity and, therefore, no liability survived in the hands of the assessee.	Facts
The Revenue also submitted that the payment made to Rallis India Ltd. was in pursuance of an arrangement with the assessee who was ceasing to carry on its main business activities which formed the structure of the assessee and thus this was nothing but in the nature of transfer of business by the assessee to	Facts
Rallis India Ltd.	Facts
According to the Revenue, therefore, payment was rightly treated as not deductible from the business income of the assesseeCompany.	Facts
After considering rival contentions of the parties, the Tribunal allowed the appeal in favour of the assessee.	Facts
The Tribunal held that there was termination of employment of the employees from the service of the assessee and also that there was valid discharge of the payment of gratuity that assessee was still functioning and payment of gratuity amount was rightly claimed as deduction.	Facts
At the instance of the Revenue, the Tribunal referred the aforesaid question to the High Court for its opinion.	Facts
No question if there was termination of the services of the employees of the assessee was sought to be referred or that if the assessee was still functioning.	Facts
The High Court in the impugned judgment answered the question in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee holding that the amount paid by the assessee to Rallis India Ltd. could not be considered as a payment of gratuity to the employees of the assessee and a could not, therefore, be held to be an allowable deduction for the purpose of Section 10(2)(xv) of the Income Tax Act, 1922.	Facts
The High Court said that since the employees had been given the benefit of continuity of employment, in law, there was no retirement from employment of the assessee giving rise to the right in favour of the employees to claim gratuity from the assessee.	Facts
In this circumstance, it was of the view that the amount paid to M s. Rallis India Ltd. by the assessee could not be considered as a payment of gratuity to the employees and could not, therefore, be held to be allowable deduction for the purpose of Section 10(2)(xv) of the 1922 Act.	Facts
The High Court referred to a number of judgments of other courts but it was the judgment of this Court which formed the base for the impugned decision and that was CIT v. Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	None
This judgment considered the question if retrenchment compensation payable under Section 25FF of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 constituted allowable deduction which was answered in the negative, in favour of the Revenue.	None
The High Court, however, granted certificate of fitness to appeal to this Court under Section 261 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short 1961 Act) as in its opinion the question involved in the present case was a substantial question of law of general importance which needed to be decided by this Court.	None
The impugned judgment is reported in CIT v.	None
W. T. Suren Co. Ltd.	None
Before we consider the rival contentions, we may note down the relevant provisions of law both in the 1922 Act and the 1961 Act Income Tax Act, 1922.	None
Business.  	None
(1) The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation in respect of the profits and gains of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely  any sum paid to an employee as bonus or commission for services rendered, where such sum would not have been payable to him as profits or dividend if it had not been paid as bonus or commission Provided that the amount of the bonus or commission is of a reasonable amount with reference to  (a) the pay of the employee and the conditions of his service (b) the profits of the business, profession or vocation for the year in question and (c) the general practice in similar businesses, professions or vocations any expenditure not being an allowance of the nature described in any of the clauses (i) to (xiv) inclusive, and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business, profession or vocation Income Tax Act, 1961.	None
36.	None
(1) The deductions provided for in the following clauses shall be allowed in respect of the matters dealt with therein, in computing the income referred to in Section 28  (i) any sum paid to an employee as bonus or commission for services rendered, where such sum would not have been payable to him as profits or dividend if it had not been paid as bonus or commission 37.	None
(1) Any expenditure (not being expenditure of the nature described in Sections 30 to 36 and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee), laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the business or profession shall be allowed in computing the income chargeable under the head Profits and gains of business or profession.	None
It may be noticed that provisions where no deduction shall be allowed in respect of any provision made by the assessee for the payment of gratuity to his employees on their retirement or on termination of their employment for any reason was made in the Income Tax Act, 1961 by Section 40A(7) introduced by the Finance Act w.e.f. 141973	None
It was submitted by Mr. Vellapally that the High Court went wrong in holding that there was no termination of services of the employees of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said that the High Court wrongly addressed itself to this question of termination of services of the employees of assessee which had never been referred to it and the consequent error committed by the High Court when the High Court did not in effect refer to the question referred to it.	Arguments of Petitioner
Commenting on the decision of the Supreme Court in Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Vellapally said it was distinguishable and submitted that retrenchment compensation payable to an employee was not the same thing as gratuity.	Arguments of Petitioner
While right to gratuity accrues year after year and is payable at the termination of employment voluntarily or otherwise except when it is on account of misconduct, the right to retrenchment is not always by reason of closure of the unit or otherwise termination of employment.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the employees did not suffer any disadvantage on being taken over by Rallis India Ltd. it was the affair of the transfereecompany but it could not be said that there was no termination of services of the employees of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer, learned counsel for the Revenue, did not dispute the fact that there was valid termination of services of the employees of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted by the assessee that the amount in question was certainly business expense and it was the liability of the assessee in praesenti and was discharged by making over the payment to Rallis India Ltd. on behalf of the employees.	Arguments of Petitioner
If we consider the balancesheet of Rallis India Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
the amount in question did not form part of its profit and loss account.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was not a revenue receipt.	Arguments of Petitioner
It entered in the balancesheet as trust amount.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Vellapally said as to how the amount is received and utilised by Rallis India Ltd., the transferee, is also a relevant consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the service of the employee is terminated, he would become entitled to the payment of gratuity as per the scheme of the assessee and instead of getting the amount directly it was paid to Rallis India Ltd. which created trust for that amount for the employees so transferred from the assessee to it.	Arguments of Petitioner
This amount could not be forfeited by the transfereecompany even if an employee transferred from the assessee is ultimately dismissed on the ground of alleged misconduct.	Arguments of Petitioner
He may in that case forfeit his right to get gratuity from Rallis India Ltd. accruing to him after 151959 while in the service of Rallis India Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Vellapally, in support of his submissions, relied upon a Full Bench decision of the Kerala High Court in CIT v. Standard Furniture Co. Ltd. (Ker)), and CIT v. Sri Venkateswara Bank Ltd. (Mad)), CIT v. Sarada Binding Works (Mad)) and CIT v. Salem Magnesite (P) Ltd. (Bom)).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Iyer in response said the amount was not paid for carrying on the business of the assessee and rather it was for closing its business and therefore could not be a business expense deductible under Section 10(2)(xv) of the old Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the arrangement of payment of amount to M S. Rallis India Ltd. by the assessee was between these two parties and the employees of the assessee were not to fall back upon it for payment of gratuity.	Arguments of Respondent
There was, therefore, no liability existing for the assessee to pay the gratuity to the employees.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his submissions he relied on three judgments of the Madras High Court in Stanes Motors (South India) Ltd. v. CIT (Mad))	Arguments of Respondent
CIT v. Pathinen Grama Arya Vysya Bank Ltd. (Mad)) and CIT v. Salem Bank Ltd. (Mad))	Arguments of Respondent
These three judgments were considered by the Madras High Court itself in its later judgment in CIT v. Sarada Binding Works (Mad)).	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Vellapalli pointed out that the impugned judgment was considered by the Bombay High Court in CIT v. Salem Magnesite (P) Ltd. (Bom)) where it was distinguished.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Iyers stress was that the ratio of judgments cited by him was here the expense was not laid down for the business of the assessee and so was not deductible and that it was not for conducting or carrying on the business of the assessee but for closing the same.	Arguments of Respondent
But then what we find is that before the Tribunal and in the High Court, the whole edifice of the department was built on the stand that there was no termination of employment of the employees by the assessee and as such no liability had arisen and that the assessee was not liable to pay any gratuity.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, however, admitted that there was no dispute as to the fact that gratuity would be allowable deduction as and when it becomes payable.	Arguments of Respondent
The contention of the Revenue was that so far as the assessee was concerned, there was no liability for payment of gratuity to the employees directly arising as the employees would have to look forward to their claim of gratuity from M s. Rallis India Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Since many a judgment of the Madras and Kerala High Courts rendered earlier to Full Bench of the Kerala High Court and of Sarada Binding Works of Madras High Court extensively relied upon the decision of this Court in Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	Reasoning
case we may consider that judgment in somewhat detail.	None
In CIT v. Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	None
the question before this Court was whether the allowance of Rs. 1, 41, 506 constituted an allowable expenditure in the assessment of the firm for the year 195859 being retrenchment compensation payable under Section 25FF of the Industrial Disputes Act.	None
The facts giving rise to the question were that there were two partners constituting the firm.	None
One partner died on 2481957 and the partnership stood dissolved.	None
The business was taken over and continued by the surviving partner on his own account.	None
The services of the employees of the firm were not interrupted and there was no alteration in the terms of their employment.	None
It was urged that since the firm stood dissolved on 2481957 and the undertaking was transferred, the employees became entitled to retrenchment compensation which the firm was liable to pay.	None
Though the assessee failed in its claim before the Income Tax Officer and Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the Appellate Tribunal held that the firm was entitled to deduct the sum of Rs. 1, 41, 506 in computation of its income in the Assessment Year 195859.	None
The Kerala High Court on reference made to it at the instance of the Revenue agreed with the view of the Appellate Tribunal and said that the firm could claim as permissible outgoing amount for which liability was incurred though no actual payment was made to the workmen since the firm was maintaining accounts on mercantile system.	None
This Court noticed the provisions of Sections 25F and 25FF of the Industrial Disputes Act and also the proviso to Section 25FF which provided that no retrenchment compensation would be payable where there has been a change of employers by reason of the transfer if  (a) the service of the workman has not been interrupted by such transfer (b) the terms and conditions of service applicable to the workman after such transfer are not in any way less favourable to the workman than those applicable to him immediately before the transfer and (c) the new employer is, under the terms of such transfer or otherwise, legally liable to pay to the workman, in the event of his retrenchment, compensation on the basis that his service has been continuous and has not been interrupted by the transfer.	None
This Court said.	None
Liability to pay retrenchment compensation arises under Section 25FF when there is a transfer of the ownership or management of an undertaking it arises on the transfer of the undertaking and not before.	None
Transfer of ownership or management of an undertaking in law operates, except in the conditions set out in the proviso, as retrenchment of the workmen.	None
But until there is a transfer of the undertaking resulting in determination of employment, the workmen do not become entitled to retrenchment compensation.	None
So long as the ownership of the business continues with the employer, the right of the workmen to claim compensation remains contingent.	None
A workman may, before the transfer of ownership of the business, himself terminate the employment he may die or he may become superannuated in none of these cases the owner of the business is under any obligation to pay retrenchment compensation to the workman.	None
The obligation to pay compensation becomes definite only when there is retrenchment by the employer, or when the ownership or management of the undertaking is, except in the cases contemplated by the proviso, transferred to a new employer, and not till then.	None
The right therefore arises from determination of employment, or from transfer of the undertaking it has no existence before these events take place.	None
This Court also referred to its earlier judgment in Calcutta Co. Ltd. v. CIT.	None
It said that in that case, expenditure which it was estimated had to be incurred to discharge an existing and definite obligation enforceable against the assessee in praesenti was held a permissible deduction in the computation of income.	None
This Court held that the amount claimed as a permissible allowance by the assessee in its profit and loss account cannot, in its judgment, be regarded as properly admissible either under Section 10(1) or Section 10(2)(v) of the 1922 Act.	None
This is how the Court said.	None
As already observed, the liability to pay retrenchment compensation arose for the first time after the closure of the business and not before.	None
It arose not in the carrying on of the business, but on account of the transfer of the business.	None
During the entire period that the business was continuing, there was no liability to pay retrenchment compensation.	None
The liability which arose on transfer of the business was not of a revenue nature.	None
Profits of a business involve comparison between the state of the business at two specific dates.	None
Normally the liability which occurs after the last date, unless its source is in a preexisting definite obligation, cannot be regarded as a part of the outgoing of the business debitable in the profit and loss account.	None
A deduction which is proper and necessary for ascertaining the balance of profits and gains of the business is undoubtedly properly allowable, but where a liability to make a payment arises not in the course of the business, not for the purpose of carrying on the business, but springs from the transfer of the business, it is not, in our judgment, a properly debitable item in its profit and loss account as a revenue outgoing.	None
The claim of the firm to treat it as an item in the determination of the profits of the firm under Section 10(1) of the Income Tax Act cannot, therefore, be sustainedUnder Section 10(2)(xv) of the Indian Income Tax Act in the computation of taxable profits (omitting parts of the clause not material) any expenditure laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business, profession or vocation, i.e., business, profession or vocation carried on by the assessee, is a permissible allowance.	None
But to be a permissible allowance the expenditure must be for the purpose of carrying on the business.	None
Where accounts are maintained on the mercantile system, if liability to make the payment has arisen during the time the business is carried on, it may appropriately be regarded as expenditure.	None
But where the liability is, during the whole of the period that the business is carried on, wholly contingent and does not raise any definite obligation during the time that the business is carried on, it cannot fall within the expression expenditure laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business.	None
The Tribunal when decided the matter in favour of the appellant in the present case referred to the aforesaid statement of law by this Court in the case of the same Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	None
and observed that facts in the case before it were not the same as before the Supreme Court in that case.	None
In our view, the Tribunal was just right.	None
In Stanes Motors (South India) Ltd. v. CIT (Mad))	None
the assessee claimed deduction of Rs. 56, 275 under Section 37 of the 1961 Act which amount represented gratuity payment to its employees transferred to the new company.	None
The amount was calculated on the basis of the scheme of the assessee and was from the pension and gratuity reserve of the assessee.	None
The claim of the assessee that the amount was paid in the discharge of the liability of gratuity to the employees transferred to the new company and hence allowable as deduction was negatived.	None
The High Court relied on the decision of this Court in Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	None
case.	Reasoning
It observed as under.	None
As already pointed out the liability to make payment to the employees had not arisen during the accounting period.	None
The liability if at all was wholly contingent.	None
The transfer of gratuity reserve from the assesseecompany to the new company did not also arise in the course of the business or for the purpose of carrying on the business, but springs from the transfer of the business.	None
Therefore, it cannot be said the expenditure was laid out or expended wholly or exclusively for the purpose of business or it was a properly debitable item in its profit and loss account as a revenue outgoing.	None
For the foregoing reasons we answer the first question in the negative and against the assessee.	None
In CIT v. Pathinen Grama Arya Vysya Bank Ltd. (Mad))	Arguments of Respondent
the question before the High Court was whether a sum of Rs. 18, 931 which formed part of the total sum transferred by the assessee to the Karur Vysya Bank Ltd., by way of gratuity to the employees for the services rendered to it, was admissible as a deduction.	None
Again relying on the aforesaid decision in Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
case the High Court said that the principle of the decision of the Supreme Court relating to retrenchment compensation to the employees equally applied to the payment of gratuity to the employees of an assessee whose business had been transferred to another and where the transferee took over the employees with the benefit of continuity of service.	None
In CIT v. Sri Venkateswara Bank Ltd. (Mad))	Arguments of Respondent
the assessee transferred a substantial part of its business to the Indian Overseas Bank Ltd.	None
At the time of the transfer, the assessee paid a sum of Rs. 20, 032 as gratuity to its employees and claimed the same as deduction in the computation of its income.	None
The question before the High Court was whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Appellate Tribunal was right in allowing the said sum as admissible deduction under Section 36(1)(ii) or under Section 37(1) of the 1961 Act.	None
The Income Tax Officer referred to the amount as retrenchment compensation while the assessee claimed it as gratuity.	None
The High Court said that in either case, the amount .cannot be allowed as deduction under Section 36(1)(ii).	None
It was found that the assessee was continuing to carry on its business.	None
The High Court observed as under.	None
The point now to be considered is whether the payment of gratuity with reference to its employees who were found to be surplus at the time of the transfer of a part of the business is an allowable deduction under Section 37(1).	None
A payment made in the course of carrying on its business as gratuity cannot be equated to a terminal payment on the closure of the business so as to be disallowed.	None
There was no closure on the facts.	None
Therefore, such a claim cannot also be equated to a payment made at the time of the transfer of the undertaking of the assessee as in the cases cited.	None
It is not necessary, therefore, to go into the decisions in CIT v. Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	None
and CIT v. Pathinen Grama Arya Vysya Bank Ltd. (Mad))	Arguments of Respondent
Those are cases where there had been a cessation of the business or a transfer of the undertaking as such.	None
On the facts found, the assessee will be eligible for the allowance under Section 37(1).	None
The several clauses under Section 36 do not apply here.	None
The question is, therefore, answered in the affirmative as far as allowability under Section 37 is concerned and in favour of the assessee.	None
In CIT v. Salem Bank Ltd. (Mad))	Arguments of Respondent
the assessee transferred its banking business to the Indian Bank Ltd. and deposited a sum of Rs. 37, 560 with the transferee bank for the purpose of ultimate disbursement to its 27 employees (who were transferred to the Indian Bank Ltd.) for the purpose of ultimate disbursement to them at the time of their retirement or earlier as per the provisions of the gratuity scheme of the assessee.	None
The amount was claimed as expenditure under Section 36(1)(ii) or Section 37(1) of the 1961 Act.	None
The plea of the assessee of its case falling under Section 36(1)(ii) was not considered.	None
The Court distinguished its earlier judgment in the case of Sri Venkateswara Bank Ltd. (Mad)) and said that Section 37(1) was not attracted in the case and the question referred to it was answered in the negative in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee.	None
The Court observed that liability to pay gratuity could not be said to have reason at the time of the transfer as a result of the assessee carrying on its business.	None
It said that firstly there was no present liability to pay gratuity and the amount had been deposited with the transferee bank only in pursuance of understanding or agreement between the two and not on the basis of the liability which had accrued on the date of transfer and that if the transfer had not taken place, the assessees liability would arise as and when a particular employee got a right to receive gratuity as per the scheme applicable to the assessee.	None
The Court, therefore, said that a liability which could not have been there if the business was continued in the year of account and which arose as a result of the transaction under which the business of the assessee had been transferred could not be said to be an expenditure incurred for the purpose carrying on the business in the accounting year in question.	None
In CIT v. Standard Furniture Co. Ltd. (Ker))	None
the question before the Court was whether the expenditure of Rs. 4, 44, 988 was an expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business within the meaning of Section 37(1) of the IT Act, 1961 as applied to the Assessment Year 197172.	None
In this case the assessee went into voluntary liquidation.	None
It sold its stock and machinery to one Sudarsan Trading Company for a consideration of Rs. 20, 09, 962.	None
The purchaser agreed to take over the services of such of the assessee employees to whom the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act applied.	None
Under a provision of law relating to payment of gratuity as in force in the State of Kerala, the assessee had incurred a liability for the payment of gratuity to its workers which was estimated at Rs. 4, 44, 988.	None
Liability of the assessee for payment of this amount was agreed to be paid by the purchaser at a future date.	None
The purchaser paid the purchase price of the stock and machinery of the assessee minus the amount of gratuity payable to the employees which arrangement was made with the consent of the employees concerned.	None
The High Court considered various judgments of the High Courts and also that of this Court in Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn. and held that the amount in question was an expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business of the assessee within the meaning of Section 37(1) of the 1961 Act.	None
It upheld the view of the Appellate Tribunal that liability for payment to which the employer was subject under the local Gratuity Act, to the workers was an expenditure wholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the purpose of the business of the assessee.	None
The Court disagreed with the view of the Revenue that the incurring of expenditure for payment of gratuity much ahead of the actual time for payment of gratuity could not amount to an expenditure incurred wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business In CIT v. Sarada Binding Works (Mad))	None
the High Court struck a different note.	None
It had the advantage of the Full Bench decision of the Kerala High Court in Standard Furniture Co. Ltd. (Ker))	None
In this case the assessee, a registered firm, was doing business in the name of Sarada Binding Works as also in the name of Chandamama Publications.	None
Under an agreement, the assessee gave up possession of all the assets and liabilities in Chandamama Publications.	None
On a settlement of the assets and liabilities as described in the schedule to the agreement, the excess of liabilities over assets came to Rs. 67, 687 and the assessee paid the said sum to the transferee who succeeded to the business of Chandamama Publications.	None
One of the clauses of the agreement was that all the employees in that business would become employees of the transferee on terms no less favourable to them with continuity of service.	None
Liabilities as worked out in the schedule included an amount of Rs. 80, 309 which was a provision for gratuity due to the employees of the business taken over by the transferee.	None
The assessee claimed this amount as deduction.	None
The question before the High Court was whether the Appellate Tribunal was right, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, in allowing deduction of gratuity liability of Rs. 80, 309.	None
The Court answered the question in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue holding that in respect of the business that was transferred though the payment under the agreement was not made directly to the employees as such, the amount was paid for discharging the assessees liability to pay gratuity to its employees for the period ending with the date of transfer and, hence, the payment should be taken to be a payment made to discharge the assessees liability for gratuity and, hence, had to be allowed as a deduction.	None
In CIT v. Salem Magnesite (P) Ltd. (Bom))	None
the services of the employees in one of the departments of the assessee were discontinued which department was taken over by the State of Tamil Nadu.	None
The liability of the assessee in respect of payment of gratuity to its those employees had become due which the assessee was prepared to pay to the employees directly.	None
However, the employees concerned desired that the payment be made to the State Government as they wanted to have advantage of continuity of service.	None
The State Government agreed to accept the proposal and payment was made by the assessee to the State Government on behalf of the employees.	None
The Court, in which one of us was a party (Sujata V. Manohar, J.) was of the view that the Tribunal was right in holding that the said amount was allowable as deduction in computing the taxable profits of the assessee.	None
Another question which was referred in that case for decision of the Court was.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal should not have upheld the disallowance of the said amount in view of the decision of the Bombay High Court in CIT v. W. T. Suren and Co. Ltd. (Bom)) ?	None
In answer to this question, the High Court distinguished the impugned judgment by saying that no right to gratuity had accrued in favour of the employees whose services were alleged to have been terminated.	None
This is how the Court considered its earlier case in W.T. Suren and Co. Ltd. (Bom)) ?	None
We have been taken through our decision in CIT v. W. T. Suren and Co. Ltd. (Bom)) ?	None
In this case, no right to gratuity had accrued in favour of the employees whose services were alleged to have been terminated.	None
This was so in view of the assessees agreement with the transfereecompany to take them up in employment with continuity of employment.	None
There was thus no liability to pay gratuity to the employees as such.	Arguments of Respondent
The assesseecompany had merely made the payment in connection therewith to the transfereecompany under an agreementIn the present case, the assesseecompany had not only computed the amount payable to the employees but was also willing to make payment to them.	None
It was the workers who did not want to receive the payment direct as they wanted continuity of service.	None
There were negotiations between the workers and the Government of Tamil Nadu.	None
After the agreement between them, the assesseecompany paid the said amount of Rs. 44 lakhs to the Tamil Nadu Government.	None
Thus, even though the workers had the benefit of continuity of service, it was not on account of the assesseecompany but as a result of a separate arrangement agreement between the workers and the Government of Tamil Nadu.	None
This Courts decision in CIT v. W. T. Suren and Co. Ltd. (Bom)) was, therefore, rightly distinguished.	None
In our view, the Kerala High Court in Standard Furniture Co. Ltd. case (Ker)), the Madras High Court in Sarada Binding Works case (Mad)) and the Bombay High Court in Salem Magnesite (P) Ltd. case (Bom)) have rightly distinguished the judgment of this Court in Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	Reasoning
case.	Reasoning
Retrenchment compensation is not the same thing as gratuity.	Reasoning
In Gemini Cashew Sales Corpn.	Reasoning
case this Court considered the question of payment of retrenchment compensation under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Reasoning
That Act contains the provisions under what circumstances a workman is entitled to retrenchment compensation.	Reasoning
While Section 25F of that Act prescribes conditions precedent to the retrenchment of workmen, Section 25FF provides for compensation to workmen in case of transfer of undertakings.	Reasoning
The right to claim retrenchment compensation remains contingent and there may be varying circumstances under which employment may cease.	Reasoning
Yet there may not be any right to such compensation, like in the case of death, retirement, resignation etc.	Reasoning
Under the law right to retrenchment compensation arises when the employer terminates the employment or undertaking of the employer is transferred and in the later case that too if the case does not fall under the proviso to Section 25FF of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Reasoning
Those provisions cannot certainly be applied in the case of payment of gratuity.	Reasoning
The scheme of gratuity as applicable to the members of the staff of the assessee provided as to how much gratuity would become due and payable to an employee for each year of service except to one who is dismissed for misconduct etc.	Reasoning
Gratuity is, thus, payable on the termination of employment of the employee on any account except dismissal and calculated on the basis of number of years of service and at the rate prescribed in the scheme.	Reasoning
In the present case, the amount of gratuity which was paid to M s. Rallis India Ltd. on behalf of the employees was not on account of transfer of the distribution unit of the assessee but on account of stopping of that business and the employees working in that unit becoming surplus resulting in termination of their services.	Reasoning
Other business of the assessee, as held by the Tribunal, continued.	Reasoning
Payment of gratuity amount to M s. Rallis India Ltd. was not made by the assessee on its own but at the instance and on behalf of the employees whose services though terminated in the assesseeCompany were taken over by M s. Rallis India Ltd. with the promise of continuity of service in	Reasoning
M s. Rallis India Ltd.	Reasoning
As far as the assessee is concerned, it was bound to make payment of gratuity to the employees whose services were terminated and, in fact, as noticed above, the employees who did not join M s. Rallis India Ltd. were directly paid gratuity.	Reasoning
The assessee was obliged to pay gratuity to those employees who had joined M s. Rallis India Ltd.	Reasoning
Instead of those employees getting the gratuity amount directly, the assessee got that amount paid to M s. Rallis India Ltd. who put that amount in trust in a separate account for the exclusive use of the transferred employees and payable to them after their services in M s. Rallis India Ltd. terminated including the gratuity due on account of service rendered in M s. Rallis India Ltd. as per the scheme relating to gratuity of that company.	Reasoning
Payment of amount of gratuity to M s. Rallis India Ltd. was made as per the scheme of the assessee and it was not an ex gratia or some isolated payment.	Reasoning
It was never disputed and, in fact, no question raised if the services of the employees of the assessee were not terminated and that being the position, the obligation of the assessee to make payment of gratuity to its employees was an obligation in praesenti.	Reasoning
Payment of gratuity amount to M s. Rallis India was with the consent of the employees transferred there.	Reasoning
We are, thus, of the view that payment of gratuity awarded by the assessee to M s. Rallis India Ltd. in the circumstances of the case was an expenditure wholly laid or expended for the purpose of the business of the assessee and was an allowable deduction.	Reasoning
It cannot certainly be said that it was an expenditure incurred much ahead of time as the services of the employees with the assessee were terminated.	Reasoning
The Tribunal also found that the assessee was a going concern and only one of its department was closed.	Reasoning
The assessee had not wound up all of its affairs.	Reasoning
Only a part of its business was closed and transferred to M s. Rallis India Ltd.	Reasoning
In these circumstances, in our view, the Tribunal was right in holding that the payment of gratuity amount was not on account of closing the business of the assessee but for the purpose of business of the assessee and, thus, entitled to deduction under clause (xv) of subsection (2) of Section 10 of 1922 Act corresponding to Section 37(1) of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the assessee, the appellant herein, is entitled to the payment of gratuity amount of Rs. 4, 08, 622 made to M s. Rallis India Ltd. as an allowable deduction.	Reasoning
We allow the appeal, set aside the judgment of the High Court and answer the question in affirmative in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	Decision
