 VENKATACHALIAH, J. This appeal by the assessee, the Alembic Chemicals Works Co. Ltd., arises out of and are directed against the judgment dated January 23, 1974, of the High Court of Gujarat in Income Tax Reference No. 78 of 1970, answering in favour of the revenue a question of law referred to it under Section 256(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, (Act) by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.	Issue
On June 8, 1961, the assessee, a company engaged in the manufacture of antibiotics and pharmaceuticals was granted a licence for the manufacture, on its plant, of the well known antibiotic, penicillin.	Facts
In the initial years of its venture, the assessee was able to achieve only moderate yields from the penicillinproducing strains used by it which yielded only about 5000 units of penicillin per mililitre of the culture medium.	Facts
In the year 1963, with a view to increasing the yield of penicillin, the assessee negotiated with M s. Meiji Seika Kaisha Limited (Meiji for short), a reputed enterprise engaged in the manufacture of antibiotic in Japan, which agreed to supply to the assessee the requisite technical knowhow so as to achieve substantially higher levels of performance or production  of more than 10, 000 units of penicillin per mililitres of cultured broth  with the aid of better technology and process of fermentation and with better yielding penicillin strains developed by Meiji.	Facts
The negotiations culminated in an agreement dated October 9, 1963, whereunder, Meiji, in consideration of the once for all payment of 50, 000 U. S. dollars (then equivalent to Rs. 2, 39, 625) agreed to supply to the assessee the subcultures of Meijis most suitable penicillin producing strains, the technical information, knowhow and written description of Meijis process for fermentation of penicillin along with a flow sheet of the process on a pilot plant the design and specifications of the main equipment in such pilot plant arrange for the visits to and training at assessees expense, of technical representatives of the assessee Meijis plant at Japan and to advise the assessee in the large scale manufacture of penicillin for a period limited to 2 years from the effective date of the agreement.	Facts
It was also stipulated that the technical knowhow supplied by Meiji was to be kept confidential and secret by the assessee which was prohibited from parting with the technical knowhow in favour of others or to seek any patent for the process.	Facts
In the proceedings for assessment to income tax for the assessment year 196465 the assessee claimed that Rs. 2, 39, 625 paid under the agreement to Meiji was one laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business and claimed its deduction as revenue expenditure.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer, in the view that the expenditure was for the acquisition of an asset or advantage of an enduring benefit, held it to be a capital outlay and declined the deduction.	Facts
This view was affirmed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in the assessees first appeal.	Facts
The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Ahmedabad Bench, dismissed the further appeal of the assessee holding that the arrangements with Meiji envisaged the setting up of a large commercial plant for the production of the antibiotic modelled on the lines of the pilot plant and that, therefore, the outlay could not be treated as expenditure laid out on and for purposes of the existing business, but must be regarded as one incurred for a new venture on a new process with a new technology on a new type of a new type of plant.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the payment was an once for all payment and was made for the acquisition of a capital asset.	Facts
The Tribunal inter alia held The subcultures and the information design and flow sheet etc., were to be furnished once for all.	Facts
Meiji also agreed to advice the assessee in respect of any difficulty the assessee may encounter in applying the subcultures and informations obtained by the assessee from Maiji to the large scale manufacture of penicillin.	Facts
It is apparent from the agreement and the correspondence which has been made available to us that Meiji agreed to give the designs, etc., not only for a pilotplant but for the manufacture of penicillin according to Meijis process on commercial scale.	Facts
The assessee has to put in a large plant modelled on the pilot plantIt is consideration of Meijis agreeing to supply the assessee with completed details of the technical knowhow, the design, subcultures, flowsheet and written descriptions of the process once for all that the assessee paid to Meiji the stipulated sum of 50, 000.	Facts
It would thus appear that the payment was made for acquiring a capital asset in the shape of technical knowhow and other allied information.	None
It was not made in the course of carrying out of an existing business of the assessee but was for the purpose of setting up a new plant and a new process.	Facts
It would, therefore, appear that the revenue authorities have rightly treated the payment as of capital nature.	None
The process which the assessee took over from Meiji was not the same as it was working heretofore.	None
In the present case the outlay was incurred for a complete replacement of the equipment of the business inasmuch as a new process with a new type of plant was to be put up in place of old process and old plant.	Facts
At the instance of the assessee the Tribunal stated a case and referred the following question of law for the opinion of the High Court Whether the sum of Rs. 2, 39, 625 was a revenue expenditure admissible to the assessee for the purpose of computation of its total income ?	None
The High Court by the judgment under appeal answered the question in the negative and against the assessee.	None
This part of the judgment is assailed by the assessee in C. A. No. 43 of 1975.	None
The reasoning of the High Court in support of its conclusion was on the following lines It is true that the expenditure was manifestly laid out for the purpose of obtaining benefits and advantages such as subcultures of penicillin producing strains, design of a pilot and exchange of technical personnel with a view to acquiring knowhow.	None
But the finding of the Tribunal, as we read it, is that all the benefits which the assessee received under the agreement were as a part of the transaction which was undertaken with the ultimate view of setting up a new plant and a new process.	None
In view of the findings recorded by the Tribunal, no conclusion other than that the expenditure was incurred one and for all with a view to bringing into existence an asset or advantages for the enduring benefit of the manufacturing trade of the assessee is possible.	None
The expenditure was incurred for introducing a new process of manufacturing and with a view to installing a new plant, even if not immediately then at a latter stage, and on that conclusion the only possible answer to the first question referred to us can be in the negative and against the assessee.	None
Before the High Court, the assessee also moved an application under Section 256(2) of the Act  ITA No. 24 of 1971  for a direction to the Tribunal to refer another question of law, also stated to arise out of the order of the Tribunal.	None
The question of law respecting which the supplementary reference was sought was this Whether there was any evidence or material before the Tribunal to hold that (1) a completely new plant with a completely new process and new technical knowhow was obtained by the assessee from Messrs Meiji under the said agreement, dated October 9, 1963 and (2) to work out that process separate plant or machinery had to be designed, constructed, installed and operated ?	Issue
The High Court dismissed this application observing that the Tribunal had nowhere recorded a finding to the effect that a completely new plant was obtained by the assessee from Meiji and that the finding of the Tribunal that under the agreement the assessee had obtained a new process and a new technical knowhow from Meiji was not without evidence.	None
Against the dismissal of ITA 24 of 1971 by the High Court, the assessee has preferred Civil Appeal No. 44 of 1975.	None
On February 24, 1987, this Court while directing the Tribunal to draw up a supplementary statement of the case and refer for the opinion of this Court the further question of law which, according to the assessee, arose out of the Tribunals order and which was the subject matter of the assessees appeal in C. A. 44 of 1975, however, disposed of that appeal formally, leaving the question of law arising out of the supplemental reference to be considered in the present appeal, i.e., C. A. No. 43 of 1975.	None
The Tribunal has since submitted the supplementary statement of the case and has referred that question of law also.	None
This is how both the questions of law are now before us.	None
While in regard to the first question the correctness of the opinion rendered by the High Court requires to be examined, the second question has to be answered for the first time as the reference is called by this Court directly.	None
We have heard Shri T. A. Ramachandran, learned senior counsel for the assessee, and Shri Lodha, learned senior counsel for the revenue.	None
In computing the income chargeable under the head Profits and gains of business or profession, Section 37 of the Act enables the deduction of any expenditure laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business or profession, as the case may be.	None
The fact that an item of expenditure is wholly and exclusively laid out for purposes of the business, by itself, is not sufficient to entitle its allowance in computing the income chargeable to tax.	None
In addition, the expenditure should not be in the nature of a capital expenditure.	None
In the infinite variety of situational diversities in which the concept of what is capital expenditure and what is revenue arises, it is well nigh impossible to formulate any general rule, even in the generality of cases sufficiently accurate and reasonably comprehensive, to draw any clear line of demarcation.	None
However, some broad and general tests have been suggested from time to time to ascertain on which side of the line the outlay in any particular case might reasonably be held to fall.	None
These tests are generally efficacious and serve as useful servants but as masters they tend to be overexacting.	None
One of the early pronouncements which serves to indicate a broad area of distinction is City of London Contract Corporation v. Styles ((1887) 2	None
TC 239 (1887) 4 TLR 187 (HL) where Bowen, L. J. indicated that the outlay on the acquisition of the concern would be capital while an outlay in carrying on the concern is revenue.	None
In Vallambrosa Rubber Co. v. Farmer ((1910) 5	None
TC 529), Lord Dunedin suggested as not a bad criterion the test that if the expenditure is once for all it is capital and if it is going to recur every year it is revenue.	None
In the oftquoted case on the subject, viz., British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd. v. Atherton (1926 AC 205 134 LT 289 42 TLR 187 (HL), Viscount Cave, L. C. said (AC pp.	None
21314)But when an expenditure is made, not only once and for all, but with a view to bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit of trade, I think that there is very good reason (in the absence of special circumstances leading to an opposite conclusion) for treating such an expenditure as properly attributable not to revenue but to capital.	None
In Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. v. CIT ((1955) 27 ITR 34 (1955) 1	None
SCR 372 AIR 1955 SC 89 ), this Court observed (ITR p. 45)	None
If the expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business it is properly attributable to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure.	None
If on the other hand it is made not for the purpose of bringing into existence any such asset or advantage but for running the business or working it with a view to produce the profits it is a revenue expenditure The aim and object of the expenditure would determine the character of the expenditure whether it is a capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure.	None
In Sitalpur Sugar Works Ltd. v. CIT ((1963) 49	None
ITR 160 (1964) 3	None
SCR 17 ), Lakshmiji Sugar Mills Co. P. Ltd. v. CIT ((1971) 3 SCC 568 (1971)	None
82 ITR 376 ), and in TravancoreCochin Chemicals Ltd. v. CIT ((1977) 2 SCC 20 1977 SCC (Tax) 258 (1977) 106 ITR 900 (SC), the enunciation made in Assam Bengal Cement Company case ((1955) 27 ITR 34 (1955) 1	None
SCR 372 AIR 1955 SC 89 ), which in turn, referred with approval to Lord Caves dictum was affirmed.	None
In Sun News Paper Ltd.	None
Associated News Papers Ltd. v. Federal Commissioner of Taxation ((1938) 61 CLR 337)	None
Dixon, J. while indicating that the distinction between revenue and capital corresponds with the distinction between the business entity, structure or organisation set up or established for the earning of profit on the one hand and the process by which such an organization operates to obtain regular returns on the other, however, went on to say thatThe business stricture or entity or organization may assume any of an almost infinite variety of shapes and it may be difficult to comprehend under one description all the forms in which it may be manifested.	None
The learned Judge further observed There are, I think, three matters to be considered, (a) the character of the advantage sought, and in this its lasting qualities may play a part, (b) the manner in which it is to be used, relied upon or enjoyed, and in this and under the former head recurrence may play its part and (c) the means adopted to obtain it that is, by providing a periodical reward or outlay to cover its use or enjoyment for periods commensurate with the payment or by making a final provision or payment so as to secure future use or enjoyment.	None
In Regent Oil Co. Ltd. v. Strick (1966 AC 295 (HL) Lord Reid emphasised the futility of a strict application of and exclusive dependence on any single principle in the search for the true position and pointed our the difficulty arising from taking too literally the general statements made in earlier cases and seeking to apply them to a different case which their authors certainly did not have in mined.	None
The learned Lord also identified as another source of difficulty the tendency in some cases to treat some one criterion as paramount and to press it to its logical conclusion without proper regard to the other factors in the case.	None
Lord Reid further said (AC p. 313)	None
So it is not surprising that no one test or principle or rule of thumb is paramount.	None
The question is ultimately a question of law for the court, but it is a question which must be answered in the light of all the circumstances which it is reasonable to take into account, and the weight which must be given to a particular circumstance in a particular case must depend rather on common sense that on strict application of any single legal principle.	None
The question in each case would necessarily be whether the tests relevant and significant in one set of circumstances are relevant and significant in the case on hand also.	None
Judicial metaphors, it is truly said, are narrowly to be watched, for, starting as devices to liberate thought they end often by enslaving it.	None
The nondeterminative quality, by itself, of any particulars test is highlighted in B. P. Australia v. Commissioner of Taxation of the Commonwealth of Australia (1966 AC 224 (PC).	None
Lord Pearce said (AC p. 264)	None
The solution to the problem is not to be found by any rigid test or description.	None
It has to be derived from many aspects of the whole set of circumstances some of which may point in one direction, some in the other.	None
One consideration may point so clearly that it dominates other and vaguer indications in the contrary direction.	None
It is a common sense appreciation of all the guiding features which must provide the ultimate answer.	None
The idea of once for all payment and enduring benefit are not to be treated as something akin to statutory conditions nor are the nations of capital or revenue a judicial fetish.	None
What is capital expenditure and what is revenue are not eternal verities but must needs be flexible so as to respond to the changing economic realities of business.	None
The expression asset or advantage of an enduring nature was evolved to emphasis the element of a sufficient degree of durability appropriate to the context.	None
The words of Rich J. in Herring v. Federal Commissioner of Taxation ((1946) 72 CLR 543), dealing with an analogous provision in Section 51 of Income Tax Assessment Act of Australia may be recalled.	None
Lord Cave, L. C., in using the phrase enduring benefit in British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd. v. Atherton (1926 AC 205 134 LT 289 42 TLR 187 (HL), (at p. 213), was not thinking of advantages that are permanent.	None
There is a difference between the lasting and the everlasting.	None
The time over which the thing endures is a matter of degree and one element only to be considered.	None
Horses in the old days and motor trucks in these days are plant and their acquisition for the purpose of transport in business usually involves a capital expenditure.	None
But the horses were not immortal any more than the trucks have proved to be.	None
Shri Ramachandran submitted that the approach to the question by the Tribunal was influenced by a erroneous assumption that Meijis agreement envisaged the imperative of a totally new plant, for the exploitation of Meijis improved fermentation technology.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel invited our attention to the following passage in the order of the Tribunal where this postulate is found.	None
On the other hand, a completely new plant with a completely new process and a completely new technical knowhow was obtained by the assessee from Meiji and it was in consideration of obtaining this technical knowhow that the assessee made the payment of 50, 000.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Ramachandran submitted that the Tribunal had failed to take into account that even before the agreement, the assessee had set up a plant for the production of penicillin at an outlay of more than Rs. 66 lakhs and that the purpose of the agreement with Meiji was only to increase the yield of penicillin and that no new venture envisaging the setting up of a new plant was ever intended by the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
The production of penicillin which was the established line of business of the assessee, says learned counsel, was to be improved upon with the use of an improved process of fermentation with new penicillin producing strains isolated and developed by Meiji so as to increase the unit yield of penicillin per millilitre of the culture medium.	Arguments of Petitioner
The supply of the technical knowhow and the flow sheet of the process and the written description of the specifications of the pilot plant from Meiji were incidental to and for the effective exploitation of the high penicillin yielding strains of the culture to be supplied by Meiji.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that the whole range of the operations envisaged by the agreement, pertained to the area of the profit earning process and not the profit earning machinery or apparatus.	Arguments of Petitioner
The cost relationship between what was involved in the improvisation of the process and the investment on the plant did, says counsel, indicate that the extant profit earning machinery was not sought to be supplanted.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also urged that there was no material for the Tribunal to hold that the use of new process and technology from Meiji amounted to a new venture not already in the line of the assessees existing business or that it required the erection of a new plant discarding and supplanting the huge investment already existing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that it was nobodys case that with the introduction of the Meiji process of fermentation with improved penicillin strains the existing plant and machinery of over Rs. 66 lakhs had become obsolete and irrelevant or that the assessee had to set up an altogether new plant to work out the improvised Meiji process of fermentation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the revenue, however, sought to maintain that all the criteria relevant to the question indicated that the assessee had acquired a new technical knowhow for a new process which required the setting up of a new plant.	Arguments of Respondent
There was, according to Shri Lodha, a new venture based on a new technology and knowhow of unlimited duration which required a new plant for its commercial exploitation.	Arguments of Respondent
There were, according to Shri Lodha, both the acquisition of an enduring asset and the commencement of a new venture.	Arguments of Respondent
On a consideration of the matter, we are persuaded to hold that there was no material for the Tribunal to record the finding that the assessee had obtained under the agreement a completely new plant with a completely new process and a completely new technical knowhow from Meiji.	None
Indeed, the High Court recognised the fallacy in this assumption of the Tribunal that a completely new plant was obtained by the assessee, though, however, the High Court attributed the inaccuracy to what it considered to be some inadvertence or misapprehension on the part of the Tribunal in that regard.	None
But the High Court was inclined to the view that a completely new process and technical know how was obtained from Meiji under the agreement.	None
Certain assumptions fundamental to, and underlying the approach of the High Court are that the agreement dated October 9, 1963, envisaged a new process and a new technology so alien to the extant infrastructure, equipment, plant and machinery in the assessees enterprise as to amount to an entirely new venture unconnected with and different from the line of the assessees extant business.	None
It is in that sense that the expense was held not incurred for the purposes of the day to day business of the assessee but for acquiring a new capital asset.	None
The business of the assessee from the commencement of its plant in 1961, it is undisputed was the manufacture of penicillin.	Facts
Even after the agreement the product manufactured continued to be penicillin.	None
The agreement with Meiji stipulated the supply of the most suitable subcultures evolved by Meiji for purposes of augmentation of the unit yield of penicillin millilitres of the culture medium.	None
Scientific literature on the biosynthesis of penicillin indicates that penicillin is derived from a fermentation process.	None
Some penicillins are obtained from directs fermentation and some others by a combination of fermentation and subsequent chemical manipulation of the fermentation product.	None
The manufacturing process, it is stated, consists of four processes Fermentation, isolation chemical modification and finishing.	None
Referring to the common basis of commercial production of penicillin in the New Encyclopedia Britannica, (Micropaedia, Vol. VII)	None
it is mentioned penicillin, antibiotic, the discovery of which in 1928 by Sir Alexander Flaming marked the beginning of the antibiotic era.	None
Flaming observed that colonies of Staphylococcus aureus (the pusproducing bacterium) failed to grow in those areas of a culture that had been accidentally contaminated by the green mold Penicillium notatum.	None
After isolating the mold, he found that it produced a substance capable of killing many of the common bacteria that infect human beings.	None
This antibacterial substance, to which Flaming gave the name penicillin, was liberated into the fluid in which the mold was grown.	None
This process is the basis of all commercial production of penicillin (p. 850)	None
In Encyclopedia of Chemical Technology (Kirk Othmer) III Edn., Vol. 2 it is found mentioned The specific characteristics of the industrial microbial strains, media, and fermentation conditions cannot be described in detail since these facts are considered trade secrets.	None
The origin of strains, and general principles of culture maintenance, fermentation equipment, innoculum preparation, media, and fermentation conditions for penicillin and cephalosporin production, are public knowledge and are reviewed hereFlemings original strain of P. notatum provided only low yields of penicillin Superior penicillinproducing strain of P. chrysogenum have since been obtained by random screening of variant strains following mutation induction.	None
All of the present day highyielding industrial strains are descendants of the NRRL 1951 strains.	None
Once a highyielding strain has been isolated, it is essential that the organism be maintained so that it remains viable and capable of producing the antibiotic at its original rate (54) Under suitable conditions highyielding strains can be preserved for many years without loss of viability or antibioticproducing ability (p. 89990)	None
We are inclined to agree with Shri Ramachandran that there was no material for the Tribunal to hold that the area of improvisation was not a part of the existing business or that the entire gamut of the existing manufacturing operation for the commercial production of penicillin in the assessees existing plant had become obsolete or inappropriate in relation to the exploitation of the new subcultures of the highyielding strains of penicillin supplied by Meiji and that the mere introduction of the new bio synthetic source required the erection and commissioning of a totally new and different type of plant and machinery.	None
Shri Ramachandran is again right in the submission that the mere improvement in or updating of the fermentation process would not necessarily be inconsistent with the relevance and continuing utility of the existing infrastructure, machinery and plant of the assessee.	None
It would, in our opinion, be unrealistic to ignore the rapid advances in researches in antibiotic medical microbiology and to attribute a degree of endurability and permanence to the technical know how at any particular stage in this fast changing area of medical science.	Reasoning
The state of the art in some of these areas of high priority research is constantly updated so that the knowhow cannot be said to be the element of the requisite degree of durability and nonephemerality to share the requirements and qualifications of an enduring capital asset.	Reasoning
The rapid strides in science and technology in the field should make us a little slow and circumspect in too readily pigeonholing an outlay, such as this as capital.	Reasoning
The circumstance that the agreement insofar as it placed limitations on the right of the assessee in dealing with the knowhow and the conditions as to nonpartiability, confidentiality and secrecy of the knowhow incline towards the inference that the right pertained more to the use of the knowhow than to its exclusive acquisition.	Reasoning
In the present case, the principal reason that influenced the option of the High Court was that the initiation and exploitation of the new process brought in their wake a new venture requiring an altogether new plant.	None
We are afraid, this view may not be justified.	None
Clause (2), (4) and (6) of the agreement provide For and in consideration of the subcultures, design, flow sheet and written description to be furnished by Meiji to Alembic pursuant to paragraph (1) hereof, Alembic shall pay to Meiji in advance and in lump sum, such an amount as Meiji is able to collect Fifty thousand U. S. Dollars ( 50, 000) net in Tokyo after deducting any taxes and charges to be imposed in Indian upon Meiji with respect to the said payment to Meiji.	None
Meiji will give advice, to the extent considered necessary by Meiji, on any difficulty Alembic may encounter in applying the subcultures and informations obtained by Alembic from Meiji to the large scale manufacture.	None
The above provision shall be in force after Meijis receipt of the amount set forth in paragraph (2) hereof until the end of two (2) years from the effective date of this agreement.	None
Any of the subcultures and informations obtained by Alembic from Meiji shall be regarded as strictly confidential by Alembic and its personal and shall be used by Alembic only in its Penicillin G plant in India, and shall not be disclosed to any other person, firm or agency, governmental or private.	None
Alembic shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that such subcultures and information will not be communicated.	None
Alembic shall take all possible precautions against the escape from its premises of the strain obtained from Meiji or propagated therefrom.	None
Alembic shall not apply for any patent to any country in relation to any of the subcultures and information obtained by Alembic from Meiji.	None
As notified earlier the Tribunal in the course of its order, held Meiji agreed to give the designs etc., not only for a pilot plant but for the manufacture of penicillin according to Meijis process on commercial scale.	Facts
The assessee has to put in a larger plant modelled on the pilot plant.	None
Having regard to the terms of clause (4) of the agreement, this conclusion is nonsequitur.	None
The improvisation in the process and technology in some areas of the enterprise was supplemental to the existing business and there was no material to hold that it amounted to a new or fresh venture.	Reasoning
The further circumstance that the agreement pertained to a product already in the line of the assessees established business and not to a new product indicates that what was stipulated was an improvement in the operations of the existing business and its efficiency and profitability not removed from the area of the day to day business of the assessees established enterprise.	Reasoning
It appears to us that the answer to the questions referred should be on the basis that the financial outlay under the agreement was for the better conduct and improvement of the existing business and should, therefore, be held to be revenue expenditure.	Reasoning
Reference may also be made to the observations of this Court in CIT v. CIBA of India Ltd ((1968) 2	Reasoning
SCR 696 , 705 AIR 1968 SC 1131 69 ITR 692) .	Reasoning
There is also no single definitive criterion which, by itself, is determinative whether a particular outlay is capital or revenue.	Reasoning
The once for all payment test is also inconclusive.	Reasoning
What is relevant is the purpose of the outlay and its intended object and effect, considered in a commonsense way having regard to the business realities.	Reasoning
In a given case, the test of enduring benefit might break down.	Reasoning
In CIT v. Associated Cement Companies Ltd. (1988 Supp SCC 378 1988 SCC (Tax) 358), this Court said (SCC p. 382, para 10)As observed by the Supreme Court in the decision in Empire Jute Co. Ltd. v. CIT ((1980) 4 SCC 25 1980 SCC (Tax) 335 (1980) 124 ITR 1 ), that there may be cases where expenditure, even if incurred for obtaining an advantage of enduring benefit, may, nonetheless, be on revenue account and the test of enduring benefit may break down.	Reasoning
It is not every advantage of enduring nature acquired by an assessee that brings the case within the principles laid down in this test.	Reasoning
What is material to consider is the nature of the advantage in a commercial sense and it is only where the advantage is in the capital field that the expenditure would be disallowable on an application of this test.	Reasoning
In the result, for the forgoing reasons the appeal succeed and is allowed and the question of law referred to the High Court for its opinion in Income Tax Reference No. 78 of 1970 is answered in the affirmative and against the revenue.	Decision
The judgment under appeal is set aside.	None
Likewise, the supplementary question of law raised in ITA No. 24 of 1971 before the High Court and now constituting the subject matter of the supplementary reference made by the Tribunal to this Court is answered in the negative and against revenue.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly allowed, but with no order as to costs.	Decision
