 Chandramauli Kr.	None
Prasad, J. The petitioners, aggrieved by the order of the High Court directing entry of charge in the revenue records on the basis of mortgage created by deposit of titledeeds, have preferred this special leave petition.	None
Delay condoned.	None
Leave granted.	None
Shorn of unnecessary details, facts giving rise to the present appeal are that one M s. Ultra Tech Private, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, was sanctioned a term loan of Rs. 425 lakhs and working capital facility of Rs.99 lakhs by the Punjab National Bank (hereinafter referred to as the Bank).	Facts
As agreed by the Bank, original titledeeds in respect of 19 Marlas of land belonging to Narvir Singh and 31 Marlas of land owned by Rajinder Kaur were deposited with the Bank by the borrower.	Facts
In this way mortgage by deposit of titledeeds took place.	Facts
It is not in dispute that this transaction had taken place in a town notified under Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act.	Facts
The Bank wrote to the Tahsildar, Panchkula for mutation on the basis of mortgage effected by deposit of the titledeeds.	Facts
When nothing was done, the land owner filed writ petition before the High Court inter alia praying for mutation on the basis of mortgage aforesaid.	Facts
The respondents resisted mutation inter alia on the ground that no entry can be made as the instrument of deposit of titledeeds is compulsorily registrable under Section 17(1)(c) of the Registration Act and for that, they relied on a letter dated 29th March, 2007 of the Finance Commissioner and Principal Secretary to Government, the relevant portion whereof reads as under xxx	Facts
xxx xxx	None
It is clarified that the instrument of deposit of titledeed Equitable Mortgage is compulsorily registrable under Section 17(1)(c) of the Indian Registration Act, 1908.	None
Registration fee is payable under Article 1(1)(b) in the table of Registration Fees Notification dated 06th November, 2006.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 6 of the schedule IA of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 provides for rate of Stamp Duty (SD) chargeable on deposit of titledeeds equitable mortgage.	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
According to the respondents, in the absence of registration as aforesaid and payment of registration fee and stamp duty, the prayer for mutation cannot be allowed.	None
The High Court considered the objection and negatived the same in the following words We are of the view that an equitable mortgage is created by deposit of titledeeds and not through any written instrument.	None
Simple pledge of the titledeeds to the bank as Security creates an equitable mortgage, therefore, there is never an instrument of deposit of titledeed equitable mortgage.	None
The petitioner simply went to the bank and handed over the titledeeds of their respective properties.	None
This act was enough to create a mortgage as envisaged under Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
Quite often a memorandum is drawn up regarding the handing over of the titledeeds but this memorandum is simply a written record of the pledge.	None
The memorandum itself is not an instrument of mortgage Mr. B.S. Mor, Additional Advocate General appearing for the State submits that mortgage by deposit of titledeeds requires registration under Section 17(1)(c) of the Registration Act, 1908.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further it mandates payment of fee as prescribed under article 1(1)(b) of the Registration Fees notification dated 6th November, 2006.	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition, payment of stamp duty as per Article 6 of the Indian Stamp Act is also required.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Mor in the absence of all these the mortgage by deposit of titledeeds cannot form the basis of mutation.	None
Mr. Harikesh Singh, learned counsel appearing for the respondents, however, submits that mortgage by deposit of titledeeds does not need any registered instrument.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, there is no question of deposit of any fee thereon.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, it also does not require payment of duty under the Stamp Act.	Arguments of Respondent
An application for impleadment has been filed by the Bank for being impleaded as a party to the proceedings, which was allowed by this Court vide order dated 12th July, 2010.	None
The Bank is represented by Mr.Rajesh Kumar, Advocate for M s. Mitter Mitter, Advocates.	None
Another application for impleadment (I.A. No. 3 of 2011) has been filed by Shankar Twine Products Pvt.	None
Ltd. through its Director.	None
We reject this petition giving liberty to it to take recourse to such other remedy as is available to it before the court of competent jurisdiction.	None
In view of rival submissions, the question which falls for consideration is whether charge of mortgage can be entered in the revenue record in respect of a mortgage effected by deposit of titledeeds without its registration and payment of registration fee and stamp duty.	Issue
Mortgage by deposit of titledeeds is sanctioned by law under Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act in specified towns, same reads as follows Mortgage, mortgagor, mortgagee, mortgagemoney and mortgagedeed defined.	None
(a) xxx xxx xxx	None
(e) xxx xxx xxx Mortgage by deposit of titledeeds.	None
Where a person in any of the following towns, namely, the towns of Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay, and in any other town which the State Government concerned may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf, delivers to a creditor or his agent documents of title to immoveable property, with intent to create a security thereon, the transaction is called a mortgage by deposit of titledeeds.	None
Mortgage inter alia means transfer of interest in the specific immovable property for the purpose of securing the money advanced by way of loan.	None
Section 17(1)(c) of the Registration Act provides that a nontestamentary instrument which acknowledges the receipt or payment of any consideration on account of the creation, declaration, assignment, limitation or extension of any such right, title or interest, requires compulsory registration.	None
Mortgage by deposit of titledeeds in terms of Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act surely acknowledges the receipt and transfer of interest and, therefore, one may contend that its registration is compulsory.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, Section 59 of the Transfer of Property Act mandates that every mortgage other than a mortgage by deposit of titledeeds can be effected only by a registered instrument.	None
In the face of it, in our opinion, when the debtor deposits with the creditor titledeeds of the property for the purpose of security, it becomes mortgage in terms of Section 58(f) of the Transfer of Property Act and no registered instrument is required under Section 59 thereof as in other classes of mortgage.	None
The essence of mortgage by deposit of titledeeds is handing over by a borrower to the creditor titledeeds of immovable property with the intention that those documents shall constitute security, enabling the creditor to recover the money lent.	None
After the deposit of the titledeeds the creditor and borrower may record the transaction in a memorandum but such a memorandum would not be an instrument of mortgage.	None
A memorandum reducing other terms and conditions with regard to the deposit in the form of a document, however, shall require registration under Section 17(1)c) of the Registration Act, but in a case in which such a document does not incorporate any term and condition, it is merely evidential and does not require registration.	None
This Court had the occasion to consider this question in the case of Rachpal v. Bhagwandas, AIR 37 1950 SC 272, and the statement of law made therein supports the view we have taken, which would be evident from the following passage of the judgment A mortgage by deposit of titledeeds is a form of mortgage recognized by S. 58(f), T.P. Act, which provides that it may be effected in certain towns (including Calcutta) by a person delivering to his creditor or his agent documents of title to immovable property with intent to create a security thereon.	None
That is to say, when the debtor deposits with the creditor the titledeeds of his property with intent to create a security, the law implies a contract between the parties to create a mortgage, and no registered instrument is required under S.59 as in other forms of mortgage.	None
But if the parties choose to reduce the contract to writing, the implication is excluded by their express bargain, and the document will be the sole evidence of its terms.	None
In such a case the deposit and the document both form integral parts of the transaction and are essential ingredients in the creation of the mortgage.	None
As the deposit alone is not intended to create the charge and the document, which constitutes the bargain regarding the security, is also necessary and operates to create the charge in conjunction with the deposit, it requires registration under S.17, Registration Act, 1908, as a nontestamentary instrument creating an interest in immovable property, where the value of such property is one hundred rupees and upwards.	None
The time factor is not decisive.	None
The document may be handed over to the creditor along with the titledeeds and yet may not be registrable This Court while relying on the aforesaid judgment in the case of United Bank of India v. M s. Lekharam Sonaram Co.,AIR 1965 SC 1591 reiterated as follows It is essential to bear in mind that the essence of a mortgage by deposit of titledeeds is the actual handing over by a borrower to the lender of documents of title to immovable property with the intention that those documents shall constitute a security which will enable the creditor ultimately to recover the money which he has lent.	None
But if the parties choose to reduce the contract to writing, this implication of law is excluded by their express bargain, and the document will be the sole evidence of its terms.	None
In such a case the deposit and the document both form integral parts of the transaction and are essential ingredients in the creation of the mortgage.	None
It follows that in such a case the document which constitutes the bargain regarding security requires registration under Section 17 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908, as a nontestamentary instrument creating an interest in immovable property, where the value of such property is one hundred rupees and upwards.	None
If a document of this character is not registered it cannot be used in the evidence at all and the transaction itself cannot be proved by oral evidence either.	None
Bearing in mind the principles aforesaid, we proceed to consider the facts of the present case.	None
It is relevant here to state that letter dated 29th March, 2007 of the Finance Commissioner inter alia makes instrument of deposit of titledeeds compulsorily registrable under Section 17(1)(c) of the Registration Act.	None
In such contingency, registration fee and stamp duty would be leviable.	None
But the question is whether mortgage by deposit of titledeeds is required to be done by an instrument at all.	None
In our opinion, it may be effected in specified town by the debtor delivering to his creditor documents of title to immoveable property with the intent to create a security thereon.	Reasoning
No instrument is required to be drawn for this purpose.	Reasoning
However, the parties may choose to have a memorandum prepared only showing deposit of the titledeeds.	Reasoning
In such a case also registration is not required.	Reasoning
But in a case in which the memorandum recorded in writing creates right, liability or extinguishes those, same requires registration.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the letter of the Finance Commissioner would apply in cases where the instrument of deposit of titledeeds incorporates terms and conditions in addition to what flow from the mortgage by deposit of titledeeds.	Reasoning
But in that case there has to be an instrument which is an integral part of the transaction regarding the mortgage by deposit of titledeeds.	Reasoning
A document merely recording a transaction which is already concluded and which does not create any rights and liabilities does not require registration.	Reasoning
Nothing has been brought on record to show existence of any instrument which has created or extinguished any right or liability.	Reasoning
In the case in hand, the original deeds have just been deposited with the bank.	Reasoning
In the face of it, we are of opinion that the charge of mortgage can be entered into revenue record in respect of mortgage by deposit of titledeeds and for that, instrument of mortgage is not necessary.	Reasoning
Mortgage by deposit of titledeeds further does not require registration.	Reasoning
Hence, the question of payment of registration fee and stamp duty does not arise.	Reasoning
By way of abundant caution and at the cost of repetition we may, however, observe that when the borrower and the creditor choose to reduce the contract in writing and if such a document is the sole evidence of terms between them, the document shall form integral part of the transaction and same shall require registration under Section 17 of the Registration Act.	Reasoning
From conspectus of what we have observed above, we do not find any error in the judgment of the High Court.	Reasoning
In the result, we do not find any merit in the appeal and it is dismissed accordingly but without any order as to costs.	None
CIVIL APPEAL NO.9049 OF 2013 (SLP (C) NO. 924/2009)	None
Delay condoned.	None
Leave granted.	None
By the impugned order, the High Court had directed the appellants herein to enter mutation in favour of Punjab National Bank in respect of the properties mortgaged by deposit of titledeeds.	Facts
According to the appellants, the properties mortgaged by deposit of titledeeds are situated in the village Matab Garh in the District of Ludhiana and at village Dallomajra, Tahsil and District Fatehgarh Sahib and village Sadhugarh in the District Sirhind.	Facts
It is the stand of the appellants that deposit of the titledeeds are not in relation to the properties situated in the towns specified under Section 58(f) or in the towns notified by the State Government in terms of Section 58 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, our attention has been drawn to the notification dated May 26, 2003 of the Government of Punjab in the Department of Revenue and Rehabilitation, same reads as follows In exercise of the power conferred by clause (f) of Section 58 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (Central Act No. 4 of 1882) and all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor of Punjab is pleased to specify Gobindgarh in the district Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali in District Roop Nagar in the State of Punjab as Towns for the purpose of the aforesaid section of the said Act.	None
This aspect of the matter has not been considered by the High Court in the impugned judgment.	None
As the same goes to the root of the matter, we have no option than to set aside the impugned order and remit the matter back for its fresh consideration in accordance with law in the light of the observation made above.	Reasoning
In the result, we allow this appeal, set aside the impugned judgment of the High Court and remit the matter back to the High Court for fresh consideration in accordance with law.	Decision
