Surinder Singh Nijjar, J. This writ petition has been filed by one Mr. Arun Kumar Agrawal under Article 32 of the Constitution of India seeks the issuance of a writ of quo warranto or any other direction against Mr. U.K. Sinha, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (hereinafter referred to as SEBI) and his consequential removal from the post of Chairman.	Issue
Stated concisely, the petitioner challenges the appointment of respondent No.4 on the following grounds  Mr. Sinha failed to fulfill one of the eligibility condition as laid down in subsection (5) of Section 4 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (hereinafter referred to as SEBI Act), as well as the qualification contained in Government communication, which required that the Chairman shall be a person of high integrity.b)	None
The appointment of respondent No.4 is the result of manipulation, misrepresentation and suppression of vital material before the SearchcumSelection Committee and the Appointment Committee of the Cabinet (hereinafter referred to as ACC).c)	Facts
The appointment of respondent No.4, a Chairman of SEBI, is mala fide.	None
Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, has made detailed submissions with regard to the manipulations and the maneuvers indulged in by the petitioner with the active connivance of some other persons to successfully mislead the Search Committee as well as the ACC.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has highlighted that the petitioner does not fulfill the requirements of Section 4(5) of SEBI Act which provides as under The Chairman and the other members referred to in clauses (a) and (d) of subsection (1) shall be persons of ability, integrity and standing who have shown capacity in dealing with problems relating to securities marker or have special knowledge or experience of law, finance, economics, accountancy, administration or in any other discipline which, in the opinion of the Central Government, shall be useful to the Board.	None
Giving the factual background, he referred to the communication dated 10th September, 2010 of the Department of Economic Affairs inviting the application for the post of Chairman SEBI.	None
In paragraph 3 of the aforesaid communication which provided that keeping in view the role and importance of SEBI as a regulator, it is desirable that person with high integrity, eminence and reputation preferably with more than 25 years of professional experience and in the age group of 50 to 60 years may apply.	None
Learned counsel submits that Mr. Sinha lacks integrity which is well illustrated by a reference to events leading to his appointment.	None
He points out that Mr. Sinha was Joint Secretary, Banking till May, 2002.	None
He became Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance in June, 2002.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, he held the post of Joint Secretary, Capital Market, Ministry of Finance from 1st July, 2003.	Arguments of Petitioner
Whilst working as such he was appointed as Additional Director on the Board of Unit Trust of India Asset Management Company Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as UTI AMC).	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, on 3rd November, 2005 Mr. Sinha was appointed as CEO and MD of UTI AMC on deputation for two years.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, Mr. Sinha was wrongly sent on deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii) of the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which is applicable in case of deputation in an international organization, NGO or body not owned by the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the equity share capital in UTI AMC is held by the State Bank of India, Life Insurance Corporation, Bank of Baroda and Punjab National Bank, each holding 25 of the shares, it could not be said that UTI AMC was not controlled by the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, Mr. Sinha ought to have been sent on deputation under Rule 6(2)(i) of the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954 which is applicable for deputation of an IAS officer under a company, association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the State Government, Municipal Corporation or a local body by the State Government on whose cadre she he is borne.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, Mr. Sinha was deliberately sent on deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii) for ulterior motive.	None
He points out that the deputation of Mr. Sinha was against the accepted assurance given to the J.P.C. on the appointment of CMD of UTI AMC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sinha as Joint Secretary, Capital Market and member of the Board of UTI AMC was aware of the recommendation of JPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
He deliberately violated the recommendations.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, the deputation was also in violation of policy of not allowing deputation to an officer who had overseen the organization to which he was being deputed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Deputation of Mr. Sinha was also in conflict of interest as he was Joint Secretary, Banking till May 2002 and the ownership of UTI AMC was with the SBI, Bank of Baroda, PNB and LIC.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, Mr. Sinha was privy to sensitive information.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the rules, Mr. Sinha was required to file affidavit undertaking that person sent on deputation was not privy to any sensitive information.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Continuing further, Mr. Bhushan pointed out that on appointment as CMD, UTI AMC on 13th January, 2006, Mr. Sinha continued to get pay scale of Joint Secretary, even though he had an option under Rule 6(2)(ii) of drawing the pay of the UTI AMC or the scale of pay of the Government which is beneficial.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was no separate pay scale for CMD of UTI AMC and the same needed to be created in view of the option under Rule 6(2)(ii).	Arguments of Petitioner
On 29th January, 2007, Mr. Sinha made representation to the Government claiming that his batch cadre IAS Officer has been empanelled as Additional Secretary, therefore, his salary be fixed accordingly in the pay scale of Additional Secretary to the Government of India i.e. 2240052524500.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 1st March, 2007, the salary of Mr. Sinha was fixed in the aforesaid scale, with effect from 10th February, 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
A communication was also sent on 16th April, 2007 enclosing the terms and conditions of the deputation of Mr. Sinha.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that the member of service may opt for his grade pay or the pay of the post, whichever is more beneficial to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also pointed out that the terms and conditions will be applicable with effect from 27th December, 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan thereafter laid considerable emphasis on the fact that on 27th September, 2007 the Board UTI AMC approved the remuneration package of Mr. Sinha keeping in view the remuneration package of CEO in the industry, roles and responsibilities of the CMD, UTI AMC and the current surge of the salary structure in the market, as follows  Fixed Pay Rs. 10 million per annum Variable Pay upto 100 of Fixed pay subject to performance and as may be approved by the Board on yearly basis.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, this decision was taken on the basis of the recommendation made by the Aapte Committee in July, 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Committee had been set up to recommend the compensation to be paid to CMD, UTI AMC.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Committee had recommended the compensation to be paid to CMD, UTI AMC on the basis that the compensation should be market competitive to attract appropriate talent from the market.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, the actual fact situation would show that the recommendation to appoint CMD, UTI AMC from the market was given a complete go by at the time of the appointment of Mr. Sinha in 2008, when his extension to deputation was denied.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, in order to continue as CMD, UTI, AMC Mr. Sinha took voluntary retirement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan states that on 6th November, 2007 though a proposal for extension of deputation of Mr. Sinha for a period of two years was made, he was only granted an interim extension of three months till 2nd February, 2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was because some general issue regarding deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii) was being reexamined.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 28th November, 2007, the Consolidated Deputation Guidelines for All India Services was circulated by the Ministry of Personnel and under the Guidelines the deputation of Mr. Sinha was determined to be under Rule 6(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that under Rule 6(1) there is no option of getting remuneration as per the scheme of the organization to which an officer is sent on deputation.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 12th December, 2007, the Finance Ministry, Department of Economic Affairs requested the Department of Personnel and Training (DOPT) to extend the deputation of Mr. Sinha for the remaining one year and nine months under Rule 6(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
On 10th March, 2008, the ACC advised the Finance Ministry (Department of Economic Affairs) that extension of tenure as CMD of UTI AMC has been granted to Mr. Sinha till 31st May, 2008 under Rule 6(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was indicated that upon completion of the aforesaid term he would return to his parent cadre (Bihar).	Arguments of Petitioner
A direction was issued to the Department of Economic Affairs to identify a suitable replacement of Mr. Sinha by that date.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan points out that in the meantime on 25th March, 2008, the shareholders approved the emoluments of Mr. Sinha as recommended with effect from 27th December, 2006.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to Mr. Bhushan, was not permissible since 28th November, 2007 or at best since February, 2008 the deputation of Mr. Sinha was no longer under Rule 6(2)(ii).	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan points out that inspite of the recommendation of the ACC on 10th March, 2008, a recommendation was made by the Chairman of SBI on behalf of other shareholders proposing that Mr. Sinha should continue as CMD of UTI AMC even beyond 31st May, 2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the recommendation letter, it was proposed to offer four years tenure to Mr. Sinha as CMD of UTI AMC with effect from 1st June, 2008 or earlier without break of continuity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The letter also notices that under the existing Government Rules Mr. Sinha will be able to take this offer only if he takes voluntary retirement from the Government Service.	Arguments of Petitioner
A formal letter for extension of tenure was issued to Mr. Sinha on 11th April, 2008 by the UTI AMC.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 12th April, 2008 the Board of UTI AMC approved that the CMD can draw revised compensation with effect from 27th December, 2006.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan had laid considerable amount of emphasis on these facts to support the submission that although the words in the aforesaid letters give the impression that the approval of the shareholders of the pay package and the bonus was for the future but in reality the resolution enhanced the emoluments with effect from 27th December, 2006.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sinha in fact drew emoluments on that basis with effect from 27th December, 2006.	Arguments of Petitioner
This fact, according to Mr. Bhushan, is evident from the annual return of UTI AMC for the year 20072008.	Arguments of Petitioner
The annual return shows his salary for the year ended 31st March, 2008 as Rs.20.12 million.	Arguments of Petitioner
The return also shows that Mr. Sinha has also been paid Rs. 4.40 million as an arrear of his salary from 27th December, 2006 to 31st March, 2007 consequent to his salary restructured with effect from 27th December, 2006.	Arguments of Petitioner
Being fully aware of all the facts and having received compensation in crores of rupees, Mr. Sinha did not disclose the same while making an application for VRS on 15th April, 2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Whilst giving the answer to column No.5 in the form of application to accept the commercial appointment, Mr. Sinha stated Rs.22,400Rs.525Rs.24,500/ as his pay scale and Rs. 23,450/ as his present basic pay.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan pointed out that this information was necessary for getting the noobjection from the Cadre Controlling Authority and from the office from where the officer retired.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan further pointed out that not only Mr. Sinha gave false information in the application for seeking voluntary retirement he repeated the same in the counter affidavit, in response to the writ petition in this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, the averments made in paragraph 18 of the counter affidavit are contrary to the Balance Sheet of the UTI AMC for the year 20072008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan emphasized that it is apparent from the annual report of UTI AMC for the year 20082009, 20092010 and 2010 2011 (10 months), Mr. Sinha got remuneration of Rs.2.15 crores, Rs. 2.36 crores and Rs.3.62 crores, respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan again in paragraph 21 of the affidavit Mr. Sinha has tried to mislead this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sinha had stated that the excessive payment of Rs. 4 crores for the year 20102011 was on account of severance payment.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the severance payment is payable only when the concerned organization asks the CEO to leave.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of Mr. Sinha, UTI AMC did not ask him to leave.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, Mr. Sinha did not even give the mandatory three months notice, and relinquished the charge without giving any opportunity to the organization to appoint another CEO.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that Mr. Sinha wrongly received benefits of retirement when in fact he had only resigned.	Arguments of Petitioner
He reiterated that Mr. Sinha has given false information repeatedly.	Arguments of Petitioner
He gives a false declaration under Rule 26(3)(ii) of All India Services DeathcumRetirement Benefit Rules to the effect that in the last three years of his official career he has not been privy to sensitive or strategic information of UTI AMC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan pointed out that this statement is patently false as Mr. Sinha was already on deputation in the same organization at the time of taking VRS.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan also pointed out that the third deliberate mis statement made by Mr. Sinha in the application to accept the post of CEO of UTI AMC, was to the effect that such higher level post are generally not advertised.	Arguments of Petitioner
This statement was in answer to the question whether the post on which the appointment is sought was advertised and, if not, how was the offer made.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sinha had stated that keeping in mind the contribution made by him and the needs of the company, the shareholders have made the offer to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that the statement about such higher level post not generally being advertised was against the Aapte Committees direction.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, after Mr. Sinha relinquished the post, an advertisement was issued to fill the post of CMD, UTI AMC on 4th June, 2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the basis of the aforesaid facts, Mr. Bhushan submits that manipulation of deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii), extension of deputation, concealment of emoluments, misrepresentation and distortion of facts in the application for voluntary retirement and reemployment clearly reflect that respondent No.4 is not a man of integrity.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan has also made a reference to a very lengthy letter, written by one Dr. K.M. Abraham, a former Whole Time Member of SEBI, dated 1st June, 2011, to the Prime Minister of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this letter, the Whole Time Member has complained that the Chairman, SEBI, Mr. U.K. Sinha is being directly influenced by the Union Minister of Finance or Smt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Omita Paul, Adviser to Finance Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan reiterated that the letter by Dr. Abraham contains unbiased information.	Arguments of Petitioner
The former Whole Time Member was only expressing his concern that under the leadership of Mr. U.K. Sinha the institutional integrity of SEBI is being compromised.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Another ground of attack on the appointment of the respondent No.4 pertains to the suppression of material facts relating to the remuneration of Mr. Sinha as CMD, UTI AMC before the Searchcum Selection Committee and the ACC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan points out that the application form for the post of SEBI Chairman required the applicant to disclose scale of pay and basic pay of the post presently held along with service of the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first meeting of the Search cumSelection Committee was held on 2nd November, 2010.	Arguments of Petitioner
The SSC short listed five candidates out of nineteen.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan then points out that the second meeting of the Committee was held on 13th December, 2010, wherein the names of Mr. U.K. Sinha and Mr. Himadri Bhattacharya were recommended for the post of Chairman, SEBI in the order of merit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan further submitted that the selection of Chairman of SEBI required the approval of the ACC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appointments recommended to the ACC have to be sent along with a standard Performa and annexures which are to be filled in by the Ministry recommending the appointment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The proposal for the appointment of Mr. Sinha was put up to the ACC by the Finance Ministry vide its confidential letter	Arguments of Petitioner
No.D.O.No.2/23/2007RE dated 13th December, 2010.	Arguments of Petitioner
Blatantly false information is given against the column requiring details about the pay scale presently enjoyed by the applicant.	Arguments of Petitioner
In reply to this column, it is stated not available.	None
Against Column 6(ii), scale of pay of the post it is stated that the chairman shall have an option to receive pay (a) as admissible to a Secretary to the Government of India or (b) a consolidated salary of Rs.3,00,000 per month.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that in between the first and the second meeting of the SearchcumSelection Committee, there were 40 days for the officials to ensure that the particulars of Mr. Sinha are verified before filling up the application form.	Arguments of Petitioner
The officials could have ascertained the particulars of his emoluments as CMD, UTI AMC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that in order to mislead this Court, Mr. Sinha in paragraph 10 of the counter affidavit has given a totally false explanation that the Finance Secretary was aware of his marketbench marked salary as CMD, UTI AMC.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to Mr. Bhushan, is a bald assertion without any material to substantiate the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that the other explanation given by Mr. Sinha that information relating to emoluments of CMD, UTI AMC was in public domain as full disclosure is made in the Balance Sheet of UTI AMC.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted by Mr. Bhushan that such an explanation cannot possibly be accepted.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question before this Court, according to Mr. Bhushan, is not whether the person who filled up the form knew or could have known the correct emoluments drawn by Mr. Sinha.	Arguments of Petitioner
The issue is that the applicant had failed to disclose the correct particulars about his emoluments and the pay scale before the Search Committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
This misinformation was also placed before the ACC.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, such a manipulative person cannot be said to be a man of integrity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan, as noticed earlier, submitted that the Committee in its second meeting had recommended two names.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the Finance Minister forwarded only the name of Mr. Sinha to the ACC for approval.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the document which was placed before the ACC seeking approval for the appointment of Mr. Sinha mentions not available against the present scale of pay.	None
Mr. Bhushan further pointed out that Mr. Sinhas total emoluments for the year 20102011 were over 4 crores per annum.	Arguments of Petitioner
This amount was probably more than what the bureaucrats senior to him and involved in the selection process were paid by the Government in their entire career.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan, therefore, submits that it was for this reason that Mr. Sinha manipulated that there should be no advertisement and the selection should be made through the Search route.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of advertisement, he would have to reveal the emoluments received by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on the aforesaid facts, Mr. Bhushan submits that since vital pieces of information was withheld from the Search Committee as well as ACC, Mr. Sinha clearly cannot be said to be a man of high integrity.	Arguments of Petitioner
The post of the Chairman, SEBI is a very important position having a bearing on the flow of investment, Indian and Foreign, economic growth and the safety of funds invested by large and small investors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, according to Mr. Bhushan, it was important that the complete facts particularly those having direct bearing on deciding the question of integrity should have been placed before the SearchcumSelection Committee and the ACC.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the submission learned counsel has relied on the judgment of this Court in Centre for PIL Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs. Union of India Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2011) 4 SCC 1 .14.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next ground of challenge of the petitioner to the appointment of Mr. Sinha as the Chairman of SEBI is that it is vitiated by mala fide.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan pointed out that to accommodate Mr. Sinha the earlier Chairman of SEBI was denied extension in tenure.	Arguments of Petitioner
The SEBI (Term and Condition of Service of Chairman and Members) Rules were amended on 23rd July, 2009 not to extend the term of the Chairman and the WTM from three to five years.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Director of Capital Market Division put up a proposal on 2nd September, 2009 for aligning the terms of the Chairman and WTM by giving two years extension and the same was endorsed by the Finance Secretary.	Arguments of Petitioner
After following the due procedure, consent for the extension of the concerned persons was taken and the proposal for extension of tenure was recommended to the DOPT by the Director, Capital Market Division by letter dated 16th November, 2009.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, from that stage manipulation started with the active cooperation of Ms. Omita Paul, the then Advisor in the Finance Ministry.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 25th November, 2009, she called for the file relating to the recommendation for extension, in the term of the Chairman and the Whole Time Member.	Arguments of Petitioner
The file was sent to her by the Finance Secretary on 27th November, 2009 and was seen by her on 30th November, 2009.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was again sent to the Advisor for her perusal on 16th December, 2009 and noting was made by her on 21st December, 2009 drawing the attention of the Finance Minister to Page 22 regarding the composition of the SEBI Board and the present tenure of the Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that the note was written in such a way by Ms. Omita Paul, the then Finance Minister reversed his earlier decision to accord extension to the then Chairman.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsequently, the orders were issued to start the selection process for the Chairman on 10th August, 2010.	Arguments of Petitioner
Suggestion of giving further extension to the existing officers was overruled.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that the justification given by the respondents in the counter affidavit for non grant of the extension is wholly fallacious.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the justification that earlier Chairman was not granted extension as his name was reported in newspapers of being involved in NSDL Scam.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, there is no such noting in the official files.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan also emphasized that the real reason for denial of extension to the former chairman is that it was at his insistence that investigations were being held against the Sahara and RIL.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was a complaint pending with regard to insider trading relating to RIL and Reliance Petroleum in which over Rs.500 crores were made in four days of trading in September, 2007.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan then submits that in order to facilitate the selection of Mr. Sinha there was illegal and arbitrary change in composition of SearchcumSelection Committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Omita Paul ordered two new names of her own to be appointed as experts of eminence on the Selection Committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
She also suggested Secretary (Financial Services) over and above the two experts.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, according to Mr. Bhushan, three of the five members of the SearchcumSelection Committee were hand picked by Ms. Paul.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to include Secretary (Financial Services) in the Search Committee, Rule 5 of the Rules, 2010 was amended to include clause (e) under which two nominees of the Finance Minister were included.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such a way, primacy was given to the Finance Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that the record clearly shows that the object of the entire exercise of changing the Rules was to ensure that the Committee desired by the Advisor Ms. Omita Paul remains unchanged.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also done probably to ensure that the ex officio Chairman, the Cabinet Secretary, remains the only member unconnected with the Finance Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that Ms. Omita Paul in the reply affidavit has admitted that her role was merely advisory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that in spite of the admitted position that her role was merely advising without having any authority to process the matter or take a decision, the files relating to further extension or composition of SearchcumSelection Committee were regularly sent to her.	Arguments of Petitioner
The composition of the Search Committee was changed at her behest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan then submitted that the respondents have sought to justify the selection of Mr. Sinha on the basis that he was earlier unanimously selected by the Searchcum Selection Committee in 2008, on the same post.	Arguments of Petitioner
If that was so, it is surprising that the Government, in fact, appointed Mr. C.B. Bhave as the Chairman, SEBI, who had neither applied for the post nor appeared in the interview.	Arguments of Petitioner
He had in fact informed the Committee that he did not want to be considered for the post of Chairman, SEBI.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, this can hardly be a fact relevant to judge the integrity of Mr. Sinha.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
To further establish the ground of a mala fide, Mr. Bhushan submits that the post of CMD of UTI AMC was kept vacant for 17 months to accommodate the brother of	Arguments of Petitioner
respondent No.6	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Omita Paul.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that shortly after the appointment of Mr. Sinha in mid February reports started appearing in the press from April, 2011, that the brother of Ms. Omita Paul, Jitesh Khosla, was the front runner for the post of UTI AMC because he had the backing of the Finance Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
These reports also stated this was being resisted by a foreign investor and whose consent was necessary.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the post of CMD UTI AMC continued to remain vacant for 17 months because the brother of Omita Paul could not be appointed to the post.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Bhushan, the whole episode of appointment of Mr. Sinha as CMD, UTI AMC and the proposed appointment of Mr. Jitesh Khosla was adversely commented upon by the Joint Parliamentary Committee, because the recommendations of the Committee were ignored.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Joint Parliamentary Committee had gone into the entire UTI Scam as a result of which massive losses were incurred by the Government investors and tax payers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The report in paragraph 5 made the following recommendations  Government has stated that a professional Chairman and Board of Trustees will manage UTIII and that advertisements for appointment of professional managers will be issued.	None
The committee recommended that it should be ensured that the selection of the Chairman and professional managers of UTIII should be done in a transparent manner, whether they are picked up from the public or private sector.	None
If an official from the public sector is selected, in no case should deputation from the parent organization be allowed and the person chosen should be asked to sever all connections with the previous employer.	None
This is imperative because under no circumstance should there be a public perception that the mutual fund schemes of UTIII are subject to guarantee by the Government and will be bailed out in case of losses.	None
Mr. Bhushan submits that the aforesaid recommendations were blatantly ignored in the selection of Mr. Sinha.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further pointed out that neither Mr. Sinha nor Mr. Jitesh Khosla were professionals.	Arguments of Petitioner
Neither of them met any of the four criteria in the advertisement inserted for the post of UTI CMD in newspaper dated 4th June, 2012.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the entire manipulation and mala fide exercise, according to Mr. Bhushan, is exposed by the advertisement that was released after the brother of Ms. Omita Paul, Advisor opted out of the race because the tenure of Ms. Omita Paul, Advisor was coming to an end on account of it being coterminus with that of Finance Minister.	Arguments of Petitioner
He emphasized that it was only then the advertisement was released fulfilling the commitment given to the JPC by the Government in 2002.	None
In reply to the preliminary objection raised by the respondents in the counter affidavit replies, he submits that they deserve to be ignored.	None
According to Mr. Bhushan, the respondents including the Government have made concerted attack on the public spirited attitude of the petitioner.	None
He is wrongly labeled as a person who has been set up by persons or entities having vested interests.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also wrongly alleged that the petitioner had similarly challenged the appointment of another past Chairman of SEBI which was decided against him with imposition of costs.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents have also wrongly stated that this is the 4th similar petition on a similar issue.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reenforcing high credentials of the petitioner, Mr. Bhushan submits that he has filed several notable public interest litigations that have unearthed corruption and financial irregularities.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appointment of the petitioner as Advisor to Prasar Bharti benefited the organization by about Rs. 20 Crores.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was the original complainant in the 2G spectrum scam which eventually led to the registration of the FIR by the CBI.	Arguments of Petitioner
This fact has been noted by this Court in the 2G case.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the basis of the above, Mr. Bhushan submits that the petitioner has given his time and forgone earnings selflessly in the true spirit of Article 51A of the Constitution and continues to unravel financial scams because of the paucity of people who both understand and are willing to take risks and make sacrifices.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan then points out that the petitioner had previously challenged the appointment of a previous SEBI Chairman, but it was not related to the integrity of the then Chairman.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact, the then Chairman was a person with high integrity and compassion.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, his leniency in trusting the sharp players in the market resulted in lot of scams in the first three years of his tenure.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the petitioner has challenged the extension that had been given to the then Chairman SEBI on the ground that the Government should reassess his performance after three years.	Arguments of Petitioner
The writ petition was dismissed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Chairman was given yet another extension in 2000 to make him the longest serving Chairman.	Arguments of Petitioner
What followed was the largest stock market scam in which the investors and the government lost tens of thousands of crores and the entire JPC report is the testimony to the scam.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government and tax payer lost over Rs.10,000 crores in the UNIT64scam.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly Mr. Bhushan submits that the respondents have wrongly taken the preliminary objection that earlier two writ petitions having been filed by the petitioner challenging the appointment of respondent No.1 having been dismissed as withdrawn.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submits that the respondents have wrongly leveled allegations that this petition is at the behest of some other person who is interested to continue as the Chairman of SEBI.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner has not prayed for the reinstatement of any of the previous incumbents.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner only prays for appointment of a person as the Regulator who should be a person of high integrity functioning in a transparent manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhushan submits that although the respondents claim that the petitioner has suppressed material facts, the suppression of facts by respondent No.4 is not treated with the same amount of concern.	Arguments of Petitioner
Respondents Submissions In response to the submission made, learned Attorney General Mr. G.E. Vahanvati, appearing for the Union of India, has submitted that public interest litigation jurisdiction is based on the principle of Uberrimae fide which means utmost good faith.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, before the petitioner can attack the integrity of respondent No.4, he would have to establish his own good faith in filing the present writ petition.	None
He further submits that this is a very unfair petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Documents have been presented before the Court in a very selective manner.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioner has admitted the suppression of earlier petition but he has tried to explain it by giving some excuses.	Arguments of Respondent
The submission of the petitioner that the petition was dismissed on the pleadings has been contended by Mr. Vahanvati to be totally without any basis.	Arguments of Respondent
This is evident from his letter to the Registrar sent in August, 2000.	Arguments of Respondent
He stated that Writ Petition (C) No.69 of 2012 deals with CairnVedanta deal and it has nothing to do with the present writ petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Then it is stated that there is one similar matter filed by some other person which is pending before this Court which is W.P. (C) No.246 of 2012.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioner never mentioned the earlier petitions filed by him which were dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
The objection taken is that the petition deserves to be dismissed for suppression of earlier petition.	Arguments of Respondent
The letter given to the Registrar gives the totally distorted version.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, the petitioner has distorted the entire sequence of events with regard to the deputation of Mr. Sinha.19.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Vahanvati points out to paragraph 34 of the petition and the emphasis placed by the petitioner that within a period of a day the emoluments too increased from around six lacs per annum to one crore per annum.	None
It is submitted that the deputation of respondent No.4 commences on 3rd November, 2005 he became CEO, UTI AMC on 27th December, 2006.	None
The letter dated 16th April, 2006 which is very relevant to the issue has been withheld by the petitioner.	Arguments of Respondent
Referring to the affidavit of Mr. Sinha, he submits that all other information has been given according to law.	Arguments of Respondent
The terms and conditions for deputation clearly show that Mr. Sinha was permitted to opt for his grade of pay or pay scale whichever is more beneficial for him.	Arguments of Respondent
The recommendations made by the Aapte Committee were taken into notice when extension of tenure of Mr. Sinha was approved by the Board of Directors UTI AMC on 17th September, 2007.	Arguments of Respondent
Actual sanction came on 11th April, 2008, as the approval of the Bank of Baroda did not come till 29th March, 2008.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, there was no approval prior to 11th April, 2008 of the compensation of Rs.1 crore per annum alongwith the related payment of bonus of Rs. 1 crore.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, it is stated by Mr. Vahanvati that submission of the application for voluntary retirement was done four days after the approval on 15th April, 2008.	Arguments of Respondent
Until then, the petitioner had been in receipt of pay scale which was duly sanctioned on the post held by him in the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the petitioner has unnecessarily tried to create an impression that there has been any deliberate misrepresentation or concealment of fact by respondent No.4.	Arguments of Respondent
In the form of application to accept commercial appointment, respondent No.4 had clearly stated that he has been working as the Director CEO UTI AMC since 3rd November, 2005 till date.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent No.4 had to state the pay scale of the post and the pay drawn by the officer at the time of the retirement which in his case was of Rs.22,40053524,500.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent No.4 had clearly mentioned his present basis pay as Rs.23,450/.20.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Attorney General submitted that the petitioner has wrongly alleged that respondent No.4 had given a false declaration that he was not privy to any sensitive information.	Arguments of Respondent
This would clearly only indicate that the respondent No.4 has to disclose that he was not privy to any sensitive information received in his official capacity.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Attorney General submits that the petitioner in fact has an absurdity of facts with regard to compensation which were placed before the Ministry of Finance on 1st May, 2008.	Arguments of Respondent
The Finance Minister approved the proposal.	Arguments of Respondent
It was specifically observed that there is no conflict of interest between the Government of India and UTI AMC.	Arguments of Respondent
On 17th April, 2008, Department of Personnel and Training sent a comprehensive note with regard to the application of respondent No.4 in the prescribed format to seek permission under Rule 26 of the All India Services (DCRB) Rules, 1958 to join the Company i.e. UTI Asset Management Company Ltd. on regular basis, post voluntary retirement.	Arguments of Respondent
The proposal was thoroughly examined and duly approved by all the authorities.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Attorney General drew our attention to paragraph 30 of the petition and submitted a list of documents.	Arguments of Respondent
The petition has given a twist in the tale.	Arguments of Respondent
This has been done, according to learned Attorney General, to give the same controversy a new flavour.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that the allegations about the pattern of JPC directions are false.	Arguments of Respondent
The same petitioner had challenged Mr. Mehtas appointment earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the submission of learned Attorney General that public interest litigation cannot be filed irresponsibly.	Arguments of Respondent
It has to be handled very carefully.	Arguments of Respondent
It cannot be used as an AK47 with the hope that some bullets will hit the target.	Arguments of Respondent
The allegations of the petitioner that the rules were deliberately amended to hand pick Mr. Sinha are without any basis.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, there was no illegality committed in changing the composition of SearchcumSelection Committee.	Arguments of Respondent
Prior to 23rd July, 2009 there was no rule on the procedure to be followed for the selection of Chairman WTM of SEBI.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, before July, 2009 selections were made as decided by the Finance Minister from time to time.	Arguments of Respondent
However, for the selection of the SEBI Chairman in 2008 the then Finance Minister had approved on 2nd November, 2007 that the High Powered Search Committee (later notified as the Search Committee) which had four members and one Chairman.	Arguments of Respondent
The Finance Minister noted that there should be one more outside expert.	Arguments of Respondent
Accordingly, Dr. S.A. Dave, Chairman CMIE, was nominated as the Member.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, to say that the amendment of the rules has been made just to ensure that balance was tilted in favour of the Finance Minister is without any basis.21.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Attorney General also pointed out that the Searchcum Selection Committee in its meeting held on 29th January, 2008 had unanimously short listed two names in the following order Mr. U.K. Sinha and (2) Mr. J. Bhagwati.	Arguments of Respondent
However, notwithstanding the recommendation of Mr. Sinha by the Selection Committee, Shri Bhave was appointed as Chairman, SEBI on 15th February, 2008.	Arguments of Respondent
In 2009, a statutory system was established for selection of Chairman Whole Time Member of the SEBI.	Arguments of Respondent
The proposal was also placed to amend Rule 3 of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Terms and Conditions of Service of Chairman and Members) Rules, 1992 to include the provision relating to procedure to be followed for the selection of Chairman WTM of SEBI.	Arguments of Respondent
This was done by incorporating subrule (5) which required the recommendation of the SearchcumSelection Committee consisting of Cabinet Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Chairman, SEBI for selection of WTM and two experts of eminence from the relevant field.	Arguments of Respondent
When it was decided in 2010 to initiate action for the fresh selection for the post of Chairman, SEBI two experts of eminence from the relevant field were Shri Suman Bery, Director General, National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) and Prof. Shekhar Choudhary, former Director, IIM Calcutta.	Arguments of Respondent
The composition of the SearchcumSelection Committee was sent to the Department of Personnel Training for approval.	Arguments of Respondent
However on 23rd September, 2010, Department of Personnel and Training pointed out that inclusion of the Secretary Financial Services was not within the Rules as amended on 23rd July, 2009.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the matter was again referred to the Ministry of Law Justice.	Arguments of Respondent
During the discussion that was held with the Ministry of Law, it was suggested that there could be an amendment to the rule based on the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal Members (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1963.	Arguments of Respondent
Under these rules, the Selection Board inter alia consists of a nominee of the Ministry of Law as well as such other persons if any, not exceeding two, as the Law Minister may appoint.	Arguments of Respondent
It was in these circumstances that the proposal to amend the 1992 Rules was approved.	None
The SearchcumSelection Committee after scrutinizing the qualification and experience of the short listed candidates unanimously placed respondent No.4 first in the order of merit.	Reasoning
The impression sought to be given wrongly by the petitioner is that respondent No.4 was placed at No.2 and Mr. Bhattacharya was at No.1.	None
This is a deliberate distortion by the petitioner.	None
With regard to the role played by Ms. Omita Paul, learned Attorney General submitted that in fact the present petition is a mala fide attempt to resurrect the challenge earlier rejected by this Court.	None
The petition is a sheer abuse of the process of law.	None
The petitioner is guilty of making reckless allegations against two highly respected dignitaries who were appointed expert members of the Selection Committee.	None
Learned Attorney General also submitted that the submissions with regard to the non extension of tenure of Mr. Bhave are totally baseless and need to be ignored.	None
He makes a reference to a detailed explanation given in the affidavit filed by the UOI.	None
The term of Mr. Bhave was not extended to avoid the Government being unnecessarily involved in a scandal.	None
In the earlier petition (W.P. No.340 of 2012), the petitioner has sought an extension to continue the tenure of Mr. Bhave for 5 years which was withdrawn.	None
Prayer No.2 in the W.P.(C) No.340 of 2011 was as follows Issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ, order or, direction to quash and declare void constitution of sub committee of the SearchcumSelection Committee under Shri U.K.Sinha, Chairman SEBI for conducting interview to the post of whole time members and proceedings recommendation thereof.	None
This would clearly ensure that as soon as Mr. Sinhas appointment was declared void, Mr. Bhave would continue as a Chairman.	None
This is evident from Prayer 5 which is as under Issue a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate Writ, order or direction to direct Respondent Nos.1 2 to act in accordance with the Government of India Notification No.2/106/2006RE, dated 23rd July, 2009 which stipulates enhancement of the tenure of existing Chairman and Whole Time directors of SEBI from three (3) to five (5) years.	None
Similarly, Writ Petition (C) No.392 of 2011 again repeats the prayer which was made in the earlier writ petition.	None
It was submitted by the learned Attorney General that the present writ petition is a camouflage for the earlier writ petitions which were dismissed.	Facts
Learned Attorney General submitted that the submission of Mr. Bhushan that why a person, who was earning crores, would expect a position on which he was only to be paid lacs, is too absurd to be even taking cognizance of.	Facts
Respondent No.4 accepted the Chairmanship of SEBI as a matter of national duty and as a matter of honour.	Facts
Finally, learned Attorney General submitted that in the interest of justice the tendency among the petitioners to make wild allegations in public interest litigation needs to be curbed.	Facts
Mr. Harish Salve, learned senior counsel and Mr. Rajesh Dwivedi appearing for respondent No.4 have also raised a preliminary objection on the ground of maintainability.	None
According to Mr. Salve, the writ petition is not maintainable because it is not filed in public interest.	None
In fact, the writ petition has been filed as surrogate litigation on behalf of an individual who was very anxious to continue as Chairman, SEBI, namely Mr. C.B. Bhave.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, Mr. Salve submits that the writ petition is liable to be dismissed as it does not make a candid disclosure of all the facts which are relevant for the adjudication of the issues raised.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel submits that a litigant is duty bound to make full and true disclosure of the facts without any reservation, even if they seem to be against them.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this proposition, he relies on State of Madhya Pradesh Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Narmada Bachao Andolan Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
(2011) 7 SCC 639 .	Arguments of Respondent
and K.D. Sharma Vs. Steel Authority of India Limited Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(2008) 12 SCC 481	Arguments of Respondent
The factual basis for the aforesaid submission is that the petitioner had filed a writ petition in the Delhi High Court against the then Chairman, SEBI, Mr. D.R. Mehta, which was dismissed with cost.	Arguments of Respondent
A Special Leave Petition against the same was dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
However, this Court reduced the cost.	Arguments of Respondent
This fact is deliberately suppressed.	Arguments of Respondent
Writ Petition No.340 of 2011 on the same issue was dismissed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Dismissal of these petitions has also been suppressed by the petitioner.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Salve reiterates the submissions of the Attorney General that public interest litigation is founded on the principle of uberrima fide, i.e., the utmost good faith of the petitioner.	Arguments of Respondent
To buttress his submission, learned senior counsel relied on S.P. Guptas case.	Arguments of Respondent
This petition is motivated by ill will, and the moving spirit behind the petition is Mr. C.B. Bhave.	Arguments of Respondent
He reiterated the submissions of the Attorney General that Mr. C.B. Bhave and the Whole Time Member Dr. K.M. Abraham were aggrieved by the nongrant of extension to them, on the posts occupied by them, in the light of change in the rules.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact, the petitioner, in his submission, has made detailed reference to the motivated complaint made by the Whole Time Member Dr. K.M. Abraham about the functioning of the new Chairman, i.e., Mr. U.K. Sinha.	Arguments of Respondent
This was only because Mr. Bhave and Mr. Abraham were upset about the nonextension of tenure of Mr. Bhave.	Arguments of Respondent
Apart from the change of rules, the extension was not granted to Mr. Bhave for his lapses in dealing with the IPO Scam of 2005 when he was the Chairman of NSDL.	Arguments of Respondent
Conclusions We have considered the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties.	None
Although all the respondents have raised the preliminary issue about the maintainability of the writ petition, we shall consider this submission after we have considered the issue on merits.	None
The foremost issue raised by the petitioner and emphasized vehemently by Mr. Parshant Bhushan is that respondent No.4 lacks the integrity and does not meet the eligibility conditions laid down in subsection (5) of Section 4 of the SEBI Act.	None
Additionally, respondent No.4 does not fulfil the conditions contained in communication of the government dated 10th September, 2010 which emphasizes, keeping in view the role and importance of SEBI as a regulator, that it is desirable that only a person with high integrity and reputation should be appointed as Chairman of SEBI.	None
We have narrated the sequence of events relied upon by the petitioner to establish that respondent No.4 is not a man of high integrity.	None
We have also narrated how the respondents have, with equal vehemence, countered the submissions made on behalf of the petitioner.	None
All the respondents have submitted that the writ petition filed by the petitioner ought to be dismissed on the ground of maintainability alone.	None
As noticed earlier, we shall consider the preliminary objections later.	None
We agree with Mr. Bhushan that SEBI is an institution of high integrity.	Reasoning
A bare perusal of the SEBI Act makes it apparent that SEBI was established to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.	Reasoning
In fact, the SEBI Act gives wide ranging powers to the Board to take such measures as it thinks fit to perform its duty to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market.	Reasoning
These measures may provide for regulating the business in stock exchanges and any other securities markets.	Reasoning
Further measures are set out in Sections 11(1), (2)(a to m) to enable SEBI to perform its duties and functions efficiently.	Reasoning
Section 11(2)(a) provides that the Board may take measures to undertake inspection of any book, register, or other document or record of any listed public company or a public company which intends to get its securities listed on any recognised stock exchange.	Reasoning
The Board can exercise its power where it has reasonable grounds to believe that such company has been indulging in insider trading or fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to securities market.	Reasoning
To enforce its directions, the Board has powers under Section 11(4) to issue any suspension restraint orders against the persons including office bearers of any stock exchange or self regulatory organisation.	Reasoning
It can impound and retain the proceeds or securities in respect of any transaction which is under investigation.	Reasoning
The wide sweep of the powers of SEBI leaves no manner of doubt that it is the supreme authority for the control and regulations and orderly development of the securities market in India.	Reasoning
It would not be mere rhetoric to state that in this era of globalisation, the importance of the functions performed by SEBI are of paramount importance to the well being of the economic health of the nation.	Reasoning
Therefore, Mr. Bhushan is absolutely correct in emphasising that the Chairman of SEBI has to be a person of high integrity.	Reasoning
This is imperative and there are no two ways about it.	Reasoning
The importance of the functions performed by SEBI has been elaborately examined by this Court in the case of Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. Ors.	Reasoning
Vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India Anr.	Reasoning
2013 (1) SCC 1 .	Reasoning
Justice Radhakrishnan, upon examination of the various provisions of the SEBI Act, has observed that it is a special law, a complete code in itself containing elaborate provisions to protect interest of the investors.	Reasoning
The paramount duty of the Board under the SEBI Act is to protect the interest of the investors and to prevent unscrupulous operators to enter and remain in the securities market.	Reasoning
It is reiterated in paragraph 67 that SEBI is also duty bound to prohibit fraudulent and unfair trade practice relating to securities markets.	Reasoning
Similarly, Justice Khehar in the concurrent judgment has emphasised the importance of the functions performed by SEBI in exercise of its powers under Section 11.	None
In paragraph 303.1, it is observed as follows  303.1.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 11 of the SEBI Act casts an obligation on SEBI to protect the interest of investors in securities, to promote the development of the securities market, and to regulate the securities market, by such measures as it thinks fit.	None
It is therefore apparent that the measures to be adopted by SEBI in carrying out its obligations are couched in openended terms having no prearranged limits.	None
In other words, the extent of the nature and the manner of measures which can be adopted by SEBI for giving effect to the functions assigned to SEBI have been left to the discretion and wisdom of SEBI.	None
It is necessary to record here that the aforesaid power to adopt such measures as it thinks fit to promote investors interest, to promote the development of the securities market and to regulate the securities market, has not been curtailed or whittled down in any manner by any other provisions under the SEBI Act, as no provision has been given overriding effect over subsection (1) of Section 11 of the SEBI Act.	None
In subparas 303.2, 303.3 and 303.4, the powers of SEBI under Section 11(2), 11(3) and 11(4) have been analysed and elaborately explained.	None
It becomes clear from the above that the functions performed by SEBI are such that any malfunctioning in the performance of such functions can disturb the economy of our country.	None
Keeping in view the aforesaid scope and ambit of the discretionary powers conferred on the Members of the SEBI Board, there is little doubt in our mind that only persons of high integrity would be eligible to be appointed as Chairman Member of the SEBI.	None
Section 4(5) inter alia stipulates that the Chairman and other Members of the SEBI shall be persons of ability, integrity and standing who have shown capacity in dealing with problems relating to securities market.	None
Statutorily, therefore, a person cannot be appointed as Chairman Member of the SEBI unless he or she is a person of high integrity.	None
We, therefore, have no hesitation in accepting the submission of Mr. Bhushan that the selection and appointment of respondent No.4 could be challenged before this Court in a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India on the ground that he does not satisfy the statutory requirements of a person of high integrity.	None
Since Mr. Bhushan has relied on the judgment of this Court in Centre for PIL Anr.	None
(supra), it would be appropriate to notice the observations made in that judgment by S.H. Kapadia, C.J. in paragraph 2 of the judgment, it has been observed as follows  The Government is not accountable to the courts in respect of policy decisions.	None
However, they are accountable for the legality of such decisions.	None
While deciding this case, we must keep in mind the difference between legality and merit as also between judicial review and merit review. .	None
If a duty is cast under the proviso to Section 4(1) on the HPC to recommend to the President the name of the selected candidate, the integrity of that decisionmaking process is got to ensure that the powers are exercised for the purposes and in the manner envisaged by the said Act, otherwise such recommendation will have no existence in the eye of the law.	None
In our opinion, these observations are relevant as the procedure prescribed for the appointment of Chairman, SEBI is similar to the procedure which was prescribed for the selection on the post of Central Vigilance Commissioner.	None
This apart, it has been emphasised that CVC is an integrity institution.	None
The reasons for the aforesaid view are stated in paragraph 39, it has been observed as follows  These provisions indicate that the office of the Central Vigilance Commissioner is not only given independence and insulation from external influences, it also indicates that such protections are given in order to enable the institution of the CVC to work in a free and fair environment.	None
The prescribed form of oath under Section 5(3) requires the Central Vigilance Commissioner to uphold the sovereignty and integrity of the country and to perform his duties without fear or favour.	None
All these provisions indicate that the CVC is an integrity institution.	None
The HPC has, therefore, to take into consideration the values, independence and impartiality of the institution.	None
The said Committee has to consider institutional competence.	None
It has to take an informed decision keeping in mind the abovementioned vital aspects indicated by the purpose and policy of the 2003 Act.	None
Elaborating further, Kapadia, C.J., has further observed Appointment to the post of the Central Vigilance Commissioner must satisfy not only the eligibility criteria of the candidate but also the decisionmaking process of the recommendation In paragraph 44, it was clarified that we should not be understood to mean that personal integrity is not relevant.	None
It certainly has a corelationship with institutional integrity.	None
Keeping in view the aforesaid observations and the ratio of the law laid down, let us now examine the issue with regard to the validity of the recommendation made for the appointment of Mr. Sinha together with the issue as to whether Mr. Sinha does not fulfil the statutory requirement to be appointed as the Chairman of SEBI.	None
DEPUTATION Was it irregular, illegal or vitiated by colourable exercise of power?.	None
It is a matter of record that respondent No.4 was on deputation with UTI AMC since the year 2005.	None
His deputation was duly approved by the Ministry of Finance, DOPT and the Government of Bihar, wherever applicable.	None
Respondent No.4 was first appointed as CEO, UTI AMC by order dated 30th October, 2005.	None
He was initially on deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii) and subsequently under Rule 6(2)(i) of the IAS Cadre Rules.	None
The terms and conditions of service of respondent No.4 at UTI AMC were settled on 16th April, 2007.	None
This was in conformity with the letter dated 31st October, 2005 written by the DOPT accepting the request made by the Government of Bihar in its letter dated 28th October, 2005 for approval of deputation of respondent No.4 with UTI AMC for a period of two years under Rule 6(2)(ii) of IAS Cadre Rules.	None
The letter further indicated that terms and conditions applicable in the aforesaid deputation were under examination and would be communicated shortly.	None
The deputation was converted from Rule 6(2)(ii) to Rule 6(2)(i), upon clarification of the applicability of the appropriate rule.	None
This fact is noticed by the petitioner himself whilst stating that although on 6th November, 2007, the proposal for extension of deputation of Mr. Sinha was for two years, but the extension was granted only for a period of three months until 2nd February, 2008, as an interim measure.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to the petitioner himself, was because some general issue regarding deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii) of IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954 was being examined.	None
Therefore, we are unable to accept the submission of Mr. Bhushan that respondent No.4 was in any manner responsible for being sent on deputation initially under Rule 6(2)(ii) and subsequently under Rule 6(2)(i).	None
The Final Consolidated Deputation Guidelines for All India Service issued on 28th November, 2007 would also indicate that respondent No.4 cannot be said to be, in any manner, responsible for being sent on deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii).	None
Nor can it be said that any individual officer aided Mr. U.K. Sinha to gain any unfair advantage.	None
Therefore, it cannot be said that his deputation under Rule 6(2)(ii) was approved in colourable exercise of power.	None
False Declaration in Form L A perusal of Office Memorandum dated 1st May, 2008 sent by the Department of Economic Affairs in reference to the letter sent by DoPT seeking comments of DEA under Rule 26(3) of All India Services (DeathcumRetirement Benefits) Rules, 1958 would show that necessary facts relating to the service of respondent No.4 in the six years prior to the response dated 1st May, 2008 had been faithfully set out.	None
The Memorandum records the following facts Shri U.K. Sinha had been working as Joint Secretary (Capital Markets) in DEA from 2nd June, 2002 to 29th October, 2005.	None
Before joining DEA (Main) he had been Joint Secretary in the erstwhile Banking Division (presently Department of Financial Services) from 30th October, 2000 to 1st June, 2002.	None
With the approval of the competent authority, he has been on deputation to Unit Trust of India Asset Management Company (UTI AMC) as its CMD since 3rd November, 2005, and his term there expires on 31st May, 2008.	None
Going by his experience and qualifications, the name of Shri Sinha had been unanimously shortlisted by the Chairmen of the sponsors of UTI AMC	None
The Government has approved his deputation to UTI AMC, in public interest.	None
UTI AMC is a company formed by SBI, PNB, BoB and LIC, each having equal shareholding.	None
It is registered with Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and is engaged in activities pertaining to mutual fund, portfolio management, venture fund management, pension fund and offshore fund management.	None
The UTIAMC is managing the financial assets of over Rs. 50,000/ crores.	None
Considering the challenges that UTI AMC faces in the prevailing market conditions and the need for continuity necessitated by the structural changes undertaken in the Company, the Chairman of SBI, in consultation with other stakeholders of UTI AMC (viz.	None
LIC, BoB and PNB) has offered to Shri Sinha a four year tenure as CMD of UTIAMC w.e.f.	None
1st June, 2008, or earlier without break of continuity on the understanding that Shri Sinha will take voluntary retirement from Government service and that Shri Sinha will be entitled for salary and perquisites decided by the Compensation Committee of the Board of the Company from time to time.	None
Honble Finance Minister has approved this proposal.2.	Arguments of Respondent
The Department of Economic Affairs supports the request of Shri U.K. Sinha for post retirement commercial employment with UTI AMC as its CMD and certify the following The proposed employment of Shri U.K. Sinha with UTIAMC as its CMD is in public interest and has the approval of Honble Finance Minister.	None
There is no conflict of interest between the Government of India and the UTIAMC.	Arguments of Respondent
UTIAMC, formed by SBI, PNB, BoB and LIC, is neither involved in activities prejudicial to Indias foreign relations, national security and domestic harmony nor is undertaking any form of intelligence gathering prejudicial to India.	None
In the prevailing financial markets condition, the fixed pay of Rs. 1 crore per annum, along with performance related payouts and other usual perks, offered by UTIAMC to Shri Sinha is considered reasonable.	None
As per the information available in DEA, the service record of Shri U.K. Sinha is clear, particularly with respect in integrity and dealings with NG0s.3.	None
Department of personnel , Training is accordingly requested kindly to grant requisite permission to Shri U.K. Sinha, under intimation to this Department.4.	None
This issues with the approval of Honble Finance Minister.(S.K. Verma)Director to the Government of India Keeping in view the aforesaid, we are not satisfied that the petitioner has made any false declaration in Form L, Clause 9 read with Rule 26(3) of All India Services (DeathcumRetirement Benefits) Rules, 1958, while working in his previous job as Chairman, UTI AMC.	None
Mr. Bhushan has pointed out the following misstatements and opinions  In Serial5, pay scale for the post of Addl.	None
Secretary was mentioned although respondent No.4 was drawing the higher pay scale approved by UTI AMC.ii.	None
In Serial 9, the 2nd declaration was false as respondent No.4 was working as CEO cum CMD of UTI AMC during the last 3 years on deputation and therefore he was privy to sensitive or strategic information relating to areas of interest or work of UTI AMC.iii.	None
A misstatement had been made that generally such posts are not advertised and that was against the JPC Recommendation.	None
In our opinion, the respondents have rightly pointed out that respondent No.4 was on deputation in UTI AMC when he filled up Form L.	None
At that time, he held lien on the post of Additional Secretary, Government of India.	None
His application for voluntary retirement had been processed.	None
He was, however, required to obtain approval under Rule 26 for commercial employmentpost retirement.	None
Sr.No.5 of Form L requires the person seeking approval to state the pay scale of the post and pay drawn by the Officer at the time of retirement.	None
Undoubtedly, respondent No.4 was drawing the pay scale of Rs.22400525 24500.	None
He also stated his present pay to be Rs.23,450/. There is no legal infirmity in the aforesaid statement by respondent No.4.	None
It is a settled proposition of law that deputationist would hold the lien in the parent department till he is absorbed on any post.	None
The position of law is quite clearly stated by this Court in State of Rajasthan Anr.	None
Vs. S.N.Tiwari Ors.	None
(2009) 4 SCC 700 .	None
This Court in Ramlal Khurana v. State of Punjab observed that (SCC p. 102, para 8)8.	None
Lien is not a word of art.	None
It just connotes the right of a civil servant to hold the post substantively to which he is appointed.19.	None
The term lien comes from the Latin term ligament meaning binding.	None
The meaning of lien in service law is different from other meanings in the context of contract, common law, equity, etc.	None
The lien of a government employee in service law is the right of the government employee to hold a permanent post substantively to which he has been permanently appointed.	None
Similarly, in the case of Triveni Shankar Saxena Vs. State of U.P. Ors. 1992 Supp.	None
(1) SCC 524 .	None
, it has been held as under A learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court in M.P. Tewari v. Union of India following the dictum laid down in the above Paresh Chandra case and distinguishing the decision of this Court in P.L.	None
Dhingra v. Union of India has observed that a person can be said to acquire a lien on a post only when he has been confirmed and made permanent on that post and not earlier, with which view we are in agreement.	None
In response to Column No.7 of the same Form, respondent No.4 has quite clearly mentioned that he has been offered a fixed pay of Rs. 1.00 crore per annum alongwith performance related payment and other usual perks.	None
The letter containing the offer was enclosed with the Form.	None
The letter clearly states that the Board of Directors, UTI AMC, after going through the prevailing practice in the Industry, has fixed a compensation of Rs.1.00 crore per annum alongwith performance related perks and other usual prerequisites.	None
The shareholders of the UTI AMC have also indicated their concurrence to the above compensation.	None
It must be noticed that respondent No.4 had sought retirement from the IAS w.e.f. 15th May, 2008 to enable him to join UTI AMC on a regular basis as its CMD.	None
Therefore, it cannot be said that at the time when he filled the Form for seeking VRS, respondent No.4 was not drawing the pay scale stated by him.	None
We do not find much substance in the allegation that respondent No.4 had deliberately suppressed the information regarding his salary.	None
The fact that emoluments paid to respondent No.4 w.e.f.	None
27th December, 2006 would not affect the statement made by respondent No.4 in Form L filled on 15th April, 2008.	None
The Board of UTI AMC by resolution dated 12th April, 2008 approved that the CMD can draw revised compensation w.e.f.	Arguments of Petitioner
27th December, 2006.	None
Till that date, he was still placed in the scale of Additional Secretary, Government of India.	None
The next submission of Mr. Bhushan is that Mr. Sinha had wrongly stated in reply to Sr. No.9(ii) in Form L that he was not privy to any sensitive or strategic information in the last three years of service.	None
This submission of the petitioner is based only on assumption and cannot be accepted without any supporting material.	None
Respondent No.4 in his capacity as a Joint Secretary Additional Secretary to Government of India was required to state whether he was privy to any sensitive information in his official capacity.	None
The information would be required if the Officer was in receipt of information whilst working as Officer in the Government and is aware of the sensitive proposals or other decisions which are not otherwise known to others and which can be used for giving undue advantage to the Organization in which he is seeking a future position.	None
In the case of respondent No.4, he was already working as CMDcumCEO in the UTI AMC.	None
Therefore, there was no question of respondent No.4 having been privy to any sensitive information with regard to UTI AMC at the time when he was posted as Joint Secretary Additional Secretary in the Government of India.	None
In fact, respondent No.4 in the same Form No.L at Sr.No.7C had stated that he was earlier working as Director in UTI AMC and was appointed as CEO cum MD from 3rd November, 2005 and CMD from 13th January, 2006.	Arguments of Respondent
The declaration is in fact in conformity with the 3rd proviso to Rule 26 of All India Service (DCRB) Rules which envisages that an Officer in deputation of an Organization under Cadre rules can be absorbed in the same Organization post VRS.	None
The word Service in Sr. No.9(ii) in Form L is in contrast to the work of proposed Organization.	None
We are also not much impressed by the submission on behalf of the petitioner that the deputation was in violation of policy of not allowing deputation to an Officer who has overseen the Organization to which he was being deputed.	None
As noticed earlier, respondent No.4 had no role to play in the grant of approval of deputation, once he fully disclosed that he had been working as Joint Secretary Banking.	None
He had no further role to play.	None
It is a too farfetched submission that whilst respondent No.4 worked as Joint Secretary Banking that he can be said to have overseen the Organization of UTI AMC.	None
The petitioner had unnecessarily and without any basis tried to confuse that respondent No.4 would be disqualified for deputation in UTI AMC as he would have been privy to receiving some sensitive information with regard to its functioning.	None
As noticed earlier, Rule 36 of All India Service (DCRB) Rules envisages that an Officer on deputation to an Organization can be absorbed in the same Organization after seeking voluntary retirement.	None
We may also notice here that even the petitioner has not pleaded that UTI AMC is a Government owned Company under Section 617 of the Companies Act.	None
Mr. Bhushan tried to establish that it is a Government controlled company as the shares are all held by instrumentalities of the State.	None
In our view, UTI AMC can not be said to be a Government company.	None
It was for this very reason that respondent No.4 had to make a request for VRS to seek reemployment in a Commercial Organization.	None
We are also not much impressed by the objection of the petitioner that the deputation of respondent No.4 was contrary to the recommendation of JPC.	None
Subsequent to the recommendation of JPC, the Parliament had passed UTI (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act, 2002 which was gazetted on 17th December, 2002 and came into force w.e.f. 29th October, 2002.	None
Under the Act, UTI was bifurcated into SUUTI and UTI Mutual Fund, managed by UTI AMC.	None
The Central Government transferred its entire share holding in UTI AMC to Life Insurance Corporation, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda and SBI.	None
The entire consideration for the aforesaid transfer was received by the Central Government.	None
Therefore, it becomes quite evident that UTI AMC is not a Government Company under Section 617 of the Companies Act.	None
In the affidavit filed, this has been the consistent stand taken by the Central Government and the CAG in various writ petitions filed by the petitioner.	None
In a company like the UTI AMC, it is for the shareholder on the Board to decide what process to follow and whom to appoint.	None
When the selected candidate is not a government employee having a lien on a government job, then the government would have nothing to do with the selection process.	None
In this case, the shareholders made a request to the Government for the deputation of respondent No.4.	None
They again made a request for extending his deputation beyond two years.	None
In April 2008, respondent No.4 was offered commercial employment provided he took VRS.	None
At each stage, permission was duly granted by the competent authority after duly following the prescribed procedure as per the rules of executive business.	None
Therefore, we do not find any justifiable reason to doubt the legality of the manner in which respondent No.4 continued to work in UTI AMC since he initially came on deputation in October, 2005.	None
Mr. Bhushan has vehemently argued that respondent No.4 had deliberately concealed or distorted the information in his application for voluntary retirement.	None
We have already noticed that in filling up the Form L, respondent No.4 had correctly stated the pay scale of the post at the time of seeking voluntary retirement.	None
We have also earlier held that respondent No.4 cannot be said to have been privy to any sensitive information relating to areas of interest of work of UTI AMC whilst he was holding the post of Joint Secretary.	None
In fact in reply to Column No.C of Form L i.e. Whether the Officer had during the last three years of his official career, any dealing with the Firm Company Cooperative Society etc?.	None
Respondent No.4 had clearly stated that in his capacity as Joint Secretary in the Department of Economic Affairs, Capital Market of his Division, he was also inducted as a Director on the Board of UTI AMC.	None
In the meanwhile, he was appointed as MDMCU and CMD w.e.f.	None
3rd November, 2005 and 13th January, 2006, respectively by the Board of Directors of UTI AMC.	None
The next grievance of the petitioner is that respondent No.4 had made a misstatement in Column No.7F of Form L whilst giving information as to whether the post which has been offered to him was advertised, if not, how was offer made?.	None
In reply to the aforesaid question against, respondent No.4 categorically stated that such higherlevel posts are generally not advertised.	None
Keeping in mind the contribution made by him and the needs of the Company, the shareholders had made the offer to him.	None
Alongwith this reply, respondent No.4 had attached copy of the letter dated 3rd April, 2008.	None
We have already noticed that UTI AMC is a company incorporated under the Companies Act.	None
As such all the decisions are made by the Board of Directors.	None
The shareholders are Life Insurance Corporation, PNB, BOP and SBI.	None
We have earlier noticed that respondent No.4 was initially on deputation with UTI AMC since 2005.	None
In 2008, he was offered the post of CMD on contractual basis.	None
Consequently, according to the service rules, he sought his voluntary retirement from the parent cadre, Bihar.	None
This was duly processed by the State of Bihar and approved by the Central Government.	None
UTI AMC is managed on a commercial basis.	None
Therefore, in a commercial company as a part of good governance, it is the responsibility of the Board to ensure succession planning at the top.	None
As a normal practice, nominations are made by the Board and share holders, either directly or through a search firm and the post is rarely advertised.	None
In any event, it would be the decision to be taken by the Board of Directors.	None
Respondent No.4 would clearly have no say in the matter.	None
We are also of the opinion that there is nothing so outlandish or farfetched in the statement made by respondent No.4 that such higherlevel posts are generally not advertised.	None
It is a matter of record that previously Shri M. Damodaran, an IAS Officer of the rank of Additional Secretary, the post was not advertised.	None
Subsequently also, the appointment of Mr. S.B. Mathur and Administrator Mr. K.N. Tripathi Raj was made without any advertisement.	None
In fact, both the appointments were made without even resorting to the SearchcumSelection Process.	None
The erstwhile Chairman of SEBI was also appointed without any advertisement.	None
It is also a matter of common knowledge that the posts such as the Government of Reserve Bank of India are hardly ever advertised.	None
Similarly, the post of Chairman, SEBI was advertised for the first time in 2008.	None
Prior to that, it was not advertised.	None
The statement made by respondent No.4 that such higher posts are generally not advertised, cannot be said to be a misleading or a false statement.	None
It is a statement setting out general practice of appointments in the commercial world on such posts.	None
We also do not find much substance in the submission of Mr. Bhushan that in order to facilitate the appointment of respondent No.4, the recommendations of the JPC that the post should be advertised, was deliberately concealed.	None
A perusal of paragraph 21.9 of the recommendations dated 12th December, 2002 would show that the Government had stated that a professional Chairman and Board of Trustees would manage UTI II.	None
It was also stated that advertisement for the appointment of professional Manager will be issued.	None
The Committee also recommended that it should be ensured that the selection of the Chairman and Professional Managers of UTI should be done in a transparent manner whether they are picked up from the public or private Sectors.	None
It was further pointed out that if an official from the public sector is selected, in no case the deputation from the parent organization be allowed and the person chosen should be asked to severe all connections with the previous employer.	None
This, according to the Government, was imperative because under no circumstances should there be any public perception that the mutual fund scheme of UTIII are subject to guarantee by the Government and would be bailed out in case of losses.	None
In the affidavit filed by UOI, the entire service history of respondent No.4 has been set out from the time he joined erstwhile banking division of the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) as Joint Secretary w.e.f. 30th October, 2000.	None
Thereafter, he was posted as DEA (Main) on 2nd June, 2002 he was assigned the charge of CM Division and was relieved by DEA on 28th October, 2005 on completion of his Central Deputation.	None
At that time a proposal was received in DEA from Chairman, SBI on behalf of the shareholders of UTI AMC regarding initial appointment of respondent No.4 as CEO, UTI AMC for a period of two years.	None
This was forwarded by the DEA to the Department of Personnel and Training (DOPT) with the approval of the then Finance Minister.	None
The deputation of respondent No.4 was considered under Rule 6(2)(ii) which provides for deputation of a cadre Officer under an international organization, an autonomous body not controlled by the Government or a private body.	None
The aforesaid deputation can be made only in consultation with the State Government on whose cadre the Officer is borne.	None
We had earlier noticed that due procedure was followed when respondent No.4 was sent on deputation.	None
However, at the risk of repetition, since the petitioner has made such a grievance about the same, it will be apt to notice that DOPT had agreed with the proposal of DEA with the consent of Government of Bihar for deputation of respondent No.4 for a period of two years under Rule 6(2)(ii) and conveyed to the Government of Bihar, Department of Economic Affairs through Letter No.14017/26/2005 AIS(II) dated 31st October, 2005.	None
As noticed earlier, the deputation of respondent No.4 as CEO, UTI was conveyed to UTI vide DOPT letter dated 16th April, 2007.	None
The terms and conditions clearly provided that the Officer could draw the pay of the organization or the government pay scale which was beneficial to respondent No.4.	None
Respondent No.4 had made a representation to DOPT vide his application dated 29th January, 2007 requesting to allow him to draw the pay in the scale of Additional Secretary to the Government of India as he had already been empanelled to the said post or the pay of CMD of UTI AMC whichever is beneficial to him.	None
The competent authority approved the release of pay of Additional Secretary to respondent No.4 w.e.f. 10th February, 2007, the information was duly communicated to UTI.	None
Furthermore, DEA by its letter dated 19th July, 2007 had requested DOPT for extension of deputation of respondent No.4 as CMD of UTI AMC for a further period of two years beyond 2nd November, 2007 under Rule 6(2)(ii) of the IAS Cadre Rule 1954 on the same terms and conditions.	None
However, the deputation was extended only for a period of three months beyond 2nd November, 2007, as an interim measure till the issue of deputation of IAS Officer under Rule 6(2)(ii) of IAS Cadre Rules 1954 was finalized.	None
Therefore, the deputation was extended upto 2nd February, 2008.	None
Thereafter the matter was again taken up by the DEA, DOPT for consideration of the case of respondent No.4 under Rule 6(1) of the IAS Cadre Rules under which an Officer may be deputed to service under the Central Government or under State Government or under a Company, Organization, Body of Individuals whether incorporated or not, which is wholly substantially owned or controlled by the Central Government or by any other State Government.	None
Therefore, ultimately, according to the consolidated guidelines, the deputation of respondent No.4 was covered under Rule 6(1)(i) of the IAS Cadre Rules.	None
There is not much substance in the submission that just for the sake of accommodating respondent No.4, the recommendations of the JPC were concealed from the Government.	None
This submission is fallacious on the face of it as the recommendations of the JPC were placed before the Parliament and Government of India directly.	None
Respondent No.4 had no role to play in that procedure.	None
In fact, the Government of India submitted action taken report in context of the recommendations from time to time and was fully aware of it.	None
The Government of India never adopted the policy of not sending IAS Officer on deputation to UTI AMC and informed the Parliament in its 3rd action taken report submitted in December, 2004.	None
The decision to grant approval of commercial employment post retirement under Rule 26 was taken by the Government of India.	None
The post was filled up by Board of Directors and shareholders of UTI AMC.	None
It was entirely for them to adopt such policy of appointment as they deem fit.	None
We fail to understand that even upon respondent No.4 complying with all the conditions of deputation, it would render him a person of not high integrity.	None
We may notice here that the Appointment Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) had approved the extension of tenure of respondent no.4 as CMD UTI AMC till 31st may, 2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
This takes us past the alleged irregularities regarding deputation of respondent No.4, the alleged misstatement nondisclosure about his pay scale sanctioned emoluments as disclosed in the letter dated 16th April, 2007 the alleged appointment of respondent No.4 is contrary to recommendations made by the AAPTE Committee on July, 2007 the alleged false declaration under Rule 26(3)(ii) of AIS Deathcum Retirement Rules that in the last three years of his career he had not been privy to sensitive and strategic information of UTI AMC the alleged false statement about higherlevel posts are generally not advertised.	None
Was the recommendation and appointment of Mr. U.K. Sinha vitiated by MALA FIDE exercise of powers?.	None
Mr. Bhushan submitted that the appointment of Mr. Sinha, as Chairman, SEBI was made mala fide.	None
Undoubtedly, if the allegations of mala fide are established, it would vitiate the selection procedure, recommendation and the appointment of Mr. U.K.Sinha as the Chairman, SEBI.	None
But the burden of proving the allegations of mala fide would lie very heavily on the petitioner.	None
The law in relation to the standard of proof required in establishing a plea of mala fide has been repeatedly stated and restated by this Court.	None
Mr. Salve had relied on the three judgments of this Court viz., Purushottam Kumar Jha Vs.	None
State of Jharkhand Ors., (2006) 9 SCC 458 .	None
Indian Railway Construction Co. Ltd.	None
Vs.	None
Ajay Kumar, (2003) 4 SCC 579 .	None
and Saradamani Kandappan Vs. S. Rajalakshmi Ors.	None
(2011) 12 SCC 18 .	None
The law concerning the aforesaid issue is so well settled that it was hardly necessary to make any reference to previous precedent.	None
We may, however, notice the observations made by this Court in the aforesaid three cases.	None
In Purushottam Kumar Jhas case (supra), this court held that It is well settled that whenever allegations as to mala fides have been levelled, sufficient particulars and cogent materials making out prima facie case must be set out in the pleadings.	None
Vague allegation or bald assertion that the action taken was mala fide and malicious is not enough.	None
In the absence of material particulars, the court is not expected to make fishing inquiry into the matter.	None
It is equally well established and needs no authority that the burden of proving mala fides is on the person making the allegations and such burden is very heavy.	None
Malice cannot be inferred or assumed.	None
It has to be remembered that such a charge can easily be made than made out and hence it is necessary for the courts to examine it with extreme care, caution and circumspection.	None
It has been rightly described as the last refuge of a losing litigant.	None
(Vide Gulam Mustafa v. State of Maharashtra Ajit Kumar Nag v. GM (PJ), Indian Oil Corpn. Ltd.)	None
In Indian Railway Construction Co. Ltd.	None
Vs.	None
Ajay Kumar (supra), this court reiterated the law laid down in S. Partap Singh	None
Vs. State of Punjab and E.P. Royappa Vs.	None
State of T.N. on the standard of proof required to establish the plea of mala fide in the following words It cannot be overlooked that the burden of establishing mala fides is very heavy on the person who alleges it.	None
The allegations of mala fides are often more easily made than proved, and the very seriousness of such allegations demands proof of a high order of credibility.	None
As noted by this Court in E.P. Royappa v. State of T.N. courts would be slow to draw dubious inferences from incomplete facts placed before it by a party, particularly when the imputations are grave and they are made against the holder of an office which has a high responsibility in the administration.	None
Further, in Saradamani Kandappans case (supra) this court again emphasized that the contention of fraud has to be specifically pleaded and proved.	None
Keeping in mind the aforesaid observations, we shall now examine the material placed before us by the petitioner to establish the allegations of mala fide exercise of power.	None
The first instance of mala fide relied upon by Mr. Bhushan that number of steps were taken deliberately to deny extension to the earlier Chairman.	None
According to Mr. Bhushan, the moving spirit in the strategic plan to deny the extension to Mr. C.B. Bhave was respondent No.6.	None
The allegations made by the petitioner have been emphatically denied by UOI, Mr. Sinha, respondent No.4 and Ms. Omita Paul, respondent No.6.	None
As far as the grievance of the petitioner that Mr. C.B. Bhave was denied extension just to accommodate respondent No.4 is concerned, we are inclined to accept the submission of Mr. Mohan Parasaran, learned Solicitor General, that there was no mala fides involved in taking that decision.	None
Learned Solicitor General pointed out that in 2009 when the name of Mr. Bhave was being considered for an extension, serious controversies came to be unearthed with regard to the entire NSDL issue relating to the IPO scam during which Mr. Bhave was the CMD of NSDL.	None
A two member Special Committee consisting of Dr. G. Mohan Gopal and Mr. V. Leeladhar that was appointed by SEBI to look into the matter passed three orders.	None
In one of these orders, there was a serious indictment of NSDL.	None
The media reports published in connection with this controversy adversely commented upon the role of Mr. Bhave as CMD of NSDL.	None
Even Mr. J.S. Verma, former CJI, had voiced his concern about possible shielding of Mr. Bhave by SEBI.	None
Dr. G. Mohan Gopal wrote a letter dated 8th April, 2009, wherein he criticized the action of SEBI on the role played by Mr Bhave.	None
According to Mr. Parasaran, the then Finance Minister perused some of the relevant documents cited above before making the note on 22nd December, 2009, that led to denial of extension to Mr. Bhave.	None
In these circumstances, the noting made by the Finance Minister that led to denial of extension to Mr. Bhave cannot ever be considered unreasonable, let alone mala fide.	None
Thus, we are inclined to accept the submission of Mr. Parasaran that there is no mala fides involved in denying an extension of Mr. Bhave.	None
The learned Attorney General, in our opinion, rightly pointed out that no illegality was committed in making the amendment in the rules pertaining to the selection of Chairman WTM of SEBI.	None
It is borne out from the record that prior to 23rd July, 2009, there was no rule on the procedure to be followed in the selection of Chairman whole time Member of SEBI.	Reasoning
The selection procedure for the Chairman of SEBI in 2008 was approved by the Finance Minister on 2nd November, 2007.	Reasoning
This procedure envisaged that the selection has to be made on the recommendation of the high powered Search Committee.	Reasoning
The composition of the Search Committee was changed on the orders of the Finance Minister.	Reasoning
The learned Attorney General also pointed out that the amendment of the rules had no relevance to the consideration of recommendation of Mr. Sinha to be appointed as Chairman of the SEBI.	Reasoning
The Attorney General had also pointed out that in spite of the change in the Selection Committee and in spite of Mr. Sinha having been short listed at No.1 by the SearchcumSection Committee in its meeting held on 29th November, 2008, it was Shri C.B. Bhave who was appointed Chairman, SEBI on 15th February, 2008.	Reasoning
We also find substance in the submission of learned Attorney General that the amendment in Rule 3 of the Security Exchange Board of India (Terms and Conditions of Service and Members)	Reasoning
Rules, 1992 was to provide for more participation by the expert members.	Reasoning
Therefore, subrule (5) of the aforesaid rules was incorporated which requires that recommendation of Searchcum Selection Committee will consist of Cabinet Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Chairman, SEBI for selection of WTM and two expert eminent from relevant field.	Reasoning
We have also been taken through the necessary correspondence for the inclusion of Shri Suman Berry and Shekhar Chaudhary, two experts of eminence from the relevant filed for the selection of Chairman, SEBI in 2010.	Reasoning
But it was noticed that inclusion of Secretary Finance Services was not within the rules as amended on 23rd July, 2009.	Reasoning
Upon discussion with the Ministry of Law, it was decided that the amendment in the rules could be made in line with the rule prevalent for the selection made to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.	Reasoning
In view of the record produced in this court, we are of the opinion that the submission made on behalf of the petitioner is not correct.	Reasoning
Learned Attorney General submitted that the SearchcumSelection Committee, after scrutinizing the qualification and experience of the shortlisted candidates unanimously placed respondent No.4 first in the merit list.	Reasoning
We have also perused the record and it appears that respondent No.4 was unanimously placed at Sr.No.1 by the SearchcumSelection Committee.	Reasoning
It has wrongly been submitted on behalf of the petitioner that respondent No.4 was placed at No.2 and yet he was appointed ignoring the person who was placed at No.1.	None
Mr. Salve has made very detailed submissions on behalf of respondent No.4.	None
Giving us the entire sequence of how the rules were amended.	None
Mr. Salve has rightly pointed out that the petitioner has falsely contended that rules concerning the constitution of Searchcum Selection Committee amended through notification dated 7th October, 2010 were to ensure the selection of Mr. Sinha.	None
The applications for filling up the post of SEBI Chairman were invited on 10th September, 2010.	None
It is noteworthy that Mr. Sinha did not apply in response to the invitation.	None
Further more, the rules were amended in exercise of the powers conferred on the Finance Minister under Section 29 of the SEBI Act.	None
The aforesaid notification issued by the Finance Ministry has not been challenged by the petitioner.	None
We also notice here that prior to the amendment, the procedure for selection of Chairman, SEBI was determined by the Finance Minister.	None
Having perused the entire record, we are not satisfied that the petitioner has made out a case of mala fide to vitiate the proceedings of the SearchcumSelection Committee.	None
The first meeting of the SearchcumSelection Committee was held on 2nd November, 2010.	Arguments of Petitioner
Upon deliberations, the Committee decided to invite Mr. Sinha alongwith five others.	None
We may notice here that Shri Suman Bery did not attend the meeting.	None
The suitability of respondent No.4 had to be determined by the SearchcumSelection Committee.	None
We are unable to discern any illegality in the procedure adopted by the SearchcumSelection Committee.	None
We also find substance in the submission of Mr. Salve that the petitioner has made much a do about the nonmention of the pay scale of the petitioner in the Performa sent to the ACC which was enclosed with the Confidential Letter No.DO No.2/23/2007RE dated 13th December, 2010.	None
The letter clearly mentions that SearchcumSelection Committee was constituted under Rule 3 of the SEBI Rules, 1992.	None
The SearchcumSelection Committee consisted of  Shri K.M.Chandrasekhar, Cabinet Secretary Chairman Shri Ashok Chawla, Finance Secretary Member Shri R.Gopalan, Secretary (DFS)  	None
Member Shri Devi Dayal, Former Secretary (Banking)  Member Prof. Shekhar Chaudhuri, Director, IIM Kolkata  Member Dr. Suman K.Bery, Director General, NCAER  Member Applications were invited by circulating the vacancy position to all cadre controlling authorities in the Government of India and States on 10th September, 2010.	None
The vacancy was simultaneously put on the Website of the Ministry of Finance, Department of Personnel and Training.	None
It was also advertised in three largest circulating English Newspapers of the country on 18th September, 2010.	None
It is clearly mentioned that out of the 19 applicants, who were respondents to the advertisement in the first meeting of the Committee held on 2nd November, 2010, five were short listed.	None
In addition, the Searchcum Selection Committee also decided to invite Mr. Sinha CMD, UTI AMC for interaction.	None
The SearchcumSelection Committee based on the qualification, experience and personal interaction with the short listed candidates, recommended the names of Mr. U.K. Sinha and Mr. Himadri Bhattacharya in that order of merit, for being considered for appointment as Chairman SEBI.	None
The letter further mentions that the Finance Minister proposed the appointment of Mr. U.K. Sinha as Chairman, SEBI, for an initial period of three years from the date he resumes the charge or till he attain the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier.	None
It is noted that willingness of Mr. Sinha has been obtained and was enclosed with the letter.	None
On this basis, it was requested that approval of the ACC be obtained for the appointment of Mr. Sinha as Chairman, SEBI.	None
The letter also notes that the prescribed Performa, duly filled in, is also enclosed.	None
We fail to see what role Mr. Sinha had to play in the whole procedure except for accepting the invitation of the SearchcumSelection Committee for interaction.	None
Even if the pay scale has not been mentioned, it cannot cast a shadow on the integrity of the proceedings held by the SearchcumSelection Committee.	None
It is also to be noticed that the proposal was sent to the ACC on the express approval of the then Finance Minister.	None
It is noteworthy that the then Finance Minister was Mr. Pranab Mukherjee.	None
He is renowned for his transparency in the performance of his official functions.	None
He is at present the President of India.	None
Mr. Salve, in our opinion, has also rightly submitted that there is nothing surprising in respondent No.4 accepting the post of Chairman, SEBI which carried much lesser emoluments than he enjoyed as Chairman, UTI AMC.	None
It is not abnormal for people of high integrity to make a sacrifice financially to take up the position of honour and service to the nation.	Reasoning
In any event, we are of the opinion, the acceptance by Mr. Sinha of lesser salary as Chairman of SEBI cannot ipso facto lead to the conclusion that he accepted the position for the purpose of abusing the authority of Chairman, SEBI.	Reasoning
Adverting to the allegation of nondisclosure of ESOP, in our opinion, Mr. Salve has rightly submitted that it was not done to avoid any investigation by the ACC into the question as to why respondent No.4 would wish to join Chairman, SEBI when he was drawing much higher emoluments as Chairman, UTI AMC.	Reasoning
This nonmention cannot lead to the conclusion that if the same had been mentioned, respondent No.4 would not have been selected as Chairman, SEBI on the ground that it would have been illogical for a person drawing higher emoluments on one post to join another post having lesser emoluments.	Reasoning
Mr. Salve has rightly reiterated that there was nothing abnormal in the course adopted by respondent No.4.	Reasoning
No material has been placed on record to show that respondent No.4 was in receipt of ESOP illegally.	Reasoning
It has been pointed out that under ESOP, an employee is given an option by the company to buy its shares upto the given quantity allotted to him which can be exercised after a specified time.	Reasoning
In the case of UTI AMC, the stock option was to vest after a period of three years.	Reasoning
Secondly, an employee could not exercise 100 of the option in one go.	Reasoning
It was spread over four years, 10 in the 4th year, 20 in the 5th year, 30 in the 6th year and last 40 in the 7th year.	Reasoning
After vesting of each trench, the employee had one year to make up his mind whether to exercise his option or to let it go by.	Reasoning
In UTI AMC, ESOP was approved by the shareholders.	Reasoning
The HR Committee of the Board and the Board, the decision by the Board was taken on 27th December, 2007.	Reasoning
The minutes of the meeting of the Board dated 12th April, 2008 clearly shows that the stock option was exercised by respondent No.4 in accordance with due procedure.	Reasoning
However, even though the decision had been taken by the Board of Directors on 17th September, 2007 to grant respondent No.4 market based compensation, the matter was pending with the share holders.	Reasoning
It was only on 12th April, 2008 that the Board took a decision to release the market based compensation to respondent No.4.	Reasoning
The actual allocation of ESOP was made to respondent No.4 on 17th May, 2008 through the letter of head of HR Committee of the Board.	Reasoning
In fact in 2011 after respondent No.4 got appointment in SEBI and had to leave UTI AMC on 31st January, 2011, he surrendered his entire ESOP and rescinded all his rights to exercise his option in future.	Reasoning
We, therefore, find no substance in the submission of the petitioner that there was any ulterior motive involved in non disclosure of the information with regard to ESOP to the ACC.	None
This brings us to the issue whether there was a conspiracy hatched to ensure the selection of respondent No.4 as Chairman, SEBI.	None
The petitioner stated that the conspiracy involved taking seven steps, namely Mr.Sinha would seek voluntary retirement from IAS.ii.	None
SBIChairman would move to make a fresh offer.iii.	None
Mr.Sinha would seek approval for post retirement commercial employment.iv.	None
Ministryof Finance would recommend commercial employment.	None
v. DOPT would approve the same and waive the waiting period.vi.	None
All concerned persons in the decision making process would designate the employment with UTI AMC as commercial employment.vii.	None
File would not be sent to the PMO ACC for information or approval.	None
We have already considered all the points raised by the petitioner in the earlier part of the judgment.	None
Therefore, it is not necessary to repeat the same.	None
This, apart, the charge of conspiracy has to be taken seriously as it involves the commission of very serious criminal offence under Section 120B of the IPC.	None
Such a charge of criminal intent and conduct had to be clearly pleaded and established by evidence of very high degree of probative value.	None
No notice of such allegations can be taken based only on pure conjectures, speculations and interpretation of notings in the official files.	None
The observations made by this Court in the judgments noticed earlier make it clear that it was incumbent on the petitioner not only to make specific allegations, but to produce very strong evidence to lead to a clear conclusion that the selection was actuated by mala fide.	None
The 7 steps relied upon by the petitioner to establish conspiracy per se do not amount to conspiracy to mislead the ACC.	None
It is unbelievable to expect such a coordinated overt and covert operation to have been even conceived, let alone successfully executed just to have Mr. U.K. Sinha appointed as Chairman, SEBI.	None
The appointment of Mr. Sinha is strictly in conformity with the procedure prescribed by service rules, i.e, Rules 16 and 26 of the AIS (DCRB) Rules, 1958.	None
The files were sent to PMO as and when required by rules of business.	None
In matter of VRS and post retirement commercial employment, there is no requirement under the rules of business of sending the file to PMO ACC.	None
We find substance in the submission of Mr. Salve that the petitioner has not placed on record any material to establish that any conspiracy was hatched to ensure the selection of respondent No.4.	None
The submissions made by the learned Attorney General and Mr. Salve have also been supported by learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of respondent No.6.	None
Mr. Prasaran submitted that baseless allegations have been made against respondent No.6.	None
She was neither the recommending authority nor the appointing authority for the post of SEBI.	None
She was appointed as Advisor to the Finance Minister on 26th June, 2009.	None
Mr. Prasaran, in our opinion, has rightly made a grievance that all the actions taken by respondent No.6 in the execution of her duty have been deliberately warped and distorted to unnecessarily involve her in the trumped up controversy.	None
Her role as Advisor was limited to advising assisting the Finance Minister on the work assigned to her.	None
The nature of work was, therefore, different from the role of a functionary who performed an assigned line of functions.	None
She could have neither recommended respondent No.4 for appointment nor negated any recommendation.	None
By making a detailed reference to the official record, Mr. Prasaran has pointed out that the Chairman, SEBI is appointed by the Central Government by following an established process by the ACC headed by the Prime Minister.	None
This is done on the basis of SearchcumSelection Committee of the Government of India.	None
The opinion of other independent and reputed experts in the field of Economics, Finance and Management is also taken through an institutional mechanism approved by the DOPT.	None
We are inclined to accept the submission of the learned Solicitor General that the allegations made against respondent No.6 are imaginary and based on a distorted interpretation of the official notes appended with the writ petition.	None
With regard to the nonextension of Mr. C.B. Bhave, the learned Solicitor General relied upon the averments made in the counter affidavit filed by the UOI in Writ Petition No.391 of 2011.	None
The aforesaid affidavit has been attached as Annexure R4 to the counter affidavit filed by respondent No.6 in the present writ petition.	None
In the aforesaid affidavit, it has been set out that prior to July, 2009 selections were made by the Committee as decided by the Finance Minister from time to time.	Arguments of Respondent
As noticed earlier, the name of Dr. S.A. Dave, Chairman, CMIE was added as an expert member of the high powered Selection Committee constituted by the Finance Minister for the selection of Chairman, SEBI in 2008.	None
Even at that time, Mr. Sinha was shortlisted and placed at Sr.No.1.	None
Out of the two names short listed as noticed by us earlier in spite of the recommendations, it was C.B. Bhave who was appointed.	None
In 2009, a statutory system was established for the selection of Chairman Whole time Member of SEBI.	Arguments of Respondent
In this background, Rule 3 was amended by introducing subrule (5) which provided that the Chairman and every whole time member shall be appointed by the Central Government on the recommendation of the SelectioncumSearch Committee consisting of the (i) Cabinet Secretary as the Chairman, (ii) Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, (iii) Chairman, SEBI (for selection of whole time members) (iv) two experts of eminence from the relevant field to be nominated by the Central Government.	None
In 2010, it was decided to initiate action for a fresh selection for the post of Chairman, SEBI.	None
Therefore, a note was initiated on 18th July, 2010 for the constitution of a Committee.	None
Various names were suggested for inclusion as experts.	None
While approving the constitution of the Selection Committee, the Finance Minister also observed that going by earlier precedent, the Committee should have composition that includes Secretary, Finance Services, who functionally deals with special critical aspects of the capital market.	None
Thus, with the addition of the Secretary Finance Services, the number of nominees in the Searchcum Selection Committee became five.	None
Unlike in the past, the composition of the Selection Committee was sent to the DOPT for approval.	None
However, on 23rd September, 2010, DOPT pointed out as noticed earlier that inclusion of Secretary Finance Services was not within the rules amended on 23rd July, 2009 which led to the amendment of the rules.	None
To rectify this shortcoming, the amendment of the rules became necessary.	None
It was within the powers of the Central Government to make the aforesaid amendment, which was carried out in accordance with the rules.	None
It is, therefore, difficult to accept the submission of the petitioner that the amendment in the rules was made to ensure the non extension of Mr. C.B. Bhave as Chairman, SEBI.	None
In fact, Mr. Bhave was not granted the extension for the reasons which have been given in detail by Mr. Prasaran in his submission, the same need not be reiterated.	None
We are also unable to take the allegations made by Dr. Abraham seriously, as the same seem to be actuated by ulterior motive.	None
It is a direct attack on the integrity of respondent No.4.	None
The opinion expressed by Dr. Abraham, in his lengthy letter, cannot be given much credence unless it is supported by very convincing material.	None
We are also not much impressed by the submission of Mr. Bhushan that the constitution of the SearchcumSelection Committee was changed at the instance of respondent No.6.	None
As narrated by the Solicitor General, the ultimate selection was made by a Selection Committee consisting of Members who were all serving Officers in the Government.	None
Therefore, it is difficult to accept the submission that 3 out of 5 members were handpicked by respondent No.6 to select Mr. Sinha.	None
We are also unable to see any merit in the submission of the petitioner that the post of CMD, UTI AMC was kept vacant for 17 months to accommodate the brother of respondent No.6.	None
In our opinion, the allegations are malicious and without any basis, and therefore, cannot be taken into consideration.	None
This now brings us to the preliminary objections raised by the respondents that the writ petition deserves to be dismissed on the ground that it is not a bona fide petition.	None
According to the respondents, the petitioner has been set up by interested parties.	None
We entirely agree with the submissions made by the learned Attorney General that the first requirement for the maintainability of a public interest litigation is the uberrimae fide of the petitioner.	None
In our opinion, the petitioner has unjustifiably attacked the integrity of the entire selection process.	None
It is virtually impossible to accept the submission that respondent No.6 was able to influence the decision making process which involves the active participation of the ACC, a high powered SearchcumSection Committee with the final approval of the Finance Minister and the Prime Minister.	None
The proposition is so absurd that the allegations with regard to mala fide could have been thrown out at the threshold.	None
We have, however, examined the entire issue not to satisfy the ego of the petitioner, but to demonstrate that it is not entirely inconceivable that a petition disguised as public interest litigation can be filed with an ulterior motive or at the instance of some other person who hides behind the cloak of anonymity even in cases where the procedure for selection has been meticulously followed.	None
The respondents have successfully demonstrated how the petitioner has cleverly distorted and misinterpreted the official documents on virtually each and every issue.	None
In our opinion, the petition does not satisfy the test of utmost good faith which is required to maintain public interest litigation.	None
We have been left with the very unsavoury impression that the petitioner is a surrogate for some powerful phantom lobbies.	None
Respondent No.2SEBI in its affidavit has stated that the petitioner is a habitual litigant.	Reasoning
He files writ petitions against individuals to promote vested interest without any relief to the public at large.	Reasoning
We are at a loss to understand as to how in the facts of this case, the petitioner can justify invoking the jurisdiction of this court under Article 32.	Reasoning
This is not a petition to protect the Fundamental Rights of any class of down trodden or deprived section of the population.	Reasoning
It is more for the protection of the vested interests of some unidentified business lobbies.	Reasoning
The petitioner had earlier filed writ petition in which identical relief had been claimed and the same had been dismissed.	Reasoning
The aforesaid writ petition is sought to be distinguished by the petitioner on the ground that three successive writ petitions were withdrawn as sufficient pleadings were not made for the grant of necessary relief.	Reasoning
Even if this preliminary objection is disregarded, we are satisfied that the present petition is filed at the behest of certain interested powerful lobbies.	Reasoning
The allegations made in the letter written by Dr. Abraham are without any basis and clearly motivated.	Reasoning
Further, a perusal of the record clearly reveals that several complaints were filed against Dr. Abraham, wherein some serious allegations have been made against him in relation to his tenure as the Whole Time Member (WTM), SEBI.	Reasoning
Also, it was only after the Ministry of Finance decided not to extend his tenure as WTM, SEBI and advertisements for new appointments were issued that Dr. Abraham started complaining about interference of the Ministry of Finance in SEBI through the present Chairman.	Reasoning
We may also notice here that the letter dated 1st June, 2011 written by Dr. Abraham to the Prime Minister, that the Petitioner seeks reliance upon, was written merely a month and a half before Dr. Abrhams tenure was to end.	Reasoning
From the above, it is manifest that the letter written by Dr. Abraham was clearly motivated and espouses no public interest.	Reasoning
The affidavit also narrates the action which has been taken by SEBI against very influential and powerful business Houses, including Sahara and Reliance.	Reasoning
It is pointed out that the petitioner is a stool pigeon acting on the directions of these Business Houses.	Reasoning
We are unable to easily discard the reasoning put forward by respondent No.4.	Reasoning
It is a well known fact that in recent times, SEBI has been active in pursuing a number of cause celebre against some very powerful Business Houses.	Reasoning
Therefore, the anxiety of these Business Houses for the removal of the present Chairman of SEBI is not wholly unimaginable.	Reasoning
We make the aforesaid observations only to put on record that the present petition could have been dismissed as not maintainable for a variety of reasons.	Reasoning
However, we have chosen to examine the entire issue to satisfy our judicial conscience that the appointment to such a High Powered Position has actually been made fairly and in accordance with the procedure established by law.	Reasoning
We find no merit in this petition which is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
