 KRISHNA IYER, J.1.	None
This fifth deck appeal, by certificate under Art.	None
133 of the Constitution, stems from a humdrum but protected litigation under the rent control law by a tenant who has lost all alone the way.	None
If we may prologise, this special law hopefully set up a quasijudicial machinery for summary trial and speedy disposal and prescribed eviction save upon simple grounds safeguarding the security of tenants of buildings against being inequitably ejected.	None
But this very case discloses the chronic distortion in processual justice, caused by a slowmotion spiral of appeals and plethora of technical pleas defeating the statutory design.2.	None
The obvious legislative policy and project in this class of simplistic landlordtenant litigation demands a radically nontraditional judicial structuring and legal engineering, bypassing sophistications and formalisms and tierupontier of judicial reviews.	None
Both these imperatives are conspicuously absent in current rent control litigation a dismal failure which the legislature will, we hope, awaken to rectify.	None
Postaudit of socioeconomic laws in action, with a view to oversee if legal institutions and jural postulates actually achieve legislatively mandated objectives in special classes of disputeproceessing, makes for competent and credible implementation of laws and saves the time of the higher courts and the money of the public at present consumed exasperatingly but avoidably.	None
The price of legislative inaction in these areas is popular disenchantment with laws and tribunals.3.	None
Factual matrixThe appellant is the tenant of a building in Delhi having been inducted into possession by the respondent landlord under a letting of May 19, 1954, evidenced by a deed which fixed the term merely as less than a year (a circumstance out of which a minor ripple of legal argument has arisen ).	Facts
At the time of the lease the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short, the TP Act), had not been extended to Delhi although, later, on December 1, 1962, the said Act was made applicable to this area.	Facts
The landlord had been receiving rent from the tenant until the time he filed a petition for eviction (1967), the statute which regulated the right to eviction being the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 (59 of 1958) (for short, the Rent Act).	Facts
The eviction petition set out two grounds out of the many specified in s. 14 of the Rent Act, viz., unauthorized subletting of a portion of the premises and possession, by the tenant, of alternative accommodation.	Facts
Both these grounds having been made out, the evictibility under the Rent Act became inevitable.	Facts
But, in the High Court, the appellanttenant fell back on certain defences grounded on ss.106 and 111 of the TP Act on the score that no notice to quit had been given, nor notice of forfeiture, as prescribed by those sections.	Facts
There is no dispute that neither notice to quit nor notice of forfeiture determining the tenancy had been given by the landlord.	Facts
The core of the controversy thus turns on the need to comply with the requirements of ss. 106 and or 11 1 of the TP Act and the fatal effect of failure in this behalf.	Facts
The landlord seeks to break through these defences by urging that the lease has expired by efflux of time limited thereby under s. 111(a) and no notice terminating the tenancy under s. 106 is needed and further that the forfeiture of the tenancy caused by subletting contrary to the terms of the deed of demise can be availed of by the landlord even in the absence of a notice as contemplated by s. 111 (g) because the TP Act, as amended by the Amending Act of 1929, did not, in terms, apply to the present lease and the principles of justice, equity and good conscience, which alone applied, did not desiderate the technical requirement of a notice in writing of an intention to determine the lease.	Facts
The Rent Controller, at the floor level, ordered eviction and the Appellate Tribunal affirmed it, upholding the vice of subletting without consent of the landlord in the manner specified in s. 14(1)( b) as also the disability spelt out in s. 14(1) (h) on acquiring vacant possession of alternative residence.	Facts
The resistence founded on the TP Act was also overruled by the appellate Tribunal.	Facts
But, when the case reached the High Court in second appeal, under s. 39 of the Rent Act, the learned Single Judge felt that certain points of law spun out of the TP Act deserved consideration by a Division Bench and referred the appeal for determination accordingly to a larger Bench.	Facts
The Division Bench which heard the appeal dismissed it but granted a certificate of fitness for appeal to the Supreme Court under Art.	Facts
133 of the Constitution, restricting it, however, to but one ground urged before it.	Facts
Shri A. K. Sen, for the appellant, made a gentle hint that the High Court had heard long arguments in March 1974 but could resolve its doubts to deliver a judgment only in May 1975 so much so the freshness of counsels submissions might have faded somewhat and so we should have a closer look at his points de hors the judgment under appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
If this fact of a long hiatus between hearing and decision were true, it must have inflicted a heavy strain on the memory of the learned Judges which it is a healthy practice to avoid.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, after listening to Shri A. K. Sen, we feel that his fears are unfounded.4.	None
A preliminary preemptive objection was urged by the respondent that the High Court having circumscribed the certificate to a single point no other submissions should be permitted.	None
We see no force in this untenable insistence on tying down the appellant.	None
Once a certificate of fitness has been granted under Art. 133, the appeal, in all its amplitude, is before this Court and every point may b e urged by the appellant provided this Court permits it, having regard to the circumstances.	None
Perhaps, a certificate under Art. 132, or special leave under Art, 136 may stand on a different footing if the Court limits the grounds in any manner.	None
Of course, conceding the Courts plenary power in appeals on certificate under Art. 133, it is still within the Courts discretion not to allow a new point to be taken up The rulings in 1963 (2) SCR 440 and 1964(2)	None
SCR 930 lay down the law on this point.	None
The contentions5.	None
We have already indicated that, under the Rent Act two grounds for eviction have been good by the landlord.	None
Indisputably, subletting has been substantiated.	None
Even so, it is argued that only where a lease has been duly determined giving rise to a right to present possession under the TP Act can the landlord sue for recovery of the building.	None
The scheme of the Rent Control law, speaking generally, is to put further fetters on landlords see king eviction from urban buildings where, in the absence of such new barriers, they will be entitled to ejectment.	None
The acute scracity of accommodation is the raison deetre of the law.	None
It is not as if the rent control statutes are a bonanza for the landlords and confer a relaxed right to eject where, under the general law, they do not have such a right in praesenti.	None
To hold otherwise is to pervert the purpose and substitute an added danger for an extra dyke.	None
It follows that even where un der a particular rent control statute the landlord makes out grounds for eviction, he can institute proceedings in this behalf only if de hors the said grounds he has cause of action under the TP Act.6.	None
We agree that, if the rent control legislation specifically provides grounds for eviction in super session, not in supplementation, of what is contained in the T.P. Act, the situation may conceivably be different.	None
But, in the Delhi Rent Act, as in many other like Statutes, what i s intended to be done is not to supplant but to supplement, not to eliminate the statutory requirements of determination of tenancy but to superimpose a ban on eviction which otherwise may be available in conformity with the TP Act without fulfillment of additional grounds.	None
No order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made in favour of the landlord against a tenant is a blanket ban in s. 14(1) of the Rent Act.	None
It is followed by enumeration of specific grounds proof of which may authorize the Controller to make an order for the recovery of possession of the premises.	None
It follows that before a landlord can institute proceedings for recovery of possession, he has to make out his right (a) under the TP Act and (b) under the Rent Act.	None
In Manujendra Dutt this Court considered the question elaborately and observedThe Thika Tenancy Act like similar Rent Acts passed in different States is intended to prevent indiscriminate eviction of tenants and is intended to be a protective statute to safeguard security of possession of tenants and therefore should be construed in the light of its being a social legislation.	None
What section 3 therefore does is to provide that even where a landlord has terminated the contractual tenancy by a proper notice such landlord can succeed in evicting his tenant provided that he falls under one or more of the clause s of that section.	None
The word notwithstanding in section 3 on a true construction therefore means that even where the contractual tenancy is properly terminated, notwithstanding the landlords right to possession under the Transfer of Property Act or the contract of lease he cannot evict the tenant unless he satisfied any one of the grounds set out in section 3.	None
Rent Acts are not ordinarily intended to interfere and with contractual leases and are Acts for the protection of tenants and are consequently restrictive and not enabling, conferring no new rights of action but restricting the existing rights either under the contract or under the general law.	None
The right to hold over, that is, the right of irremovability thus is a right which comes into existence after the expiration of the lease and until the lease is terminated or expires by efflux of time the tenant need not seek protection under the Rent Act.	None
For he is protected by his lease in breach of which he cannot be evicted.	None
(See Maghji Lakshamshi and Bros v. Furniture Workshop1954	None
AC 80, 90).	None
In Abasbhai v. Gulamnabi (AIR 1964 SC 1341 ), this Court clearly stated that the Rent Act did not give a right to the landlord to evict a contractual tenant without first determining the contractual tenancy.	None
In Mangilal v. Sugan Chand (AIR 1965 SC 101 ) while construing section 4 of the Madhya Pradesh Accommodation Control Act (XXIII of 1965), a section similar to section 3 of the present Act, this Court held that the provisions of section 4 of that Act were in addition to those of the Transfer of Property Act and therefore before a tenant could be evicted by a landlord, he must comply with both the provisions of section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act and those of section 4.	None
The Court further observed that notice under section 106 was essential to bring to an end the relationship of landlord and tenant and unless that relationship was validly terminated by giving a proper notice under s. 1 06 of the Transfer of Property Act, the landlord could not get the right to obtain possession of the premises by evicting the tenant (See also Haji Mohammad v. Rebati Bhushan53	None
C.W.N. 859).7.	None
We are inclined to hold that the landlord in the present case cannot secure an order for eviction without first establishing that he has validly determined the lease under the TP Act.8.	None
We are therefore thrown back to an examination of the argument pressed by the appellanttenant that independently of the rent control law, the respondent has no subsisting cause of action.	None
The contention is twofold.	None
Firstly, the lease is one where the time is not limited and therefore s. 111(a) will not apply and is terminable on the part of the lessor only in the manner provided by s. 106, i.e., by 15 days notice expiring with the end of the month of the tenancy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Admittedly, no such notice was given.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counter contention of the landlord, apart from the plea of statutory tenancy requiring no further notice to determine, is that the lease is for a specified period even though it expresses itself as for a term less than one year and under s. 111 (a) has expired by efflux of time.	Arguments of Petitioner
We cannot agree to this feebly asserted argument.	Reasoning
A lease merely stating that it is for a period less than one year is ex facie for an indefinite period and, as such, cannot expire by efflux of time.	Reasoning
Nor are we convinced that, notwithstanding the acceptance of rent for the period of 11 years the landlord had not assented to the holding over of the tenancy and that what emerged was a statutory tenancy which did not require notice in law for valid determination.	Reasoning
Possibly so not necessarily.	Reasoning
However, we nee d not explore this aspect further in the view that we take of the other submission of the landlord that the lease has been determined by forfeiture, not in terms of s. 111 (g) of the TP Act, but on the application of the principles of justice, equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
We will examine this latter contention in some detail, as it is decisive of the fate of the case.	Reasoning
The Rent Act contemplates no elaborate pleadings but filling out of particulars in a pro forma which takes the place of a plaint.	Reasoning
No specific averment of forfeiture and consequent determination of the lease is found in the petition.	Reasoning
Having regard to the comparative informality of these proceedings and the quasijudicial nature of the whole process , such an omission cannot be exaggerated into a lethal infirmity.	Reasoning
What is perhaps more pertinent is that the petitioner was innocent of the plea of forfeiture throughout the stages of the trial before the Rent Controller.	Reasoning
When the case reached the appellate stage, it was specifically urged that the tenancy stood terminated by forfeiture under s. 111 (g) of the TP Act.	Reasoning
The Tribunal studied the terms of the rent deed, Exhibit AW 3/1 and held that there was an express condition against subletting and a provision that on breach thereof the lessor had the right to move for eviction something equivalent to a right to reenter.	None
The tenant remonstrated against this new plea being permitted in appeal but the Court construed the statement in the proforma in column 18B, that no notice is necessary, to mean that there was a determination by forfeiture even without the issuance of a notice.	None
More over, the Court noticed the fact that the question was only one of law and should be permitted in the interests of justice.	Reasoning
After some consideration of the issue the Tribunal reached the result that the tenancy stood determined by forfeiture and therefore no notice was required.	Reasoning
We need not tarry further on the tenability of this conclusion since the matter has been more fully examined at the High Court level.9.	None
Arguments before us have proceeded on the footing that a subtenancy has been created and this amounts to a breach of condition with a provision for reentry.	None
The tribunal in appeal held that no notice was necessary since the lease was created prior to the extension of the TP Act to Delhi.	None
Although there is some confusion in this order about the determination of the lease being under s. 111(g) or outside it , the thrust of the holding is found in these concluding wordsHowever, as held by the Supreme Court in Narender, Lokmanya Lodhi v. Narmada Bai Ors.	None
1953	None
SC 228 the provisions in s. 111 (g) as to notice in writing as a preliminary to a suit for ejectment based on forfeiture of a lease is not based on the principles of justice, equity or good conscience and would not govern the bases made prior to the coming into the force of the T P Act or to a lease executed prior to the coming into force of the TP Act.	None
The lease in question was admittedly created before December 1, 1962 and, therefore, the requirement of the notice in writing could not be insisted upon .10.	None
In short, the clincher was justice, equity and good conscience.	None
The critical phase of the case thus beckons us, the last court of law and justice, to the final valley of the forensic battle.	None
Does the TP Act apply to a lease executed prior to the extension of that Act to the area, even though the event that determines the tenancy viz., forfeiture, occurs after such extension ?	None
Secondly, if the TP Act does not apply proprio vigore to such demises and their determination, can the principles of justice, equity and good conscience be invoked to transplant the twin rules in s. 111(g) of the said Act?	None
Thirdly, and this is the crux of the matterif such transfusion is permissible, is the synergetic operation o f breach of a condition of the lease providing for reentry and a written notice of forfeiture on that score obligatory in terms of s. 111(g) or can written notice of forfeiture be dispensed with as being no part of equity or justice but a technical or formal statutory requirement?	None
What, in short, is the status of the formula of justice, equity and good conscience, in the legal pharmacopoeia of India?11.	None
Shri A. K. Sen urges that the procedural interdict against raising the objection based on s. 111(g) is of no consequence.	Arguments of Petitioner
While the law goes to the root of the case and is perfectly plain and the facts indubitably manifest on the record, the refusal to examine and uphold the objection, if valid, is to surrender the judicial f unction of doing justice according to law at the illegitimate altar of technical inhibition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, he argues, the plea based on s. 111(g) in some form or other, is writ large in the Tribunals order and the High Courts judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
New nuances and clearer focus may be allowed where the point of law has been broadly touched upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
Face to face with the issue of forfeiture under s. 111(g), the appellant presses the position that since admittedly no notice in writing, as laid down in the section, has been issued, the eviction proceeding can be shot down by that legal missile alone.	None
Before the amending Act of 1929, all that was necessary for the lessor to determine the demise on forfeiture was to do some act showing his intention to determine the lease.	None
The rule of English law before the enactment of the Law of Property Act, 1925 appears to be that a suit for ejectment is equivalent to reentry.	None
It has been held in India that an act showing the lessors intent ion to determine the lease can take the form of the institution of an action in ejectment.	None
The statutory law, as it now stands, however is that the happening of any of the events specified in s. 111(g) does not, ipso facto, extinguish the lease but only exposes the lessee to the risk of forfeiture and clothes the lessor with the right, if he so chooses, to determine the lease, by giving notice in that behalf.	None
Mulla states the law correctly thusForfeiture of a lease requires the operation of two factors (1) A breach by the lessee of an express condition of the lease which provides for reentry on such breach and (2) a notice by the lessor expressing his intention to determine the lease.	None
(Mulla on TP Act, p. 746747, 6th Ed.)12.	None
The notice has to be in writing.	None
In Namdeo Lokman Lodhi(1)	None
this Court laid down the law to the same effect.	None
Mahajan J., observedSection 111(g) in the terms makes the further act an integral condition of the forfeiture.	None
In other words, without this act there is no completed forfeiture at all.	None
Under the old section an overt act evidencing the requisite intention was essential.	None
As the law stands to day, under the Act, notice in writing by the landlord is a condition precedent to a forfeiture and the right of reentry.13.	None
It cannot be gainsaid that a notice, as envisioned in s. 111(g) not having been given to the lessee in the present case, determination of the demise under s. 111(g) cannot be claimed by the lessor.	None
Thus, if the fortune of the landlord were to turn on the application of the TP Act as it stands now, the ejectment proceeding must be rebuffed.	None
Counsel for the respondent seeks to sustain his case on the submission that the TP Act does not apply to the lease in question and therefore a forfeiture giving rise to a determination of the lease follows upon breach of a condition in the lease, to wit, sublease of a portion of the building, plus an act indicative of the landlords intention to terminate the tenancy.	Arguments of Respondent
According to counsel, in the absence of a specific statutory provision, the rules of justice, equity and good conscience govern the situation and this element is amply fulfilled by the filing of the eviction petition itself.	Arguments of Respondent
We are, therefore, called upon to consider whether the provisions of the TP Act apply to the lease of 1952 executed in Delhi and, secondly, if it does not whether its present provision, as amended in 1929, has to be treated as a rule of justice, equity and good conscience, or the mere institution of legal proceedings for ejectment would be tantamount to an act evidencing the int ention of the lessor to avail himself of the forfeiture clause and sufficient to satisfy justice, equity and good conscience.14.	Issue
A little legal history helps to appreciate this part of the controversy.	None
The TP Act came into force on July 1, 1882 but it extended in the first instance to the whole of India except certain saved territories including Delhi.	None
It was actually extended to Delhi only in 1962.	None
Section 2(c) of the Act provides that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to affect any right or liability arising out of a legal relation constituted before this Act comes into force, or any relief in respect of any such right or liability.	None
There is some dispute as to what nothing herein contained connotes.	None
Shri A. K. Sen submitted that the Act had come into force as early as 1882 and while transactions created before that date (July 1, 1882) would not be affected by its provisions, subsequent transactions would be governed by that Act even though they may have bee n executed before the extension of the Act to a particular area.	None
His brief contention was, to start with, that even if the Act was extended to Delhi in 1962, once it was so extended the whole Act came into force in its totality in that area and only those transactions which were expressly saved by s. 2 viz., legal relations constituted before this Act comes into force escaped from its operation.	Arguments of Petitioner
So much so the present lease being of 1954 would be covered by s. 111 (g).	Arguments of Petitioner
Our at tention was drawn by him to s. 63 of the Amending Act in this connection.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Chitaley, for the respondent, countered this contention by another extreme stand.	None
According to him, the Act came into force in Delhi only when it was extended to that place, viz., in 1962.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, transactions prior to that date swam out of its operation altogether.	Arguments of Respondent
A third possibility, a sort of via media or golden mean, also came up for consideration as a closeup of the relevant provisions w as taken.	Arguments of Respondent
This view was that while transactions which came into existence in an area before the Act was extended to that area, would be tested for their validity by the law extant when the transaction was entered into, the remedies and other incidents would be conditioned by the TP Act if it had been extended to the area when the remedy was sought to be enforced.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Chitaley wanted us to accept Namdeo (supra) as an authority for his proposition and relied on certain passages therein .	None
The problem presented before us cannot be disposed of in an easy fashion and deserves serious examination.	None
In the present case, we are relieved of that obligation for the weighty reason that the appellant has all along staked his case on the application of the rules of justice, equity and good conscience and not on the textual rigour of s. 111(g) applied proprio vigore.15.	Reasoning
We have already indicated that although this question was not canvassed before the trial Court, the appellate tribunal did consider it as a point of law.	None
In doing so, the learned Tribunal applied what he considered to be the principles of justice, equity and good conscience and dispensed with the drastic insistence on notice in writing.	None
In the High Court, the position taken up by the appellant did not disturb the application of justice, equity and good conscience.	None
On the contrary, the Division Bench emphatically asserted that the appellant never disputed this proposition.	None
Indeed, both in regard to notice to quit and notice of forfeiture, the appellant accepted the application, not of the TP Act as such, but of the rules of justice, equity and good conscience.	None
We may as well except the relevant statement in the judgment of the High CourtIn the present case, the provisions of the TP Act had not been extended to Delhi during the material period and these provisions would therefore, not be applicable to the tenancy in question.	None
It was not disputed before us that in view of this only such of the principles embodied in the provisions of ss. 106 and 111 of the TP Act would regulate the matter as could be held to be consistent with the rules of equity, justice and good conscience.	None
It was also not disputed before us that even though the provision of section 106 of the TP Act laying down the manner in which a tenancy may be terminated are technical in character, in that the y require such termination by fifteen days notice expiring with the end of the month of the tenancy.	None
It would be consistent with the requirements of equity, justice and good conscience that a tenant has reasonable notice of termination even though it does not expire with the end of the month of a tenancy.	None
It was also not disputed that in the present case, no notice whatever was sent to the tenant of the application for eviction when the notice was s ought to be justified on the ground that no such notice was necessary because the tenancy stood determined either by efflux of time limited thereby in terms of the principle embodied in s. 111(a) of the TP Act or by forfeiture following the breach by the tenant of the express condition regarding subletting in terms of the principles embodied in s. 111(g) of the said Act.16.	None
If the appellants case was that the TP Act applied of its own force, he would have urged so in the High Court, especially because the appellate tribunal had dealt an eviction blow on him by applying the rules of justice, equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
Moreover, the categorical statement in the judgment of the High Court confirms the view that the appellant stuck to his stance of justice, equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
Nay more.	Reasoning
Even in the grounds of appeal to this Court he has only harped on justice, equity and good conscience and invoked s. 1 11(g) as embodying equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
For the first time he has, by a volta face, switched to the TP Act as against the rules of justice, equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
It is too late in the day to set up a new case like that.	Reasoning
There are many reasons why.	Reasoning
Even though we have power to permit a new plea, we should not exercise it here.	Reasoning
We decline our discretion to allow the appellant to travel into the new statutory territory of s. 111(g).	Reasoning
He has to stand or fall by his sub mission that justice, equity and good conscience is the alter ego of s. 111 (g) of the TP Act in its dual requirements of (a) the breach of a condition providing for reentry and (b) notice in writing to the lessee of an intention to determine the lease.	Reasoning
Once we assume the inapplicability of the TP Act to the lease in questionan assertion of the respondent which we do not feel compelled to consider in this appealwe are confronted by the concept of justice, equity and good conscience which, admittedly, comes into play in the absence of any specific legislative provision.	Reasoning
In India and in other colonies during the Imperial era a tacit assumption had persuaded the courts to embrace English law (the civilizing mission of the masters) as justice, equity and good conscience.	None
Throughout the Empire in Asia and Africa, there was an inarticulate premise that English law was a blessing for the subject peoples.	None
Robert M. Seldman writes about SudanThe courts were simply directed to decide cases on the basis of justice, equity and good conscience Civil Justice Ordinance, 1929, Ch. 9, 10 Laws of the Sudan 13 (1955) .	None
However, the judges were all English lawyers and with magnificent insularity it developed that justice, equity and good conscience meant not merely English common law but English statutory law as well.	None
The author has been told by an English barrister who tried a case in the Sudan some years ago that he was amazed to discover that justice, equity and good conscience meant in his case the English Sales of Goods Act, 1862.(Law and Economic Development in Independent, English Speaking, SubSaha ran AfricaWisconsin Law Review Vol. 1966, Number 4, Fall)17.	None
The Judicial Committee of the Privy Council struck a similar note in Maharaja of Jeypore v. Rukmani Pattamahadevi(1) where Lord Phillimore statedThey are directed by the several charters to proceed where the law is silent, in accordance with justice, equity, and good conscience, and the rules of English law as to forfeiture of tenancy may be held and have been held to be consonant with these principles and to be applicable to India.	None
Unfortunately, even after liberation, many former colonies, including India, did not shake off this neocolonial jurisprudence (See A.I.R. 1950 Bom. 123) .	None
This is the genesis of the idea t hat Indian good conscience is English Common Law during the reign of Empress Victoria The imperatives of Independence and the jural postulates based on the new value system of a developing country must break of from the borrowed law of En gland received sweetly as justice, equity and good conscience.	None
We have to part company with the precedents of the BritishIndian period tying our nonstatutory area of law to vintage English law christening it justice, equity and good con science.	None
After all, conscience is the finer texture of norms woven from the ethos and lifestyle of a community and since British and Indian ways of life vary so much that the validity of an anglophilic bias in Bharats justice, equity and good conscience is questionable today.	None
The great values that bind law to life spell out the text of justice, equity and good conscience and Cardozo has crystallised the concept thusLife casts the mould of conduct which will some day be come fixed as law.18.	None
Free India has to find its conscience in our rugged realities and no more in alien legal thought.	None
In a larger sense, the insignia of creativity in law, as in life, is freedom from subtle alien bondage, not a silent spring nor hothouse flower.19.	None
So viewed, the basic question is What is the essence of equity in the matter of determining a lease on the ground of forfeiture caused by the breach of a condition ?	None
Can any technical formality be exalted into a rule o f equity or should a sense of realism, read with justice, inform this legal mandate ?	None
If Law and Justicein the Indian context must speak to each other, statutory technicality such as notice in writing prescribed in s. 111(g) of the TP Ac t cannot be called a rule of equity.	None
It is no more than a legal form binding on those transactions which are covered by the law by its own force.	None
The substance of the matterthe justice of the situationis whether a condition in the lease has been breached and whether the lessor has, by some overt act, brought home to the lessee his election to eject on the strength of the said breach.	None
This Court, in Namdeo (supra) has explained the rule of justice, equity and good conscience.	None
It observed, at p. 1015It is axiomatic that the courts must apply the principles of justice, equity and good conscience to transactions which come up before them for determination even though the statutory provisions of the Transfer of Property Act are not made applicable to these transactions.	None
It follows therefore that the provisions of the Act which are but a statutory recognition of the rules of justice, equity and good conscience also govern those transfers.	None
If, therefore, we are satisfied that the particular principle to which the legislature has now given effect by the amendment to section 111 (g) did in fact represent a principle of justice , equity and good conscience, undoubtedly the case will have to be decided in accordance with the rule laid down in the section, although in express terms it has not been made applicable to leases executed prior to 1929 or even prior to the Transfer of Property Act coming into force.	None
The main point for consideration thus is whether the particular provision introduced in subsection (g) of section 111 of the Transfer of Property Act in 192 9 is but a statutory recognition of a principle of justice, equity and good conscience, or whether it is merely a procedural and technical rule introduced in the section by the legislature and is not based on any well established principles of equity.	None
The High Court held, and we think rightly, that this provision in subsection (g) of section 111 in regard to notice was not based upon any principle of justice, equity and good conscience.	None
In the first instance it may be observed that it is erroneous to suppose that every provision in the Transfer of Property Act and every amendment effected is necessarily based on principles of justice, equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
It has to be seen in every case whether the particular provisions of the Act relied upon restates a known rule of equity or whether it is merely a new rule laid down by the legislature without reference to any rule of equity and what is the true nature and character of the rule.	Reasoning
Now, so far as section 111 (g) of the Act is concerned, the insistence therein that the notice should be given in writing is intrinsic evidence of the fact that t he formality is merely statutory and it cannot trace its origin to any rule of equity.	Reasoning
Equity does not concern itself with mere forms or modes of procedure.	Reasoning
If the purpose of the rule as to notice is to indicate the intention of the lessor to determine the lease and to avail himself of the tenants breach of covenant it could, as effectively, be achieved by an oral intimation as by a written one without in any way disturbing the mind of the chancery judge.	Reasoning
The requirement as to written notice provided in the section therefore cannot be said to be based on any general rule of equity.	Reasoning
That it is not so is apparent from the circumstance that the requirement of a notice in writing to complete a forfeiture has been dispensed with by the legislature in respect to leases executed before 1st April, 1930.	Reasoning
Those leases are still governed by the unamended subsection (g) of section 111.	Reasoning
All that was required by that subsection was that the lessor was to show his intention to determine the lease by some act indicating that intention.	Reasoning
The principles of justice, equity and good conscience are not such a variable commodity, that they change and stand altered on a particular date on the mandate of the legislature and that to leases made between 1882 and 1930 the principle of equity applicable is the one contained in sub section (g) as it stood before 1929, and to leases executed after 1st April 1930, the principle of equity is the one stated in the subsection as it now stands.	Reasoning
Question may also be posed, whether according to English law a notice is a necessary requisite to complete a forfeiture.	Reasoning
Of course, in that case, Mahajan, J. has dwelt at length on the English law of landlord and tenant and the discussion is partially suggestive of the English law of real property being a good guide to the Indian Judges good conscience.	Reasoning
But the ratio is clear that processual technicalities and even substantive formalities cannot masquerade as justice and equity.	Reasoning
The touchstone is simply whether the formal requirement of the law is part of what is necessarily just and reasonable.	Reasoning
In this perspective, the conclusion is clear that a notice in writing formally determining the tenancy is not a rule of justice or canon of commonsense .	Reasoning
Realism, married to equity, being the true test, we are persuaded that the preamending Act provision of s. 111 (g) is in consonance with justice.	Reasoning
If so, the mere institution of the legal proceeding for eviction fulfils the requirement of law for determination of the lease.	Reasoning
The conscience of the Court needs nothing more and nothing else.	Reasoning
The rule in Namdeo (supra) settles the law correctly20.	Reasoning
Reference was made at the bar to the ruling in Mohd.	Reasoning
Amir(1)	Reasoning
To understand that decision we have to make a distinction between the principles embodied in s. 111(g) and the provisions thereof.	Reasoning
Not all the stipulations and prescriptions in the section can be called the principles behind it.	Reasoning
In this light there is no contradiction between the two cases of this Courtthe earlier one of Namdeo (supra) and the later Mohd.	Reasoning
Amir(1).	Reasoning
We are satisfied that the situation in the present case is squarely covered by the earlier ruling.	Reasoning
The High Court is right in its view.21.	Reasoning
It is a fitting finale to this part of the argument that in the High Court arguments proceeded on the footing that the Supreme Court has ruled in Namdeo (supra) that there being no requirement in English law of a written notice to the lessee of the intention of the lessor to determine the lease on forfeiture, the provision of a notice would not be considered as being consistent with the rules of equity, justice and good conscience.	Reasoning
We have already made our comments on the anglophonic approach and do not wish to reiterate them here.	Reasoning
However, there are certain pregnant observations in the judgment under appeal pertinent to the present discussion.	Reasoning
Observed the High CourtIn the case of Namdeo Lokman Lodhi the Supreme Court was directly concerned with the question of the requirement of written notice engrafted into the clause (g) by the amendment of 1929 was of a technical nature or could be said to be consistent with the English rule regarding forfeiture and therefore, in consonance with the principles of justice, equity and good conscience and the question was clearly answered in the negative.22.	Reasoning
The irrelevance of the English law as such to notions of good conscience i n India notwithstanding, we agree that a written notice is no part of equity.	Reasoning
The essential principles, not the technical rules, of the TP Act form part of justice, equity and good conscience.	Reasoning
The conclusion emerges that the landlords termination of the tenancy in this case is good even without a written notice.23.	Reasoning
Many other niceties of law were presented to us by Shri A. K. Sen to extricate the tenant from eviction.	Reasoning
They are too unsubstantial and intricate for us to be deflected from the sure and concurrent findings, read in the background of an alternative accommodation being available to the tenant.24.	Reasoning
We dismiss the appeal but direct that this order for eviction shall be executed only on or after March 1, 1976.	Decision
The overall circumstances justify a direction that the parties do bear their costs throughout.25.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
