 R. Shah, J. Being aggrieved and dissatisfied by the impugned judgment and order dated 20.09.2013 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh in Murder Reference No. 3 of 2013 with Criminal Appeal No. D385DB of 2013, by which the High Court has affirmed the death penalty imposed by the learned Sessions Court, by affirming the judgment and order passed by the learned Sessions Court, Fatehgarh Sahib dated 15.03.2013, consequently convicting the appellantaccused for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC, the original accused has preferred the present appeals.	Issue
The case of the prosecution as per the statement of PW5 Jasmeen Kaur original Complainant was that she was married with Rupinder Singh S o Jeet Singh of village Bhojewal in the year 2005.	Facts
Two children, the elder son namely Jaskirat Singh, aged about seven years and a daughter namely Prabhsimran Kaur aged about six years were born from the said marriage.	Facts
Since the atmosphere in the family of the inlaws of the complainant was not good, complainant Jasmeen Kaur along with her husband and children had been living at her natal place at village Mukandpur for the last about six years prior to the occurrence.	Facts
Gurinder Singh Babbu, brother of Jasmeen Kaur used to consume liquor in excess.	Facts
He was dissuaded by the family from doing so and was also made to understand in this regard.	Facts
Thereafter, Manjit Kaur, wife of the accused Khushwinder Singh, R o village Suhavi, Police Station Khamanon, who is the daughter of maternal uncle of the complainant, came to see her along with the accused.	Facts
The latter informed the family of the complainant that he knew one Baba (holy man) who lives in their area, who can make person get rid of their habit of drinking permanently.	Facts
The accused further informed that he also knew one travel agent, who could send Rupinder Singh, husband of the complainant, abroad.	Facts
Thereafter, the accused along starting visiting the house of the complainant.	Facts
About three months prior to the incident, the accused came to the house of the complainant and informed that he had made arrangements with an agent for sending Rupinder Singh to Canada.	Facts
He demanded Rs.2,00,000/ and the passport of Rupinder Singh.	Facts
He also informed that the remaining amount of Rs.14,00,000/ was to be paid on getting visa.	Facts
Thereupon, the family of the complainant pledged their gold ornaments with the goldsmith and borrowed Rs.2,00,000/ which, along with the passport of Rupinder Singh, were handed over to the accused.	Facts
The accused further informed the complainants family that the job would be done within two months.	Facts
The accused further informed that he had also got in touch with Baba (holy man) to enable Gurinder Singh to give up his habit of drinking and, for that purpose, the complainants family would have to offer Dhala (offering certain pulses, rice etc. in running water).2.1	Facts
On this, in the evening of 25.06.2012 at about 06.00 p.m., the accused came to village Mukandpur to the house of the complainant in his car and informed the family of the complainant that Dhala was to be offered on the night at about 02.30 a.m. and, for this purpose, the accused made Paramjit Kaur mother, Gurinder Singh Babbu brother and Rupinder Singh husband of complainant respectively to accompany him.	Facts
Gurinder Singh, father of the complainant, also accompanied them as he was to pay obeisance at Gurudwara Rara Sahib.	Facts
Then, on 26.06.2012 at about 11.30 a.m.	Facts
the accused came back in his car to village Mukandpur and informed the complainant that Gurinder Singh, Paramjit Kaur and Rupinder Singh had been left with Baba ji.	None
In the evening, the complainant should accompany him to the Baba for offering Dhala.	None
2.2	None
On 26.06.2012 at about 6.30 p.m., the complainant Jasmeen Kaur, along with her father Gurmail Singh, son Jaskirat Singh and daughter Prabhsimran Kaur accompanied the accused in his Maruti car bearing no. PB10AM9371.	Facts
On the way, the accused informed that he had received a phone call from Baba ji that Gurinder Singh would permanently get rid of his drinking habit, but in turn Gurmail Singh, father of the complainant, would have to take a drink.	Facts
On this, Gurmail Singh got into a fix, as he in fact never used to drink liquor, but he under compulsion agreed to consume liquor.	Facts
Thereafter, on the way, the accused purchased a half liquor bottle and gave to Gurmail Singh, father of the complainant, for drinking.	Facts
He gradually consumed the half liquor bottle.	Facts
Thereafter, the accused took some rounds and got the complainant, her children and Gurmail Singh towards the canal ahead of Bassi Pathana, where he turned his car to towards the bridge of the canal on its bank an informed the complainant that they were to first offer Dhala.	Facts
On this, at about 09.30 p.m., complainant Jasmeen Kaur and her father Gurmail Singh got down from the car and the children kept sitting in the car.	None
They came to the bank of the canal and when they were to offer Dhala in the running water, the accused pushed both of them in the canal and, on this, both of them fell in the canal.	Facts
Jasmeen Kaur, however, fell on one side of the canal near the edge and she, therefore, started to save herself.	Facts
At some considerable distance, she was able to catch an iron bar, which had been fixed in the canal and from there, she came out of the canal and by coming along the canal she disclosed the entire occurrence to the official of the canal department who were present there.	Facts
They further informed it to the parental family of the complainant at village Mukandpur.	Facts
They, along with the complainant, also searched for her father and children, but she could not get to know anything about them.	Facts
The place of occurrence was near the bridge of Bhakra canal of village Thablan.2.3 The complainant had a firm belief that the accused by cheating their entire family on a false pretext had thrown her husband Rupinder Singh, her brother Gurinder Singh, mother Paramjit Kaur, son Jaskirat Singh and daughter Prabhsimran Kaur had been illegally detained somewhere or they had been thrown in the canal.	Facts
The complainant further alleged that, along with her, her father Gurmail Singh was also thrown in the canal by the accused and the accused had killed him so that his dead body may be untraceable.	Facts
The complainant further informed in her statement that they had sold their land for Rs.37,00,000/ and that money was lying at their home and the accused only knew about it.	Facts
The accused, therefore, had finished her entire family as he wanted to misappropriate the amount of Rs.37,00,000/. The accused carried out this exercise by keeping the entire family in deceit.	Facts
The complainant requested that action be taken against the accused and they be imparted justice.	Facts
The complainant had given her statement in the present of her brother Jang Bahadur Singh.	Facts
She had heard her statement and it was correct.	Facts
She signed her statement in Punjabi, which was affirmed by Jang Bahadur Singh and was attested by SI Shamsher Singh, SHO, Police Station Basi Pathana.2.4	Facts
The said statement Ex. P5 ibid of Jasmeen Kaur complainant was recorded by Shamsher Singh, SI (PW7) who read over and explained the contents thereof to her and the complainant after admitting the genuineness and correctness thereof, signed the same.	Facts
Later, Shamsher Singh, SI put his endorsement Ex.P9 thereon, to the effect that 27.06.2012 he had received a telephonic message in the police station that some persons had been thrown in the canal.	Facts
Thereupon, he accompanied by other police officials visited the Bhakra main line near the bridge at village Thablan, where several persons had gathered along the canal bank.	Facts
The complainant got her statement recorded.	Facts
Endorsement Ex.P9 was completed on 27.06.2012 at 11.30 a.m.	Facts
The statement was sent to police station Bassi Pathana through Constable Sikander Singh.	Facts
On the basis of the said statement Ex.P5, formal FIR Ex.P10 for the offences under Sections 302, 307 and 201 of the IPC was registered against the accused.3.	Facts
That, thereafter the Investigating Officer commenced the investigation and recorded the statements of the concerned witnesses and also collected the incriminating material.	Facts
The Investigating Officer set out for search of the accused and recorded the statement of one Manjit Singh, resident of Village Nogawan, who was the ExSarpanch and informed the Investigating Officer that the accused came to him on the morning of 27.06.2012 and told him that he had thrown his relations Gurinder Singh, Rupinder Singh, Paramjit Kaur, Gurmail Singh, Prabhsimran Kaur, Jasmeen Kaur and Jaskirat Singh in the Bakhra Canal.	Facts
That, thereafter the Investigating Officer arrested the accused.	Facts
On being interrogated, he made some disclosers to the police, including that he had stolen Rs.36,70,000/ from the house of Gurmail Singh and he had concealed the money in his house in a bag which was lying in the almirah of his house.	Facts
His disclosure statement was recorded, signed by the accused and witnessed by ASI Kaur Singh.	Facts
It was attested by Shamsher Singh S.I.	Facts
The accused then accompanied the police to his house and led them to the almirah from where Rs.36,70,000/ contained in a bag were recovered.	Facts
Recovery memo was prepared.	Facts
Thereafter, the investigating team visited the place of incident where the victims were thrown in the canal.	Facts
A supplementary statement of the complainant was recorded wherein she disclosed the theft of her ornaments and money.	Facts
That, one by one, the dead bodies of the victims were found.	Facts
The Investigating Officer collected the medical evidence.	Facts
The autopsy on the dead bodies of the victims was done by the concerned doctors.	Facts
During the course of the investigation and on the basis of the statement made by the accused during interrogation, the Chappals and shoes of the victims were found recovered.	Facts
That, during interrogation, the appellant made a statement that on 26.06.2012 in the morning, he administered sleeping pills Anzilum 05 along with mishri (Sugar) to Rupinder Singh, Gurinder Singh and Paramjit Kaur before offering Dhala and empty strips lying in the envelope were kept concealed underneath the driver seat of a Maruti car and he could get those recovered.	Facts
His disclosure statement was recorded, that was signed by him and witnessed by ASI Harjit Singh and HC Balbir Singh.	Facts
That, thereafter the Investigating officer recovered those strips from the car parked in the police station.	Facts
The Investigating Officer prepared parcel of this article and sealed the same.4.	Facts
That, on 01.08.2012, the complainant Jasmeen Kaur came at the police station and asked for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC She was taken to the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate, Fatehgarh Sahib, where the Investigating Officer moved an application for recording the statement of the complainant Jasmeen Kaur under Section 164 CrPC.	Facts
Her statement was recorded by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Fatehgarh Sahib.4.1 After completion of the investigation, the Station House Officer of the Police Station, Bassi Pathana filed the police report under Section 173 CrPC before the learned Magistrate to the effect that the Appellant accused has committed offences punishable under Sections 302, 201 and 307 of the IPC.4.2	Facts
On presentation of the police report, the copies of the documents, as required under Section 207 CrPC, were furnished to the accused.	Facts
The case was committed by the learned Magistrate to the learned Sessions Court vide order dated 29.09.2012 as the offences were exclusively triable by the Court of Session.	Facts
That the learned Sessions Judge, Fatehgarh Sahib framed the charge against the accused for the commission of the offences punishable under Sections 264, 302, 201 and 380 of the IPC.	Facts
The accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial and therefore he came to be tried by the learned Sessions Court for the aforesaid offences.4.3	Facts
To prove the case against the accused, the prosecution led oral as well as the documentary evidence.	Facts
The prime witnesses examined by the prosecution are as under table Through the aforesaid witnesses, the prosecution also brought on record the incriminating material against the accused.5.	Facts
After closure of the prosecution evidence, the statement of the appellantaccused was recorded under Section 313 CrPC and the substance of the evidence appearing against him was put to him.	Facts
He denied the allegations of the prosecution.	Facts
He pleaded innocence and the false implication in the case.	Facts
He also further stated that Gurinder Singh Babbu, brother of the complainant Jasmeen Kaur was addicted to alcohol and therefore Jasmeen Kaur was staying with her parents.	Facts
That her entire family was under tension.	Facts
That her brother Gurinder Singh under the influence of liquor threw the entire family in the canal and later on Gurinder Singh commit suicide.	Facts
It was stated that Jasmeen Kaur made a false complaint to the police to save herself.5.1	Facts
The appellantaccused was called upon to enter in defence, but he closed the same without examining any defence witness.6.	Facts
After hearing both sides, as also after appreciating the entire evidence on record, both oral as well as documentary, learned Sessions Court convicted the appellantaccused for offences punishable under Sections 302, 307, 364, 201 and 380 of the IPC.	Facts
That the learned Sessions Court imposed the death sentence for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC.	Facts
Learned Sessions Court also imposed other punishments for the other offences for which he was convicted.	Facts
Learned Sessions Court also passed an order that all the sentences to run consequently.	Facts
The accused made a reference to the High Court which was numbered as Murder Reference No. 3 of 2013.	Facts
The accused also preferred an appeal before the High Court challenging the judgment and order passed by the learned Sessions Court convicting him for the aforesaid offences.6.1 By the impugned judgment and order, the High Court has, on reappreciation of the entire evidence on record and by a wellreasoned judgment, has confirmed the conviction and sentence passed by the learned Sessions Court, including the death sentence.	Facts
Hence, the present appeals before this Court.	Facts
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused has vehemently submitted that, in the facts and circumstances of the case, both the learned Sessions Court as well as the High Court have materially erred in holding the appellantaccused guilty for the aforesaid offences.7.1 It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that the High Court has not properly appreciated and or considered and or reappreciated the entire evidence on record while confirming the findings recorded by the learned Sessions Court holding the appellantaccused guilty for having committed the murder of six persons.7.2 It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that the High Court has not properly appreciated and or considered the fact that it is a case of material contradictions, more particularly, the depositions of PW5 and the other witnesses examined by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that there are material contradictions in the depositions of PW5 and other prosecution witnesses with respect to the registration of the FIR and the arrival of the police at the spot and, more particularly, the time at which the police reached the spot.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the aforesaid, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused has taken us through the depositions of PW5, PW14, PW7, PW8 and PW11.7.3	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that there are material contradictions in the oral evidence between PW5, PW7, PW8, PW11, PW14 and PW17 which shall weaken the prosecution case and therefore the same benefit must go to the accused as it can be said that the prosecution has failed to prove the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.7.4	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that it is a case of planting of false witnesses planting of recoveries (cash and keys disclosure statement under Section 37 of the Evidence Act of the accused and the memo of recovery of cash and keys) as there are material contradictions between PW5, PW7, PW9 and PW11.7.5	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that the recovery of cash and keys has been planted by the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that, in the crossexamination of PW7, SI Sharsher Singh has categorically stated that before 02.07.2012 the accused had not disclosed as to where he had kept concealed the money.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in the crossexamination PW7 has stated that during remand the house of the accused was searched for three times.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that, despite the above, nothing was found from the house of the accused when it was searched earlier.7.6	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that it is also a case of planting of recoveries (ornaments disclosure statement under Section 27 of the Evidence Act of Harjit Singh, ASI and Head Constable Balwinder Singh) as there are material contradictions between PW5, PW7, PW9 and PW11.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that though PW5, PW7 and PW9 stated with respect to the recovery of ornaments from the Petti lying at the house of the accused, in the entire Chief and in crossexamination, PW11 nowhere tells about the recovery of ornaments from anywhere at any point of time.7.7	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that even it is a case of planting of recovery of Anzilum 0.5mg tablets, memo of disclosure of statement under Section 27 of the Evidence Act of ASI Harjit Singh and Head Constable Balbir Singh and the recovery memo of six empty strips of tablets Anzilum 0.5 mg tablets.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that there are material contradictions on the aforesaid recoveries.7.8 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that the strips of the tablets were recovered from the Maruti car which was kept parked in the police station.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that, therefore, there are all possibilities of planting of recovery of Anzilum 0.5 mg tables.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the strips were planted later on to show the accused might have intoxicated the victims.7.9	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that, in the report of the chemical analyser Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
P44, no poison has been detected in the contents of Ex.	Arguments of Petitioner
I to V.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that no poison was detected in the contents sent to the chemical analyser.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that, in any case, the contents of the Anzilum tablets cannot be said to be poisonous.7.10	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that motive attributed by PW5 and the prosecution for the accused to commit the offences and to kill the family members of PW5 is not at all believable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is prayed therefore to acquit the accused for the offences for which he has been convicted.7.11 In the alternative, it is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellantaccused that this is not a case of capital punishment and, therefore, without prejudice to his submissions made hereinabove, it is prayed to commute the death sentence to life imprisonment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The present appeals are vehemently opposed by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State.8.1 It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that, in the present case, the prosecution has successfully proved the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that on appreciation and reappreciation of the entire evidence on record, both the learned Sessions Court as well as the High Court have rightly held the accused guilty for having killed the six persons.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that therefore the findings recorded by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court are on appreciation of the evidence, which are neither perverse nor contrary to the materials on record.8.2	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that the present case of the prosecution is based on the eyewitness of the complainant PW5 Jasmeen Kaur, which is also a substantial evidence and the evidence of last seen.8.3 It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that, in the present case, PW5 is the unfortunate eyewitness who has seen her entire family being killed by the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that she is the witness who has seen the accused last seen with the deceased.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that PW5 is the witness to the deceased Gurinder Singh brother, mother Paramjit Kaur and husband Rupinder Singh leaving in the company of the accused on 25/26.06.2012 at about 2.30 am and thereafter these three persons were not seen alive by anyone.	Arguments of Respondent
Rather dead body of Gurinder Singh was found by the police on 29.6.2012.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that, therefore, the prosecution has been successful in proving the accused last seen together with the deceased Gurinder Singh, Paramjit Kaur and Rupinder Singh.8.4 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that on 26.06.2012, the complainant PW5 along with her father Gurmail Singh and her two children aged seven and eight years respectively left in the car of the accused for offering prayer in the running water of Bhakra main canal near village Thablan bridge.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that, as stated by PW5 in her deposition, at about 9.30 p.m., when PW5 along with her father came out of the car to offer prayer in the running water while her children kept sitting in the car, the accused pushed PW5 and her father in the canal.	Arguments of Respondent
However, PW5 came out of the canal with the help of an iron bar in the canal.	Arguments of Respondent
PW5 immediately narrated the occurrence to some employees of canal department present there PW4 Rajinder Singh.8.5	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that the fact that PW5, Gurmail Singh and her two children aged seven and eight years respectively were with the accused in the Maruti car, has been corroborated by PW8 Jang Bahadur.8.6	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that, as such, there are no material contradictions on the registration of the FIR and arrival of the police on the spot, as contended submitted on behalf of the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that PW5 and PW7 have fully supported each other on the police arriving at the spot and the registration of the FIR.8.7	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that, in the present case, as such, there are recoveries of money and ornaments which have been recovered from the house of the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that recoveries were done at the instance of the accused himself.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also submitted that the recovery of the ornaments and cash has been established and proved by the prosecution beyond doubt.8.8	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that even the recovery of Anzilum 0.5mg tablets from the Maruti car of the accused has been established and proved by the prosecution by leading cogent evidence.8.9	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that, in the present case, even the motive has been proved beyond all doubts that the crime is committed for theft of Rs.37,00,000/ and ornaments and that the accused planned meticulously to wipe out the entire family.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that as the accused was aware that he will not be able to kill all the seven members of the family at one time and, therefore, he took them in two stages and killed them in two instalments.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that, therefore, both the Courts below have rightly held the accused guilty for having killed six persons out of seven members of a single family and has rightly imposed the capital punishment.8.10 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State that, in the facts and circumstances of the case and the manner in which the accused killed six innocent persons, out of seven members of a family, and that too, in a preplanned manner and in two instalments, the aggravating circumstances are in favour of the capital punishment.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it is prayed to confirm the capital punishment death sentence imposed by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the impugned judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length.	Reasoning
We have scanned the entire evidence on record, both oral as well as documentary evidence.	Reasoning
We have minutely considered and gone through the entire evidence on record, as it is a case of capital punishment and death penalty awarded by the Courts below.9.1	Reasoning
Having heard the counsel for the respective parties and having scanned gone through the entire evidence on record, and the findings recorded by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court, we are of the opinion that the findings recorded by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court are on appreciation of the evidence, which are neither perverse nor contrary to the evidence on record.9.2	Reasoning
It is required to be noted that, in the present case, six persons out of seven members of a family have been killed by the accused.	Reasoning
It is required to be noted that even PW5 was also thrown into the canal by the accused along with her father Gurmail Singh and her two children aged seven and eight years.	Reasoning
However, she could survive and come out of the canal with the help of an iron bar in the canal.	Reasoning
Therefore, she is the eyewitness to the incident of having pushed along with Gurmail Singh into the canal.9.3	Reasoning
The accused was last seen together with the deceased Gurinder Singh, Paramjit Kaur and Rupinder Singh on 25/26.06.2012 at about 2.30 a.m. That, thereafter, the aforesaid three persons were not seen alive by anyone.	Reasoning
That the dead body of Gurinder Singh was found by the police on 29.06.2012.	Reasoning
The deposition of PW5 having seen the accused last together with the aforesaid three persons, has been established and proved by the prosecution by leading cogent evidence and examining PW8 Jang Bahadur, exSarpanch of village Mukandpur.9.4	Reasoning
The prosecution has proved the case against the accused by leading cogent evidence and examining PW5, the eyewitness PW14, an employee of the canal department, who is an independent witness to whom PW5 narrated the entire occurrence which was first in time PW8 the exSarpanch PW9 Manjit Singh before whom extrajudicial confession was made and also by examining several police witnesses, including PW7, the investigating officer Sharsher Singh.	Reasoning
Having gone through the entire deposition of the aforesaid witnesses minutely, we are of the opinion that, by and large, they have supported the case of the prosecution.	Reasoning
In fact, both the learned Sessions Court and the High Court have considered in detail the socalled contradictions pointed out by the defence.	Reasoning
Both the Courts below have rightly observed that there might be minor contradictions, but they are not fatal to the prosecution case and or they will not make the prosecution case false.10.	Reasoning
As held by this Court in a catena of decisions, minor discrepancies are not to be given undue emphasis and the evidence is to be considered from the point of view of trustworthiness.	Reasoning
The test is whether the same inspires confidence in the mind of the court.	Reasoning
In the case of Yogesh Singh v. Mahabeer Singh (2007) 11 SCC 195 it is observed by this Court that every omission cannot take place of a material omission and, therefore, minor contradictions, inconsistencies or insignificant embellishments do not affect the core of prosecution case and should not be taken to be a ground to reject the prosecution evidence.	Reasoning
It is further observed that the omission should create a serious doubt about the truthfulness or creditworthiness of a witness.	Reasoning
It is further observed that it is only the serious contradictions and omissions which materially affect the case of prosecution but not every contradiction or omission.11.	Reasoning
Applying the aforesaid to the facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the opinion that the witnesses who were examined by the prosecution are trustworthy and reliable.	Reasoning
There are no material contradictions which may affect the case of the prosecution.	Reasoning
PW5 is the eyewitness and also the victim.	Reasoning
She has been fully crossexamined by the defence.	Reasoning
But the defence has not brought out anything from her crossexamination which may affect the case of the prosecution and or which may doubt her trustworthiness.	Reasoning
PW14 is an independent witness to whom the occurrence was narrated by PW5.	Reasoning
Even PW8 and PW9 are also independent witnesses.	Reasoning
Nothing has been alleged against them.12.	Reasoning
In the present case, there are also recoveries of cash and ornaments from the house of the accused which were recovered at the instance of the accused.	Reasoning
The cash of Rs.36,70,000/ which was taken by the accused from the house of the victims has been recovered from the house of the accused.	Reasoning
Even the ornaments which were taken by the accused from the house of the victims have been recovered from the house of the accused and that too at the instance of the accused himself.	Reasoning
The recoveries regarding memos etc. have been proved by the prosecution.	Reasoning
Even the keys of the house of the victims were found from the house of the accused.	Reasoning
The ornaments and the cash have been identified by PW5.	Reasoning
Merely because, earlier there might have been search at the house of the accused and nothing was found at that time, cannot be a ground to discard the recoveries made subsequently which, as such, were made at the instance of the accused himself.	Reasoning
The accused is the best person to know where he kept the ornaments cash which he had taken from the house of the victims.	Reasoning
There is no reason to doubt the recoveries.12.1 In the present case, the prosecution has been successful in proving the motive for the accused to commit the offence and to do away with the entire family, which is supported by the recoveries of cash and ornaments from the house of the accused.12.2 Even the recoveries of Anzilum 0.5mg tablets from the Maruti car belonging to the accused has been established and proved.	Reasoning
Therefore, the prosecution case that he had given pills to the deceased persons and, thereafter, killed them has been established.	Reasoning
Now the case on behalf of the accused that no poison was detected in the contents sent to the chemical examiner and, therefore, the aforesaid case of the prosecution may not be believable is concerned, it is required to be noted that only in a case where the pills are given in larger number, in that case only, the poison would be detected.	Reasoning
Therefore, nondetection of the poison in the contents would not be fatal to the case of the prosecution.13.	Reasoning
Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case and the findings recorded by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court, which the Courts below have considered in detail by giving cogent reasons and on appreciation of the evidence on record, we are of the opinion that the High Court has rightly confirmed the conviction of the accused for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC having killed committing the murder of six persons.	Reasoning
We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances of the case, the conviction of the accused for the aforesaid offences is hereby confirmed.14.	Reasoning
Now, so far as the capital punishment imposed by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that, as such, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused is not in a position to point out any mitigating circumstance which warrants commutation of death sentence to the life imprisonment.	Reasoning
In the present case, the accused has killed six innocent persons, out of which two were minors below 10 years of age.	Reasoning
Almost, all the family members of PW5 were done to death in a diabolical and dastardly manner.	Reasoning
Fortunately, or unfortunately, only one person of the family of PW5 could survive.	Reasoning
In the present case, the accused has killed six innocent persons in a preplanned manner.	Reasoning
The convict meticulously planned the time.	Reasoning
He first kidnapped three persons by way of deception and took them to the canal and after drugging them with sleeping tablets, pushed them in the canal at a midnight to ensure that the crime is not detected.	Reasoning
That, thereafter he killed another three persons in the second stage instalment.	Reasoning
Therefore, considering the law laid down by this Court in the case of Mukesh v. State (NCT of Delhi) (2017) 6 SCC 1 , the case would fall in the category of the rarest of rare case warranting death sentence capital punishment.	Reasoning
The aggravating circumstances are in favour of the prosecution and against the accused.	Reasoning
Therefore, striking a balance between the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, we are of the opinion that the aggravating circumstance would tilt the balance in favour of the capital punishment.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the opinion that there is no alternative punishment suitable, except the death sentence.	None
The crime is committed with extremist brutality and the collective conscious of the society would be shocked.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are of the opinion that the capital punishment death sentence imposed by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court does not warrant any interference by this Court.	Reasoning
Therefore, we confirm the death sentence of the accused imposed by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court while convicting the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC.15.	Decision
In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeals fail.	Decision
The impugned judgment and order passed by the High Court dismissing the appeal and confirming the judgment and order passed by the learned Sessions Court convicting the accused for the offences punishable under Sections 364, 302, 307, 201 and 380 IPC is hereby confirmed.	Decision
The conviction of the appellantaccused for the offences punishable under Section 302 IPC and other offences is hereby confirmed and the capital imprisonment death sentence imposed by the learned Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC for having killed six persons is hereby confirmed.	Decision
