 	None
Santosh Hegde, J.The appellant in the above appeal was charged with an offence punishable under Section 302 I.P.C. before the VIth Additional Sessions Judge, Madras in S.C. No. 83/86 who found him guilty of the said offence and sentenced him to undergo imprisonment for life.	Issue
His appeal before the Division Bench of the Madras High Court in Criminal Appeal No. 1054 of 1986 came to be dismissed and he is now in appeal before us by special leave.	Issue
The prosecution case stated briefly against the appellant is that he was married to one Jabeena on 29th January 1984 and after the marriage for some time they resided in an independent house.	Facts
In the year 1985, Jabeena gave birth to a male child in her parents house and thereafter the appellant came to live in the house of his fatherinlaw Mohd.	Facts
Ahamed (PW1) inthe house bearing Door No. 22, 11th Avenue, Ashok Nagar, Madras.	None
The said house contained one bed room in the ground floor which was occupied by PW1s elder daughter and her husband.	Facts
Out of the four bed rooms on the first floor, one bed room was occupied by PW1 and his wife, the second bed room next to that was occupied by the appellant and Jabeena with their child, the third bed room was occupied by two unmarried sons of PW1 and the fourth bed room was lying vacant.	Facts
On 27.12.1985 at about 6.00 a.m. the wife of PW 1, by name Maliga Ahamed, (PW3) heard the continuous cries of Jabeenas child, hence, she came to the room of the appellant and knocked on the door of the room.	Facts
It is alleged that the appellant got up and opened the door and on being asked by PW3, he gave the child to her and closed the door of his room.	Facts
A short while after, it is stated that the appellant shouted for PW3 who went to the room of the appellant, when the appellant pointed out to PW3 the bathroom where Jabeena was found lying with the upper part of her body having become black on account of burning.	Facts
The appellant is supposed to have told her that Jabeena suffered the burns while heating the water on the stove.	Facts
The further case of the prosecution is that on hearing the cries of PW 3, PW 1 came to the said room and he also found Jabeena lying ant he floor and when he tried to find her pulse, he found her to be dead.	Facts
Immediately, thereafter the family tried to call a Doctor by name Dr. Aziz Rehman over the phone but he was not available.	Facts
It is further alleged by the prosecution that on the persuasion of the appellant, Jabeena was given a bath by her mother PW 3 and her eldest sister, Abeeda Altaf (PW4) during which time the appellant was found cleaning the bed and changing the bed sheet.	Facts
It is contended by the prosecution, thereafter, PW 1 along with his friend Syed Asim went to Kumaran Nagar, Police Station and gave a report which is marked as Ex. P.1.	Facts
On the basis of the said report the Officer Incharge of the said Police Station who has been examined as PW 10 registered a Crime No. 981/85 under Section 174 of the Cr. P.C.	Facts
PW10 then sent the necessary report to the concerned authorities.	None
On coming to know of the incident, the Inspector of Police PW 11 took up the investigation and reached the scene of occurrence about 9.50 a.m. and prepared an observation Magazar and scene sketch as per Ex.P18 and 19.	Facts
PW 11 thereafter held the inquest of the dead body of Jabeena (Ext.P20) and seized MOs 1 to 4 and 7 to 10.It is the case of the prosecution	None
that on a request made by PW 1, the father of Jabeena, who believed that Jabeena had died due to an accident no postmortem was conducted and hence PW11 released the body of Jabeen to PW1.	None
On that very day Jabeenas body was buried in the Ammeerunnissa Begum Muslim Burial ground.	None
The prosecution further states that as per the religious custom, the third day rites of the deceased were conducted.	Facts
After these rituals, it is alleged that the appellant left the house of PW1 and went away to his parental house taking all his belongings with him.	Facts
The prosecution further alleges that the behaviour of the appellant during the third day rites was very peculiar and was not consistent with that of a caring husband.	Facts
It was also stated that the relatives who attended the last rites as well as the third day ceremony were not convinced that Jabeena had died due to an accident.	Facts
Through the evidence of PWs.1 to 7 prosecution then alleges that the appellant had earlier demanded money for the purchase of a scooter which was not given by PW1, and that his relationship with Jabeena was not very cordial because of his perverted sexual habits and also that the appellant was angry the day before the death due to the fact that he was not told about the visit of the other family members to Spencer Company for the purchase of a washing machine.	Facts
In view of this background, PW1 and his family members doubted the cause of the death of Jabeena.	Facts
Therefore, on 3.1.1986 nearly 7 days after the death of Jabeena, PW1 approached the Assistant Commissioner of Police (PW12) around 7 p.m. and gave another report which is marked as Ex.P.2.	Facts
Based on the said report the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP)	None
PW12 requisitioned the file pertaining to Cr.	None
No. 989/85 and changed the cause of death as suspicious death and sent express reports in the form of Ex.	None
P23 to the Court and the authorities concerned.	None
PW12 thereafter requisitioned as per Ex.	None
P14 the services of Madras City Additional District Magistrate for exhumation of the dead body of Jabeena and for holding a further inquest.	Facts
PW12 also requisitioned the services of Medical Officers at the time of exhuming the body and also for conducting the postmortem examination.	None
On 4.1.86 the concerned Tehsildar was informed of the fact that the postmortem would be conducted at the burial ground itself.	Facts
Thereafter, in the presence of witnesses and Panchayatdars the body of Jabeena was exhumed between 4.15 and 5.45 P.M. and the inquest was conducted by the Tehsildar PW9.	Facts
The postmortem itself was conducted by a Medico Legal Expert (PW.8) with the help of one Dr. Balkrishna Rao (not examined).	None
PW 8 was then the Additional Professor of Forensic Medicine, Madras Medical College and the said Dr. Balakrishna Rao was an Assistant Professor in the same college.	Facts
The postmortem report (Ex.P.12) along with the inquest report was dispatched by PW11 to the concerned authorities which ultimately reached the Commissioner of Police on 26.2.1986.	Facts
Based on the postmortem and inquest reports, the Commissioner of Police altered the Section of the offence in the concerned record to Section 302 I.P.C. Based on the investigation conducted thereafter, the prosecution charged the appellant of having committed the murder of Jabeena.	Facts
Before the Trial Court the prosecution examined 12 witnesses and produced 25 exhibits including Ext.P.12, the postmortem report.	Facts
Both the Trial Court as well as the High Court accepted the case of the prosecution and found the appellant guilty of the offence charged against him.	Facts
The High Court while dismissing the appeal of the appellant and affirming the judgment of the trial Court has accepted as many as 14 circumstances pointed out by the prosecution against the accused which are as follows (1) Motive evidence plus the temperament conduct of the appellant at various stages.(1a) Appellant and the deceased were seen last together inside the bed room, the bolt of which room from inside, was opened by the appellant to help PW 3 to take away his crying son plus facial expression of the appellant anguished and terrifying at that juncture(2)	Facts
Appellant having shouted for help calling his motherinlaw, a little later after she left, with her grandson.	None
The conduct of the appellant pushing the unbolted bath room door and pointing out the fallen down deceased inside the bath room with her hands on her back and burn injuries on her forehead cheek, ears, beck and chest together with burned cloth sticking on to her right thigh and left knee(3)	Facts
The availability of M.O.5 stove and M.O. 6 stand with a brass vessel and bucket inside the bath room of the appellant, though these articles would normally be found in the kitchen(4)	Facts
The reply of the appellant, when PW.3 questioned him as to what had happened, that the deceased had lifted boiled water and poured in into the bucket, before filling more water into the vessel, to boil it over again, in which process, accidentally her saree caught fire(5) P.W.1 having found the body of his daughter chill without possibility of feeling the pulse, together with injuries already noticed, and the position in which the body was lying.	Facts
Chillness of the body was sufficient proof, that death must have occurred quite some time ago and not at or about the time when PW.3 went out, with the infant(6)	Facts
The Conduct of the appellant in having informed PW 4 when questioned, that the deceased had slipped and fell down resulting in her saree getting engulfed in flames.	Facts
This version is contrary to what the appellant had told to his motherinlaw The conduct of the appellant in insisting that Jabeena should be given a bath, since she was not clean and it was a Friday and successfully persuading both the witnesses to accede to this unusual request The conduct of the appellant in refusing to help PWs.	Facts
3 and 4 to clean up his wife, stating that the link between him and his wife had got snapped.(8)	Facts
The activity of the appellant in cleaning the bed room by removing old sheets and replacing them with fresh sheets within the shortwhile when the body of his wife was taken inside the bath room, in pursuance of his request.	Facts
The subsequent conduct of the appellant in cleaning the bath room and coming out fresh after bath, soon after his wife was laid on the cleaned bed(9)	Facts
The information furnished by PWs 3 and 4 to PW.1 when the latter scolded them for having bathed the body when it was a police case, that they indulged in such activity on the cringing request of the appellant(10) Seizure of M.Os. 1 to 10 from the bath room and the dead body(11)	Facts
The conduct of the appellant creating an impression that the death of his wife was accidental which was implicitly believed, leading to a request not to send the body for postmortem Conduct of the appellant on the 3rd day ceremony, his happy movements and care free eating, smoking and singing habits noticed of the appellant duping PW 5 as though he was looking for the Quran inside the Godrej bureau, when the Quran was easily available at its usual place and needed no search.	Facts
Appellant leaving the house of his fatherinlaw with his clothes soon after the 3rd day(13)	Facts
The interest exhibited by the appellant in a film exhibited in the Television relating to an Army Officer getting himself equipped with information to murder his wayward wife by compressing her neck without the possibility of her raising her voice to attract attention.	Facts
Appellant having keenly visited a picture  house to see the same film, when it was screened.	Facts
The connection between the manner of murder in the film and the death of deceased Jabeena and(14) Medical evidence indicating homicide and excluding possible suicide	Facts
A careful perusal of these circumstances would show that circumstances 1 to 13 either taken together or independently would not assist the case of the prosecution to prove conclusively that the death of Jabeena is homicidal and is not either suicidal or accidental.	None
As observed by the High Court itself the sheet anchor of the prosecution case is the medical evidence which is noticed as the 14th circumstance by the High Court.	None
If the medical evidence is accepted, as has been done by the courts below, then reasons 1 to 13 would provide materials to establish that it is the appellant and the appellant alone who could have caused the death of Jabeena.	None
On behalf of the appellant, it is strongly contended by Mr. U.R. Lalit, learned senior counsel, that the prosecution has not been able to establish that Jabeenas death was homicidal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended, at any rate the evidence of PW8 creates a reasonable doubt as to the real cause of death of Jabeena.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended that from the material available at the time of the postmortem it would not have been possible for a doctor to establish the real cause of death in view of the high stage of decomposition of the body.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the State, Mr. R. Mohan, learned senior counsel, supported the judgments of the courts below and contended that there was no reason whatsoever why the evidence of PW8 should not be accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
Since the entire prosecution case rests on the evidence of PW8, we will examine the said evidence in detail.	None
During the course of the post mortem examination, PW8 noticed high decomposition of the body.	None
She noted the following injuries on the dead body Singeing of scalp hair over middle of frontal and parietal regions 8 cm x 6 cm.	None
Reddish black discolouration of skin over face, front of chest, left breast, right shoulder, right side of abdomen front of upper and middle third of left leg, front of left leg, front of left thing, inner aspect of left thing and upper middle and lower part of back.	None
Deep splitting of the skin over lower part of right breast and upper third of front of right thigh exposing the underlying fatty tissue.	None
3A3 ?	None
4. Blackening of skin over front and both sides of neck, the skin on the back of the neck did not show any discolouration.	None
The skin on front of neck showed a horizontal and uniformly hardened and thickened area.	None
1 cm.	None
In width, O.5 cm in thickness and O,5 cm in length, situated 5 cms.	None
below the right ear lobe on right side of front of neck, 6 cm, below the left ear lobe on left side of front of neck.	None
On dissection of the tissue of neck, a contusion reddish black in colour 4 cm x 3 cm was seen on right side over the right side of hyoid bone and a contusion 3 cm x 2 cm on left side near the left lobe of thyroid.	None
Dark reddish black contusion 14 cm x 12 cm x 1 cm was seen on front of right side of chest.	None
There were no burns on left shoulder below the neck and back of neck, upper part of right breast middle of chest between the breasts, left side of abdomen, genitals, outer aspect of chest and abdomen on both sides, both upper and lower limbs fully, middle and lower part of right thigh , both ankles and feet, buttocks and back of both lower limbs fully.	None
On an internal examination of the body, PW8 noticed that the lungs were decomposing.	None
Mucosa reddish black in colour was found in the trachea.	None
Very few black soot particles were seen inside the teeth.	None
Hyoid bone was intact.	None
Stomach was empty.	None
Mucosa in the stomach did not show any discolouration.	None
Liver, spleen and kidney were decomposing.	None
Bladder and Uterus were empty.	None
Brain was found liquefied.	None
On the basis of the above observations, PW8 recorded her opinion of Jabeenas death as follows  Died of asphyxia and cerebral anoxia due to cumulative effects of compression of neck and burns.	None
In her oral evidence, she opined that injury N. 4 noticed by her could be caused by compression of neck with minimal pressure and the said injury, according to her, was antemortem in nature.	None
She opined that the hyoid bone was not fractured because the pressure on the neck was minimal.	None
She further opined that injury Nos. 1 to 3 and the changes found in the trachea along with the presence of stoot particles inside thetrachea could have been due to burns and that these burns would have been antemortem.	None
She was very specific that neither the injury to the neck nor the burn injuries could have been accident or suicidal.	None
Thus, it is seen that as per the evidence of PW8, there are two causes of death, namely, asphyxia and cerebral anoxia which cumulatively caused the death and this was due to compression of neck and burns.	None
During her crossexamination the defence has suggested to her, that the contusion noticed by her as injury No. 4, was not caused by external pressure but due to swellings that were caused during the process of decomposition of the body.	None
Hence, she could have wrongly concluded that the death was partly due to asphyxia.	None
To establish that there was a reasonable possibility of PW8 mistaking the swelling caused by decomposition as contusions, the defence confronted her with certain wellrecognised textbooks on the subject.	None
Firstly, PW8I was confronted with the statement appearing in the text Lyons Medical Jurisprudence wherein, at pp.	None
149 and 150 (1953 Edn.), the following statement was found Other effects of pressure of gas are Distension of the tissues of the neck resulting in accentuation of the natural groove and frequently giving rise to appearances suggestive of strangulation.	None
PW8 accepted the fact that Lyons Medical Jurisprudence was one of the authoritative books on the subject.	None
But, she still disagreed with the statement extracted from the said book without assigning any reasons.	None
However, she did not support her opinion with any other acceptable material.	None
This opinion of PW8 has to be scrutinished in the following background Firstly, the fact that she had not seen any external injury corresponding to the internal contusion which, according to her, was the basis of her opinion that asphyxia by strangulation was caused.	None
Secondly, in view of the specific statement made by her in the course of her evidence that she had not seen any ligature marks.	None
Thirdly, that the hyoid bone which ordinarily would be damaged if external pressure is applied, was found to be intact.	None
During further crossexamination, PW8 recognised Keith Simpson as a world authority on medical jurisprudence.	None
But she did not agree with the said Keith Simpsons opinion that Parikhs book is a comprehensive and outstand book on reference for court work.	None
This reference to Keith Simpsons opinion in Dr. Parikhs book was put to PW8, to suggest to her that if the hypostasis extends to the head, it may be mistaken as a violence to the neck or smotherings as found at page 159 of Dr. Parikhs textbook (4th Edn. 1995).	None
She disagreed with this statement as found in Parikhs book, she insisted on stating that the horizontal and uniformly hardened and thickened area mentioned by her as injury No. 4 must be due to ligature, even though according to her post mortem report and evidence in the court, she had not seen any ligature marks on the body of Jabeena.	None
The defence has further confronted PW8 with the statement found in the book The Essentials of Forensic Medicine by Dr. K.S. Naryana Reddy to establish the fact, that on decomposition of a body, the gas collects in the subcutaneous tissue and becomes emphysamatous.	None
This would then create a false impression of ante mortem obesity (stout).	None
PW8 disagreed with this opinion, also, without supporting her opinion on the basis of any other authority.	None
From the statements found in various textbooks referred to above, notwithstanding the disagreement of PW8, we will have to conclude that there is a possibility of the existence of swellings occurring in a decomposing body, similar to the one noticed by PW8 which give rise to appearances suggestive of strangulation.	None
There is a reasonable possibility that the contusions noticed by PW8 are those swellings which could have been caused due to decomposition of the body of Jabeena.	None
Therefore, these suggestions of the defence made to PW8 cannot be lightly brushed aside.	None
More so, in the background of the fact that PW8 had conducted the post mortem on Jabeenas body nearly 8 days after it was buried, and admittedly even according to PW8, the body of Jabeena had decomposed considerably at the time of the post mortem examination.	None
This is coupled with the fact that she had admitted in her evidence that she has no other authoritative text to contradict or support her, as against the statements found in the text books like the Lyons Medical Jurisprudence, Parikhs text book on Medical Jurisprudence, The Essentials of Forensic Medicines by Dr. K.S. Naryana Reddy.	None
The second cumulative cause of death as per the opinion of PW8 is cerebral anoxia caused due to burns.	Reasoning
It is true that PW8 noticed certain burn marks on the face and chest of Jabeena.	Reasoning
It is seen from the text books and from the evidence of PW8 that anoxia of the brain is caused due to lack of supply of oxygen to the brain which could be due to burning as found in the body of Jabeena.	Reasoning
PW8 in her statement before the court stated thus Cerebral anoxia means the stoppage of blood supply to the brain.	None
In the event of cerebral anoxia in the post mortem examination except the pale appearance of the brain, there will not be any other change in the brain.	Reasoning
As the brain had been liquefied in this case, it cannot be stated whether brain becomes pale or not.	Reasoning
There was no other sign by which I could say that there was cerebral anoxia.	Reasoning
Cerebral anoxia in my opinion or conclusion based on my observation and findings in the post mortem examination.	Reasoning
It is not correct to say that no opinion of cerebral anoxia could be given or arrived at in the case of liquification of the brain.	Reasoning
A cautious reading of this part of PW8s evidence shows in one part PW8 admits that the one and only method by which a medical examiner can conclude that cause of death was due to cerebral anoxia is by noticing pale appearance of the brain.	Reasoning
She also specifically admits that there will not be any other change in the brain in the case of cerebral anoxia and since the brain had become liquefied, it cannot be stated if the brain had become pale or not.	Reasoning
She is also specific in her statement that there was no other sign by which she could say that was cerebral anoxia.	Reasoning
Stopping for a while at this stage and examining PW8s evidence, one finds that at the time of the post mortem examination, Jabeenas brain had liquefied and there was no way by which PW8 could have noticed the paleness in the brain.	Reasoning
However, in the latter part of her evidence, she deviates from her earlier opinion and states that it is not correct to say that no opinion of cerebral anoxia could be given or arrived at in the case of liquification of the brain.	Reasoning
These two statements are diametrically opposed to each other and we find it rather difficult to accept this part of her evidence which is so selfcontradictory.	None
In our view, the opinion of PW8 that the cause of death as recorded by her is due to the cumulative effect of asphyxia and cerebral anoxia, is rather difficult to accept.	Reasoning
We are aware of the fact that sufficient weightage should be given to the evidence of the doctor who has conducted the post mortem, as compared to the statements found in the text books, but giving weightage does not ipso facto mean that each and every statement made by a medical witness should be accepted on its face value even when it is selfcontradictory.	None
This is one such case where we find that there is a reasonable doubt in regard to the cause of death of Jabeena and we find it not safe to rely upon the evidence of PW8, solely, for the purpose of coming to the conclusion that Jabeenas death is proved by the prosecution to be homicidal.	Reasoning
We have examined the evidence of PWs.	Reasoning
1 to 7 who speak of the factum of the relationship of the appellant with Jabeena and various possible motives the appellant could have had for causing the death of Jabeena.	Reasoning
First of all, we should notice the fact that on the date of the death of Jabeena, none of these witnesses entertained any doubt as to the complicity of the appellant in the death of Jabeena.	Reasoning
They proceeded on the basis that Jabeena died an accidental death and even persuaded the investigating authorities to release the body without a proper post mortem.	Reasoning
Therefore the court will have to be very cautious while appreciating their evidence.	Reasoning
Assuming that the evidence of PWs 1 to 7 can be accepted by the courts, it would only conclude that the appellant had a motive to kill Jabeena, but then it could also give a reason for PWs.	Reasoning
1 to 7 to depose falsely against the appellant, in view of the tragic death of a loved one.	Reasoning
Motive being a doubleedged weapon, could cut both ways  helping or harming both the prosecution and the defence.	Reasoning
Hence, we are of the considered view that if we are unable to place reliance on the evidence of PW8 then the evidence of PWs. 1 to 7 will not be sufficient to convict the appellant of the prosecution charge.	None
Of course, the prosecution has established that the appellant was the only person in the company of Jabeena and her child at the relevant time on the fateful day.	Reasoning
But this again stops the prosecution case in the realm of suspicion, which by itself cannot be substituted for hard evidence.	Reasoning
Aware as we are of the fact, a budding life came to an unfortunate premature end, our jurisprudence will not permit us to base a conviction on the basis of the evidence placed by the prosecution in this case and the benefit of a reasonable doubt must be given to the appellant.	Reasoning
For the reasons stated above, this appeal succeeds and is hereby allowed, setting aside the conviction and the sentence.	Decision
The appellant is on bail.	Decision
His bailbonds shall stand cancelled.	None
