 Hegde, J.1.	None
The principal question of law arising in these appeals by certificate is whether on the facts and in the circumstances of each of these cases the Department was right in applying Section 44F read with Section 2 (6A) (c) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
The Incometax Officer, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal answered that question in favour of the Department but the High Court answered the same in favour of the assessee.	Facts
As we are in agreement with the conclusion reached by the High Court, we do not think it necessary to examine the other questions arising in these appeals.2.	Facts
For deciding the said question of law, it is sufficient if we take up the facts of any one of these cases.	None
For the sake of convenience, we shall set out the facts in Civil Appeal No. 2348 of 1968.	None
The assessee in that case is Vadilal Lallubhai.	None
He is assessed as an individual.	None
The relevant assessment year is 195859, the accounting year being the year ending on March 31, 1958.3.	None
The assessee belongs to the wellknown family of Vadilal Lallubhai Mehta of Ahmedabad.	Facts
The members of this family (who for the sake of convenience will hereinafter be referred to as the Mehta Group) owned shares in and controlled several companies including certain managing agency companies.	Facts
Those managing agency companies were Private Ltd. companies.	Facts
The managed companies were also companies in which the members of the Mehta Group had controlling interest.	Facts
This Group had also selling agency rights in the companies which they were managing.	Facts
On the coming into force of the Companies Act, 1956, the managing agency companies gave up their managing agency rights in order to safeguard their selling agency rights.	Facts
Thereafter the assessee sold his share holdings to the employees of some Mehta Group companies or the relations of such employees.	Facts
In addition he sold some shares to one of the family trusts.	Facts
A few days after the sales in question, those manging agency companies went into voluntary liquidation.	Facts
Consequently the assets of those companies were distributed among the shareholders who were borne on the registers of the companies as on the dates of liquidation.	Facts
These shareholders included those persons who had newly purchased the shares.	Facts
One of the new shareholders as mentioned earlier was a charitable trust which was not liable to pay any tax.	Facts
The remaining sharesholders were either not liable to pay any tax or were liable to pay tax at a lower rate than the assessee would have had to pay had he received the amount distrubed by the liquidators.4.	Facts
The Incometax Officer brought to tax a portion of the assets distributed on liquidation by applying Section 44F read with Section 2 (6A) (c) of the Act.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner agreed with this view.	Facts
The assessees appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal was unsuccessful.	Facts
Thereafter at the instance of the assessee, certain questions were referred to the High Court for its opinion.	Facts
Various contentions were advanced before the High Court on behalf of the assessee.	Facts
We do not think it necessary to refer to those contentions as in our view the High Court was right in taking the view	Facts
that to the facts and circumstances of the case, Sec. 44F read with Section 2 (6A) (c) was inapplicable.5.	Facts
It was contended on behalf of the Revenue that the distribution of the assets of the various managing agency companies on liquidation is dividend within the meaning of S. 2 (6A) (c) and consequently as income as defined in Section 2 (6C).	Arguments of Petitioner
Further the assessee sold his shares with a view to avoid incometax and supertax and consequently the assets distributed which would have fallen to his share had he not sold his share are liable to be brought to tax under the provisions of Section 44F of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it was contended on behalf of the assessee that the definitions contained in Section 2 are only to be applied unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context.	Arguments of Respondent
The definition of dividend given in S. 2 (6A) (c) is repugnant to the subject dealt with under S. 44F and consequently the distribution of the assets on liquidation of the several managing agencies concerns cannot be considered as income within the meaning of S. 44F.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that S. 44F concerns itself with the income from securities or shares which are of a periodical nature but which an assessee may seek to convert into a capital receipt by adopting certain devices.	Arguments of Respondent
The provisions therein do not deal with the compensation received for the very destruction of the incomeyielding assets viz.	Arguments of Respondent
the securities or shares.	Arguments of Respondent
We shall now consider which one of these two contentions is acceptable.	None
But before doing so it will be convenient to make reference to the relevant provisions in the Act.6.	None
Section 2 the definition section, starts by saying that the definitions given therein apply unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context.	None
Hence if the definition of dividend found in Section 2 (6A) (c) is either repugnant to the subject or context with which we are dealing that definition will not be applicable.	None
Section 2 (6A) gives an inclusive definition of dividend.	None
In this case we are concerned with Section 2 (6A) (c) which readsAny distribution made to the shareholders of a company on its liquidation, to the extent to which the distribution is attributable to the accumulated profits of the company immediately before its liquidation whether capitalised or not.7.	None
Section 2 (6C) gives an inclusive definition of income.	None
Dividend is included therein.	None
Hence if a receipt can be considered as a dividend it has to be considered as an income under Section 2 (6C).	None
This takes us to S. 44F. which reads (1) Any person upon whom notice is served by the Incometax Officer requiring him to furnish a statement of particulars relating to any securities in which at any time during the period specified in the notice he has had any beneficial interest, and in respect of which within such period either no income was received by him or the income received by him was less than sum to which the income would have amounted if the income from such securities had accrued from day to day and been apportioned accordingly, shall, whether an assessment to incometax or supertax in respect of his total income has or has not been made for the relevant year or years of assessment, furnish such a statement and such particulars in the form and within the time (not being less than twentyeight days) required by the notice.(2)	None
If it appears to the Incometax Officer by reference to all the circumstances in relation to the securities of any such person (including circumstances with respect to sales, purchases, dealings, contracts, arrangements, transfers, or any other transactions relating to such securities) that such person has thereby avoided or would avoid more than ten per cent.	None
of the amount of the incometax or supertax for any year which would have been payable in his case in respect of the income from those securities if the income had been deemed to accrue from day to day and had been apportioned accordingly, and the income so deemed to have been apportioned to him had been treated as part of his total income from all sources for the purposes of incometax or supertax, then those securities shall be deemed to be securities to which subsection (3) applies.(3)	None
For the proposes of assessment to incometax or supertax in the case of any such person the income from any securities to which this subsection applies shall be deemed to accrue from day to day and in the case of the sale or transfer of any such securities by or to him shall be deemed to have been received as and when it is deemed to have accruedProvided that this section shall not apply if such person proves to the satisfaction of the Incometax Officer that the avoidance of incometax or supertax was exceptional and not systematic and that there was not in his case in any of the three preceding years any such avoidance of incometax or supertax or that the provisions of Section 44E have been applied in his case in respect of such income.(4) x x x x x(5)	None
x	None
x x x x(6)	None
For the purpose of this section the expression securities includes stocks and shares.8.	None
From a reading of subss.	None
(1) to (3) of Sec.	None
44F, it is clear that the income referred to therein should arise from shares or securities.	Reasoning
Further it must be a periodical income which is capable of being apportioned on the basis that it is deemed to have accrued from day to day.	None
Section 44F (1) empowers the Incometax Officer to serve a notice on any person requiring him to furnish a statement of particulars relating to any securities in which at any time during the period specified in the notice he has had any beneficial interest and in respect of which, within such period either no income was received by him or the income received by him was less than the sum to which the income would have amounted if the income from such securities had accrued from day to day and had been apportioned accordingly9.	None
The power conferred on the Incometax Officer under this provision is not confined to any stipulated period.10.	None
Now turning to subsection (2) of Section 44F, it speaks of the amount of the incometax or supertax for any year which would have been payable in his case in respect of the income from those securities if the income had been deemed to accrue from day to day and had been apportioned accordingly11.	None
Again subsection (3) of Section 44F speaks of the income from any securities to which this subsection applies shall be deemed to accrue from day to day and in the case of the sale or transfer of any such securities by or to him shall be deemed to have been received as and when it is deemed to have accrued12.It is clear from what we have said earlier that Section 44F concerns itself with income arising from securities or shares during a period of time.	None
When a company goes into liquidation, the sharescrips are no more income yielding assets.	Reasoning
They are mere pieces of paper.	Reasoning
No income arises from those shares thereafter.	Reasoning
What the shareholder gets on liquidation is not any income from shares but a share of the assets of the quondam company.	Reasoning
Such a receipt is incapable of being deemed to accrue from day to day.	Reasoning
In the case of interest on securities or dividends on shares, they are paid at certain intervals.	Reasoning
Hence it is possible to deem them as having accrued from day to day but in the case of distribution of assets of a company in liquidation, it is not possible to deem the same to have accrued from day to day.	Reasoning
We have to bear in mind that some of the dividends mentioned in S. 2 (6A) are only deemed dividends.	Reasoning
They are not real dividends.	Reasoning
By a legal fiction, they are deemed as dividends.	Reasoning
This Court held in Commr. of Incometax, Andhra Pradesh v. C. P. Sarathy Mudaliar, 83 ITR 170 (1972 Tax LR 1006 (SC) ) that the definition of dividend contained in S. 2 (6A) (c) is an artificial definition of dividend.	Reasoning
It does not take in dividend actually declared or received.	Reasoning
The dividend taken note of by that provision is a deemed dividend and not a real dividend.	Reasoning
The same would be the position in the case of the dividend mentioned in Section 2 (6A) (c).	Reasoning
As held by this Court in Commr. of Incometax Bombay City 1 v. Amarchand N. Shroff, 48 ITR 59 (AIR 1963 SC 1448 )	Reasoning
legal fictions are only for a definite purpose and they are limited to the purpose for which they are created and should not be extended beyond their legitimate field.13.	Reasoning
It is established on high authorities that the subject is not to be taxed unless the charging provision clearly imposes the obligation  See Commr. of Incometax, Madras v. Ajax Products Ltd., 55 ITR 741 (AIR 1965 SC 1358 ).	None
As is often said that in interpreting a taxing provision one has merely to look to the words of the provision.	None
The language employed in Section 44F cannot be said to be plain enough to bring to tax the receipts of the character with which we are concerned in these appeals.14.	None
To accept the contention of the Revenue, we have to adopt threefold assumption.	None
Firstly the fictional dividend contemplated by Section 2 (6A) (c) is an income within the meaning of Section 44F.	None
Secondly we must assume that that dividend is capable of being deemed to accrue day to day and lastly we must assume that the day to day distribution contemplated in Sec.	None
44F commences from the commencement of the relevant accounting year and ends with the distribution of the assets as contended on behalf of the Department.	None
To do so we have to read into the section many more words than it contains at present which is wholly impermissible in construing any provision much less a taxing provision.	None
In the case of deemed dividend under Section 2 (6A) (c), the assets distributed will be considered as income in the account year in which it is distributed but that conception would be inapplicable in cases coming under Section 44F.	None
A company may go into liquidation long after the accounting year ends.	None
What period the Incometax Officer should take into consideration for applying the fiction that the income had deemed to accrue from day to day ?	None
The scheme of Section 2 (6A) (c) is incompatible with the scheme of	None
S. 44F.	None
The two provisions are intended to meet totally different situations.	None
The former provision cannot be dovetailed into the latter.15.	None
In order to find out the legislative intent, we have to find out what was the mischief that the legislature wanted to remedy.	None
The Act was extensively amended in the year 1939, Section 44F was not in the draft bill.	None
That section was recommended by the Select Committee consisting of very eminent lawyers.	None
It will not be inappropriate to find out the reasons which persuaded the Select Committee to recommend the inclusion of Section 44F, if the section is considered as ambiguous  See Commr. of Incometax, Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal v. Sodra Devi, 32 ITR 615 at p. 627 (AIR 1957 SC 832 ).	None
In recommending the inclusion of S. 44F, this is what the Select Committee observedThe new Sections 44E and 44F are designed to prevent avoidance of tax by what are known as bondwashing transactions, involving the manipulation of securities so that the securities will pass temporarily in the legal ownership of some second person who is either not liable at all or liable in a lesser degree to tax, under such conditions that the interest on the securities is the income of this second person.	None
A common form of the process is the sale of securities cum interest with a simultaneous contract to purchase them exinterest.	None
Where foreign securities are concerned this second person may be a foreigner resident abroad entitled to claim exemption from the tax on the interest.	None
More often a financial concern in India is utilised whose computation of profits includes the results of realising securities, so that the concern can profitably offer bondwashing facilities to the owner of securities bearing fixed interest where the owner himself is not liable to taxation on the realisation of the securities.16.	None
Section 44F of the Act, immaterial changes apart, is a reproduction of Section 33 of the English Finance Act, 1927 which was subsequently replaced by Section 237 of the English Incometax Act, 1952.	Reasoning
Dealing with that section this is what is observed in the Law of Incometax, Surtax and Profits Tax by Wheat croft at page 1669 (paragraph 11358)	None
We now come to the more difficult problem which arises when a taxpayer sells, for a capital sum, securities which are about to pay interest and the purchaser acquires the right both to the securities and the interest.	None
It is the custom on British stock exchanges to notify in advance the dates in respect of each security before which a buyer of that security will be entitled to the next income payment.	Reasoning
Up to that date the security is sold cum dividend after that date the security is sold ex dividend and the next income payment when received after the sale, will remain the property of the seller.	Reasoning
Apart from the general market fluctuations the price will gradually rise up to the day when the security goes ex div.	Reasoning
it will then normally fall sharply by a sum approximately equal to the anticipated income payment less tax at standard rate, as the average investor values the income at its net amount.	Reasoning
If the amount is at a fixed rate, such as on Government stock, the likely fall for this reason can be calculated with considerable accuracy in advance.	Reasoning
A surtax payer, who pays more than the standard rate of tax, can thus find it profitable to sell his securities just before they go ex div.	Reasoning
as he will receive as capital the equivalent of the net dividend, instead of receiving a dividend subject to tax in his hands at a higher rate than that deducted from the dividend.	Reasoning
To deal with taxpayers who used this, and similar devices on a substantial scale it was provided by the Finance Act, 1927, that if it appears to the Revenue by reference to all the circumstances in relation to the assets of any individual (including circumstances with respect to sales, purchases, dealings, contracts, arrangements, transfers or any other transactions relating to such assets) that the individual has thereby avoided or would avoid more than 10 per cent.	Reasoning
of the amount of surtax for any year which would have been payable in his case if the income from those assets had been deemed to accrue from day to day and had been apportioned to him as part of his total income, then such income is to be so apportioned to him for the purpose of computing his surtax.	Reasoning
If the individual can prove that the avoidance was exceptional and not systematic and that there was no such avoidance in the following three years, he can avoid liability under this provision.	Reasoning
Extensive powers are given to the Revenue to obtain information for the purpose of this provision.17.	Reasoning
The marginal note for S. 44F reads avoidance of tax by sales cum dividend.	Reasoning
This marginal note also gives an indication as to what exactly was the mischief that was intended to be remedied.	Reasoning
The legislature was evidently trying to circumvent the devices adopted by some of the assesses to convert their revenue receipts into capital receipts.	Reasoning
The marginal note also throws light on the intention of the legislature.18.	Reasoning
From what has been stated above, it is clear that the deemed dividend contemplated by Section 2 (6A) (c) cannot be considered as income under Section 44F.19.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned above we agree with the High Court that Section 44F is inapplicable to the facts of the assessees case.	None
This question is common to all the abovementioned appeals.	None
Hence we need not go into the other subsidiary questions arising for decision in any of these appeals.20.	None
In the results these appeals fail and they are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.21.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
