 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Connotation of the term income for the purpose of determination of just compensation envisaged under Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (the Act) calls for question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 6.4.2007 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, Lucknow Bench at Lucknow in FAFO No.171 of 2001.	Issue
Respondents husband R.K. Srivastava was employed in a company named Gabriel India Ltd.	None
While he was travelling in an auto rickshaw from Charbagh Railway Station, Lucknow to his residence situated at Ashok Marg, the same met with an accident with a Mahindra Commander Jeep driven rashly and negligently.	None
He sustained injuries and ultimately succumbed thereto.	None
Respondents herein filed a claim petition before the learned Tribunal.	None
A salary certificate was produced in the said proceedings which is in the following terms EarningsAmountDeductionsAmount Basic3420.00CPF(S)488.00	None
Special Pay70.00CPF (Add) FDA350.00GIS3.75 VDA1040.00LIC GIS509.10 CCA100.00HRR HRA1047.00MSPI60.00 Washing All.75.00Society576.00 Conv.225.00Union3.00 Cant.sub.265.00HBA340.00 E.A.2040.00B.Fund10.00	None
Total8632.00Total1989.85	None
The learned Tribunal opined that in computing his income, the element of conveyance allowance only would fall outside the purview of income.	Facts
On the aforementioned basis, the monthly income of the deceased was assessed at Rs.20364/. Applying the multiplier of 13, as the age of the deceased was 45 years, it was held As such, on using multiple of 13 to the annual income of deceased at Rs.2,32,372/, the amount works out to Rs.30,20,836/. The deceased would have spent 1/3rd of this amount on himself, hence on deducting 1/3rd from this amount, 2/3rd compensation amount comes to Rs.20,13,890/.	Facts
It was concluded Considering all these facts, I reach to this finding that the petitioners are entitled to get 2/3rd of the total income of deceased worked out by using multiple of 13 i.e. about Rs.20,00,000/. Issue No.5 is decided accordingly.	Facts
It is the liability of opposite party No.3 Insurance Company.	Facts
On behalf of opposite party No.3, the ruling of Honble High Court Smt.	Facts
Lalta Devi Vs.	Facts
Suresh Ors., T.A.C. 8, 1999 (1) page 847 has been filed before me, but this ruling does not extend any specific benefit to opposite party No.3.	Facts
Hence, while deciding this issue No.5, I come to this conclusion that the petitioners are entitled to get Rs.20,00,000/ (Rs. Twenty Lakhs) as compensation.	None
The High Court, on an appeal having been preferred both by the appellant as also the respondents, partly allowed the same by a common judgment holding that claimants were entitled to compensation calculated in case of the deceased at Rs.19,53,224/ along with interest 9 from the date of presentation of the claim petition till its realization, holding that travelling reimbursement could not be taken into consideration for computation of net income of the deceased.	Facts
Appellant is, thus, before us.	None
Keeping in view the importance of the question involved and furthermore in view of the fact that the first respondent was appearinginperson, we had requested Mr. L.N. Rao, learned senior counsel, to assist us in the matter.	Facts
Submission of Mr. Satija, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, is that for the purpose of computation of the amount of compensation what was material is the basic pay and not other allowances and, in that view of the matter, the High Court has committed a serious error in opining otherwise.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel contended that emphasis by this Court are being laid on computation of damages based on net income and not gross income.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that in any event the amount of compensation awarded by the High Court is on higher side.	Arguments of Petitioner
7. Mr. Rao, however, submitted that apart from the basic salary, contributions made by the employee should also be taken into consideration for calculation of the amount of compensation, inter alia, on the premise that the same would have become payable to him at a future date as, for example, voluntary retirement, superannuation etc. which would be beneficial to the entire family.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that the contributions towards Provident Fund, Life Insurance Corporation, gratuity etc. are includable in the definition of income.	Arguments of Respondent
The term income has different connotations for different purposes.	None
A court of law, having regard to the change in societal conditions must consider the question not only having regard to pay packet the employee carries home at the end of the month but also other perks which are beneficial to the members of the entire family.	None
Loss caused to the family on a death of a near and dear one can hardly be compensated on monetory terms.	None
Section 168 of the Act uses the word just compensation which, in our opinion, should be assigned a broad meaning.	None
We cannot, in determining the issue involved in the matter, lose sight of the fact that the private sector companies in place of introducing a pension scheme takes recourse to payment of contributory Provident Fund, Gratuity and other perks to attract the people who are efficient and hard working.	None
Different offers made to an officer by the employer, same may be either for the benefit of the employee himself or for the benefit of the entire family.	None
If some facilities are being provided whereby the entire family stands to benefit, the same, in our opinion, must be held to be relevant for the purpose of computation of total income on the basis whereof the amount of compensation payable for the death of the kith and kin of the applicants is required to be determined.	None
For the aforementioned purpose, we may notice the elements of pay, paid to the deceased BASIC 63,400.00 CONVEYANCE ALLOWANCE 12,000.00 RENT CO LEASE 49,200.00 BONUS (35 OF BASIC)	None
21,840.00	None
TOTAL 1,45,440.00	None
In addition to above, his other entitlements were Con.	None
to PF 10 Basic  Rs. 6,240/ (p.a.)	None
LTA reimbursement  Rs. 7,000/ (p.a.)	None
Medical reimbursement  Rs. 6,000/ (p.a.)	None
Superannuation 15 of Basic  Rs. 9,360/	None
(p.a.)	None
Gratuity Cont.5.34 of Basic  Rs. 3,332/ (p.a.)	None
Medical Policyself Family  Rs.55,000/ (p.a.)	None
Education Scholarship Rs.500  Rs.12,000/ (p.a.)	None
Payable to his two children	None
Directly There are three basic features in the aforementioned statement which require our consideration Reimbursement of rent would be equivalent to HRA Bonus is payable as a part of salary and Contribution to the Provident Fund.	None
We may furthermore notice that apart therefrom, superannuation benefits, contributions towards gratuity, insurance of medical policy for self and family and education scholarship were beneficial to the members of the family.	None
We have, however, no doubt in mind that medical reimbursement which provides for a slab and which keeping in view the terminology used, would mean reimbursement for medical expenses on production of medical bills and, thus, the same would not come within the purview of the aforementioned category.	Reasoning
The question came for consideration before a learned Single Judge of the Madras High Court in The Manager, National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Padmavathy Ors.	Reasoning
CMA No.114 of 2006 decided on 29.1.2007, wherein it was held Income tax, Professional tax which are deducted from the salaried person goes to the coffers of the government under specific head and there is no return.	Reasoning
Whereas, the General Provident Fund, Special Provident Fund, L.I.C., Contribution are amounts paid specific heads and the contribution is always repayable to an employee at the time of voluntary retirement, death or for any other reason.	Reasoning
Such contribution made by the salaried person are deferred payments and they are savings.	Reasoning
The Supreme Court as well as various High Courts have held that the compensation payable under the Motor Vehicles Act is statutory and that the deferred payments made to the employee are contractual.	Reasoning
Courts have held that there cannot be any deductions in the statutory compensation, if the Legal Representatives are entitled to lumpsum payment under the contractual liability.	Reasoning
If the contributions made by the employee which are otherwise savings from the salary are deducted from the gross income and only the net income is taken for computing the dependancy compensation, then the Legal Representatives of the victim would lose considerable portion of the income.	Reasoning
In view of the settled proposition of law, I am of the view, the Tribunal can make only statutory deductions such as Income tax and professional tax and any other contribution, which is not repayable by the employer, from the salary of the deceased person while determining the monthly income for computing the dependancy compensation.	Reasoning
Any contribution made by the employee during his life time, form part of the salary and they should be included in the monthly income, while computing the dependency compensation.	Reasoning
Similar view was expressed by a learned Single Judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court in S. Narayanamma Ors.	Reasoning
V. Secretary to Government of India, Ministry of Telecommunications and Ors. 2002	Reasoning
ACC 582 , holding In this background, now we will examine the present deductions made by the tribunal from the salary of the deceased in fixing the monthly contribution of the deceased to his family.	Reasoning
The tribunal has not even taken proper care while deducting the amounts from the salary of the deceased, at least the very nature of deductions from the salary of the deceased.	Reasoning
My view is that the deductions made by the tribunal from the salary such as recovery of housing loan, vehicle loan, festival advance and other deductions, if any, to the benefit of the estate of the deceased cannot be deducted while computing the net monthly earnings of the deceased.	Reasoning
These advances or loans are part of his salary.	Reasoning
So far as House Rent Allowance is concerned, it is beneficial to the entire family of the deceased during his tenure, but for his untimely death the claimants are deprived of such benefit which they would have enjoyed if the deceased is alive.	Reasoning
On the other hand, allowances, like Travelling Allowance, allowance for newspapers periodicals, telephone, servant, clubfee, car maintenance etc., by virtue of his vocation need not be included in the salary while computing the net earnings of the deceased.	Reasoning
The finding of the tribunal that the deceased was getting Rs.1,401/ as net income every month is unsustainable as the deductions made towards vehicle loan and other deductions were also taken into consideration while fixing the monthly income of the deceased.	Reasoning
The above finding of the tribunal is contrary to the principle of just compensation enunciated by the Supreme Court in the judgment in Helens case (1 supra).	Reasoning
The Supreme Court in Concord of India Insurance Co. v. Nirmaladevi and Ors., 1980 ACJ 55 (SC) held that determination of quantum must be liberal and not niggardly since law values life and limb in a free country in generous scales.	Reasoning
We may, however, notice that a Division Bench of this Court in Asha Ors. v. United Indian Insurance Co. Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
2004 ACC 533 , whereupon reliance has been placed by Mr. Satija, was considering a case where, like the present one, several perks were included in salary.	Reasoning
We may reproduce the salary certificate hereto below This is to certify that Shri A.M. Raikar was working as AG 111 in this organisation has been paid the following Pay Allowances for the month of May,	None
1995 EarningsAmountDeductionsAmount Basic3420.00CPF (S)488.00 Special Pay70.00CPF (Add) FDA350.00GIS3.75 VDA1040.00LIC GIS509.10 CCA100.00HRA HRA1047.00MSPI60.00 Washing All.75.00Society576.00 Conv.225.00Union3.00 Cant.	None
Sub.265.00HBA340.00 E.A.2040.00B. Fund10.00 Total8632.00Total1989.85	None
Net Payable Rs. 6642.00 (Rupees six thousand six hundred forty two only).	None
In that case, this Court held Lastly it was submitted that the salary certificate shows that the salary of the deceased was Rs.8,632/.	Reasoning
It was submitted that the High Court was wrong in taking the salary to be Rs.6,642/.	Reasoning
It was submitted that the High Court was wrong in deducting the allowances and amounts paid towards LIC, Society charges and HBA etc.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this submission also.	Reasoning
The claimants are entitled to be compensated for the loss suffered by them.	Reasoning
The loss suffered by them is the amount which they would have been receiving at the time when the deceased was alive.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that the dependents would only be receiving the net amount less l/3rd for his personal expenses.	Reasoning
The High Court was therefore right in so holding.	None
This Court in Asha (supra) did not address itself the questions raised before us.	Reasoning
It does not appear that any precedent was noticed nor the term just compensation was considered in the light of the changing societal condition as also the perks which are paid to the employee which may or may not attract income tax or any other tax.	Reasoning
What would be just compensation must be determined having regard to the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
The basis for considering the entire pay packet is what the dependents have lost due to death of the deceased.	Reasoning
It is in the nature of compensation for future loss towards the family income.	Reasoning
In Rathi Menon v. Union of India (2001) 3 SCC 714 , this Court, upon considering the dictionary meaning of compensation held In this context a reference to Section 129 of the Act appears useful.	Reasoning
The Central Government is empowered by the said provision to make rules by notification to carry out the purposes of this Chapter.	Reasoning
It is evident that one of the purposes of this chapter is that the injured victims in railway accidents and untoward incidents must get compensation.	Reasoning
Though the word compensation is not defined in the Act or in the Rules it is the giving of an equivalent or substitute of equivalent value.	Reasoning
In Blacks Law Dictionary, compensation is shown as equivalent in money for a loss sustained or giving back an equivalent in either money which is but the measure of value, or in actual value otherwise conferred or recompense in value for some loss, injury or service especially when it is given by statute.	Reasoning
It means when you pay the compensation in terms of money it must represent, on the date of ordering such payment, the equivalent value.	None
In this context we may look at Section 128(1) also.	Reasoning
It says that the right of any person to claim compensation before the Claims Tribunal as indicated in Section 124 or 124A shall not affect the right of any such person to recover compensation payable under any other law for the time being in force.	Reasoning
But there is an interdict that no person shall be entitled to claim compensation for more than once in respect of the same accident.	Reasoning
This means that the party has two alternatives, one is to avail himself of his civil remedy to claim compensation based on common law or any other statutory provision, and the other is to apply before the Claims Tribunal under Section 124 or 124A of the Act.	Reasoning
As he cannot avail himself of both the remedies he has to choose one between the two.	Reasoning
The provisions in Chapter XIII of the Act are intended to provide a speedier remedy to the victims of accidents and untoward incidents.	Reasoning
If he were to choose the latter that does not mean that he should be prepared to get a lesser amount.	Reasoning
He is given the assurance by the legislature that the Central Government is saddled with the task of prescribing fair and just compensation in the Rules from time to time.	Reasoning
The provisions are not intended to give a gain to the Railway Administration but they are meant to afford just and reasonable compensation to the victims as a speedier measure.	Reasoning
If a person files a suit the amount of compensation will depend upon what the court considers just and reasonable on the date of determination.	Reasoning
Hence when he goes before the Claims Tribunal claiming compensation the determination of the amount should be as on the date of such determination.	Reasoning
The amounts, therefore, which were required to be paid to the deceased by his employer by way of perks, should be included for computation of his monthly income as that would have been added to his monthly income by way of contribution to the family as contradistinguished to the ones which were for his benefit.	Reasoning
We may, however, hasten to add that from the said amount of income, the statutory amount of tax payable thereupon must be deducted.	Reasoning
The term income in P. Ramanatha Aiyars Advanced Law Lexicon (3rd Ed.) has been defined as under The value of any benefit or perquisite whether convertible into money or not, obtained from a company either by a director or a person who has substantial interest in the company, and any sum paid by such company in respect of any obligation, which but for such payment would have been payable by the director or other person aforesaid, occurring or arising to a person within the State from any profession, trade or calling other than agriculture.	Reasoning
It has also been stated INCOME signifies what comes in (per Selborne, C., Jones v. Ogle, 42 LJ Ch.336).	None
It is as large a word as can be used to denote a persons receipts (per Jessel, M.R. Re Huggins, 51 LJ Ch.938.)	Reasoning
income is not confined to receipts from business only and means periodical receipts from ones work, lands, investments, etc.	Reasoning
AIR 1921 Mad 427 (SB).	Reasoning
Ref.	Reasoning
124 IC 511 1930 MWN 29 31 MLW 438 AIR 1930 Mad 626 58 MLJ 337 .	Reasoning
If the dictionary meaning of the word income is taken to its logical conclusion, it should include those benefits, either in terms of money or otherwise, which are taken into consideration for the purpose of payment of incometax or profession tax although some elements thereof may or may not be taxable or would have been otherwise taxable but for the exemption conferred thereupon under the statute.	Reasoning
In N. Sivammal Ors.	Reasoning
v. Managing Director,	Reasoning
Pandian Roadways Corporation Ors.	Reasoning
(1985) 1 SCC 18 , this Court took into consideration the pay packet of the deceased.	Reasoning
We may notice that in T.N. State Transport Corporation Ltd. v. S. Rajapriya Ors.	Reasoning
(2005) 6 SCC 236 , this Court held The assessment of damages to compensate the dependants is beset with difficulties because from the nature of things, it has to take into account many imponderables e.g. the life expectancy of the deceased and the dependants, the amount that the deceased would have earned during the remainder of his life, the amount that he would have contributed to the dependants during that period, the chances that the deceased may not have lived or the dependants may not live up to the estimated remaining period of their life expectancy, the chances that the deceased might have got better employment or income or might have lost his employment or income together.	Reasoning
The manner of arriving at the damages is to ascertain the net income of the deceased available for the support of himself and his dependants, and to deduct therefrom such part of his income as the deceased was accustomed to spend upon himself, as regards both selfmaintenance and pleasure, and to ascertain what part of his net income the deceased was accustomed to spend for the benefit of the dependants.	Reasoning
Then that should be capitalised by multiplying it by a figure representing the proper number of years purchase.	Reasoning
Much of the calculation necessarily remains in the realm of hypothesis and in that region arithmetic is a good servant but a bad master since there are so often many imponderables.	Reasoning
In every case it is the overall picture that matters, and the court must try to assess as best as it can the loss suffered.	Reasoning
Yet again in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Charlie Anr (2005) 10 SCC 720 , the same view was reiterated.	Reasoning
However, therein although the words net income has been used but the same itself would ordinarily mean gross income minus the statutory deductions.	Reasoning
We must also notice that the said decision has been followed in New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Kalpana (Smt.)	Reasoning
Ors.	Reasoning
(2007) 3 SCC 538 .	Reasoning
The expression just must also be given its logical meaning.	Reasoning
Whereas it cannot be a bonanza or a source of profit but in considering as to what would be just and equitable, all facts and circumstances must be taken into consideration.	Reasoning
In view of our finding abovementioned, the appeal is to be allowed in part in so far as the High Court had directed deduction of medical reimbursement and tax elements on the entire sum which according to the statute constitute income.	Decision
But we decline to do so for two reasons.	Decision
Firstly, the accident had taken place as far back as on 1st September, 1997 and secondly the Tribunal as also the High Court failed to take into consideration rise in income of the deceased by way of promotion or otherwise.	Decision
For the aforementioned reasons, we are not inclined to interfere with the impugned judgment.	Decision
This appeal is, therefore, dismissed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
