 Khaliluzzaman Siddiqui, J. 1.	None
This appeal arises out of execution proceedings.	Facts
The appellant, Kapurchand, had a money decree amongst others, against one Mir Hamid Ali Khan, husband of the respondent Mst. Kanderunnissa.	Facts
In execution of the decree the house in dispute belonging to the deceased judgmentdebtor was attached.	Facts
In the attachment the widow of the deceased raised an objection on the ground that she was in possession of it in lieu of her outstanding dower and could not be dispossessed till her claim was satisfied.	Facts
The objection was allowed by the executing court and it was ordered that the house be sold subject to the respondents claim, the decreeholder being entitled to the surplus, if any, out of the sale proceeds.	Facts
There was not much possibility of the house fetching more in the execution sale than the amount due on account of dower.	Facts
The court took the view that the widows claim for dower had priority over the debts due to other unsecured creditors and her position was analogous to that of a secured creditor.	Facts
The decreeholder made an application in revision to the High Court but without any success.	Facts
He then preferred an appeal to the Judicial Committee of the State and it is now before us under Art.	Facts
374(4) of the Constitution.	None
2.	None
The sole point for determination in the appeal is whether a widow in possession of her husbands estate in lieu of her claim for dower with the consent of the other heirs or otherwise is entitled to priority as against his other unsecured creditors.	Issue
It is conceded that the husband died leaving the house in dispute and leaving outstanding a number of debts including the one due to the decreeholder.	Facts
The house was not charged or mortgaged by him either in favour of his wife or in favour of any of the creditors.	Facts
If the husband had created any charge in favour of his wife in lieu of her claim for dower then it cannot be doubted that she would have priority over the unsecured creditors.	Facts
No specific Quranic text or any other original authority on Muslim Law has been cited in support of the contention that a widows claim for dower stands on a higher footing than the claim of any creditor in respect of an unsecured debt.	Facts
Reference was made to a text in SuraiNissa which enjoins a husband to pay the claim of his wife and it also says that widows and minors should be given favourable treatment.	Facts
This text does not give an absolute protection to the claim of the widow as against other claims.	Facts
On the other hand, a Muslim is enjoined to observe his engagements and to keep his contracts faithfully and to discharge his liabilities in an honest manner.	Facts
No distinction is made between an injunction relating to the payment of dower on the one hand and the payment of the other debts on the other.	Facts
3.	None
The learned advocate for the appellant contends that a widows claim for outstanding dower even when she is in possession of her husbands estate in lieu of her claim with the consent of other heirs of the deceased stands on no better footing than that of unsecured creditors, though in their absence she is entitled to be paid in full before the estate is distributed among the heirs.	Arguments of Petitioner
He drew our attention to certain passages from the holy Quran and from writings of other jurists on this subject.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the respondent, however argued that a widow has a lien on her husbands estate for her outstanding dower and when she has entered into possession of his house after his death she cannot be dispossessed till her claim is satisfied either by the heirs or by the unsecured creditors.	Arguments of Respondent
He placed reliance on a decision of the Hyderabad High Court and also of some other High Courts In India.	Arguments of Respondent
4.	None
A careful examination of the various authorities on the subject shows that the proposition of law on this subject has been correctly enunciated in Tyabjis Muhammadan Law (1940 Edn.)	None
in these terms (1) A widow by her lien does not have any priority over other creditors (2) Mehr as a debt has priority over other heirs, claim to have the estate distributed among themselves.	None
These two considerations are not affected by the fact of her being in or out of possession of the estate.	None
It seems clear that unless the husband by his own act has placed the widow in a better position than his other creditors, her claim for dower is in the nature of an unsecured debt and she has no priority of any kind against the other unsecured creditors of her husband.	Facts
The Quranic text in SuraeNissa Ruku 4 enjoins the payment of dower in preference to bequests and inheritance but it is silent on the question of priority of dower debt in relation to other creditors.	None
In Mubsoot Sarkhasi, Vol. 29, Kitabulfaiz, Page 137, it is pointed out that payment of debts has priority over bequests and wills.	None
In the administration of the estate of a deceased Muslim the rule laid down by early text writers and Fatwas, such as FatwaeAlamgiri is that in the first instance the funeral expenses of the deceased should be paid out of the estate and that having been done the estate should be divided between the legatees and the heir after payment of the debts due from him.	None
No priority has been indicated in respect of a dower debt of a widow over other unsecured creditors even if she has taken possession of her husbands estate after his death.	None
5.	None
It was said that the nature of the widows claim for dower is such that it amounts to a lien on the husbands estate.	None
The claim for lien is based on the assumption that the dower debt is consideration for the marriage and is not merely a voluntary debt incurred due to the respect to the wife.	None
According to Hamilton Hedaya (1870 Edn. page 44), the leading text book on Hanafi law.	None
If a person specifies a dower of ten or more diams and should afterwards consummate his marriage or be removed by death, his wife in either case can claim the whole of the dower specified, because by consummation her claim for dower becomes absolute.	None
The dower debt becomes her property and it devolves on her heirs and has to be paid out of the estate of the husband.	None
It has been described as a debt upon the husband to be paid out of his estate.	None
The dower of a Muslim woman is a settlement in her favour made prior to the marriage contract and is similar to the donatio propter nuptias of the Romans but is of such an obligatory nature that if it is not mentioned before or at the time of the marriage, it is presumed to exist to the extent of a proper dower amount.	None
Among the Hebrews the dower settled on a wife was for her use after the termination of marriage and among the Jews marriages without similar consideration were invalid.	None
As pointed out by Mr. Ameer Ali in his book on Muhammadan Law, the custom originated in ancient times with the payments made by husbands to their wives as a means for their support and as a protection against the arbitrary exercise of the power of divorce.	None
The Muslim concept of dower has no reference to the price that under some systems of law was paid to the father of the bride when she was given in marriage.	None
On the other hand, it is considered a debt with consideration (for the submission of her person by the wife).	None
The result of the above discussion is that dower is purely in the nature of a marriage settlement and is for consideration.	None
It is a claim arising out of contract by the husband and as such has preference to bequests and inheritance, but on no principle of Mohammadan law it can have priority over other contractual debts.	None
In our view, therefore, a dower debt cannot be given any priority over other debts on any equitable consideration or on the ground that there is something inherent in its very nature which entitles it to priority.	None
6.	None
It is now convenient to examine the decided cases on this subject.	None
In Ameer Ammal v. Sankaranarayanan Chetty, 25 Mad 658 (A), a Bench of the Madras High Court held that a claim for unpaid dower constitutes a debt payable pari passu with the demands of other creditors and is not a preferential charge on the estate.	None
In  Mt. Maina Bibi v. Chaudhri Vakil Ahmad, AIR 1925 PC 63 (B), it was held that where the widow is not in the position of a secured creditor and is otherwise in possession of the husbands estate with the consent of the heirs, she is entitled to retain possession of it until her dower debt is satisfied.	None
Their Lordships observed that it was necessary to say whether the right of the widow in possession is a lien in the strict sense of the term.	None
Whatever the right may be called, it appears to be founded on the power of a widow as a creditor for her dower to hold the property of her husband of which she has lawfully, and without force or fraud, obtained possession until her debt is satisfied.	None
This decision does not place the widow on a higher footing than any other creditor.	None
As against the heir all creditors are to be paid in priority before the estate can be distributed.	None
In  Meer Meher Ally v. Mst. Amanee, 11 WR 212 (C), it was held that the lien of the widow over the property in her possession is not a lien in the ordinary legal sense of the term and that a claim for dower is in the same position as that of any other ordinary creditor and ranks pari passu with them and like other debts has to be paid before the heirs are entitled to take anything.	None
In Mt. Maina Bibi v. Wasi Ahmad AIR 1919 All 128 (D), it was held that she has no right of possession against the creditors, not being a secured creditor herself.	None
At page 133, the following observation occurs She cannot set up any such right of possession against creditors claiming to have the debts owing to them from the husband satisfied out of the estate.	None
She is not a secured creditor her claim for her dower debt ranks equally with the claims of other creditors of her husband.	None
7.	None
In  Hamira Bibi v. Zubaida Bibi, AIR 1916 PC 46 (E), it was observed that dower ranks as a debt and the wife is entitled along with the other creditors to have it satisfied on the death of the husband out of his estate.	None
Her right, however, is no greater than that of any other unsecured creditor.	None
Qua the heirs she has a creditors lien.	None
In Mt. Imtiaz Begam v. Abdul Karim Khan, AIR 1930 All 881 (F).	None
the same view was expressed.	None
In para 295 Mr. Mulla in his book on Muhammadan Law has adopted the view that dower ranks as a debt and that the widow is entitled along with other creditors to have it satisfied out of the estate and that her right is not greater than that of any other creditor.	None
The learned counsel for the respondent relied on the decision in  Mt. Kulsum Bibi v. Shiam Sunder Lal, AIR 1936 All 600 (G), in which it was held that a widow in possession of her husbands estate is entitled as against the other heirs of her husband and in against the creditors to retain possession until her dower is satisfied.	None
The same view had been taken earlier in Mt. Ghafooran v. Ram Chandra, AIR 1934 All 168 (H), by a single Judge.	None
It was said that her possession could not be disturbed till her dower debt was satisfied.	None
In  Mohamed Turabuddin v. Yasin Begum, 17 Deccan LR 224 (1), a Bench of the Hyderabad High Court held that the claim of a widow for dower was in the nature of a secured debt.	None
There was no other creditor in that case which arose between the heirs and the widow.	None
However, in  Wahidunnissa Begum v. Yasin Begum, 32 Deccan LR 421 (J), it was pointed out that the claim of the widow nor dower does not create any interest or charge on the property and that the position of a widow is not only that of a creditor where her dower remains unpaid but also of an heir.	None
8.	None
The result of the authorities is that excepting the two Allahabad decisions mentioned above and a decision of the Hyderabad High Court the consensus of authority is against the proposition that a widow as an unsecured creditor has any priority over the other unsecured creditors of her husband.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the above mentioned two Allahabad decisions do lay down the law correctly on this point and the rule has been correctly laid down in  25 Mad 658 (A).	Reasoning
There is nothing repugnant or inequitable according to the principles of Muhammadan Law in the estate of a deceased Muslim being rateably distributed between the unsecured creditors.	Reasoning
9.	None
For the reasons given above we hold that the objection raised by the widow had no substance in it and the executing court should have directed the property to be sold and the sale proceeds distributed rateably amongst the decreeholders and the widow.	Decision
In the result we allow this appeal, set aside the judgment of the two courts below and direct the executing court to proceed with the execution in accordance with the observations made herein.	Decision
In the circumstances we will make no order as to costs of these proceedings.	Decision
10.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
