 Mohan, J. The short facts leading to this Civil Appeal are as under The original owner of suit property situate at Ramamaruti Road, Thane (Maharashtra) was one Omji Mulji.	None
He leased out three small flats having two rooms and a kitchen in favour of the appellantcompany in 1963.	Facts
The rent was fixed at Rs. 300/ plus Rs. 20 municipal taxes and Rs. 15/ water charges.2.	Facts
In 1968, Omji Mulji sold away the property to one Gavand.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant tendered the rent including the taxes to the said Gavand from 1968.	Facts
In the same year of 1968, the municipal taxes were increased.	Facts
The appellant paid a lumpsum of Rs. 338.58 as rent.	Facts
Due to further increase in the taxes, the appellant tendered Rs. 358.29 including taxes to the owner.3.	Facts
In the year 1975, the respondents came to purchase the suit property.	Facts
Since then, the appellant had been paying regularly rent and taxes at the rate of Rs. 358.29 P.M.4.	Facts
The Advocate for the respondents issued a notice dated 27.7.1977 to the appellant terminating their tenancy and called upon the appellant to hand over vacant possession since the appellant was in arrears of permitted increases amounting to Rs. 5,650/ from February, 1976.	Facts
The notice also stated two of the grounds for eviction, in that the appellant had altered the premises and causing nuisance to the neighbours.5.	Facts
On receipt of the above notice, the appellant filed an application under Section 11(3) of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) for fixation of standard rent.	Facts
On 30.8.1987, an interim order fixing the rent at Rs. 358/ was passed.	Facts
It was directed to be deposited in the court on or before 10th of every month.	Facts
For the months of August, September, the appellant paid the interim rent to the respondents.	Facts
The same had been accepted.	Facts
However, since October, 1977 the appellant was depositing the interim rent in the court of Civil Judge, Junior Division, Thane.6.	Facts
On 26.4.1979, the respondents filed Civil Suit No. 384/79 in the Court of Civil Judge, Junior Division, Thane for arrears of permitted increases, rent and for possession.	Facts
The ground urged was that the appellant was in arrears of permitted increases amounting to Rs. 56.50 per month since October, 1976.	Facts
This was on the basis of calculation at 7 as education cess on the rent of Rs. 358.29, Rs. 30/ water charges, 1/4 as unemployment charges and 1/4 as tree cess.	Facts
Further grounds for eviction namely unauthorised alteration and creating nuisance were also urged.	Facts
In September, 1981 the application for fixation of standard rent was dismissed in default for nonappearance.	Facts
This dismissal came to be noted by the Advocate only in the year 1985.	Facts
However, the appellant had been depositing the interim standard rent all along.7.	Facts
In defence to the Regular Civil Suit No. 384 of 1979, it was urged that the payment of standard rent had been made without fail throughout and, therefore, he was not in arrears.	Facts
The other grounds namely, unauthorised construction and causing nuisance were also denied.	Facts
The Trial Court decreed the suit for eviction on account of arrears of rent but not permitted increases.8.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said order, appellant filed Civil Appeal No. 452/1983 before the District Judge, Thane.	Issue
The said appeal was dismissed.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellant preferred Writ Petition No. 5035 of 1985 before the High Court.	Issue
That was dismissed on 19.2.1987 that the tenant was not in arrears of rent but had defaulted in payment of permitted increases.	Issue
Thus, the present civil appeal.	None
Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned Senior Counsel of the appellant, raised the following points for our consideration.	None
A valid notice of demand is a condition precedent for the maintainability of suit for arrears of rent or permitted increase.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the absence of requisite demand, there can be no question of noncompliance.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such a case, the consequences mentioned under Section 12(3) subsection (3)(a) or (b) will not be attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission, reliance is placed on Chiman Lal v. Mishrilal, (1985) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 39.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) In the present case, the notice of demand dated 27.7.1977 does not mention the period of alleged arrears or the permitted increase.	Arguments of Petitioner
The demand is only for the payment of entire arrears of rent and not permitted increases.(iii) Permitted increase, though part of rent, is not payable monthly.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is well settled that education cess being payable on a year to year basis, the rent ceases to be payable every month within Section 2(3)(a) of the Act as laid down in R.K. Shetty v. R.P. Shirole, 1991(1) SCC 570.(iv)	Arguments of Petitioner
The landlord can have no cause of action to recover permitted increase until he had paid the permitted increases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, he must plead and prove payment of permitted increase.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no such pleading in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In spite of this point having been urged before the lower appellate court as well as the High Court it has not been dealt with.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has gone wrong in misreading the provisions of Section 12 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has read into its obligations and conditions which are not statutorily prescribed.	Arguments of Petitioner
It should have taken note of the following facts(a) That the application for standard rent was made in time(b) That the interim rent as fixed by the Court has been paid regularly throughout the pendency of the suit and the appeal(c) That the interim rent fixed was the same as the contractual rent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. A.M. Khanwilkar, learned counsel for the respondents in answering these submissions would urge that it is not correct to state that there is no valid demand.	Arguments of Respondent
The notice specifically states as to what exactly the tenant was liable to pay namely the rent at Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
358.29/, 7 education cess, Rs. 30/ for water charges, 1/4 as unemployment charges, 1/4 as tree cess.	Arguments of Respondent
All these total up to Rs. 56.50 per month as permitted increases.	Arguments of Respondent
When the notice called upon the tenant to pay the entire arrears of rent, all these while are part of rent required to be paid.	Arguments of Respondent
As a matter of fact, the plaint clearly disclose as to what exactly was the demand.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, on facts the ruling of Chiman Lals case (supra) has no application.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no demur to the proposition that the permitted increases, though part of rent, is not payable monthly.	None
But, in this case, the plaint clearly states that the permitted increases were from 1.2.1976 till the date of filing of suit in 1979.	None
Hence this proposition does not in any way affect either the claim or the recovery thereof.	None
The landlord never disputed that the tenant had not paid the municipal taxes.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, the municipal demands had been produced in evidence.	None
The High Court had appropriately appreciated the matter and it warrants no interference.	None
As a proposition of law, it cannot be disputed that there must be a valid demand for maintainability of suit for arrears of rent or permitted increases.	None
It has been so laid down in Chiman Lals case (supra) at pages 4344.	None
In this case, the notice dated 27.7.1977 is as follows  You have been leased out the entire second floor.	None
You are in occupation of the entire second floor.	None
The month of tenancy is according to British Calendar Month.	None
You have accommodated your three officers in the three blocks on the second floor.	None
The net rent in respect of the said second floor is Rs. 358.29.	None
Over and above the said rent you require to pay to my client 7 as education cess, Rs. 30 for water charges and 1/4 as unemployment charges and 1/4 as the tree cess.	None
Thus you are supposed to pay to my client Rs. 56.50 per month as permitted increases.	None
You are at present in arrears of rent from February 1976.	None
My client has demanded the same but you have neglected and failed to pay the same.	None
You are thus a defaulter.	None
You are not ready and willing to pay the rent as and when it becomes due.	None
You are also called upon to pay the entire arrears of rent on receipt hereof.	None
Failing compliance of which, my clients will be compelled to go to the court of law for getting their grievance redressed entirely at your risk as to the costs and consequences which please note.	None
No doubt, the word supposed in paragraph 3 has been incorrectly used.	None
But that does not in any way affect the validity of the notice.	None
Besides, merely because it is stated arrears of rent, it does not mean that there is no demand for permitted increases since those permitted increases are part of rent.	None
The plaint in no mistakable terms says as follows The month of the tenancy of the defendant was according to British Calendar Month.	None
The net rent in respect of the said second floor was Rs. 358.29 over and above the said rent the defendant was required to pay to these defendant 7 as education cess, Rs. 30/ for water charges, 1/4 as unemployment charges and 1/4 as tree cess.	None
These plaintiffs submit that thus the defendant was required to pay the permitted increases per month amounting to Rs. 56.90.	None
The defendant was in arrears of permitted increases since February, 1976.	None
These plaintiffs demanded the same time and again but the defendant has failed to pay the same.	None
The defendant is, thereby a defaulter.	None
Therefore, this contention of Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee cannot be accepted.	None
Factually, the ruling stated as Chiman Lals case (supra) is distinguishable.	None
In R.K. Shettys case (supra), it is stated at page 581 as under In Maheshwari Mills Ltd., under the terms of the tenancy the tenant was obliged to pay the municipal taxes and property taxes in respect of the demised premises.	None
The court took the view that such payment was by way of rent and since the municipal taxes and property taxes were payable on year to year basis, a part of the rent was admittedly not payable by the month and, therefore, Section 12(3)(a) was not attracted.	None
In Prakash Surya the tenant had agreed to pay the municipal tax and education cess.	None
The amount payable towards these taxes constituted rent and since the same was payable at the end of the year the court held that the rent had ceased to be payable by the month and hence Section 12(3)(a) had no application.	None
As rightly urged by Mr. Khanwilkar, learned counsel for the respondent the permitted increased may not be payable monthly but in the instant case, the period, for which the permitted increases are claimed, is between 1.2.1976 till 27.4.1979.	Reasoning
This is evident from paragraph 6 of the plaint as under The cause of action for the purpose of filing of this suit first arose on or about 1.3.1976, for arrears of permitted increases and for possession on 1.9.1977 and is being continued respectively from time to time till the filing of this suit.	Reasoning
Therefore, R.K. Shettys case (supra) cannot be pressed into service.	Reasoning
At no point of time, the tenant disputed the payment of municipal taxes by the landlord.	Reasoning
In fact, the evidence is to the following effect Permitted increase was amounting to Rs. 56.50 since February 1976.	None
I have produced the zerox copy of the notices issued by Municipality at Ex. 13.	Reasoning
We demanded the permitted increase to the defendant.	Reasoning
But they failed to pay the same.	Reasoning
On 14.9.1983, the standard rent was fixed as Rs. 358/ per month and the permitted increases were fixed at Rs. 56 per month.	Reasoning
The appellant continued to pay Rs. 358/ per month being the standard rent.	Reasoning
He did not pay the permitted increases.	Reasoning
The fact that he was depositing throughout Rs. 358/ and even during the stage of writ petition, can hardly relieve him from such an obligation.	Reasoning
Under Section 12(3)(b) of the Act, there is an obligation to deposit the permitted increases not only during the pendency of the standard rent application which in this case has come to be dismissed for default but even during the pendency of suit for eviction.	Reasoning
As rightly held by the High Court, if this were not to be so, the tenant could claim protection on its showing that he had within a period of one month from the date of service of notice of demand under Section 12(2) filed an application for standard rent and that he had obeyed that order in this case the interim standard rent.21.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we hold that there are no merits in this Civil Appeal which stands dismissed.	Decision
The tenant shall hand over vacant possession of the said premises within six months on condition that he files the usual undertaking within four weeks from the date of this order.	Decision
