 Ramaswami, J. 1.	None
These appeals are brought, by certificate, from the judgment of the Calcutta High Court, dated December 4, 1962 in Incometax Reference No. 57 of 1958.	None
2.	None
The respondent company purchased the assets and liabilities of the firm, Mugneeram Bangur and Co. (Land Department), hereinafter referred to as the firm on July 7, 1968 for a consideration of Rs. 34,99,300.	Facts
The consideration was paid by the issue of shares to the vendor or its nominees in the share capital of the respondent company.	Facts
The assets included land at cost, Rupees 12,68,268 as also goodwill and certain other assets subject to certain liabilities incurred by the firm.	Facts
By the time the respondent company took over the land, the firm had sold a number of plots in respect of which part of the consideration money had been realised and for the balance Mortgage Bonds had been executed by the purchaser.	Facts
In respect of those plots there was an undertaking to lay out roads, etc.	Facts
The respondent company took over the debts as well as the liabilities.	Facts
After the purchase, the respondent company itself sold certain other plots.	Facts
The purchaser paid a percentage of price in cash and undertook to pay the balance with interest at a specified rate in annual instalments which was secured by creating a charge on the land purchased.	Facts
The sales made by the respondent company were in all material respects similar to the sales made by the firm.	Facts
A specimen copy of the SaleDeeds executed by the firm or the respondent company is Annexure A to the Statement of the Case.	Facts
The relevant provisions of the saledeed are as followsAnd whereas the said Vendor hath agreed with the Purchaser to sell him the said land hereunder written at the rate of price or sum of Rs. 3,000 per cotta free from all encumbrances.	Facts
And whereas the total amount of price payable in respect of the said plot at the rate aforesaid amounts to Rs. 8,70856.	Facts
And Whereas at the treaty for sale it was agreed by and between the parties hereto that onethird or thereabout of the total price will be paid at the time of execution of these presents and the payment of the balance will be secured in the manner hereinafter appearing.	Facts
Now, This Indenture Witnesseth that in pursuance of the said Agreement and in consideration of the sum of Rs. 8,70856 whereof the sum of Rs. 2,90856 of lawful money of India to the said Vendor in hand well and truly paid by the Purchaser at or before the execution of these presents (the receipt whereof the said Vendor doth hereby as well as by receipt hereunder written admit and acknowledge) and the payment of the balance namely the sum of Rs. 5,800 being secured under a security deed of even date with these presents and executed by the Purchaser in favour of the Vendor creating First Charge upon the said land And the said Vendor shall at all costs complete the construction of the said twentyfive feet wide road on the North of the said plot No. 35A and will also lay out the said surface drains by the side of the said road within a, year from the date hereof and will maintain the said road and drains in proper state or repairs and shall arrange for lighting the said roads with electric light till the same are taken over by Tollygunge Municipality and, . .	None
Memo of Consideration By amount paid as earnest money on 5th August, 1948 By Cheque (part)	Facts
No. 6985706 on The Bank of	Facts
India Ltd.	Facts
Rs. 50100 on 30th January 1949.Rs.	None
2,40756	None
By amount secured under Security Deed of even date being these presents and executed by the Purchaser in favour of VendorRs. .5,80000	None
Rs.	None
8,70856	None
A specimen copy of the Mortgage Deeds is Annexure B to the Statement of the Case.	None
The relevant provision of the said Mortgage Deed are to the following effect and by the said Indenture of Conveyance it was provided that the payment of the balance of the consideration money, namely, the sum of Rs. 5,800 owing by the said mortgagor to the said mortgagee should be secured by an Indenture of Security Deed of even date beliving these presents to be executed by the said mortgagor in favour of the said mortgagee immediately after the execution of Conveyance now in recital.	Facts
Now this Indenture Witnesseth and declares as follows (1) In consideration of the said premises the said mortgagor doth hereby covenant with the said mortgagee that the said mortgagor will pay to the said mortgagee the said sum of Rs. 5,800 within ten years to be computed from the date of these presents together with interest thereon at the rate of 8 per cent per annum calculated from the date of these presents upto, the date of payment payable monthly 3.	Facts
We are concerned in this case with the assessment of the respondent company for two periods.	Facts
The first period is the accounting year ending June 30, 1949 corresponding to the assessment year 195051 and the second period is the accounting year ending June 30, 1950 corresponding to assessment year 195152.	Facts
For the assessment year 195051, the respondent company was maintaining its accounts in the mercantile system.	Facts
According to this system, the value of the land sold was credited at Rs. 3,73,375 against which the unpaid balance was debited in the debtors account and shown under the heading book debts considered goodsecured against mortgage of land.	Facts
Against this sale, there was an item of expenses aggregating to Rs. 2,77,047 of which the actual expenses paid out in cash was Rs. 1,12,577 and the estimated expenses against future development was Rupees 1,44,470.	Facts
Out of the actual expenses paid out in cash amounting to Rs. 1,12,577, a sum of Rs. 48,238 was expended for lands sold by the respondent company and a sum of Rs. 64,340 for expenses incurred by the respondent company on account of land already sold by the vendor.	Facts
As already stated, the accounts were kept in the account books of the respondent company on a mercantile system, for this period.	Facts
Later on, the respondent company adjusted its accounts on a cash system and submitted a revised return showing a loss of Rs. 11,583.	Facts
The Incometax Officer in assessing the income for the assessment year 195051, originally accepted the cash basis and computed the income.	Facts
On appeal, the assessment was set aside and the case was remitted to the Incometax Officer for a fresh assessment.	Facts
In this fresh assessment, the Incometax Officer adopted the mercantile basis on which the books of the respondent company had actually been kept.	Facts
Thereafter, the Incometax Officer allowed the sum of Rs. 48,238 which was the expenses actually incurred by the respondent company in respect of the lands sold by it but disallowed the sum of Rs. 64,340 which was the expenditure in respect of the lands which had already been sold by the firm before the respondent companys purchase.	Facts
With regard to the sale price of the plots, the Incometax Officer held that the entire amount of consideration was to be treated as income, though only a portion of the consideration was realised in cash and the other portion was left outstanding after taking a mortgage on the plots sold from the purchaser as security.	Facts
With regarded to the next assessment year, 195152, the respondent company kept its accounts on the cash system and not on mercantile system.	Facts
The Incometax Officer, however, held that for this assessment year also the amount of unrealised purchase price for the plots sold should be treated as income.	Facts
As regards expenses, the Incometax Officer allowed a sum of Rs. 56, 953 being the expenditure in respect of the lands actually sold by the respondent company but disallowed the amount of Rs. 87,517 being the expenses incurred in respect of the lands already sold by the firm when the respondent company took over.	Facts
Against the orders of the Incometax Officer the respondent company preferred appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who dismissed the appeals by a consolidated order, dated November 7, 1956 .	Facts
The respondent company thereafter took the matter in appeal before the Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
The view taken by the Appellate Tribunal was that the Incometax Officer should have made the assessment on the basis of cash system for the year 195152 and for that year only the cash receipts and disbursements should be considered.	Facts
With regard to the question of unrealised consideration money, the Appellate Tribunal held that for both the assessment years the unrealised consideration should be treated as income.	Facts
With regard to expenses incurred, the Appellate Tribunal upheld the finding of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
In other words, for both the assessment years it was held that the expenses incurred in respect of lands already sold before the respondent company took over should be disallowed.	Facts
At the instance of the respondent company the Appellate Tribunal stated a case to the High Court on the following questions of law1.	Facts
Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the entire sums of Rs. 1,12,577 and Rs. 3,43,155 for the assessment years 195051 and 195152, respectively, spent in carrying out the obligations subject to which lands were sold by the assessee were allowable in computing the assessees profits from the land business.	Facts
2.	None
Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the assessee was liable to be taxed only on the actual realisation of sales in cash subject to the allowances admissible under the Indian Incometax Act?	Facts
By its judgment, dated December 4, 1962 the High Court answered both the questions in favour of the respondent company.	None
4.	None
With respect to the first question it was submitted by Mr. Mitra that only the expenditure incurred in the relevant accounting year in connection with the lands sold by the respondent company should have been allowed and not the expenditure incurred in connection with the lands sold by the vendorfirm previously.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was not disputed by Mr. Mitra that under the terms of the contract between the vendorfirm and the respondent company the latter was bound to meet the obligations of the development of lands previously sold by the firm, but the contention was that the lands already sold by the firm were not stockintrade of the respondent company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was said that expenditure not incurred in connection with stockintrade of the business of the respondent company is not deductible under S. 10 (2) (xv) of the Incometax Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	Reasoning
It is not, in our opinion, a right approach to examine the question as if all revenue expenditure must be equated with expenditure in connection with the stockintrade.	Reasoning
In the present case, the saledeed, dated July 7, 1948 shows that the respondent company purchased from the firm a whole running business with all its goodwill and stockintrade and including its liabilities.	Reasoning
The respondent company had taken over undeveloped land and the idea was to develop the same by making roads, installing a drainage system, street lighting, etc., and then selling the same in small plots at a profit.	Reasoning
The principal inducement, therefore, for the purchasers was that the respondent company would develop the land and the purchasers would be able to pay by instalments spread over a number of years.	Reasoning
At the time the respondent company took over the lands a portion thereof had already been sold by the firm but the development had not been completed and in the saledeeds entered into by the respondent company with the subsequent purchasers the respondent company expressly undertook the liability to complete the development within a reasonable time.	Reasoning
The argument that the respondent company had nothing to do with the lands already sold which did not form part of its stockintrade is not correct.	Reasoning
In the present case, the development of the entire hand is an integrated process and cannot be subdivided into watertight compartments as the making of the roads and the provision for drainage and street lighting, etc., cannot be related to any particular piece of land but the development has to be made as a whole as a complete and unified scheme.	Reasoning
It is a case of commercial expediency and as pointed out by this Court in Eastern Investments Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, (1951) 20 ITR 1 (AIR 1951 SC 278 )A sum of money expended, not of necessity and with a view to a direct and immediate benefit to the trade, but voluntarily and on the grounds of commercial expediency and in order indirectly to facilitate the carrying on of the business, may yet be expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of the trade.	None
(approving the dictum of Viscount Cave, L. C. in Atherton v. British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd., (1926) 10 Tax Cas 155, 191).	None
The same test has been applied in Cooke (H. M. Inspector of Taxes) v. Quick Shoe Repair Service, (1949) 30	None
Tax Cas 460, in which the agreement by which the respondent firm purchased a shoe repair business provided that the vendor should discharge all liabilities of the business outstanding at the date of sale.	None
The vendor failed to do so, and the respondents, in order to preserve the goodwill and to ensure continuity of supplies of material, etc., paid certain sums in discharge of the vendors liabilities.	None
It was held by CroomJohnson, J. that the sums so paid by the respondent firm were wholly and exclusively laid out for the purposes of its business and were not capital expenditure and were, therefore, allowable deductions for incometax purposes.	None
5.	None
It was also contended by Mr. Mitra that so far as the expenditure incurred in development of plots already sold by the firm is concerned, it was likely that the price paid by the respondent company in the contract of sale, dated July 7, 1948 to the firm for taking over the assets and liabilities of the firm had been fixed after taking into account the obligation for the development of such plots.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this assumption it was submitted by Mr. Mitra that the discharge of this obligation must be attributed to the capital structure of the respondent companys business and cannot be considered as an obligation incurred in connection with the carrying on of its business.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that such expenditure must be regarded as capital in character and not debitable to the revenue account of the relevant accounting years.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this proposition Counsel relied upon the decision in Royal Insurance Co. v. Watson (Surveyor of Taxes), (1897) 3 Tax Cas 500, in which it was held that the payment by the transferee company of a sum of ?	None
55,8468s.5d.	None
to the manager in commutation of his annual salary was capital expenditure since the payment formed part of the considerations for the transfer of the business and, therefore, could not be deducted.	None
On behalf of the respondent company Mr. Asoke Sen referred to the decision of this Court in Commr. of Incometax (Central), Calcutta v. Mugneeram Bangur and Co. (Land Department), (1965) 57 ITR 299 (AIR 1966 SC 50 ), and to the terms of the saledeed, dated July 7, 1948 and the Schedule thereto and argued that there was no quantification of the obligations taken over by the respondent company under Cl. 5 of the saledeed.	None
It was stated by Mr. Asoke Sen that the obligations were not computed and did not form part of the consideration of Rs. 34 lakhs and odd arrived at in the Schedule.	Arguments of Respondent
In our opinion, there is justification in the argument put forward by Mr. Asoke Sen and the principle of the decision in Royal Insurance Co. v. Watson (Surveyor of Taxes), (1897)	Reasoning
3 Tax Cas 500, has no application to the present case.	None
There is nothing to show in the present case that the obligation incurred under Cl. 5 of the saledeed was quantified and formed part of the consideration amounting to Rs. 34 lakhs and odd mentioned in the saledeed as paid by the respondent company.	Reasoning
We accordingly reject the argument put forward by Mr. Mitra on behalf of the appellants on this aspect of the case.	Reasoning
6.	None
We next proceed to consider the question whether the full price as recited in the saledeed should be regarded as having been realised by the respondent company for the relevant accounting years and not merely the actual cash paid by the purchasers.	None
The recital in the saledeed showed the consideration for the transfer of the property, that part of the consideration was paid in cash and the balance was secured by a mortgage executed by the purchasers on the same date.	None
It was argued by Mr. Mitra that the amounts of the consideration money not received in cash but which were treated as a loan to the purchasers and for which the lands sold were mortgaged in favour of the respondent company, should be treated as constructive receipt of the money by the respondent company and, therefore, liable to be included in the profits of the respondent company derived during the respective accounting years.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	Reasoning
The Memo of Consideration in the saledeed reproduced above shows that there was cash payment of the earnest money on August 5 1948 (Rs. 501) and a cheque was paid as part of the consideration on January 30, 1949 for a sum of Rs. 2,40756 and the balance of the amount secured under Security Deed of even date.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, impossible to hold in this case that there was any cash payment by the purchasers to the respondent company on the date of the execution of the saledeed and the execution of the mortgagedeed on the same date by the purchasers cannot be treated as equivalent to payment of cash.	Reasoning
In the circumstances found in the present case it cannot be said that the mere giving of security for the debt by the purchaser was tant amount to payment.	Reasoning
We accordingly hold that, in the circumstances of this case, the amount of consideration not received and which the purchasers agreed to pay in future for which lands were mortgaged in favour of the respondent company, cannot be considered to be taxable income for the assessment periods in question.	Reasoning
The view that we have expressed is borne out by the decision of the Judicial Committee in Commr. of Incometax, Bihar and Orissa v. Maharajadhiraja of Darbhanga, 60 Ind App 146 (AIR 1933 PC 108 ).	None
In that case, the Maharajadhiraja of Darbhanga lent to Kumar Ganesh Singh, about 32 lakhs of rupees.	None
In the assessment year in question, the Kumar owed to Maharaja six lakhs of rupees as interest.	None
This he did not pay in cash, but entered into an arrangement whereby the assessee took over various items of property in lieu of principal and interest.	None
One of the items so taken over consisted of promissory notes executed by the Kumar in favour of the Maharaja.	None
The question was whether this was income received by the Maharaja.	None
In the course of his judgment, Lord Macmillan stated at p. 161 of the Report as followsbut the seventh item .consisting of the debtors own promissory notes, was clearly not the equivalent of cash.	None
A debtor who gives his creditor a promissory note for the sum he owes can in no sense be said to pay his creditor he merely gives him a document or voucher of debt possessing certain legal attributes.	None
So far then as this item is concerned the assessee did not receive payment of any taxable income from his debtor or indeed any payment at all.	None
In so holding their Lordships find themselves in agreement with the learned judges of the High Court who differed on this point from the Commissioner. 7.	None
For the reasons already expressed, we hold that both the questions referred to the High Court have been rightly answered by it in favour of the assessee and these appeals are without merit and should be dismissed with costs.	Decision
One set of hearing fee.	Decision
8.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
