 Dutt, J. Of these three appeals by special leave, we may first of all deal with Civil Appeal No. 3214 of 1979 for, admittedly, the disposal of that appeal will virtually mean the disposal of the other two appeals.	Issue
The said Civil Appeal No. 3214 of 1979 is directed against the judgment of the Delhi High Court whereby the High Court has quashed a circular dated March 8, 1978 issued by the Board of Directors of Caltex Oil Refinery (India) Ltd. (for short CORIL), a Government Company, on the writ petition filed by the employees of CORIL being Writ Petition No. 426 of 1978.	Issue
The Caltex Acquisition of Shares of Caltex (India) Ltd. and of the Undertaking in India of Caltex (India) Ltd. Act 17 of 1977, hereinafter referred to as the Act, was enacted by the Union Parliament and came into force with effect from April 23, 1977.	Facts
The Act provides for the acquisition of shares of CORIL and for the acquisition and transfer of the right, title and interest of Caltex (India) Ltd. in relation to its Undertakings in India with a view to ensuring coordinated distribution and utilisation of petroleum products.	Facts
Under Section 3 of the Act, the shares in the capital of the CORIL stood transferred to and vested in the Central Government on the appointed day being December 30, 1976.	Facts
Under Section 5, the right, title and interest of Caltex (India) Ltd. in relation to its Undertakings in India stood transferred to and vested in the Central Government on the appointed day.	Facts
Section 9 of the Act provides that the Central Government may be a notification direct that the right, title and interest and the liabilities of Caltex (India) Ltd. in relation to any of its Undertakings in India shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government, vest in the Government Company either on the date of the notification or on such earlier or later date not being a date earlier than the appointed day, as may be specified in the notification.	Facts
Section 11(2) provides that subject to rules made in this behalf under Section 23, every wholetime officer or other employee of CORIL would on the appointed day continue to be an officer or other employee of CORIL on the same terms and conditions and with the same rights to pension, gratuity and other matters as are admissible to him immediately before that day and shall continue to hold such office unless and until his employment under CORIL is duly terminated or until his remuneration and conditions of service are duly altered by that company.	Facts
The Chairman of the Board of Directors of CORIL issued the impugned circular dated March 8, 1978, inter alia, stating therein that consequent upon the take over of the Caltex (India) Ltd. by the government, the question of rationalisation of the perquisites and allowances admissible to Management Staff had been under consideration of the Board for some time, and that as an interim measure, the Board had decided that the perquisites admissible to the Management Staff should be rationalised in the manner stated in the said circular.	Facts
At this stage, it may be mentioned that by the Caltex Oil Refinery (India) Ltd. and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Amalgamation Order, 1978 which was published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, dated May 9, 1978, the Undertaking of CORIL was transferred to and vested in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. which thus became a government Company referred to in Section 9 of the Act.	Facts
After the issue of the said circular, the respondents 1 to 4, who were some of the employees of CORIL, filed a writ petition in the Delhi High Court being Civil Writ Petition No. 426 of 1978 challenging the legality and validity of the impugned order.	Facts
It was submitted by the said respondents that under the said circular the terms and conditions of service of the employees of CORIL had been substantially and adversely altered to their prejudice.	Facts
At the hearing of the said writ petition before the High Court it was contended on behalf of respondents 1 to 4 that the notification issued under Section 9 of the Act vesting the management of the Undertakings of Caltex (India) Ltd. in CORIL was ultra vires subsection (1) of Section 9.	Facts
It was contended that the provision of subsection (1) of Section 11 of the Act offended against the provisions of Articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution of India and, as such, it should be struck down.	Facts
Further, it was contended that there was no valid classification between the contracts referred to in Section 11(1) and Section 15 of the Act.	Facts
It was urged that unguided and arbitrary powers had been vested in the official by subsection (1) of Section 11 for the alteration of the terms and conditions of service of the employees.	Facts
Besides the above contentions, another contention was advanced on behalf of respondent 1 to 4, namely, that the employees not having been given and opportunity of being heard before altering to their prejudice the terms and conditions of service, the impugned circular should be struck down as void being opposed to the principles of natural justice.	Facts
All the contentions except the last contention of respondents 1 to 4 were rejected by the High Court.	Facts
The High Court, however, took the view that as no opportunity was given to the employees of CORIL before the impugned circular was issued, the Board of Directors of CORIL acted illegally and in violation of the principles of natural justice.	Facts
In that view of the matter, the High Court quashed the impugned circular.	Facts
Hence this appeal by special leave.	Facts
It is not disputed that the employees were not given any opportunity of being heard before the impugned circular dated March 8, 1978 was issued.	None
It is, however, submitted by Mr. Pai, learned counsel appearing on behalf of CORIL, that there has been no prejudicial alteration of the terms and conditions of service of the employees of CORIL by the impugned circular.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that nothing has been pleaded by respondents 1 to 4 as to which clauses of the impugned circular are to their detriment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has also not pointed out such clauses before quashing the impugned circular.	None
It appears that for the first time before us such a contention is advanced on behalf of CORIL.	None
In this connection, we may refer to an observation of the High Court which is Admittedly, the impugned order adversely affects the perquisites of the petitioners.	None
It has resulted in civil consequences.	None
The above observation clearly indicated that it was admitted by the parties that the impugned circular had adversely affect the terms and conditions of service of respondents 1 to 4 who were the petitioners in the writ petition before the High Court.	None
Mr. Sachar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondents 1 to 4, has handed over to us a copy of the writ petition filed by respondents 1 to 4 before the High Court being Civil Writ Petition No. 426 of 1978.	Arguments of Respondent
In paragraph 12 of the writ petition it has been inter alia stated as followsThe petitioners respectfully submit that under the said circular the terms and conditions of service of the employees of the second respondent including the petitioners herein have been substantially and adversely altered to the prejudice of such employees.	Arguments of Respondent
The same would be clear inter alia from the statements annexed hereto and makes as Annexure IV.	Arguments of Respondent
Annexure IV is a statement of Annual Loss in Remuneration Income per person employee posted at Delhi and U.P. Nothing has been produced before us on behalf of CORIL or Union of India to show that the statements contained in Annexure IV are untrue.	None
In the circumstances, there is no substance in the contention made by Mr. Pai that there has been no prejudicial alteration of the terms and conditions of service of the employees of CORIL, and that nothing has been pleaded by respondents 1 to 4 as to which clauses of the impugned circular are to their detriment.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of the contentions that was urged by respondents 1 to 4 before the High Court at the hearing of the writ petition, as noticed above, is that unguided and arbitrary powers have been vested in the official by subsection (1) of Section 11 for the alteration of the terms and conditions of service of the employees.	Reasoning
It has been observed by the High Court that although the terms and conditions of service could be altered by CORIL, but such alteration has to be made duly as provided in subsection (2) of Section 11 of the Act.	Reasoning
The High Court has placed reliance upon the ordinary dictionary meaning of the word duly which, according to Concise Oxford Dictionary, means rightly, properly, fifty and according to Strouds Judicial Dictionary, 4th edn., the word duly means done in due course and according to law.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the word duly is very significant and excludes any arbitrary exercise of power under Section 11(2).	Reasoning
It is now a well established principle of law that there can be no deprivation or curtailment of any existing right, advantage or benefit enjoyed by a government servant without complying with the rules of natural justice by giving the government servant concerned an opportunity of being heard.	Reasoning
Any arbitrary or whimsical exercise of power prejudicial affecting the existing conditions of service of a government servant will often against the provision of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the employees of CORIL were not given an opportunity of hearing or representing their case before the impugned circular was issued by the Board of Directors.	Reasoning
The impugned circular cannot, therefore, be sustained as it offends against the rules of natural justice.	Reasoning
It is, however, contended on behalf of CORIL that after the impugned circular was issued, an opportunity of hearing was given to the employees with regard to the alterations made in the conditions of their service by the impugned circular.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, the post decisional opportunity of hearing does not sub serve the rules of natural justice.	None
The authority who embarks upon a postdecisional hearing will naturally proceed with a closed mind and there is hardly any chance of getting a proper consideration of the representation at such a postdecisional opportunity.	Reasoning
In this connection, we may refer to a recent decision of this Court in K. I. Shepherd v. Union of India ((1987) 4 SCC 431 1987 SCC (LS) 438).	Reasoning
What happened in that case was that the Hindustan Commercial Bank, the Bank of Cochin Ltd. and Lakshmi Commercial Bank, which were private banks, were amalgamated with Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank and State Bank of India respectively in terms of separate schemes drawn under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	None
Pursuant to the Schemes, certain employees of the first mentioned three banks were excluded from employment and their services were not taken over by the respective transferee banks.	None
Such exclusion was made without giving the employees, whose services were terminated, an opportunity of being heard.	None
Ranganath Misra, J. speaking for the court observed as follows (SCC pp. 44849, Para 16)	None
We may now point out that the learned Single Judge for the Kerala High Court had proposed a postamalgamation hearing to meet the situation but that has been vacated by the Division Bench.	None
For the reasons we have indicated, there is no justification to think of a postdecisional hearing.	None
On the other hand the normal rule should apply, It was also contended on behalf of the respondents that the excluded employees could not represent and their case could be examined.	Reasoning
We do not think that would meet the ends of justice.	Reasoning
They have already been thrown out of employment and having been deprived of livelihood they must be facing serious difficulties.	Reasoning
There is no justification to throw them out of employment and then give them an opportunity of representation when the requirement is that they should have the opportunity referred to above as a condition precedent to action.	Reasoning
It is common experience that once a decision has been taken, there is a tendency to uphold it and a representation may not really yield any fruitful purpose.	Reasoning
The view that has been taken by this Court in the above observation is that once a decision has been taken, there is a tendency to uphold it and a representation may not yield any fruitful purpose.	Reasoning
Thus, even if any hearing was given to the employees of CORIL after the issuance of the impugned circular, that would not be any compliance with the rules of natural justice or avoid the mischief of arbitrariness as contemplated by Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The High Court, in our opinion, was perfectly justified in quashing the impugned circular.	Reasoning
In the result, Civil Appeal No. 3214 of 1979 is dismissed.	Decision
In view of the reasons given in Civil Appeal No. 3214 of 1979, Civil Appeal No. 3518 of 1979 is also dismissed.	Decision
Civil Appeal No. 3212 of 1979 has been preferred by the writ petitioners in Civil Writ Petition No. 426 of 1978 filed before the High Court.	Decision
The writ petitioners succeeded in getting the impugned circular quashed by the High Court.	Decision
As the High Court rejected some of the grounds of challenge to the impugned circular, the appeal has been preferred.	Decision
There is no merit in this appeal and it is wholly misconceived.	Decision
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in any of these appeals.	Decision
