 These appeals arise out of two orders, one dated 16th18th February, 2005 passed by a Single Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in C.P. No. 189 of 1998 filed in Writ Petition No. 5981 of 1997 and the other dated 16th August, 2005, passed in Contempt Appeal No. 1 of 2005 arising out of the earlier mentioned proceedings.	Issue
By an order dated 23rd March, 1998, a Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay disposed of Writ Petition No. 5981 of 1997 with certain directions.	Facts
One of the directions required Respondents No. 1 and 2, Appellant(s) herein, not to remove persons mentioned in ExhibitA, presently in employment and also not to change the terms of their employment.	Facts
Alleging breach of the said direction, the writ PetitionerRespondent No. 1 herein filed Contempt Petition No. 189 of 1998 which was disposed of by a Single Judge of that court by order dated 16th18th February, 2005.	Facts
In the said contempt petition, the High Court held that the Respondents (Appellantcompany) had not committed any deliberate breach of the directions issued by the court so as to call for any action in contempt against it.	Facts
Even so the High Court noticed that there was a dispute regarding the rate of wages payable to the contract workers employed by the Appellantcompany which required adjudication.	Facts
The writ Petitioners in the original petition were for that purpose given liberty to approach the Labour Court by way of an application Under Section 33C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
Having said so, the High Court appears to have declined the release of a sum of Rs. 30 lakhs deposited by the Appellant before the High Court pursuant to an order issued to that effect on the ground that the said amount could be utilised for meeting the liability, if any, adjudged against the Appellantcompany in proceedings Under Section 33C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Facts
Aggrieved by the order passed by the Single Judge declining to release the amount of Rs. 30 lakhs deposited by the Appellant, the Appellant filed Contempt Appeal No. 1 of 2005 which was dismissed by the Division Bench of that court on the ground that no such appeal was maintainable in terms of Section 19 of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971.	Facts
The present appeals by special leave assail the correctness of the orders passed by the Single Judge as well as the Division Bench, as noticed above.	Facts
When the matter initially came up for hearing before a Bench of this Court comprising Hon.	Facts
S.B. Sinha and Dalveer Bhandari, JJ.	Facts
on 7th July, 2006, this Court noticed an apparent conflict in the decisions rendered by this Court in R.N. Dey and Others Vs.	Facts
Bhagyabati Pramanik and Others, and V.M. Manohar Prasad v. N. Ratnam Raju and Anr.	Facts
(2004) 13 SCC 610 on the one hand and the decision of this Court in State of Maharashtra Vs.	Facts
Mahboob S. Allibhoy and another, on the other.	Facts
The appeals were accordingly directed to be placed before a Larger Bench to resolve the conflict.	Facts
That is precisely how this appeal has been listed before us for hearing.	Facts
The appeals thereafter came up before this Court on 29th April, 2014 for hearing when we noticed that no one had entered appearance on behalf of Respondent No. 1 despite service.	Facts
Even so and keeping in view the importance of the issues referred to us for adjudication, we had requested Mr. Shekhar Naphade, Senior Advocate, to assist us as amicus.	Facts
We have accordingly heard Mr. Prateek Jalan, learned Counsel appearing for the Appellantcompany, and learned Amicus today.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the Appellantcompany, it was argued by Mr. Jalan that Respondent No. 1Association has since been disbanded which explains the reasons why no one has entered appearance on its behalf despite notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended that according to the instructions received from the Appellantcompany, no petition Under Section 33C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 has been moved by Respondent No. 1Association or any other person for that matter, requiring an adjudication on the question of wages payable to the employees at the relevant point of time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Both the circumstances, it was contended, make it unnecessary for this Court to look into the matter or to resolve the apparent conflict noticed in the order of reference.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that the Appellant is a public sector undertaking in which the Central Government holds 80 equity share.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, the company is a solvent company and has sufficient resources to discharge any liability that may arise on account of any differential wages amount found payable to the employees in any proceedings already initiated or that may be initiated in future.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that without going into the question whether the contempt appeal filed by the Appellant was maintainable, this Court could modify the order passed by the learned single Judge of the High Court to the extent the said order declined release of the money, deposited by the Appellant, and directed its retention till such time the adjudication took place.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fact that no application Under Section 33C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 has been filed for the past nearly 10 years and even the Association itself disbanded, clearly suggest that there is no immediate liability nor is there any possibility of any such adjudication taking place in near future.	Arguments of Petitioner
Detaining the entire amount of Rs. 30 lakhs deposited by the Appellant for discharge of any liability that may but appears to be unlikely to arise even in the future is therefore not a very prudent course of action, argued by learned Counsel for the Appellantcompany.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Shekhar Naphade, learned amicus, submitted that keeping in view the factual assertions made at the Bar on behalf of the Appellantcompany there should be no difficulty in directing release of the amount deposited by the Appellantcompany together with interest, if any accrued on the same, with the observation that the Appellantcompany shall meet the liability as and when the same is determined and keep sufficient resources available for that purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances, therefore, and keeping in view the fact that Respondent No. 1Association has not appeared to contest the present proceedings nor is there anything to suggest that any petition Under Section 33C(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 was filed at any stage, so also the fact that the Appellant happens to be a solvent company and has sufficient resources to meet the liability that may arise on account of any differential wages held payable to the employees by the said company, we are of the view that the amount of Rs. 30 lakhs, lying in deposit before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, can be released in favour of the AppellantCompany.	Reasoning
We accordingly allow these appeals but only in part and to the extent that the amount of Rs. 30 Lakhs deposited by the Appellant together with interest shall stand released in favour of the Appellantcompany.	Decision
Needless to say that in the event of any liability falling upon the Appellantcompany, it shall without demur satisfy the same.	Decision
The reference as also the appeals are disposed of with the above observations.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
