 Alagiriswami, J.1.	None
In the election held on 11th March, 1972 to the Legislative Assembly of Madhya Pradesh from Damoh constituency the respondent, an independent candidate, was declared elected.	Issue
The appellant, the Congress candidate filed an election petition for declaring the election of the respondent void on various grounds all of which were found not proved by the learned Judge of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh who tried the petition.	Issue
The petition was consequently dismissed and this appeal is against that dismissal.2.	Facts
We are concerned only with the charge of corrupt practices under Section 123 (4) of the Representation of the People Act in respect of five pamphlets marked Exs.	Facts
P3, P4, P5, P6 and P8 and two public meetings held on 431972 and 831972.3.	None
At the beginning of the arguments an objection was raised on behalf of the respondent that the election petition should have been dismissed on the ground that it did not comply with the requirements of Section 83 of the Representation of the People Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This was on the basis that the affidavit filed in support of the election petition did not give details as to the material particulars in respect of the various corrupt practices with which the respondent was charged.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued in the alternative that in any case no evidence should have been admitted.	Arguments of Respondent
As far as this appeal is concerned both amount to the same thing because charges with which we are concerned are charges under S. 123 (4).	None
We do not think that there is any substance in this contention on behalf of the respondent.4.	None
On behalf of the appellant it was made clear that the only charge made in the petition was the charge of publication of the pamphlets and not their printing and evidence regarding the printing was relied upon only to corroborate the evidence regarding distribution of the pamphlets.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is obvious that when Section 123 (4) speaks of publication it means distribution.	Reasoning
Mere printing of the pamphlets would not fall under Section 123 (4).	Reasoning
Therefore the failure to give particulars of the printing cannot lead to the dismissal of the petition.	Reasoning
Nor could evidence regarding it be shut out.	Reasoning
The proviso to Section 83 (1) lays down that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.	Reasoning
It does not say that the allegation of corrupt practice and particulars thereof should be given in the affidavit.	Reasoning
The election petition contains the allegation of corrupt practices and particulars thereof.	Reasoning
That this is the intention of the Legislature is also clear from a perusal of Form 25, which is the one prescribed under Rule 94A of the Conduct of Elections Rules.	Reasoning
The affidavit filed in support of the election petition is in accordance with that form.5.	None
Reliance was placed on behalf of the respondent on the decision of this Court in Virendra Kumar v. Jagjivan (1972 (1) SCC 826 )	None
(AIR 1974 SC 1957 ).	Arguments of Respondent
In that case R. 9 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court Rules in respect of election petitions, which states that the rules of the High Court shall apply in so far as they are not inconsistent with the Representation of the People Act, 1951 or other rules, if any made thereunder or the Code of Civil Procedure in respect of all matters including inter alia affidavits, was referred to.	None
On the basis of that Rule R. 7 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court Rules which states that every affidavit should clearly express how much is a statement made on information or belief and must also state the source of or grounds of information or belief with sufficient particularity, was stated to mean that grounds or sources of information are to be set out in the affidavit.	None
This would really mean that the allegations found in the body of the election petition would have to be repeated in the affidavit.	None
However, in that case the failure to conform to Rule 9 and R. 7 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court Rules was not held to be fatal to the election petition.	None
What was said was that it would be helpful in assessing the value of the evidence.	None
But that purpose is served by the allegations in the election petition itself.	None
Moreover, it appears to us that the provisions of Rule 9 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court Rules regarding the election petitions framed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court by reference to Rule 7 of the Madhya Pradesh High Court Rules found in Chapter III regarding affidavits cannot be made use of for this purpose.	None
The former set of rules are made under Article 225 of the Constitution and cannot make any substantive law end the rules themselves on a perusal of them would show that they relate merely to procedural matters unlike rules made under Section 122 of the Code of Civil Procedure.6.	None
In Krishan Chander v. Ram Lal (1973 (2) SCC 759 ) (AIR 1973 SC 2513 )	None
it was pointed out thatWhen there are specific Rules made under the Act which govern the election petitions, no other Rules are applicable.	None
Nor is disclosure of the source of information a requisite under Order 6, Rule 15 (2), C.P.C. Decisions rendered under Order 6, Rule 15 and Order 19, Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure have no relevance and do not support the submission that if the affidavit in support of the petition does not state the source of information on which the several allegations in the petition are based, those allegations cannot be deemed to have been made.	None
The provision for setting out the sources of information where the allegations have been verified as having been made on information and knowledge of the petitioner is not a requisite prescribed under Rule 94A of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 which are applicable to the filing of an election petition.	None
The affidavit in support of an election petition need not itself disclose the sources of information.	None
The election petition under Section 83 (1) (b) itself must contain all the particulars that are necessary and in the affidavit in support of the petition the petitioner is required to say which of the allegations made in various paragraphs of the petition are true to his knowledge and which of them are true to his information.	None
If any source of information has not been set out and the respondent can not answer them.	None
Without particulars, he can always apply for better particulars.	None
If the petition and the affidavit conform to the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, it cannot be said that because the sources of the information have not been given, the allegations made in the petition have to be ignored.	None
This accords with the view which we have taken.	None
Furthermore, according to Section 86 of the Representation of the People Act only petitions which do not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117 are liable to be dismissed.	None
We, therefore, overrule the preliminary objection.7.	None
With respect to these five documents there is no dispute that they fall within the mischief of Section 123 (4) and it is therefore unnecessary to set out the contents of these pamphlets, nor was it seriously contended except in the case of Ex. P8 that they were not circulated.	None
The only question is whether the circulation was made by the respondent or with his consent.	None
In considering this question it is important to bear in mind that all the persons who admit that they printed these pamphlets are workers of the respondent.	None
We will deal with the evidence in due course.	None
It is necessary to go into the question of the printing of these pamphlets because evidence regarding it will have a bearing on their distribution either by the respondent or by his supporters with his consent.	None
Though as many as 67 witnesses were examined and 28 of them with regard to publication, the learned trial Judge has rejected all of them.	None
Where the question of publication and distribution is a matter to be decided on the basis of oral evidence, it is easy to dispose of them by saying that it is of persons interested in the appellant.	None
That is why a discussion of the question regarding the printing should provide a satisfactory method of assuring oneself as to whether the distribution was made as alleged by the appellant.	None
(The Judgment here discussed the evidence in Paras 8 to 28.	None
The Judgment then proceeded)29.	None
After a thorough and anxious examination of the evidence in this case we have come to the conclusion that the people who got printed Exs.	None
P3, P4, P5, P6 and P8 are close supporters of the respondent.	None
They have no special grievance against the appellant, certainly not enough to make them go to the extent of having them printed of their own.	None
Two of them, Vijay Kumar Agarwal and Suman are mere boys of 14 and 15.	None
They have merely been made use of by somebody and that somebody in the proved circumstances of this case could only be the respondent.	None
We are not able to accept the evidence of Vijay Kumar Agarwal that he got the pamphlets at 11.30.p.m.	None
on the night of the 10th March and he distributed them to a few people.	None
Nor are we able to accept the evidence of Suman that though he gave the matter for printing on the 10th he got the pamphlets only on the 11th and so he did not distribute them.	None
We find the evidence of P.Ws. 66 and 67 that it was given for printing on the 9th more acceptable.	None
We are unable to accept the assertion of Ramesh Chand Jain that he got Ex. P8 printed in order to hand it over to the Chief Minister when he was due to arrive at Damoh on the 28th of February but that he destroyed them because the Chief Minister did not turn up.	None
All these pamphlets have been printed with a definite purpose that is of harming the chances of the appellant in the election and thereby aiding the respondent.	None
The plan and the direction could have come only from one source that is the respondent.	None
He has made use of his supporters, two of them young boys of 14 and 15, to get the pamphlets printed in their names so that they could take the responsibility and he may disown the responsibility for them.30.	None
We have discussed the evidence of only nonCongress witnesses and we can see no reason to reject them.	None
We do not agree with the learned Judge who rejected wholesale every bit of evidence adduced on behalf of the respondent.	None
Whether the evidence of P.Ws. 66 and 67 about the part played by the respondent with regard to the pamphlets printed in the Chhabi Printing Press and of Kailash Chand Nakra with regard to the pamphlets printed in the Kailash Press are correct or not, we are convinced beyond reasonable doubt that the respondent is the guiding brain and hand behind all of them.	None
He and his supporters must have planned all these things together.	None
He has made his witnesses admit just enough so that a red herring might be drawn across the trail and blame may attach to them and not to him.	None
The fact that he is an advocate or that it is the third election in which he is standing is no guarantee against his being responsible for this.31.	None
Then there is the question of two meetings dated 431972 and 331972.	None
We do not think it necessary to examine this branch of the case in view of the earlier findings.32.	None
In the result therefore we hold that the respondent is guilty of a corrupt practice under Sec.	Decision
123 (4) in respect of the pamphlets Exs.	Decision
P3, P4, P5, P6 and P8.33.	None
The appeal is allowed and the respondents election is declared to be void.	Decision
The respondent will pay the appellants costs.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
