 K.Agrawal, J. Leave granted.	None
The present appeal has been filed against the impugned judgment and order dated 03.11.2016 passed by the High Court of Punjab Haryana at Chandigarh in CR No. 7190 of 2016 whereby learned single Judge of the High Court dismissed the revision filed by the appellanthusband against the order dated18.10.2016 passed by the District Judge, Family Court, Gurgaon in Civil Suit No. 15 of 2016 whereby adinterim injunction granted against the respondentwife, vide order dated 26.09.2016 has been vacated.	Facts
Brief facts Having regard to the nature and circumstances of the case, we do not intend to discuss all the facts in detail at this stage.	None
Hence, the facts are stated in a summarized way only to appreciate the issue involved in this instant appeal.	Facts
The marriage between Dinesh Singh Thakurthe appellanthusband and Sonal Thakur  respondentwife was solemnized on 20.02.1995 as per Hindu rites and two children were born out of the said wedlock.	None
The appellanthusband was working in United States of America (USA) at the time of marriage and he took the respondentwife to USA on Dependent Visa.	Facts
Both the parties got the citizenship of USA in May, 2003.	Facts
They obtainedPIOstatus (Person of India Origin) in June 2003 andOCI status (Overseas Citizens of India) in July 2006.	None
The appellanthusband filed a petition being H.M.A. No. 601 of 2016 under Sections 13 and 26 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 (in short the Act) against the respondentwife at the Family Court, Gurgaon which is pending adjudication before the Court.	None
Subsequently, the respondentwife filed a petition being Case No. 2016008918FD in the Circuit Court of the Sixth Judicial Circuit in and for Pinellas County, Florida, USA for divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage and other reliefs.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellanthusband filed Civil Suit No. 15 of 2016 before the District Judge, Family Court, Gurgaon, under Section 7 of the Act for permanent injunction and declaration inter alia to restrain the respondentwife from pursuing the petition for divorce before the Court in USA.	Facts
Learned District Judge, vide order dated 26.09.2016, granted ex parte ad interim injunction to the appellanthusband.	None
Being aggrieved, the respondentwife filed an application for vacation and modification of the order dated 26.09.2016.	None
Learned District Judge, vide order dated 18.10.2016, vacated the injunction granted vide order dated 26.09.2016.	Facts
Aggrieved by the order vacating injunction, the appellanthusband preferred CR No. 7190 of 2016 before the High Court.	None
Learned single Judge of the High Court, vide order dated 03.11.2016 dismissed the petition filed by the appellanthusband.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgment and order dated 03.11.2016, the appellanthusband has filed this appeal by way of special leave before this Court.	Facts
Heard Ms. Indu Malhotra, learned senior counsel for the appellanthusband and Mr. V. Giri, learned senior counsel for the respondentwife and perused the record.	None
Point(s) for consideration The only point for consideration before this Court is whether in the present facts and circumstances of the case, the appellanthusband is entitled to the decree of antisuit injunction against the respondentwife?	None
Rival submissions Learned senior counsel for the appellanthusband contended that as the appellant herein had already filed a petition seeking dissolution of marriage of the parties in which the respondentwife was served on 04.08.2016 and she had caused appearance on 16.09.2016, the proceedings initiated by the respondentwife seeking a decree of divorce in a Foreign Court on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage which is not a ground for divorce under the Act are liable to be stayed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the respondentwife, along with her minor children is residing in India since 2003 and filing of petition for divorce in the Court at USA, after receipt of notice in the divorce petition filed by the appellanthusband in India, is an abuse of process of law and amounts to multiplicity of proceedings.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel further contended that the respondentwife is admittedly residing at Gurgaon, therefore, the court at Gurgaon would be the forum convenient to both the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
She further contended that the trial Court has only considered the provisions of Section 41(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (in short the SR Act) and the decision in the case of Rakesh Kumar vs. Ms. Ashima Kumar AIR 2007 PH 63 but did not take into consideration the provisions of Section 41(a) of the SR Act, relevant in the present context.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel for the appellanthusband finally contended that the High Court was not right in upholding the order of the court below on vacating the adinterim injunction and interference in this regard is sought for by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel for the respondentwife while refuting the claims made by learned senior counsel for the appellanthusband submitted that the petition that has been filed before the Court at Florida is not only for dissolution of marriage of the parties but also for claiming various other reliefs such as equitable distribution of marital assets, child support, alimony, partition and other reliefs that are not available under the Indian Law.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel further submitted that the irreparable loss or injury shall be caused to the respondentwife and to the children in case the petition pending in the Court at Florida is stayed.	Arguments of Respondent
Discussion AntiSuit Injunctions are meant to restrain a party to a suit proceeding from instituting or prosecuting a case in another court, including a foreign court.	None
Simply put, an antisuit injunction is a judicial order restraining one party from prosecuting a case in another court outside its jurisdiction.	None
The principles governing grant of injunction are common to that of granting antisuit injunction.	None
The cases of injunction are basically governed by the doctrine of equity.	None
It is a wellsettled law that the courts in India have power to issue antisuit injunction to a party over whom it has personal jurisdiction, in an appropriate case.	None
However, before passing the order of antisuit injunction, courts should be very cautious and careful, and it should be granted sparingly and not as a matter of routine as such orders involve a court impinging on the jurisdiction of another court, which is not entertained very easily specially when the it restrains the parties from instituting or continuing a case in a foreign court.	None
In this backdrop, it is worthwhile to quote Section 41 of the SR Act which provides for various instances and circumstances under which injunction cannot be granted.	None
Injunction when refused.	None
An injunction cannot be granted (a) to restrain any person from prosecuting a judicial proceeding pending at the institution of the suit in which the injunction is sought, unless such restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of proceedings (b) to restrain any person from instituting or prosecuting any proceeding in a court not subordinate to that from which the injunction is sought (c) to restrain any person from applying to any legislative body (d) to restrain any person from instituting or prosecuting any proceeding in a criminal matter (e) to prevent the breach of a contract the performance of which would not be specifically enforced (f) to prevent, on the ground of nuisance, an act of which it is not reasonably clear that it will be a nuisance (g) to prevent a continuing breach in which the plaintiff has acquiesced (h) when equally efficacious relief can certainly be obtained by any other usual mode of proceeding except in case of breach of trust when the conduct of the plaintiff or his agents has been such as to disentitle him to the assistance of the court (j) when the plaintiff has no personal interest in the matter.	None
The appellant husband argued that Section 41(b) is not applicable to the instant case rather it is applicable only to those cases where question is regarding the injunction for proceedings in the Indian court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this argument, learned senior counsel placed reliance on Oil and Natural Gas Commission vs. Western Company of North America (1987) 1 SCC 496 , wherein this Court, while interpreting the provision of Section 41(b) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 has held as follows This provision, in our opinion, will be attracted only in a factsituation where an injunction is sought to restrain a party from instituting or prosecuting any action in a court in India which is either of coordinate jurisdiction or is higher to the court from which the injunction is sought in the hierarchy of Courts in India Learned senior counsel for the appellanthusband further placed reliance on Modi Entertainment Network and Another vs. WSG Cricket PTE Ltd. 2003 (4) SCC 341 , wherein this Court while dealing with the matter laid down certain principles required to be taken into consideration by any court while granting an antisuit injunction.	None
These principles are as under The defendant, against whom injunction is sought, is amenable to the personal jurisdiction of the court.	None
If the injunction is declined, the ends of justice will be defeated and injustice will be perpetuated and The principle of comityrespect for the court in which the commencement or continuation of action proceeding is sought to be restrainedmust be borne in mind.	None
In Modi Entertainment Networks (supra), this Court has reiterated this position by holding that the courts in India like Court in England are courts of law and equity.	None
The principles governing the grant of antisuit injunction being essentially an equitable relief the courts in India have the powers to issue antisuit injunction to a party over whom it has personal jurisdiction in an appropriate case this is because the courts of equity exercise jurisdiction in personam this power has to be exercised sparingly where such an injunction is sought and if not granted, it would amount to the defeat of ends of justice and injustice would be perpetuated.	None
In Vivek Rai Gupta vs. Niyati Gupta, Civil Appeal No. 1123 of 2006, decided on February 10, 2016, this Court has held as under If the execution proceedings are filed by the respondentwife for executing the aforesaid decree dated 18.09.2012 passed by the Court of Common Pleas, Cuyahoga Country, Ohio, USA against any other movable immovable property in India it would be open to the appellanthusband to resist the said execution petition on any grounds available to him in law taking the position that such a decree is not executable.	None
Further, in Harmeeta Singh vs. Rajat Taneja 2003 (67) DRJ 58 , the Delhi High Court considering the fact that the parties have lived together for a very short time in the United States of America had granted anti suit injunction.	None
Y. Narasimha Rao Others vs. Y. Venkata Lakshmi and Another (1991) 3 SCC 451 , this Court has held as under From the aforesaid discussion the following rule can be deduced for recognising a foreign matrimonial judgment in this country.	None
The jurisdiction assumed by the foreign court as well as the grounds on which the relief is granted must be in accordance with the matrimonial law under which the parties are married.	None
The exceptions to this rule may be as follows (i) where the matrimonial action is filed in the forum where the respondent is domiciled or habitually and permanently resides and the relief is granted on a ground available in the matrimonial law under which the parties are married (ii) where the respondent voluntarily and effectively submits to the jurisdiction of the forum as discussed above and contests the claim which is based on a ground available under the matrimonial law under which the parties are married (iii) where the respondent consents to the grant of the relief although the jurisdiction of the forum is not in accordance with the provisions of the matrimonial law of the parties.	None
Further, during the course of hearing, various documents such as pan card, Aadhar card of the respondentwife, lease deed which was executed by her in 2015 etc., which are also placed on record, are sufficient to show that respondentwife is ordinarily living in India.	Reasoning
Further, as it appears from the proceedings recorded before the US court that the respondent herself has admitted that the Family Court Gurgaon has jurisdiction in the given case.	Reasoning
The evidence placed on record is sufficient enough to show that the respondent is amenable to the personal jurisdiction of Gurugram Family Court.	Reasoning
Though the respondentwife is amenable to the jurisdiction of Family Court, Gurgaon, there is nothing on record to hold that the other party will suffer grave injustice if the injunction is not granted.	Reasoning
There is no dispute to the fact that both the parties are permanent citizens of U.S.	Reasoning
Undisputedly, the Circuit Court, Florida, USA is also having the concurrent jurisdiction in the given case.	Reasoning
The contention that the appellanthusband will suffer grave injustice if the proceedings are allowed to be continued in the Circuit Court, Florida USA doesnt stand to the ground as the appellant himself has been residing there after 2007 and the proceedings for grant of antisuit injunction were initiated by him in India through another person by empowering him through a power of attorney to file and pursue the disputed litigation on his behalf.	Reasoning
Further, there is nothing brought on record to show how the appellanthusband would suffer grave injustice if the injunction restraining the respondentwife from pursuing the divorce petition in Florida, is not granted.	Reasoning
Still further, even if the injunction is declined, it cannot be said that the ends of justice will be defeated and injustice will be perpetuated.	None
The contention that the respondentwife has filed the petition for divorce in the court at USA on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage which is not the ground provided for divorce under the Act requires consideration.	None
The mere fact that the respondentwife has filed the case on the ground which is not available to her under the Act, doesnt means that there are likelihood of her being succeeding in getting a decree for divorce.	Reasoning
Specifically, in view of the fact that the appellant has raised this contention before the Circuit Court, Florida and both the parties will produce evidence with regard to the question whether their marriage is governed by the Act or any other law.	None
Foreign court cannot be presumed to be exercising its jurisdiction wrongly even after the appellant being able to prove that the parties in the present case are continued to be governed by the law governing Hindus in India in the matter of dispute between them.	None
In view of above discussion and after having regard to the nature of case and other peculiar facts, we do not deem it appropriate to interfere with the decision rendered by the High Court.	None
We are of the opinion that the proceedings in the Foreign Court cannot be said to be oppressive or vexatious.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
