 L. Dattu, J. These appeals are preferred against the common judgment and order passed by the learned Sessions Judge, Designated Court (TADA), Kanpur dated 30.9.2008 in TADA Crl.	None
Case No.3 of 1994 (State v. K.K. Saini), TADA Crl.	None
Case No. 3A of 1994 (State v. Manjit Singh Mange) and TADA Crl.	None
Case No. 1 of 1995 (State v. Om Prakash Shrivastava Babloo).	None
By the impugned judgment of conviction and order of sentence, K.K. Saini, Manjit Singh Mange (in short, Mange) and Om Prakash Shrivastava Babloo (in short, Babloo) have been convicted for offence punishable under Section 302, IPC, Section 302 read with Section 34, IPC and Section 302 read with Section 120B, IPC respectively.	None
They have been sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay fine of Rs. 10,000/ each in respect of these offences and in default, undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months each.	None
K.K. Saini and Mange are both acquitted of charges under Sections 3(2) and 3(3) read with Section 3(1) of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 hereinafter referred to as, TADA Act.	None
All the sentences were directed to run concurrently.	None
The accused have filed appeals under Section 19 of the TADA Act against the impugned judgment and order passed by the Designated Court (TADA), Kanpur.	None
State of Uttar Pradesh through CBI has also filed appeals against the judgment and order passed by the Designated Court (TADA) acquitting the accused persons for the offences under Sections 3(2) and 3(3) read with Section 3(1) of the TADA Act and further for the enhancement of sentence imposed under the provisions of IPC to death sentence in view of the seriousness of the offence and the purpose for which it was carried out.	None
The prosecution case in brief is as follows Shri L.D. Arora, Additional Collector of Customs, Allahabad was assassinated on 24.3.1993 at about 77.15 p.m. in the area of P.S. Cantonment, Allahabad.	None
The nephew of the deceased Dr. Satish Arora (PW2) had lodged the First Information Report at P.S. Cantonment, Allahabad at 20.15 p.m.	Facts
According to his report, on 24.3.1993, Shri L.D. Arora (Deceased) reached his house at HIG Flat No.9, ADA Colony, Circular Road, Allahabad by his car.	Facts
He had gone to his uncles house on 24.3.1993 at about 77.15 p.m.	Facts
He saw his uncles car parked at the same place where he used to park his car regularly.	Facts
After knocking the door, he had entered his uncles house.	Facts
Soon after his arrival, the neighbour told him that something has happened to his uncle.	Facts
He immediately rushed to the place where his uncle had parked his car.	Facts
Upon arrival at the spot, he saw his uncle was lying unconscious on the driving seat in a pool of blood.	Facts
He immediately took his uncle to Swaroop Ram Medical Hospital with the help of people from the neighborhood.	Facts
At the hospital, his uncle was declared brought dead.	Facts
The investigation was initially taken up by the Cantonment Police Station, Allahabad.	Facts
The prosecution has further stated that the post mortem of the dead body was carried out by Dr. A.K. Shrivastav of MLN Hospital on 25.3.1993, who prepared a post mortem report, which was duly countersigned by Dr. S.L. Diwan, Senior Surgeon of the hospital.	Facts
The post mortem report revealed that there were three entry wounds caused by fire arm and corresponding three exit wounds on the upper parts of the body below the pinna of right ear, below and behind the tip of right mastoid procure and the last was 2 cms below it.	Facts
The cause of death was ascertained to be antemortem head injuries caused by bullets.	Facts
The time of the death was ascertained to be 7.55 p.m. on 24.3.1993.	Facts
When the investigation by the State Police was still going on, the Department of Personnel and Training, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pension, Government of Indiavide Notification	Facts
No. 228/48/93A.V.D.JJ dated 12.7.1993 issued with the consent of the Government of Uttar Pradesh, entrusted the investigation of the case to CBI, pursuant to which R.C. (10) (S)/93S.J.U.V C.B.I.,1I New Delhi dated 13.7.1993 under Section 302 of IPC was registered in SIC.II Branch of CBI.	Facts
During the course of investigation, offences under Section 120B of IPC and Sections 3(2) and 3(3) read with Section 3(1) of the TADA Act were added with the permission of Superintendent of Police, CBI, New Delhi.	Facts
The prosecution further states that one Mohd.	Facts
Dosa, Tahir Shah Tappu and Babloo entered into criminal conspiracy to eliminate L.D. Arora to strike terror among the Customs officials with a view from preventing anyone from passing on information about their smuggling activities or their involvement in the Bombay Blasts on March 12, 1993.	Facts
Pursuant to this conspiracy hatched, Babloo instructed K.K. Saini and Mange on 20.3.1993, who were with him in Krishna Nagar, Nepal, to assassinate the deceased L.D. Arora.	Facts
Mange was further informed that one Alimuddin Baba would be available at Hotel Finero, Allahabad.	Facts
Babloo gave them Rs. 1012,000/, one 9 mm Pistol, 12 cartridges and a Maruti Car, bearing registration No. DNH 8440, to accomplish the task.	Facts
Thereafter, K.K. Saini and Mange left Nepal with the above mentioned fire arms in the said car.	Facts
They reached Allahabad and checked into the above mentioned Hotel Finero in Room No. 7 and entered their names as A.K. Singh and Harjeet Singh respectively in the hotel register.	Facts
Thereafter, Alimuddin also checked into Room No. 5 of the same hotel along with a lady named Smt.	Facts
Arshi.	Facts
On the same day, there was a meeting between K.K. Saini, Mange and Alimuddin in Room No. 7 to chalk out the strategy to kill the deceased on the morning of 24.3.1993, i.e. the next day.	Facts
All three of them reached the office and residence of the deceased on a scooter and conducted a thorough survey.	Facts
Babloo further contacted K.K. Saini over telephone installed at the hotel in Allahabad, instructing him to kill the deceased that very day as he might leave for Bombay on the next day to disclose information he had gathered regarding the Mumbai serial blasts of 1993.	Facts
Persuant to these instructions, at around 6.45 p.m., K.K. Saini, Mange and Alimuddin waited near the ADA Colony, Circular Road, Allahabad for the arrival of the deceased in his car.	Facts
As soon as the car of the deceased was spotted in the vicinity, all three of them took up positions and when the deceased entered the ADA Colony through the main gate in the eastern boundary wall and was about to park his car, K.K. Saini took out his pistol and fired three shots at the deceased, as a result of which, the deceased sustained fatal injuries and collapsed in his seat.	Facts
It is further case of the prosecution that during the course of the investigation, they recovered three empty cartridges and one lead from the car of the deceased and one lead from the ground, where the car was parked.	Facts
The Ballistic Expert of F.S.L., Lucknow opined that the three empty cartridges were fired from the same 9 mm pistol.	Facts
Investigations disclosed that Mohd.	Facts
Dosa had entered into criminal conspiracy with Tahir Shah and Babloo to kill the deceased L.D. Arora so that their involvement in the Bombay Bomb Blasts were not revealed.	Facts
After killing the deceased, the information was relayed to Babloo and later, Mange and K.K. Saini returned to Nepal on 25.3.1993 by crossing the IndoNepal border at Krishna Nagar by paying an amount of Rs. 600/ in Nepal currency towards octroi tax for vehicle No.DNH 8440.	Facts
The course of investigation further led to information that one Virendra Pant and Sanjay Khanna met Babloo in AlRigu Apartments in Dubai where Babloo made an extra judicial confession that he had got the deceased killed through the concerned people as he had information about the activities of Mohd.	Facts
Dosa and Tahir Shah especially in the smuggling of RDX, weapons and explosives used in the Bombay Bomb Blasts.	Facts
For this job, he was paid Rs. 6,00,000/ by Tahir Shah, out of which Rs. 50,000/ was given to K.K. Saini.	Facts
Prosecution further states that K.K. Saini, while in police custody, during the period from 6.4.1994 to 4.5.1994 made a confessional statement under Section 15 of the TADA Act, wherein he confessed his own involvement as well as involvement of others in the killing of L.D. Arora.	Facts
Based on his confession and information, the Maruti Car bearing No. DNH 8440, the vehicle used in the commission of the offence, was also recovered.	Facts
Later, K.K. Saini refused to join the Test Identification Parade and his refusal was recorded by Shri Rakesh Kapoor, Metropolitan Magistrate, Delhi.	Facts
The confessional statement of Mange was also recorded on 11.7.2001 by S.P., CBI, Delhi.	Facts
Accordingly, charge sheet against K.K. Saini and Mange was filed in the Designated Court both under the provisions of the IPC and the TADA Act on 26.11.2001, which was registered as Criminal Case No. 3 of 1994 and Criminal Case No.3A of 1994.	Facts
It is also relevant to notice that Babloo was arrested in Singapore on 21.4.1995 in response to look out notice issued by Interpol, India.	Facts
On the request of Govt.	Facts
of India, he was extradited by the Govt.	Facts
of Singapore.	Facts
The Extradition Treaty signed between the two countries provided that the person being extradited could only be tried for criminal acts recognized as offences in both the countries.	Facts
Since, there was no law in Singapore which corresponds to the TADA Act, though Babloo was extradited, he could only be tried under Sections 120B and 302 of the IPC and, therefore, no charge under Section 3 of the TADA Act was framed against Babloo.	Facts
After completion of investigation, the investigating agency filed charge sheet before the Designated Court (TADA) for the offences under Section 302, IPC against K.K. Saini and Mange for offences under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC and against Babloo under Section 302 read with Section 120B, IPC.	Facts
K.K. Saini and Mange were also charged under Sections 3(2) and 3(3) read with Section 3(1) of the TADA Act.	Facts
To prove the charges, the prosecution had examined 88 witnesses in the leading Criminal Case No. 3 of 1994 and 85 witnesses in Criminal Case No. 3A of 1994 during the trial and relied upon various documents including confessional statements recorded during investigation.	Facts
All the accused persons abjured their guilt and pleaded innocence and stated that they have been falsely implicated in this case.	Facts
The Designated Court (TADA) had framed nearly eleven issues for its consideration.	None
The Court, relying on Section 12 of TADA Act, has held that Babloo was rightly charged for an offence under Section 302 read with Section 120B of the IPC and tried him jointly with the accused K.K. Saini and Mange and for technical reason, he could not be charged under the TADA Act.	None
The Court has further held that since the investigation was handed over to Superintendent of Police, CBI, by the State of Uttar Pradesh by issuing notification, prior approval from S.P., CBI, was sufficient compliance of Section 20A of the TADA Act.	None
On the issue of the admissibility of the confessional statement of the accused K.K. Saini and Mange against the coaccused Babloo, the learned Designated Judge, after noticing the language employed in Section 12 and Section 15 of the TADA Act, has concluded that merely due to technicality in the Extradition Treaty, Babloo was not charged under TADA Act.	None
However, in the light of the provisions and the decisions of this Court, the confessional statements were held to be admissible against the coaccused even when he was not charged under the TADA Act, but was tried jointly for offences under other law by the Designated Court (TADA).	None
The Designated Court (TADA) did not find any merit in the contention that the confession statements of K.K.Saini and Mange were not recorded voluntarily.	None
The Designated Judge (TADA), after carefully considering the evidence on record, has held that the prosecution has successfully proved the recovery of Maruti Car No. DNH 8440 on the information furnished by K.K. Saini.	None
As regards the issue of proving charges of conspiracy under Section 120B of IPC, it was held that from the facts and circumstances and prosecution evidence, it was clear that the three accused namely, K.K. Saini, Babloo and Mange hatched conspiracy to kill L.D. Arora and all the three accused were involved in the conspiracy.	None
Hence, all the three accused were held liable for conviction for the charge under Section 120B read with Section 302 of the IPC.	None
As regards the last issue of proving the guilt of all the three accused and the sufficiency of the evidence other than confessional statement, it was observed that the prosecution has proved the same by producing both oral and documentary evidence.	None
The Designated Court (TADA), after considering the material evidence on record, including the Post Mortem Report and the statements made by the accused persons under Section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code, has concluded that the prosecution has adduced sufficient, reliable oral and documentary evidence, which corroborates the confessional statement of both the accused namely, K.K. Saini and Mange and further concluded that there is enough evidence, other than the confessional statement against Babloo, which proves the prosecution case in so far as charges framed under the provisions of the IPC.	None
We have heard Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, learned Senior Counsel for Mange and Babloo and Mr. Amrendra Sharan, learned Senior Counsel for K.K. Saini and Mr. P.P. Malhotra, learned Additional Solicitor General for the CBI.	None
As these appeals are preferred against the judgment and order of learned Designated Court (TADA) under Section 19 of the TADA Act, therefore, we have to consider these appeals both on facts as well as on question of law for our conclusion and decision.	None
The learned Senior Counsel Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi and Mr. Amrendra Sharan submitted that K.K. Saini and Mange were charged under the TADA Act and not Babloo.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that since there was no terror caused in the society by the acts of the accused, they cannot be charged under Sections 3(1) and 3(2) of the TADA Act and, therefore, they could only be tried for committing offence of murder under Section 302 of the IPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, it was argued that prior approval was required to be taken from the Superintendent of Police of the District, as required under Section 20A of the TADA Act, to try the accused for the offences under the TADA Act and the Superintendent of Police, CBI was not the competent authority to give such permission.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that the confessional statements of K.K. Saini and Mange were recorded in complete defiance of provisions of the TADA Act and the rules framed thereunder and that mandatory provisions have not been followed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the confessional statement is to be completely eschewed from consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that there is no sufficient and reliable evidence against Babloo except the confessional statement of K.K. Saini and Mange and the prosecution has therefore failed to prove the conspiracy between the accused tried in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, learned Senior Counsel, who also appears for Babloo, submitted that the confessional statement of the coaccused K.K. Saini and Mange recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act cannot be used against Babloo as he is not charged under the provisions of the TADA Act and also because no prior approval from the prescribed authority, as required under Section 20A of the TADA Act, had been obtained.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also submitted that the penal provisions require to be strictly construed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submission, the learned Senior Counsel has placed reliance on several decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
We will make reference to the submissions and the decisions while considering the issues raised in these appeals.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P.P. Malhotra, learned Additional Solicitor General, submitted that when the investigation is transferred to the CBI, with the consent of the State, the CBI takes over further investigation of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, Superintendent of Police, CBI, was competent to record the confession made by a person and the same is admissible in the trial of such person for an offence under the TADA Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submits that the aforesaid officer, before recording the confession under Section 15(1) of the TADA Act, had followed the safeguards provided under Subsection (2) of Section 15 of the TADA Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the confessional statement of K.K. Saini and Mange recorded before S.P., C.B.I., was admissible in evidencevide Section 15 of the TADA Act, which provides for the recording of the confessional statements before the police officer, not lower in the rank than Superintendent of Police, and it is made admissible even against coaccused, abettor or conspirator and the bar under the Evidence Act and Criminal Procedure Code will not come into play.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the confessions made by K.K. Saini and Mange are admissible as substantive evidence against Babloo.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted by the learned ASG that there was sufficient evidence adduced by the prosecution to support the correctness of the confessional statements of the two coaccused persons.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that the Section takes special care to ensure that no Court shall take cognizance of any offence under the Act without the previous sanction of the Inspector General of Police or the Commissioner of Police.	Arguments of Respondent
The safeguard so provided under the Act would protect the rights of an accused of any offence under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The issues that would arise in these appeals filed by appellantsaccused for our consideration and decision are as under Whether the confessional statement of the coaccused is admissible against Babloo, who was not charged under the TADA Act?	Issue
(II)	None
If for any reason, confession of the coaccused is eschewed against Babloo, whether there is any other evidence against him to sustain the conviction and sentence under Section 302 read with Section 120B, IPC?	None
(III) Since the TADA Act, being a special statute enacted for a specific purpose and object, whether the interpretation of provisions of the TADA Act requires any specific mode of interpretation?	None
(IV) Whether there is breach of mandatory requirements provided in Section 20A(1) of the TADA Act while recording the commission of an offence under the Act?	Issue
Whether the conviction of K.K. Saini and Mange for the offences under the provisions of the I.P.C. are sustainable with the available evidence on record?	None
(VI)	None
Whether the learned Designated Judge (TADA) was justified in acquitting all the accused persons for the offences charged and tried under the TADA Act?	Issue
Case of Babloo The object and purpose of the TADA Act is explained by this Court in number of decisions.	None
Therefore, it is not necessary for us to repeat and reiterate the same.	None
We will only notice the relevant provisions which are necessary for the purpose of this case.	None
Section 12 of the TADA Act speaks of the power of the Designated Courts with respect to other offences.	None
By virtue of this section, the Designated Court may also try any other offence with which the accused may, under the Code, be charged at the same trial if the offence is connected with such other offence.	None
Subsection (2) further empowers the Designated Court that in the course of the trial under the TADA Act of any offence, if it is found that the accused person has committed any other offence under the TADA Act or any rule made thereunder or under any other law, the Designated Court may convict such person of such other offence and pass any sentence authorized under this Act or such rule or such other law for the punishment thereof.	None
A Designated Court constituted under Section 9 of the TADA Act or a transferee Designated under Section 11 of the TADA Act is vested with the jurisdiction to try all the offences punishable under the provisions of the TADA Act.	None
While trying such offence, if the accused is charged for offence punishable under the provisions of any other law connected with such offence, the Designated Court has power to try the accused in such offence also during trial, if it is found that the accused has also committed other offence punishable under any other law, the Designated Court can convict the accused for such offence also.	None
The Designated Court can pass any sentence, on conviction of the accused, as authorized in the respective statute for punishment of such offence.	None
Section 15 of the TADA Act commences with a non obstinate clause by stating that notwithstanding anything contained in the IPC or the Evidence Act, the confession made by a person before a police officer not lower in rank than a Superintendent of Police and recorded by such Police Officer in writing, etc., shall be admissible in the trial of such person, coaccused, abettor or conspirator for an offence under the TADA Act or rules made thereunder.	None
The proviso appended to the Section carves out an exception to the main Section.	None
It says that the confession made by a person accused of an offence under the Act or the rules framed thereunder can be used against coaccused, abettor or conspirator, provided he is charged for any offence under the Act or the rules framed thereunder and tried in the same case together with the accused.	None
It was contended by Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, that Babloo was not charged under the provisions of the TADA Act or the rules framed thereunder.	None
Therefore, the confession statement made by coaccused i.e. K.K. Saini and Mange cannot be used against Babloo and if the confessional statement of the coaccused is eschewed, then there is no other evidence to implicate Babloo for the offence alleged to have been committed under the Indian Penal Code and, therefore, the conviction and sentence imposed by the Designated Court cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main question before us is whether the confessional statement made by K.K. Saini and Mange can be used against coaccused Babloo in the light of the fact that Babloo was not charged and tried for any offence under the TADA Act or the rules framed thereunder.	Arguments of Petitioner
This issue was raised before the learned Designated Judge (TADA).	None
The learned Judge has answered the issue and in his opinion, Babloo was not tried for offences under the TADA Act, only due to the extradition terms that were agreed by Union of India with Singapore Government.	Facts
He has further stated that it was only due to this technicality that Babloo was not tried for offences under the Act, though his actions fully justified a trial for offences under the Act.	None
It is this reasoning of the learned Designated Judge that was commented and taken exception to by learned Senior Counsel Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi.	None
We have already noticed that the submission of the learned Senior Counsel is that confession made by the coaccused charged under the TADA Act cannot be used against coaccused who is not charged and tried under the TADA Act.	None
The learned Senior Counsel, while relying on the observations made by this Court in the case of Baba Peer Paras Nathv.	None
State of Haryana, IV (1996) CCR 10 (SC)(1996) 10 SCC 500 , in aid of his submission, would further contend that this Court in the case of Statev.	None
Nalini, IV (1999) SLT 402II (1999) CCR 100 (SC)(1999) 5 SCC 253 ,and the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Prakash Kumar Prakash Bhuttov.	None
State of Gujarat, II (2005)	None
SLT 97I (2005) CCR 184 (SC)(2005) 2 SCC 409 , did not deal with the admissibility of a confession statement made by an accused under the TADA Act against coaccused not charged under the Act or the rules framed thereunder and therefore not applicable to the facts of the case.	None
Mr. P.P. Malhotra, learned Additional Solicitor General, submits that all the three accused were being tried in the same case by the Designated Court (TADA).	None
Therefore, the confession of the accused K.K. Saini and Mange, charged for the offence under the TADA Act, could be used against Babloo, who was charged for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 120B of the IPC.	None
The learned ASG would further contend that Section 15 of the Act is a rule of procedure and no one has any vested rights in the procedural provisions.	None
We are of the view that the issue raised needs to be appreciated in the light of several decisions of this Court and principles of statutory interpretation.	None
For appreciating the contention of the learned Counsel Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi, firstly we need to notice the provision which empowers the police officer to record the confessional statement of the accused.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 15 of the TADA Act was amended by Act No. 43 of 1993 with effect from 22.5.1993.	None
By this amendment, not only some changes are brought in the main section but also the proviso is added to Subsection (1) of Section 15.	None
The amended provision reads Certain confessions made to police officers to be taken into consideration.(1) Notwithstanding anything in the Code or in the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), but subject to the provisions of this section, a confession made by a person before a police officer not lower in rank than a Superintendent of Police and recorded by such police officer either in writing or on any mechanical device like cassettes, tapes or sound tracks from out of which sounds or images can be reproduced, shall be admissible in the trial of such person or coaccused, abettor or conspirator for an offence under this Act or rules made thereunder Provided that coaccused, abettor or conspirator is charged and tried in the same case together with the accused.	None
The police officer shall, before recording any confession under Subsection (1), explain to the person making it that he is not bound to make a confession and that, if he does so, it may be used as evidence against him and such police officer shall not record any such confession unless upon questioning the person making it, he has reason to believe that it is being made voluntarily.	None
Under the amended provision of Section 15 of the TADA Act, the confession of a coaccused recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act is made admissible subject to certain conditions.	None
The confession recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act by a coaccused could be made use of against that accused provided the coaccused is charged and tried in the same case together with the accused.	None
Section 15 of the TADA Act is amended by Act No. 43 of 1993, which clearly stipulates that the confession recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act is admissible only if the confessor is charged and tried in the same case together with the coaccused.	None
After the amendment of 1993, the addition of the words coaccused, abettor or conspirator is charged or tried together with the accused clearly shows that the confession could be considered by the Court only when the coaccused, who makes the confession, is charged and tried along with the other accused.	None
This Court in the case of Kartar Singhv.	None
State of Punjab, I (1994) CCR 162 (SC)(1994) 3	None
SCC 569 , considered the validity of Section 15 of the TADA Act.	None
While considering the question whether the procedural law is oppressive and violates the principles of just and fair trial offending Article 21 of the Constitution and is discriminatory violating the equal protection of laws offending Article 14 of the Constitution, and therefore, whether Section 15 of the TADA Act needs to be struck down, this Court held Section 15 of the TADA Act stands good on the test of constitutional validity as the classification of offenders and offences to be tried by the Designated Court under the TADA Act or by the Special Courts under the Act of 1984 are not left to the arbitrary and uncontrolled discretion of the Central Govt., but the Act itself has made a delineated classification of the offenders as terrorists and disruptionists in the TADA Act and the terrorists under the Special Courts Act, 1984 as well as classification of offences under both the Acts.	None
This Court also stated that the Act also provides for procedural safeguards to be followed by the police officers with regard to mode of recording the confession and, therefore, section is not liable to be struck down as it does not offend either Article 14 or 21 of the Constitution of India.	None
The Court further observed as under As the Act now stands after its amendment consequent upon the decision of Section 21(1)(c), a confession made by a person before a police officer can be made admissible in trial of such person not only against the person but also against the coaccused, abettor or conspirator, provided that coaccused, abettor or conspirator is charged in the same case together with the accused, namely the maker of the confession.	None
The present position is in conformity with Section 30 of the Evidence Act.	None
The scope of Section 15 of the TADA Act was considered by a threeJudge Bench of this Court in State v. Nalini (supra).	None
The three learned Judges were pleased to deliver three separate judgments.	None
We shall extract the relevant portion of the judgments.	None
While answering this question, K.T. Thomas, J. opined Section 15 of TADA enables the confessional statement of an accused made to a police officer specified therein to become admissible in the trial of such a person.	None
It means, if there was a trail of any offence under TADA together with any other offence under any other law, the admissibility of the confessional statement would continue to hold good even if the accused is acquitted under TADA offences.	None
The correct position is that the confessional statement duly recorded under Section 15 of TADA would continue to remain admissible as for the other offences under any other law which too were tried along with TADA offences, no matter that the accused was acquitted of offences under TADA in that trial.	None
(Para 82)	None
In other words, after the amendment a Designated Court could not do what it could have done before the amendment with the confession of one accused against a coaccused.	None
Parliament has taken away such empowerment.	None
Then what is it that Parliament did by adding the words in Section 15(1) and by inserting the proviso?	None
After the amendment the Designated Court could use the confession of one accused against another accused only if two conditions are fulfilled The coaccused should have been charged in the same case along with the confessor.	None
He should have been tried together with the confessor in the same case.	None
(Para 90) While considering the effect of the non obstante limb we can see that Section 15(1) of TADA was given protection from any contrary provision in the Evidence Act.	None
But what is it that Parliament did through Section 15(1) regarding a confession made to a police officer?	None
It has only made such confession admissible in the trial of such person or the coaccused etc.	None
It must be remembered that Section 15(1) of TADA does not say that a confession can be used against a coaccused.	None
It only says that a confession would be admissible in a trial of not only the maker thereof but a coaccused, abettor or conspirator tried in the same case.	None
(Para 97)	None
In other words, Thomas, J. took the view that the confession of another person is weak evidence and hence the confession made by one co accused was admissible in evidence against another, but would be conclusive only if the same was corroborated, even if such person was acquitted of charges under the TADA Act in joint trial.	None
It must be noted that the majority view is not in concurrence with this opinion.	None
Now we will notice the observations made by D.P. Wadhwa, J. When Section 15 TADA says that confession of an accused is admissible against a coaccused as well, it would be substantive evidence against the coaccused as well, it would be substantive evidence against the coaccused.	None
It is a different matter as to what value is to be attached to the confession with regard to the coaccused as that would fall in the realm of appreciation of evidence.	None
The learned Judge further went on to observe that the confession made by the accused can be used as a substantive piece of evidence against another accused in the light of Section 15 of the TADA Act.	None
This view was supported by S.S.M. Qadri, J. in a concurring opinion.	None
In other words, this Court took the view that even if a person is acquitted of the TADA charges, the confession recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act would be admissible.	None
The majority view in this case is that confessional statement is a substantive piece of evidence and can be used against the coaccused.	None
The decision in Nalinis case was considered in S.N. Dubev.	None
N.B. Bhoir, I (2000)	None
SLT 386I (2000) CCR 99 (SC)(2000) 2 SCC 254 .	None
The Court observed that Section 15 of the TADA Act is an important departure from the ordinary law and must receive that interpretation which would achieve the object of that provision and not frustrate or truncate it and that correct legal position is that a confession recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act is a substantive piece of evidence and can be used against a coaccused also, if held to be admissible, voluntary and believable.	None
In Jameel Ahmedv.	None
State of Rajasthan, III (2003) SLT 481II (2003) CCR 139 (SC)AIR 2004 SC 588, it is observed .	None
Herein it is relevant to note that Section 15 of TADA Act by the use of non obstante clause has made confession recorded under Section 15 admissible notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Evidence Act or the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
It also specifically provides that the confession so recorded shall be admissible in the trial of a coaccused for offence committed and tried in the same case together with the accused who makes the confession.	None
In Esher Singh v. State of A.P., II (2004) SLT 883II (2004) CCR 103 (SC)(2004) 11 SCC 585 , it is stated Crucial words in the provision are charged and tried.	None
The use of the expression charged and tried imposes cumulative conditions.	None
Firstly, the two persons who are the accused and the coaccused in the sense used by the legislature under Section 15, must be charged in the same trial, and secondly, they must be tried together.	None
Kalpnath Rai case has been overruled in Nalini case making the position clear that the confession of a coaccused is substantive evidence.	None
Section 2(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short the Code) defines charge as follows 2(b) charge includes any head of charge when the charge contains more heads than one The Code does not define what a charge is.	None
It is the precise formulation of the specific accusation made against a person who is entitled to know its nature at the earliest stage.	None
A charge is not an accusation made or information given in the abstract, but an accusation made against a person in respect of an act committed or omitted in violation of penal law forbidding or commanding it.	None
In other words, it is an accusation made against a person in respect of an offence alleged to have been committed by him.	None
A charge is formulated after inquiry as distinguished from the popular meaning of the word as implying inculpation of a person for an alleged offence as used in Section 224, IPC.	None
Chapter XVII of the Code deals with charge.	None
Section 211 thereof deals with content of charge.	None
Section 273 appearing in Chapter XXIII provides that evidence is to be taken in the presence of the accused.	None
The person becomes an accused for the purpose of trial after the charges are framed.	None
The expression used in Section 15 of TADA is charged and tried.	None
The question of having a trial before charges are framed does not arise.	None
Therefore, the only interpretation that can be given to the expression charged and tried is that the use of a confessional statement against a coaccused is permissible when both the accused making the confessional statement and the coaccused are facing trial after framing of charges.	None
In State of Gujarat v. Mohd.	None
Atik, this position was highlighted.	None
Unless a person who is charged faces trial along with the coaccused the confessional statement of the maker of the confession cannot be of any assistance and has no evidentiary value as confession when he dies before completion of trial.	None
Merely because at some stage there was some accusation, unless charge has been framed and he has faced trial till its completion, the confessional statement, if any, is of no assistance to the prosecution so far as the coaccused is concerned.	None
In fact, in para 10 in Mohd.	None
Atik case it was observed that when it was impossible to try them together the confessional statement has to be kept out of consideration.	None
So far as application of Section 30 of the Evidence Act is concerned, in Nalini case this question was examined and it was held in SCC pp.	None
30607, paras 90 and 91 as follows But the amendment of 1993 has completely wiped out the said presumption against a coaccused from the statutebook.	None
In other words, after the amendment a Designated Court could not do what it could have done before the amendment with the confession of one accused against a coaccused.	None
Parliament has taken away such empowerment.	None
Then what is it that Parliament did by adding the words in Section 15(1) and by inserting the proviso?	None
After the amendment the Designated Court could use the confession of one accused against another accused only if two conditions are fulfilled The coaccused should have been charged in the same case along with the confessor.	None
He should have been tried together with the confessor in the same case.	None
Before amendment the Designated Court had no such restriction as the confession of an accused could have been used against a coaccused whether or not the latter was charged or tried together with the confessor.	None
Thus the amendment in 1993 was a clear climbing down from a draconian legislative fiat which was in the field of operation prior to the amendment insofar as the use of one confession against another accused was concerned.	None
The contention that the amendment in 1993 was intended to make the position more rigorous as for a coaccused is, therefore, untenable.	None
A twoJudge Bench of this Court, doubting the correctness of the decision in State v. Nalini (supra), had referred the matter to three Judge Bench of this Court.	None
Since Nalinis case (supra) was decided by threeJudge Bench of this Court, the threeJudge Bench had referred the matter to Constitution Bench in Prakash Kumar Prakash Bhuttov.	None
State of Gujarat, II (2005)	None
SLT 97(2005) 2 SCC 409 .	None
The primary question referred to the Bench, as noticed by the Constitution Bench itself is, as to whether confessional statement duly recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act would continue to remain admissible as for the offences under any other law which were tried along with TADA offences under Section 12 of the Act, notwithstanding the fact that the accused was acquitted of offences under the TADA Act in the said trial.	None
The questions posed before us for the determination are no more res integra.	None
In our view, the same have been set at rest by the threeJudge Bench decision rendered in Nalini.	None
The rigours of Sections 12 and 15 were considered in Nalini case and a finding rendered in paras 80, 81 and 82 (SCC p. 304) as under Section 12 of TADA enables the Designated Court to jointly try, at the same trial, any offence under TADA together with any other offence with which the accused may be charged as per the Code of Criminal Procedure.	None
Subsection (2) thereof empowers the Designated Court to convict the accused, in such a trial, of any offence under any other law if it is found by such Designated Court in such trial that the accused is found guilty of such offence.	None
If the accused is acquitted of the offences under TADA in such a trial, but convicted of the offence under any other law, it does not mean that there was only a trial for such other offence under any other law.	None
Section 15 of TADA enables the confessional statement of an accused made to a police officer specified therein to become admissible in the trial of such a person.	None
It means, if there was a trial of any offence under TADA together with any other offence under any other law, the admissibility of the confessional statement would continue to hold good even if the accused is acquitted under TADA offences.	None
The aforesaid implications of Section 12 visavis Section 15 of TADA have not been adverted to in Bilal Ahmed case.	None
Hence the observations therein (at SCC p. 434, para 5) that while dealing with the offences of which the appellant was convicted there is no question of looking into the confessional statement attributed to him, much less relying on it since he was acquitted of all offences under TADA cannot be followed by us.	None
The correct position is that the confessional statement duly recorded under Section 15 of TADA would continue to remain admissible as for the other offences under any other law which too were tried along with TADA offences, no matter that the accused was acquitted of offences under TADA in that trial.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
We are in respectful agreement with the findings recorded by a threeJudge Bench in Nalini case.	None
For the reasons aforestated, we are of the view that the decision in Nalini case has laid down correct law and we hold that the confessional statement duly recorded under Section 15 of TADA and the Rules framed thereunder would continue to remain admissible for the offences under any other law which were tried along with TADA offences under Section 12 of the Act, notwithstanding that the accused was acquitted of offences under TADA in the same trial.	None
In view of the decisions rendered by this Court in the aforementioned cases, it is settled law that the confession of an accused can be used against him as well as other coaccused, even if they are acquitted for offences under the TADA Act.	None
In the present case, the question that needs to be answered is the admissibility of such confession against the coaccused not charged under the TADA Act.	None
Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi brought to our notice the decision of this Court in the case of Baba Peer Paras Nath (supra), wherein the issue that was considered was whether the confessional statement of the coaccused is admissible against coaccused if not tried for offences under TADA Act.	None
This Court distinguished the Constitutional Bench decision of Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab, I (1994) CCR 162 (SC)(1994) 3 SCC 569 , stating that the observation of this Court in that decision is not about the admissibility of the confessional statement recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act against an accused when such accused is tried with the other coaccused, abettor or conspirator but such accused is not charged for any offence under the TADA Act.	None
Thus, the principle in this case which was upheld was that confessional statement recorded under Section 15 of the TADA Act was admissible against coaccused, abettor or conspirator provided such accused tried with the other co accused or abettor or conspirator in the same trial in respect of offence under the TADA Act and not otherwise.	None
In the present case, Babloo was not charged under the TADA Act, but tried in the same trial along with K.K. Saini and Mange, who were tried under the TADA Act.	Facts
The question raised by Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi is whether it is permissible to use the confession statement of K.K. Saini and Mange against Babloo, when he is not charged for the offence under the TADA Act to convict him, especially, when there is no other evidence available against him.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of Baba Peer (supra), this Court held that in view of the language employed in Section 15 of the TADA Act, the confession recorded under the aforesaid provision is admissible only if the coaccused is charged and tried in the same case together with the confessor.	None
In the case of Nalini (supra), the Court held that the confession recorded shall be admissible in the trial of a coaccused for offence committed and tried in the same case together with the accused that makes the confession.	None
Plain language of Section 15 of the TADA Act excludes the application of the provisions of the Evidence Act and the Criminal Procedure Code.	None
In view of the language of Subsection (1) of Section 15, a confession of an accused is made admissible evidence as against all those charged and tried with him.	None
This view of the Bench of three learned Judges in Nalinis case is approved by Constitution Bench of this Court in Prakash Kumars case.	None
The Constitution Bench decision is binding on us.	None
The language of Section 12 clearly states that in the course of any trial under the TADA Act of any offence, if it is found that the accused person has committed any other offence either under this Act or any other law, the Designated Court (TADA) may convict such person of such other offence and pass any sentence authorized by this Act or such other law, for the punishment thereof.	None
Section 15 of the TADA Act, after its amendment, authorizes the Designated Court to use the confession statement of one accused against another accused only when the coaccused is charged in the same case along with the confessor and is tried together with the confessor in the same case.	None
The language of these two sections is clear and unambiguous.	None
It is well settled principle of law that the jurisdiction to interpret a Statute can be invoked when the same is ambiguous.	None
This Court in Nasiruddin and Ors.v.	None
Sita Ram Agarwal, II (2003)	None
SLT 165(2003) 2 SCC 577 , observed that The Courts jurisdiction to interpret a statute can be invoked when the same is ambiguous.	None
It is well known that in a given case the Court can iron out the fabric but it cannot change the texture of the fabric.	None
It cannot enlarge the scope of legislation or intention when the language of provision is plain and unambiguous.	None
It cannot add or subtract words to a statute or read something into it which is not there.	None
It cannot rewrite or recast legislation.	None
It is also necessary to determine that there exists a presumption that the legislature has not used any superfluous words.	None
It is wellsettled that the real intention of the legislation must be gathered from the language used.	None
It may be true that use of the expression shall or may is not decisive for arriving at a finding as to whether statute is directory or mandatory.	None
But the intention of the Legislature must be found out from the scheme of the Act.	None
It is also equally wellsettled that when negative words are used the Courts will presume that the intention of the legislature was that the provisions are mandatory in character.	None
In the case of Dadi Jagganadhan v.Jammulu Ramulu and Ors.,VI (2001) SLT 30AIR 2001 SC 2699 , a Constitution Bench of this Court observed 13The settled principles of interpretation are that the Court must proceed on the assumption that the Legislature did not make a mistake and that it did what it intended to do.	None
The Court must, as far as possible, adopt a construction which will carry out the obvious intention of the Legislature.	None
Undoubtedly if there is a defect or an omission in the words used by the Legislature, the Court would not go to its aid to correct or make up the deficiency.	None
The Court could not add words to a statute or read words into it which are not there, especially when the literal reading produces an intelligible result.	None
The Court cannot aid the Legislatures defective phrasing of an Act, or add and mend, and, by construction, make up deficiencies which are there.	None
In the case of Feroze N. Dotivalazv.	None
P.M. Wadhwani Co., VII (2002)	None
SLT 2502003 (1) SCC 433 , this Court stated Generally, ordinary meaning is to be assigned to any word or phrase used or defined in a statute.	None
Therefore, unless there is any vagueness or ambiguity, no occasion will arise to interpret the term in a manner which may add something to the meaning of the word which ordinarily does not so mean by the definition itself, more particularly, where it is a restrictive definition.	None
Unless there are compelling reasons to do so, meaning of a restrictive and exhaustive definition would not be expanded or made extensive to embrace things which are strictly not within the meaning of the word as defined.	None
In the case of Union of India v. Hansoli Devi, V (2002)	None
SLT 224(2002) 7 SCC 273 , a Constitution Bench of this Court laid down Before we embark upon an inquiry as to what would be the correct interpretation of Section 28A, we think it appropriate to bear in mind certain basic principles of interpretation of statute.	None
The rule stated by Tindal, CJ in Sussex Peerage case, (1844) 11 Cl F.85, still holds the field.	None
The aforesaid rule is to the effect If the words of the statute are in themselves precise and unambiguous, then no more can be necessary than to expound those words in their natural and ordinary sense.	None
The words themselves do alone in such cases best declare the intent of the lawgiver.	None
It is a cardinal principle of construction of statute that when language of the statute is plain and unambiguous, then the Court must give effect to the words used in the statute and it would not be open to the Courts to adopt a hypothetical construction on the ground that such construction is more consistent with the alleged object and policy of the Act.	None
In Kirkness v. John Hudson Co. Ltd., 1955 (2) ALL ER 345, Lord Reid pointed out as to what is the meaning of ambiguous and held that a provision is not ambiguous merely because it contains a word which in different context is capable of different meanings and it would be hard to find anywhere a sentence of any length which does not contain such a word.	None
A provision is, in my judgment, ambiguous only if it contains a word or phrase which in that particular context is capable of having more than one meaning.	None
It is no doubt true mat if on going through the plain meaning of the language of statutes, it leads to anomalies, injustices and absurdities, then the Court may look into the purpose for which the statute has been brought and would try to give a meaning, which would adhere to the purpose of the statute.	None
In Quebec Railway, Light Heat Power Co.v.	None
Vandray, AIR 1920 PC 181, it had been observed that the Legislature is deemed not to waste its words or to say anything in vain and a construction which attributes redundancy to the legislature will not be accepted except for compelling reasons.	None
Similarly, it is not permissible to add words to a statute which are not there unless on a literal construction being given a part of the statute becomes meaningless.	None
In the case of Standard Chartered Bank and Ors.	None
v. Directorate of Enforcement Ors., IV (2005)	None
SLT 387119 (2005)	None
DLT 687 (SC)III (2005) BC 119 (SC) AIR 2005 SC 2622 , it was stated It is true that all penal statutes are to be strictly construed in the sense that the Court must see that the thing charged as an offence is within the plain meaning of the words used and must not strain the words on any notion that there has been a slip that the thing is so clearly within the mischief that it must have been intended to be included and would have included if thought of.	None
All penal provisions like all other statutes are to be fairly construed according to the legislative intent as expressed in the enactment.	None
This Court further added The rule of interpretation requiring strict construction of penal statutes does not warrant a narrow and pedantic construction of a provision so as to leave loopholes for the offender to escape See Murlidhar Meghraj Loya v. State of Maharashtra,1976 Cri.LJ 1527.	None
A penal statute has to also be so construed as to avoid a lacuna and to suppress mischief and to advance a remedy in the light of the rule in Heydons case.	None
A commonsense approach for solving a question of applicability of a penal statute is not ruled out by the rule of strict construction.	None
See State of Andhra Pradesh v.Bathu Prakasa Rao, 1976 Cri.LJ 1387 and also G. P. Singh on Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 9th Edition, 2004, Chapter 11, Synopsis 3 at pgs. 754 to 756.	None
A threeJudge Bench of this Court in the case of The Assistant Commissioner, AssessmentII, Bangalore and Ors.v.	None
Valliappa Textiles Ltd. and Ors., V (2003)	None
SLT 509IV (2003) CCR 50 (SC)AIR 2004 SC 86 , laid down Though Javali (supra) also refers to the general principles of interpretation of statute the rule of interpretation of criminal statutes is altogether a different cup of tea.	None
It is not open to the Court to add something to or read something in the statute on the basis of some supposed intendment of the statute.	None
It is not the function of this Court to supply the casus omissus, if there be one.	None
As long as the presumption of innocence of the accused prevails in this country, the benefit of any lacuna or casus omissus must be given to the accused.	None
The job of plugging the loopholes must strictly be left to the legislature and not assumed by the Court.	None
It is pertinent to note that this Court in the case of Nalini (supra) had taken the view that the confessional statement of one of the accused can be used as conclusive evidence against another accused if they are both tried in the same trial.	None
This has been so held despite the fact that in case of a confessional statement, the incriminated accused cannot cross examine the maker.	None
When the validity of Section 15 of the TADA Act was challenged in the case of Kartar Singh (supra), the Constitution Bench of this Court held that Section 15 of the TADA was playing the role of Section 30 of the Evidence Act, which makes the confession of an accused admissible in evidence against its maker as well as other coaccused in a criminal trial.	None
The main concern while making such confession admissible is to test the veracity of the confession, as the incriminated coaccused does not get the opportunity to crossexamine the maker.	None
However, such evidence must be corroborated in order to determine the guilt of a person.	None
In the event, independent evidence supports the confessional statement then there is no harm in relying upon the confession adding further to the independent incriminating evidence.	None
In any case, it would lead to absurdity for a Court to rely on confessions of the maker against himself, and not against another person, when such other person features prominently in the confessional statement, in a joint trial of offences for the same criminal act, especially in circumstances when there is independent incriminating evidence.	None
In view of the above discussion, we hold that the confessional statement made by a person under Section 15 shall be admissible in the trial of a coaccused for offence committed and tried in the same case together with the accused who makes the confession.	None
The next argument of Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi and Mr. Amrendra Sharan, learned Senior Counsel, is with regard to the procedural irregularities in the investigation conducted by the prosecution which, according to them, is not properly appreciated by the learned Designated Court.	None
The learned Counsel contends that under Section 20A of the TADA, the sanction of the District Superintendent of Police is required to be obtained before the police record any information about the commission of an offence under the TADA.	None
Since the same has not been obtained, the conviction of the accused cannot be sustained.	None
In the instant case, according to the learned Senior Counsel, the sanction has been obtained from the S.P., C.B.I.	None
It is urged that the Act does not envisage an officer of an equivalent rank, but requires the sanction from the authority that is envisaged in the Statute.	None
It is further urged that the provisions of the TADA Act require to be strictly construed and interpreted, and for this reason also, an officer of S.P., C.B.I. would not mean the Superintendent of Police of the District.	None
The learned Senior Counsel relies on several judgments of this Court in support of his submissions that penal provisions require to be strictly interpreted and we should not interpret the plain language of the statute or that words having an ordinary meaning cannot be given a different interpretation.	None
It is also brought to our notice that the plain and simple language of a statute best describes the intention of the Legislature.	None
The decision on which reliance was placed are Nasiruddin v. Sita Ram Agrawal, II (2003)	None
SLT 165(2003) 2 SCC 577	None
Firoz Dotiwala v. P.M. Wadwani, VII (2002)	None
SLT 250(2003) 1 SCC 433 Union of India v. Hansoli Devi, V (2002)	None
SLT 224(2002) 7 SCC 273 Dadi Jagganadhan v.Jammulu Ramulu and Ors.,VI (2001) SLT 30AIR 2001 SC 2699 (2001) 7 SCC 71 Union of India v. Elphinstone Company Ltd., I (2001)	None
SLT 583(2001)	None
4 SCC 139 Whirpool of India v. ESI Corporation, II (2000) SLT 598I (2000) CLT 394 (SC)(2000) 3 SCC 185 Mohd.	None
Ali Khanv.	None
CWI, (1997) 3 SCC 511 .	None
Section 20A of the TADA Act was inserted by Act No. 43 of 1993.	None
The relevant portion of Section 20A is as under 20A.Cognizance of offence.(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code, no information about the commission of an offence under this Act shall be recorded by the police without the prior approval of the District Superintendent of Police.	None
No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act without the previous sanction of the Inspector General of Police or as the case may be, the Commissioner of Police.	None
Section 20A (1) of TADA Act commences with the words notwithstanding anything, hence it is a non obstante clause.	None
As regards non obstante clause, a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Ashwini Kumar Ghosh v. Arabinda Bose and Anr., AIR 1952 SC 369 opined It should first be ascertained what the enacting part of the section provides on a fair construction of the words used according to their natural and ordinary meaning, and the non obstante clause is to be understood as operating to set aside as no longer valid anything contained in relevant existing laws which is inconsistent with the new enactment.	None
In the case of Vishin N. Khanchandani Anr.v.	None
Vidya Laxmidas Khanchandani Anr., VI (2000)	None
SLT 262(2000) 6 SCC 724 , this Court laid down The non obstante clause is used to avoid the operation and effect of all contrary provisions.	None
But to attract the applicability of a non obstante clause, the whole of the section, the scheme, the objects and reasons for the enactment of the Act must be kept in mind.	None
We are of the view that the phrase District SP has been used in order to take the sanction of a senior officer of the said district, when the prosecution wants to record any commission of a offence under the Act, the reason appears to be that the Superintendent of Police of the District is fully aware of necessity to initiate the proceedings under the stringent criminal law like the TADA Act.	None
In the instant case, the State Government, in exercise of the power conferred by Section 3 of the Delhi Police Special Establishment Act, 1946, has handed over the investigation to CBI.	None
The Superintendent of Police, CBI, has authorized his subordinate officer to record the confessional statements of K.K. Saini and Mange after following the procedure prescribed under the Act and the Rules framed thereunder.	None
Since investigation was done by CBI, in our view, Superintendent of Police could authorize the Police to record the information about the commission of the offence under the Act.	None
In the case of Ahmad Umar Saeedv.	None
State of U.P., I (1997) CCR 24 (SC)(1996) 11 SCC 61 , a similar fact situation arose.	None
In that case, the accused contended that cognizance of the offence as required under Section 20A(1) were not followed as the FIR was recorded by a SubInspector of Police.	None
The accused therein were charged for multiple offences both under the Penal Code and TADA as is the case in the present appeals.	None
This Court held that Section 20A(1) does not prohibit the officer from recording the complaint and instituting investigation as a statutory right is conferred on him under the Code with respect to non TADA offences.	None
Hence if the charges are framed with regard to an act, which in the same transaction can be under TADA and any other criminal provisions, then the mere fact that the filing of FIR by anyone other than the District Superintendent would not vitiate the whole process.	None
In the instant case, the cognizance prior permission was granted by the S.P. of CBI.	None
The accused contended that the District Superintendent appointed by the concerned State Government cannot be equated to the post of Superintendent of the Central Investigation Bureau who is appointed directly by the Central Government.	None
We have been apprised of the fact that it was at the behest of the State Government, the case was transferred to the CBI and, therefore, this distinction has hardly any relevance.	None
After careful consideration of the submission on the question of equation of rank, we are inclined to hold that in matters concerning national security, as is the case of terrorist acts, the Centre and an autonomous body functioning under it would be better equipped to handle such cases.	None
Therefore, prior approval by the SP of CBI would adequately satisfy the requirements under Section 20A(1).	None
We also note that there is no prejudice caused to the accused as a result of the authorization being granted by the SP of the CBI.	None
In the case of Gurdeep Singh Deepv.	None
State (Delhi Administration), VIII (1999) SLT 3981 (1999) DLT 717 (SC)IV (1999) CCR 36 (SC)2000 (1) SCC 498 , the confessional statement, after it was obtained under Section 15, was not sent to a Chief Judicial Magistrate as is required under Rule 15(5) of the TADA Rules, 1987.	None
Instead, the confessional statement was forwarded the very next day to the Designated Court.	None
This Court refused to interfere with the investigation stating that no prejudice has been caused to the accused and that the whole investigating process could not be vitiated because of a mere technical flaw.	None
Similarly, in the present case, with regard to noncompliance of Section 20A(1), if we are to annul the whole investigation process, on the basis of what at its worst, appears to be a technical flaw, it would result in the purport of the statute being ignored.	None
Furthermore, we take note of the fact that the safeguards provided under Section 15 of the TADA and the rules made thereunder are complied with while recording the confession statement.	None
In S.N. Dubev.	None
N.B. Bhoir, I (2000)	None
SLT 386I (2000) CCR 99 (SC)(2000) 2 SCC 254 , the accused contended that the confession was obtained through mala fide as the person who recorded the evidence was the Superintendent of Police Shinde who was investigating the case.	None
Reversing the finding of the trial Court, this Court at Para 28 observed The learned trial Judge has also held that it was not fair on the part of Shinde to record the confessions as he was also supervising the investigation.	None
Shinde has clearly stated in his evidence that he had made attempts to find out if any other Superintendent of Police was available for recording the confessions and as others had declined to oblige him he had no other option but to record them.	None
We see no illegality or impropriety in Shinde recording the confessions even though he was supervising the investigation.	None
In our view, since no prejudice is caused to the accused, we are unable to agree with the contention of Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi and Mr. Amarendra Sharan on this aspect of the matter.	None
Having considered the legal arguments advanced in these appeals, now we will examine the evidence against Babloo independently.	None
Prosecution has examined Bharat Singh (PW30), Smt.	None
Indu Singh (PW87), Bhushal Lal Shreshtha (PW68).	None
Bharat Singh (PW 30) has stated in his evidence that he knew Babloo and was in Allahabad on the said day in connection with a matter regarding Lochan Singh.	None
He has further stated that he got a call from Mange saying that he was in Allahabad along with K.K. Saini, and then they discussed about meeting.	None
Subsequently, he got a call from Babloo from Nepal.	None
Babloo told Bharat Singh that it was he who had given the phone number of Bharat Singh to Mange, and also told him not to meet Mange because Mange was in Allahabad for important work.	None
This is enough to establish that Babloo had the knowledge that K.K. Saini and Mange were in Allahabad for a specific purpose.	None
Smt.	None
Indu Singh (PW87) was the owner of the house where Babloo stayed in Nepal.	None
She recognized Babloo when she saw him in the Court and stated that it was the same person who had stayed in her house during the said period.	None
She has stated that she had given the house on rent to Mirza Beg and Rehman, who she came in contact with through the broker, Salim.	None
When asked why she did not object to the subletting of the house to Babloo, she was frank enough to state that the only thing she cared about was the rent, which was duly paid.	None
She stated that the telephone with number 410564 was in the name of her son, Parbhajan Singh and the same was installed in the house which was rented by Babloo.	None
She also stated that all the bills for that phone were paid by Babloo.	None
She stated that STDISD facility was not there on the number when the phone connection was obtained, but was subsequently taken on request by the tenant.	None
Bhushal Lal Shreshtha (PW68) has stated that he was in the Telecom Department at the relevant date, and on request made by the Nepal police, in the required format, he gave the telephone bills for the number 410564.	None
The telephone records from the telephone number 410564 (being the telephone in Nepal, from which Babloo made calls) and 622452 (being the telephone at Hotel Finero) has been annexed in evidence before us D 38/40 and D 36/2.	None
From the above evidence, it can be established that Babloo was living in the house of Smt.	None
Indu Singh in Nepal.	None
He had the phone number 410564 at his disposal.	None
He not only knew that Mange and K.K. Saini were in Allahabad, but also knew the purpose for which they were in Allahabad.	None
This is clear from the testimony of Bharat Singh.	None
From the phone bills, it is clear to us that phone calls were made from the phone number 410564 to the phone number 622452, the phone of Hotel Finero.	None
On a perusal of the phone bills, it is clear that the phone calls were made at the times which have been indicated by the confessional statements of K.K. Saini and Mange.	None
Hence, we may safely conclude that the part of the confessional statements in question have been corroborated by the other evidence.	None
The evidence that we have on record, without considering the confessional statements, is strong enough to create serious doubts about the conduct of Babloo in this matter.	None
The learned Senior Counsel Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi submits that the prosecution has not examined the owner of the car bearing No.DNH 8440	None
Shri Ramavar, who is the resident of Delhi, nor the transferee in whose name the registration certificate had been standing at the relevant point of time.	None
In our view, merely because the owner of the car is not examined by the prosecution, it does not weaken the case of the prosecution.	None
In fact, car was recovered on the information furnished by K.K. Saini, one of the coaccused in the case.	None
This would clearly establish the prosecution case that the car bearing No.DNH8440 was used in committing the offence alleged against the accused.	None
In our view, minor discrepancies, if any, would not be fatal to the entire case of the prosecution.	None
In this background, the question before us is, even if we have to eschew the confessional statements of K.K. Saini and Mange, whether we can still maintain the conviction and sentence of Babloo  coaccused for the offence under Section 302 read with Section 120B of the IPC.	None
The role played by Babloo in the present case is that of a king pin.	None
The possibility of having direct evidence against a king pin is rather low.	None
In most cases, it may be circumstantial.	None
What we need to see is the chain of events that the prosecution is expected to prove can be linked to the evidence incriminating Babloo.	None
It has been consistently held by this Court that where the guilt of a person squarely rests on circumstantial evidence, then the inference of guilt can be justified only when all the incriminating facts and circumstances are found to be in coherence of each other and incompatible with the innocence of the accused.	None
These circumstances from which, such inference is to be drawn, must be shown to be closely connected to the facts which are sought to be proved.	None
When the matter depends on the conclusions to be drawn from such circumstances, then the cumulative effect of the circumstances must be to negate the possibility of innocence in any manner.	None
See State of U.P.v.	None
Satish, II (2005)	None
SLT 263(2005) 3 SCC 114 Liyakatv.	None
State of Uttranchal, II (2008)	None
SLT 511I (2008) CCR 388 (SC)2008 Cr.	None
LJ 1931 (SC) Swamy Sharaddanandav.	None
State of Karnataka, (2007) 12 SCC 288 State of Goa v. Sanjay Thekaram, III (2007) SLT 368II (2007) CCR 38 (SC)(2007) 3	None
SCC 755 .	None
From the evidence on record, it can safely be inferred that Babloo was the mastermind of the whole incident and Mange and K.K. Saini committed the offence at the behest of Babloo.	None
In our view, there is independent incriminating evidence against Babloo, even if we have to eschew the confessional statement of coaccused.	None
Hence, we reject the appeal of Babloo.	None
Case of K.K. Saini and Mange We now proceed to examine the evidence against K.K. Saini and Mange independently.	None
It must be noted that the witnesses here shall be referred to by the numbers assigned to them under Criminal Appeal No.3 of 1995.	None
With regard to K.K. Saini, it must be first mentioned that he has confessed to the crime under Section 15 of the TADA Act.	None
His confession was recorded by Shri.	None
Sharad Kumar SP, CBI (P.W. 47).	None
K.K. Saini was fully made aware of the consequences of making a confessional statement.	None
The following are the details divulged in his confessional statement.	None
He has stated that he went to Nepal on Babloos behest where he met Mange.	None
He further stated that he was given the task to kill L.D Arora by Babloo.	None
He also mentions that he was chosen specifically to open fire as he had previously committed four murders.	None
Thereafter, Babloo provided Mange with Maruti car DNH  8440, a 9 mm pistol several cartridges and Rs. 10,000 to 12,000/ for this purpose.	None
On the morning of 23rd March, 1993, K.K. Saini and Mange checked into Hotel Finero under the assumed names of A.K. Singh and Harjeet Singh respectively.	None
Subsequently, they received a phone call from Babloo from Nepal.	None
Babloo told them over the phone that they would meet Alimudeen Baba who would help them in the task.	None
Subsequently, Baba met K.K. Saini and Mange in their room.	None
Later in the day, Baba took him on a dark grey Bajaj scooter to show him the office and the house of L.D. Arora.	None
They examined the area and on their return to the hotel, all three of them sat and planned how to execute the task of killing L.D. Arora.	None
On the next day in the morning, they received a phone call from Babloo from Nepal who asked them to finish the task the very next day as L.D. Arora was to leave for Bombay to reveal information regarding smuggling of arms and explosives used in the Bombay bomb blasts in the very same year.	None
K.K. Saini then took Mange and showed the office and house and they marked the escape routes.	None
On their return to the hotel, Baba came to the room and told them that they should reach the place around 5.00 p.m. and that he would come in Maruti carDNH 8440.	None
K.K. Saini stated that they left Hotel Finero around 5.00 p.m.	None
At around 6.457.00, Baba came and told them that L.D. Arora would arrive shortly.	None
They waited for his arrival and on seeing Aroras vehicle approach they took their respective positions.	None
When L.D. Arora was parking his car alongside the southern boundary wall, K.K. Saini emerged from his position near the stair case and opened fire three times at short range.	None
He escaped through the staircase and reached Mange who was waiting near the scooter.	None
They met Baba at the agreed spot and exchanged vehicles.	None
Subsequently, they went back to Hotel Finero, checked out and left for Nepal the very same evening.	None
They crossed the Nepal border on 25th morning after paying Customs duty for the car.	None
The testimony of Mange is substantially similar with that of K.K. Saini.	None
The learned Senior Counsel Mr. Amrendra Sharan submits that the confessional statement of Mange was recorded nearly after eight years from the date of incident and the confessional statement of both K.K. Saini and Mange is verbatim the same.	None
Therefore, it casts a serious doubt on the alleged confessional statement.	None
In our view, merely because the confessional statement of both the accused is more or less similar, it cannot be said they are neither normal nor unnatural which would vitiate the probative value of such confessional statement.	None
Therefore, we do not see any merit in this contention of the learned Senior Counsel.	None
Subsequently both K.K. Saini and Mange retracted their confessional statement before the Designated Court and have categorically denied knowing each other or Babloo.	None
They have also denied ever having gone to hotel Finero, ADA Colony, etc.	None
They have stated that the CBI has prevailed upon the witnesses produced on behalf of the prosecution to give false evidence against them.	None
Keeping in view that the accused has retracted their confession statement, the learned Senior Counsel Mr. K.T.S. Tulsi submitted that the confession of both K.K. Saini and Mange, alleged to be given under Section 15 of the TADA Act cannot be used since the prosecution has failed to adduce sufficient corroborative evidence.	None
A confessional statement given under Section 15 shall not be discarded merely for the reason that the same has been retracted.	None
In Ravinder Singhv.	None
State of Maharashtra, III (2002) SLT 411II (2002) CCR 164 (SC)(2002) 9 SCC 55 , the accused was charged under the provisions of the TADA Act and under Sections 302/34, 120B and other provisions of the Explosives Act.	None
The accused thereafter retracted his confession.	None
The Court observed There can be no doubt that a free and voluntary confession deserves the highest credit.	None
It is presumed to flow from the highest sense of guilt.	None
Having examined the record, we are satisfied that the confession made by the appellant is voluntary and truthful and was recorded, as already noticed, by due observance of all the safeguards provided under Section 15 and the appellant could be convicted solely on the basis of his confession.	None
The Court also observed the decision in State of Maharashtrav.	None
Bharat Chaganlal Raghani, V (2001)	None
SLT 237III (2001) CCR 69 (SC)(2001) 9 SCC 1 , wherein the Court partially overturned the acquittal of the accused by the Designated Court solely based on the confessional statement of the accused which had later been retracted.	None
In Bharat Chaganlals case, the Court observed that there was no denial of the fact that judicial confessions made are usually retracted but retracted confessions are held to be good confessions if they are made voluntarily and in accordance with law.	None
In the case before us, the contest on the validity of the testimony has been multi pronged.	None
Firstly, it was contended that since the procedure under Section 20A (1) had not been followed, the testimony is not valid in law.	None
Secondly, it was asserted that the accused was made to sign on blank papers and that the confession has been concocted by the prosecution.	None
Thirdly, that there is no corroborative evidence given the fact that certain witnesses including Ram Babu (PW35) and Sanjay Kumar (PW 36), who were to have witnessed the crime, had been declared hostile by the prosecution.	None
The argument pivoted on the requirements under Section 20A(1) not being fulfilled is, in our opinion, has no merit.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General Mr. P.P. Malhotra contends that both K.K. Saini and Mange were produced before the CMM, Delhi to fulfil the requirements under Rule 15 and the accused did not, at that point, claim that they had been made to sign on blank papers.	None
Keeping in mind the possibility of abuse of the process, this Court in Kartar Singh (supra) laid down certain guidelines whereby the veracity of the confessional statement is ensured, for example, the confession given to a police officer under Section 15 is to be sent to the CMM without delay and if the accused when he is so produced before the CMM alleges torture, he is to be sent for a medical examination.	None
Here the accused were sent to the CMM, Delhi the very next day and they neither alleged that the confession was fabricated, nor that they had been tortured.	None
In the light of these circumstances, we have to give due credence to the confession statement and consider to what extent it has been corroborated by substantive evidence.	None
In Ravinder Singhs case, the Court relying on Nalini v. State (supra), S.N. Dube v. N.B. Bhoir and Devender Pal Singh v. State of NCT of Delhi, (2002) 5 SCC 234 , held that it is well established that a voluntary and truthful confessional statement recorded under Section 15 of TADA requires no corroboration.	None
This apposite observation by the Bench of two learned Judges in Ravinder Singhs case should be considered with measured caution and we believe, taking into account ground realities, it would be prudent to examine the authenticity of a confession on a case to case basis.	None
The problem seems to be the method we follow in ascertaining whether a specific confession is truthful and voluntary.	None
Section 15 and the rules made thereunder prescribe certain guidelines which if ensured can, to a large extent, point towards the fact that the confession is truthful and voluntary.	None
However, we must not overlook the fact that the TADA prescribes a deviation from the conventional criminal jurisprudence.	None
As a Court of record, we are bound to keep in mind situations where despite the procedure being followed, the testimony so obtained under Section 15 is coloured by suspicion and doubt regarding its veracity.	None
Hence, albeit the procedure is followed, we find it judicious to look into whether the testimony is corroborated by the evidence presented by the prosecution.	None
The life and liberty of a person are at stake and we are of the view that no effort should be spared in such circumstances to see that justice is done.	None
These are after all the safeguards provided in our Constitution and the people have vested their faith in this Court to keep vigil and see to it that these hallowed principles are not trampled upon by the necessities of the hour and vicissitudes of time.	None
The confessional statements of K.K. Saini and Mange are corroborated by the documentary evidence, which are marked in the evidence by the prosecution.	None
Exhibits D20/Ka 2 is the notebook maintained by Hotel Finero and proves the entry of Maruti car DNH  8440 against K.K. Sainis assumed name, A.K. Singh on 23.3.93.	None
Exhibit D19 is the hotel register at Hotel Finero and proves that K.K. Saini and Mange signed in it under fictitious names.	None
Both K.K. Saini and Mange have been recognized by the employees of Hotel Finero.	None
The testimony of Anant Ram Saxena (PW1) Hotel Manager, Kalidas Jaiswal (P.W44) waiter and Jwala Prasad (PW 60) appears to be credible and true and if the same is believed, it corroborates the fact that the accused stayed in the Hotel Finero during the relevant time and was met by Alimudeen Baba.	None
The handwriting of the accused in the register has also been proved by the detailed report of Dr. M.A. Ali (PW43), Sr. Scientific Officer produced as ExhibitD27.	None
The car used for committing the crime has been recovered at the instance of K.K. Saini revealing its whereabouts.	None
Recovery Memo dated 23.4.1994 Exhibits D 16/	None
Ka 17 records the seizure of the car from Agra.	None
The copy of the Cash Memo seized from the petrol pump Barabanki Exhibits D 22/ Ka 27 and the Customs Receipt D 37/28, Ka 76 corroborates the alleged journey from Krishna Nagar, Nepal to Allahabad and back.	None
The statement issued by the Nepal police reveals that Car bearing No. DNH  8440 entered Nepal through Krishna Nagar customs and was allowed to stay for a period of one week on payment of Rs 700 Nepal Currency as customs duty.	None
Further, the printouts of call logs on telephone number 622452 installed in Hotel Finero (Exhibits D 38/40 and D 36/2), the report of part of investigation in Nepal (Exhibits D 37, D 37/28) is read with the statements of Indu Singh (PW 87) (land lady of Babloo in Nepal), Bhushan Lal Shreshtha (PW  68) he was Deputy Fiscal Officer, Telecom Dept., Nepal corroborate the confessional statement of K.K. Saini and Mange to a substantial extent.	None
Indu Singh (PW 87) has recognized Babloo in Court and stated that he was staying at the house rented out by her in Krishna Nagar, Nepal and that the telephone number from which calls were made to Room	None
No 7 in hotel Finero, where K.K. Saini and Mange were staying, was installed in the same house where Babloo was staying.	None
Harikesh (Harbans) Batra (PW 21) (Inspector MTNL) identified K.K. Saini in Court and stated that he had previously been involved in the transfer of a phone in the name of one A.K. Singh.	None
He stated that K.K. Saini and A.K. Singh are one and the same.	None
A.K. Singh is the assumed name used by K.K. Saini even at Hotel Finero.	None
K.K. Saini had, in his confession, stated that he had obtained the driving licence of A.K. Singh and substituted the photograph therein with his own.	None
Bharat Singh (PW30) was declared hostile by prosecution stated on oath that he knows Babloo from his University days.	None
Later he met Babloo when he went to meet Chandraswami in connection with his reinstatement into service.	None
He admits to have been involved in solving a few land disputes on Babloos behalf.	None
He has visited Babloo in Nepal a couple of times.	None
During the time when L.D. Arora was murdered, he was in Allahabad.	None
He stated that he received calls from both Mange and Babloo on March 23 and 24.	None
It was stated by the witness that in the course of conversation, Mange revealed that he had obtained Bharat Singhs number from Babloo.	None
Mange stated that he was presently in Allahabad and that 23 people had come with him.	None
Subsequently, he has stated that Babloo called him in relation to a property dispute that Bharat Singh was assisting him with.	None
When Bharat Singh mentioned talking to Mange over the phone to Babloo, the latter had said that he had given Bharat Singhs number to Mange and that he was not to meet Mange.	None
Bharat Singh was declared hostile and crossexamined by the prosecution.	None
In the course of crossexamination, he has denied having told the investigating officer that Mange had told him that he had come to Allahabad to kill L.D. Arora.	None
However, he admitted that he told the CBI officer that Babloo told him that Mange was there on a specific task and that is the reason why he should desist from meeting him.	None
The evidence of Bharat Singh, despite the fact that the prosecution has chosen to treat him as a hostile witness, need not be totally disregarded.	None
Its admissibility should be tested in the light of the surrounding circumstances and other evidence.	None
In Radha Mohan Singhv.	None
State of U.P., I (2006) SLT 5042006 Cr.LJ 1121, 1125 (SC), this Court has observed It is well settled that the evidence of a prosecution witness cannot be rejected in toto merely because the prosecution choose to treat him as hostile and crossexamined him.	None
The evidence of such witness cannot be treated as effaced or washed off the record altogether but the same can be accepted to the extent his version is found to be dependable on a careful scrutiny thereof.	None
In the present case, testimony of Bharat Singh provides a vital link between the various participants in this crime, the fact that K.K. Saini and Mange were in Allahabad on a specific task assigned to them by Babloo, who was in Nepal.	None
Taken together, the evidence on record presents an unimpeachable evidence against the accused, clearly indicating the modus operandi and the motive.	None
In the light of the above discussion, we are of the opinion that the Designated Judge (TADA) was justified in convicting and sentencing K.K. Saini and Mange for the offences under Sections 302/34, IPC.	None
Case of the State The State has preferred appeals against the judgment of the Designated Court stating that the Court was not justified in dismissing the charges under Section 3 of the TADA Act.	None
They have examined numerous witnesses who have stated that the murder of L.D. Arora resulted in fear in the minds of fellow customs officers.	None
It was also stated that the morale of these officers were affected and that a sense of gloom prevailed upon them.	None
It was also stated that L.D. Arora was to leave the very next day for Bombay to furnish details about the smuggling of arms and explosives used in the Bombay bomb blasts.	None
It would be useful to examine the purport of Section 3 of the TADA.	None
It is under Punishment for terrorist acts.(1)	None
Whoever with intent to overawe the Government as by law established or to strike terror in the people or any section of the people or to alienate any section of the people or to adversely affect the harmony amongst different sections of the people does any act or thing by using bombs, dynamite or other explosive substances or inflammable substances or lethal weapons or poisons or noxious gases or other chemicals or by any other substances (whether biological or otherwise) of a hazardous nature in such a manner as to cause, or as is likely to cause, death of, or injuries to, any person or persons or loss of, or damage to, or destruction of, property or disruption of any supplies or services essential to the life of the community, or detains any person and threatens to kill or injure such person in order to compel the Government or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act, commits a terrorist act.	None
Whoever commits a terrorist act, shall, if such act has resulted in the death of any person, be punishable with death or imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine in any other case, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Whoever conspires or attempts to commit, or advocates, abets, advises or incites or knowingly facilitates the commission of, a terrorist act or any act preparatory to a terrorist act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Whoever harbours or conceals, or attempts to harbour or conceal, any terrorist shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Any person who is a member of a terrorists gang or a terrorist organisation, which is involved in terrorist acts, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Whoever holds any property derived or obtained from commission of any terrorist act or has been acquired through the terrorist funds shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine.	None
Section 3 of the TADA Act gives due importance to the aspect of intent.	None
The person who is alleged to be involved in a terrorist act can be charged under Section 3(1) only when the prosecution has been successful in establishing that the same was committed with the intent to awe the Government or to achieve one or the other ends mentioned under Section 3(1).	None
The Designated Court, while dismissing the charges under the TADA Act, cited with approval the decision of this Court in Hitendra Vishnu Thakurv.	None
State of Maharashtra, II (1994) CCR 604 (SC)(1994) 4 SCC 602 .	None
This Court made a distinction between the incidence of terror as a consequence of a particular act and causing terror being the sole intent of the same act.	None
It is only in case of the latter that the provisions of Section 3(1) are attracted.	None
It was held that If it is only as a consequence of the criminal act that fear, terror or and panic is caused but the intention of committing the particular crime cannot be said to be the one strictly envisaged by Section 3(1), it would be impermissible to try or convict and punish an accused under TADA.	None
The commission of the crime with the intention to achieve the result as envisaged by the section and not merely where the consequence of the crime committed by the accused create that result, would attract the provisions of Section 3(1) of TADA.	None
Thus, if for example a person goes on a shooting spree and kills a number of persons, it is bound to create terror and panic in the locality but if it was not committed with the requisite intention as contemplated by the Section, the offence would not attract Section 3(1)	None
In State v. Nalini (supra), a threeJudge Bench of this Court has quoted the dictum laid down in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur (supra) with approval and concluded thus (See p.298 Para 51)	None
Thus the legal position remains unaltered that the crucial postulate for judging whether the offence is a terrorist act falling under TADA or not is whether it was done with the intent to overawe the Government as by law established or to strike terror in the people, etc.	None
In State of West Bengal v. Mohammed Khalid, (1995) 1 SCC 684 , referring to Corpus Juris Secundum (A Contemporary Statement of American Law, Vol 22 at pg 116), the meaning of intent was quoted as under Intention In general Specific or general intent crimes An actual intent to commit the particular crime towards which the act moves is a necessary element of an attempt to commit a crime.	None
Although the intent must be one in fact, not merely in law, and may not be inferred from the overt act alone, it may be inferred from the circumstances.	None
The prosecution in this case has argued that charge under Section 3 is maintainable in the light of the Bombay bomb blasts and the fact that L.D. Arora would have been pivotal in providing information regarding the smuggling of arms and explosives.	Reasoning
The case before us concerns the murder of L.D. Arora.	Reasoning
The prosecution has not been successful in proving that this particular murder was committed with the intention to cause terror.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier, terror could have been caused as a consequence of the act.	Reasoning
The prosecution has stated that the main intention behind the murder of L.D. Arora was to prevent the names of Mohd.	Reasoning
Dosa, Tahir Shah and others involved in smuggling of arms and explosives would not come to light during the investigations that followed the Bombay blast.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, evident that the intention of the accused in the present case was not to cause terror but to prevent information regarding another crime from being divulged.	Reasoning
In the light of these facts, we are of the opinion that the TADA Court was justified in dismissing the charges framed under the TADA Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, appeals filed by the State for enhancement of sentence require to be dismissed.	Reasoning
In view of the discussion noticed above, we find no illegality in the judgment under appeals.	Decision
As such, appeals stand dismissed.	Decision
