 N. Variava, J. Leave granted in SLP (C) No. 9000/1998.2.	Facts
All these appeals are against a common judgment dated 30th March, 1997.	Facts
A common question arises in all these appeals.3.	Facts
The Government of India, Ministry of Labour by an order dated 3rd October, 1980 referred the following dispute under Sections 7A and 10(1)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act between the Management of 11 Banks and the Deposit Collectors to the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad for adjudication Whether the demands of the Commission Agents or as the case may be Deposit Collectors Employed in the Banks listed in the Annexure that they are entitled to pay scales, allowances and other service conditions available to regular clerical employees of those banks is justified ?	Issue
If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled and from which date ?	Issue
Before the Tribunal parties lead evidence both oral and documentary.	None
After hearing the parties the Tribunal by its award dated 22nd December, 1998 held that the Deposit Collectors were workmen of the concerned Bank.	Facts
The Tribunal then directed as follows  All those Deposit Collectors and Agents who are below the age of 45 years on 3.10.1980 (the date of the first reference of this industrial dispute) shall be considered for regular absorption for the post of Clerks and cashiers if they are matriculates and above including qualified Graduates and PostGraduates.	Facts
They may be taken to Bank service as regular employees if they pass the qualifying examinations conducted by the Banks.	None
Those who are absorbed shall be treated on par with regular clerical employees of the bank.	Facts
Those who are qualified with 8th class and below Matriculations shall be considered for absorption as Substaff by conducting qualifications examination.	Facts
As regards the Deposit Collectors and Agents who are above 45 years of age on the date 3.10.1980 and also those who are unwilling to be absorbed in Regular Banks service they shall be paid the fall back wage of Rs. 750.00 per month linked with minimum deposit of Rs.	Facts
7,500.00 per month	Facts
and they should be paid incentive remuneration at 2 for collection of over and above 7,500.00 per month and they should also pay uniform conveyance of Rs. 50 per month for deposit of less than Rs. 10,000.00 and Rs. 100.00 per month for deposits of more than Rs.	Facts
10,000.00 upto or above Rs.	Facts
30,000.00 per month they should be paid Gratuity of 15 days commission for each year of service rendered.	Facts
Various Writ Petitions were filed by various Banks and the Indian Banks Association.	Facts
All were disposed of by the impugned judgment dated 20th March, 1997.6.	Facts
Before the High Court it has been conceded that relief of being absorbed as regular staff of the Banks in clerical cadre was not available to be granted.	Facts
On this concession the High Court set aside the directions of the Tribunal to absorb the Deposit Collectors as regular staff.	Facts
The High Court however upheld the other directions of the Tribunal regarding payment of fall back wages, conveyance allowance, gratuity etc.7.	Facts
Except for C.A. No. 3356 of 1998, all these appeals have been filed by the various Banks and or the Indian Banks Association.	Issue
C.A. No. 3356 of 1998 has been filed by the National Confederation of Bank Employees.	Issue
This appeal is against that portion of the impugned judgment, whereunder the relief of absorption as a regular employee has been set aside.	Issue
On behalf of the appellants it has been submitted that the Deposit Collectors could not be treated as workmen since their engagement were purely a matter of contract between the parties.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the agreements were, in all cases, for a specific period.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the Deposit Collectors did their work without any control or supervision of the Banks.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the Deposit Collectors could also do other works and take on other employment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the Deposit Collectors had no fixed time or period to devote to their work as Deposit Collectors or for their attendance in the Banks.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that these Deposit Collectors could come to the Bank at any time and make the deposits.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that there was no qualification or age limit for a person to be engaged as a Deposit Collector and that, in fact, many of the Deposit Collectors were well advanced in age.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that no disciplinary action could be taken against the Deposit Collectors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that all the above mentioned facts showed that there was no relationship of master and servant and that, therefore, these Deposit Collectors were not workmen.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has also been placed on Section 10 of the Banking Regulation Act.	None
The relevant portion of Section 10 reads as follows  Prohibition of employment of managing agents and restrictions on certain forms of employment.  	None
(1) No banking company (a) shall employ or be managed by managing agent or(b) shall employ or continue the employment of any person (i) who is, or at any time has been adjudicated insolvent, or has suspended payment or has compounded with his creditors, or who is, or has been, convicted by a Criminal Court of an offence involving moral turpitude or(ii) whose remuneration or part of whose remuneration takes the form of commission or of a share in the profits of the company Provided that nothing contained in this subclause shall apply to the payment by a banking company of (a) any bonus, in pursuance of a settlement or award arrived at or made under any law relating to industrial disputes or in accordance with any scheme framed by such banking company or in accordance with the usual practice prevailing in banking business(b) any commission to any broker (including guarantee broker), cashiercontractor, clearing and forwarding agent, auctioneer or any other person, employed by the banking company under a contract otherwise than as a regular member of the staff of the company orxxx	None
xxx xxx	None
It was submitted that Section 10(b) clearly lays down that a banking company cannot employ any person whose remuneration or part of whose remuneration takes the form of commission or of a share in the profits of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that it was an admitted position that commission was paid to the Deposit Collectors.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that it can never be presumed that the Banks were employing persons contrary to the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that this showed that these Deposit Collectors were not employed by the Banks.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the proviso (b), which permitted payment of commission under a contract to a person who was not a regular member of the staff, was merely an extension and did not detract from the main provision which prevented employment on commission basis.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that the Deposit Collection Schemes were unremunerative and were not viable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Certain charts and figures were shown to the Court and it was submitted that the Banks were suffering a loss in running these Schemes.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that neither the Tribunal nor the High Court had gone into viability of the Schemes.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P.P. Rao further submitted that the Banking Regulation Act is an Act of 1949.	Arguments of Petitioner
He took the Court through the definition of the term workman in the Industrial Disputes Act as well as various other Acts like Beedi and Cigar Workers (Conditions of Employment) Act, Coal Mines Provident Fund and Misc.	Arguments of Petitioner
Provisions Act, Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that under each Act the definition was framed as per the purpose of Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that depending on the purpose of the Act, either a wide or narrow definition had been given to the term worker.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that the proviso to Section 10 of the Banking Regulation Act has been operative since 1949.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that in the Industrial Disputes Act the definition of the term worker in Section 2(s) was amended in 1984.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that even in 1984 the legislature did not think it fit to include in this definition a person who was receiving commission.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that this clearly indicates that persons receiving commission were not meant to be and were not workmen within the meaning of the term as lid down in the Industrial Disputes Act.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. P.P. Rao further submitted that if the Deposit Collectors are not workmen, then their entitlement has to be as per their contract or as per the provisions of a statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the Tribunal had no power to change the contract between the parties and or to impose conditions of service.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the Tribunal could only have done so, provided it was statutorily permitted or it was so provided in the Contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the gratuity which has been awarded by the Tribunal is neither as per the contract between the parties nor as per the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the Deposit Collectors have concealed what they were receiving from the other employment.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that this information should have been called for.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the entire liability has been foisted on the Banks, when in fact the other employer should be sharing the burden imposed on the Banks.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted on behalf of the appellants that, for all the above reasons, the impugned Order and the directions given by the Tribunal should be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Sharma, on behalf of the respondents, submitted that the Deposit Collectors had to regularly visit the small depositors, i.e. small traders, housewives, students etc.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that they would have to go to these depositors at times which were convenient to those persons or at times when they would be in a position to give the deposit.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Deposit Collectors may also have to make more than one visit to small depositors.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Deposit Collectors would have to collect deposits from all these persons and then take the collections to the banks and make the deposits after making the relevant entries and filing up the relevant forms.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the work of Deposit Collectors was manual inasmuch as they had to make the collections by going from place to place and from depositor to depositor and that it was also clerical inasmuch as they had to fill up various forms, accounts, registers and pass books every day.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that over and above this work many of the Deposit Collectors were also made to do other sundry works of a clerical nature in the banks.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that amount received by the Deposit Collectors by way of commission was wage linked to productivity.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that it was incorrect to state that the Banks had no control over the Deposit Collectors.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Banks exercised control over the Deposit Collectors and laid down various stipulations which were to be followed by these Deposit Collectors.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that merely because the nature of the control was different did not mean that there was no control.16.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sharma relied upon the definition of the term wages in Section 2(rr) of the Industrial Disputes Act, which reads as follows  2(rr) wages means all remuneration capable of being expressed in terms of money, which would, if the terms of employment, express or implied, were fulfilled, be payable to a workman in respect of his employment or of work done in such employment and includes  such allowances (including dearness allowance) as the workman is for the time being entitled to(ii) the value of any house accommodation, or of supply of light, water, medical attendance or other amenity or of any service or of any concessional supply of foodgrains or other articles(iii) any travelling concession(iv) any commission payable on the promotion of sales or business or bothbut does not include  (a) any bonus(b) any contribution paid or payable by the employer to any pension fund or provident fund or for the benefit of the workman under any law for the time being in force(c) any gratuity payable on the termination of his serviceHe points out that, under subclause (iv) of the above definition, wage includes commission payable on promotion of sales or business or both.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the commission which was received by Deposit Collectors was for promotion of the business of the Banks, viz.	Arguments of Respondent
receiving deposits from investors.17.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sharma submitted that the proviso to section 10 clearly laid down that commission could be paid to a person who was not in the regular employment of a Bank.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that, therefore, Section 10 of the Banking Regulation Act did not prevent Deposit Collectors from being workmen as defined in the Industrial Disputes Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this submission he relied upon an authority of the Madras High Court in the case of The Management of Indian Bank v. The Presiding Officer, Industrial Tribunal (C) and another, reported in 1990(1)	Arguments of Respondent
LLJ 50.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case it has been held that Deposit Collectors satisfy the definition of workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act and that they are workmen as defined in the Industrial Disputes Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been held that the Banks have control over such Deposit Collectors and that Section 10 of the Banking Regulations Act did not help the Banks in contending that Deposit Collectors were not workmen.18.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sharma relied upon the case of Silver Jubilee Tailoring House and others v. Chief Inspector of Shops and Establishments and another, reported in 1974(1) LLJ 747.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case the question was whether certain tailors working with the Appellant Company were employees of the appellant and were covered by the Andhra Pradesh Shops and Establishments Act and Payment of Wages Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The questions which arose for consideration were whether the appellants had control over these tailors and whether the fact that these tailors could work for more than one employee (employer ?) meant that there was no relationship of master and servant.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court held that during the last two decades the emphasis in deciding the question of relationship of employer and employee had changed.	Arguments of Respondent
It held that while control was an important factor it was wrong to say that in every case it would be a decisive factor.	Arguments of Respondent
It held that the degree of control and supervision would be different in different types of business and that what was essential was an element of authority over the workers in the performance of the work, so that the employee was subject to the directions of the employer.	Arguments of Respondent
It also held that working with more than one employer did not militate against being the employee of the proprietor of the shop where he attended the work.	Arguments of Respondent
It held that a servant need not be in the exclusive control of one master.	Arguments of Respondent
It held that the fact that the workers were not obligated to work whole day was also not very material.	Arguments of Respondent
It held that all that was necessary was that the workman was principally employed by that employer.19.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sharma also relied upon the case of Dharangadhara Chemical Works Ltd. v. State of Saurashtra, reported in 1957 SCR 152.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case the appellants were lessees holding a license for the manufacture of salt on certain lands.	Arguments of Respondent
The salt was manufactured by labourers known as Agarias from rain water that got mixed with saline matter in the soil.	Arguments of Respondent
The work was seasonable in nature and commenced in October after the rains and continued till June.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter the Agarias left for their own villages and did their own cultivation work.	Arguments of Respondent
During the season the lands were divided into plots and plots were allotted to the Agarias.	Arguments of Respondent
Generally the same plot was allotted to the same Agaria every year.	Arguments of Respondent
After manufacturing of salt the Agarias were paid at the rate of 5 as 6 pies per maund.	Arguments of Respondent
At the end of each season the accounts were settled and the Agarias were paid the balance due to them.	Arguments of Respondent
During the season the Agarias worked with the members of their families and were free to engage extralabour on their own, if they so desired.	Arguments of Respondent
No hours of work were prescribed, no master (muster ?)	Arguments of Respondent
roll maintained, nor were working hours controlled by the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
There were no rules as regards leave or holidays and the Agarias were free to go out of the factory after making arrangements for manufacturing of salt.	Arguments of Respondent
The question for consideration before this Court was whether the Agarias were working within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court held that the prima facie test of master of (and ?) servant between employer and employee was the existence of the right in the employer not merely to direct what work was to be done but also to control the manner in which it was to be done, the nature or extent of such control varying in different industries and being by its nature incapable of being precisely defined.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court held that the correct approach, therefore, was to consider whether, having regard to the nature of the work, there was due control and supervision of the employer.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court further held that the question whether the relationship between the parties was one as between an employer and employee was a question of fact and where the Industrial Tribunal came to a finding, such finding of fact was not open to question in a proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution, unless it could be shown to wholly unwarranted by the evidence.20.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sharma submitted that in this case the Tribunal had, on consideration of evidence and material before it, arrived at a positive finding that there was control by the Banks and that there was a relationship of master and servant.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that such finding of fact was based upon the evidence on record and nothing had been shown that such finding was unwarranted or unsustainable on the basis of evidence on record.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the High Court was thus right in not interfering with such findings of fact.21.	Arguments of Respondent
On the question of the Scheme being unremunerative, Mr. Sharma showed certain pamphlets and circulars recently issued by one of the banks, which is before this Court.	None
He pointed out, from these pamphlets and circulars, that far from the Scheme being unremunerative the Banks were receiving large amounts as deposits through such Schemes.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that the Banks were wanting to continue with such Schemes.22.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sharma submitted that gratuity need not be only under the Payment of Gratuity Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Tribunal had not said that it was awarding gratuity under the Gratuity Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Tribunal has powers, de hors the Gratuity Act, to direct payment of Gratuity.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Tribunal always has power and jurisdiction to modify conditions of service and, in this case, it has been found by the Tribunal that there was no fixed pay scales, no bonus, no gratuity, no dearness allowance and, therefore, the Tribunal had given the direction, as set out hereinabove, as and by way of a package.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that earlier commission was being paid at a rate of 3.5 per cent by most of the Banks.	Arguments of Respondent
He pointed out that now, over and above the sum of Rs. 7,500/, the commission had been reduced to 2 per cent.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that to that extent Deposit Collectors were losing, but as this was part of the package as given by the Tribunal it was being accepted by the Deposit Collectors.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the directions given by the Tribunal were fair and just and absolutely right.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the Order of the High Court was correct and this Court should not interfere.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Nageshwar Rao, who appeared for the appellants in C.A. No. 3356 of 1998, supported Mr. Sharma in all his submissions.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, however, submitted that the High Court was wrong in setting aside the directions regarding regularisation of service.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the concession which had been made before the High Court had not been made on behalf of his clients and his clients could not be held to be bound by such concession.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that in any case the Deposit Collectors should get the pay scales, allowance and other service conditions of the other employees of the banks.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that even though the Deposit Collectors may not have been absorbed as regular employees of the Banks, yet they should have been granted the pay scales, allowance and other service conditions of the employees of the Banks.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that most of these Deposit Collectors had been working for 20 to 25 years and that there was nothing wrong if they were either absorbed in the Banks or given the pay scales, allowances and other service conditions of the other employees of the Banks.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have considered the rival submissions.	None
In our view, Mr. Sharma was right when he submitted that on the basis of evidence before it the Tribunal has given findings of fact that the Deposit Collectors were workmen within the meaning of Section 2 (develop) of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Reasoning
On the evidence on record it could not be said that this finding was unsustainable.	Reasoning
Having been shown the relevant evidence we are also of the opinion that the Tribunal correctly arrived at a conclusion that these Deposit Collectors were workmen.25.	Reasoning
Further, as seen from Section 2(rr) of the Industrial Disputes Act, the commission received by Deposit Collectors is nothing else but wage, which is dependent on the productivity.	Reasoning
This commission is paid for promoting the business of the various banks.26.	Reasoning
We also cannot accept the submission that the Banks have no control over the Deposit Collectors.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the Deposit Collectors are free to regulate their own hours of work but that is because of the nature for the work itself.	Reasoning
It would be impossible to fix working hours for such Deposit Collectors because they have to go to various depositors.	Reasoning
This would have to be done at the convenience of the deposits and at such times as required by the depositors.	Reasoning
If this is so, then no time can be fixed for such work.	Reasoning
However, there is control inasmuch as the Deposit Collectors have to bring the collections and deposit the same in the banks by the very next day.	Reasoning
They have to then fill in various forms, accounts, registers and pass books.	Reasoning
They also have to do such other clerical work as the bank may direct.	Reasoning
They are, therefore, accountable to the Bank and under the control of the Bank.27.	Reasoning
We also see no force in the contention that Section 10 of the Banking Regulations Act prevents employment of persons on commission basis.	Reasoning
The proviso to Section 10 makes it clear that commission can be paid to persons who are not in regular employment.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly the Deposit Collectors are not regular employees of the Bank.	Reasoning
But they nevertheless are workers within the meaning of the term as defined in the Industrial Disputes Act.	Reasoning
There is clearly a relationship of master and servant between the Deposit Collectors and the concerned Bank.28.	Reasoning
Mr. Nageshwar Rao is right in his submission that the concession was not binding on his clients.	Reasoning
However, what has been conceded has been correctly conceded.	Reasoning
No question arose of directing absorption of the Deposit Collectors as regular workmen.	Reasoning
No such demand had been made and, therefore, there could have been no such direction.	Reasoning
Such directions were beyond the reference.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the question of absorption would be fully covered by an authority of this Court in the case of Union of India and other	Reasoning
v. K.V. Baby and another, reported in 1999(1) LLJ 1290 1999(1)	Reasoning
SCT 115 (SC).	Reasoning
In this case it has been held that persons who are engaged on the basis of individual contracts to work on commission basis cannot be equated with regular employees doing similar work.	Reasoning
It has been held that the mode of selection and qualifications are not comparable with those of the employees, even though the employees may be doing similar works.	Reasoning
In the present case, not only are the modes of selection and qualifications not comparable, but even the work is not comparable.	Reasoning
The work which the Deposit Collectors do is completely different from the work which the regular employees do.	Reasoning
There was thus no question of absorption and there was also no question of the Deposit Collectors being paid the same pay scales, allowances and other services conditions of the regular employees of the Banks.29.	Reasoning
We also see no substance in the contention that these Schemes are unremunerative.	None
The Banks have introduced these Schemes because they want to encourage the common man to make small and regular deposits.	None
As a result of such Schemes, the number of depositors have become much larger.	Reasoning
We have no doubt that such Schemes are continued because the Banks find them remunerative.	Reasoning
The Banks have large collections through such Schemes.	Reasoning
For the reasons set out hereinabove, we see no substance in any of these appeals.	Decision
All the appeals accordingly stand dismissed.	Decision
There will, however, be no order as to costs.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
