 Das Gupta, J. (For himself, S. K. Das and N. Rajagopala Ayyangar JJ.)	None
1.	None
This appeal is against an appellate decision of a Bench of the Calcutta High Court by which in reversal of the order made by the Trial Judge the Bench rejected the present appellants application under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution.	None
The appellant is a private limited company incorporated under the Indian Companys Act and has its registered office in Calcutta.	Facts
It was assessed to incometax for the assessment years, 194243, 194344 and 194445 by three separate orders dated January 26, 1944, February 12, 1944 and February 15, 1945, respectively.	Facts
These assessments were made under S. 23(3) of the Indian Incometax Act upon returns filed by it accompanied by statements of account.	Facts
The first two assessments were made by Mr. L. D. Rozario the then Incometax Officer and the last one by Mr. K. D. Banerjee.	Facts
The taxes assessed were duly paid up.	Facts
On March 28, 1951, three notices purporting to be under S. 34 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, were issued by the Incometax Officer calling upon the company to submit fresh returns of its total income and the total world income assessable for the three accounting years relating to the three assessment years, 194243, 194344 and 194445.	Facts
The appellant company furnished returns in compliance with the notices but on September 18, 1951, applied to the High Court of Calcutta for issue under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution of appropriate writs or orders directing the Incometax Officer not to proceed to assess it on the basis of these notices.	Facts
The first ground on which this prayer was based was mentioned in the petition in these terms  	Facts
The said pretended notice was issued without the existence of the necessary conditions precedent which confers jurisdiction under S. 34 aforementioned, whether before or after the amendment in 1948.	Facts
The other ground urged was that the amendment to S. 34 of the Incometax Act in 1948 was not retrospective and that the assessment for the years 194243, 194344 and 194445 became barred long before March, 1951.	Facts
2.	None
The Trial Judge held that the first ground was not made out but being of opinion that the amending Act of 1948 was not retrospective, he held that the notices issued were without jurisdiction.	Facts
Accordingly he made an order prohibiting the Incometax Officer from continuing the assessment proceedings on the basis of the impugned notices.	Facts
3.	None
The learned Judges who heard the appeal agreed with the Trial Judge that the first ground had not been made out.	Facts
They held however that in consequence of the amendment of S. 34 in 1948 the objection on the ground of limitation must also fail.	Facts
A point of constitutional law which appears to have been raised before the appeal court was also rejected.	None
The appeal was allowed and the companys application under Art.	Facts
226 was dismissed with costs.	Facts
4.	None
The Company has preferred the present appeal on the strength of a certificate issued by the High Court under Art. 133(1)(a) of the Constitution.	Facts
5. The only point raised before us is that the court below were wrong in holding that the first ground that the notices were issued without the existence of the necessary conditions precedent which confers jurisdiction under S. 34 had not been made out.	Arguments of Petitioner
As it is no longer disputed that S. 34 as amended in 1948 applies to the present case we have to consider the section as it stood after the amendment in 1948, in deciding this question of jurisdiction.	None
The relevant portion of the section was in these words 34.	None
Income escaping assessment  (1) if  (a) the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22 for any year or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for that year, or have been underassessed, or assessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act, or excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed, or (b) notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in cl.	None
(a) on the part of the assessee, the Incometax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for any year, or have been underassessed, or assessed at too low a rate or have been made the subject of excessive relief under this Act, or that excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed.	None
He may in cases falling under cl.	None
(a) at any time within eight years and in cases falling under cl.	None
(b) at any time within four years of the end of that year, serve on the assessee, or, if the assessee is a company, on the principal officer thereof, a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under subsec.	None
(2) of S. 22 and may proceed to assess or reassess such income profits or gains or recompute the loss or depreciation allowance and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that subsection Provided that  (i) the Incometax Officer shall not issue a notice under this subsection unless he has recorded his reasons for doing so and the Commissioner is satisfied on such reasons recorded that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice (ii) the tax shall be chargeable at the rate at which it would have been charged had the income, profits or gains not escaped assessment or full assessment, as the case may be and (iii) where the assessment made or to be made is an assessment made or to be made on a person deemed to be the agent of a nonresident person under S. 43, this subsection shall have effect as if for the periods of eight years and four years a period of one year was substituted.	None
Explanation  Production before the Incometax Officer of accountbooks or other evidence from which material facts could with due diligence have been discovered by the Incometax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure within the meaning of this section.	None
6.	None
To confer jurisdiction under this section to issue notice in respect of assessments beyond the period of four years, but within a period of eight years, from the end of the relevant year two conditions have therefore to be satisfied.	None
The first is that the Incometax Officer must have reason to believe that income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have been underassessed.	None
The second is that the must have also reason to believe that such under assessment has occurred by reason of either (i) omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22, or (ii) omission or failure on the part of an assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year.	None
Both these conditions are conditions precedent to be satisfied before the Incometax Officer could have jurisdiction to issue a notice for the assessment or reassessment beyond the period of four years but within the period of eight years, from the end of the year in question.	None
7.	None
No dispute appears to have been raised at any stage in this case as regards the first condition not having been satisfied and we proceed on the basis that the Incometax Officer had in fact reason to believe that there had been an underassessment in each of the assessment years, 194243, 194344 and 194445.	None
The appellants case has all along that the second condition was not satisfied.	None
As admittedly the appellant had filed its return of income under S. 22, the Incometax Officer could have no reason to believe that underassessment had resulted from the failure to make a return of income.	None
The only question is whether the Incometax Officer had reason to believe that there had been some omission or failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for the assessment for any of these years in consequence of which the underassessment took place.	Issue
8.	None
Before we proceed to consider the materials on record to see whether the appellant has succeeded in showing that the Incometax Officer could have no reason, on the materials before him, to believe that there had been any omission to disclose material facts, as mentioned in the section, it is necessary to examine the precise scope of disclosure which the section demands.	Reasoning
The words used are omission or failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year.	Reasoning
It postulates a duty on every assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment.	Reasoning
What facts are material, and necessary for assessment will differ from case to case.	Reasoning
In every assessment proceeding, the assessing authority will, for the purpose of computing or determining the proper tax due from an assessee, require to know all the facts which help him in coming to the correct conclusion.	Reasoning
From the primary facts in his possession, whether on disclosure by the assessee, or discovered by him on the basis of the facts disclosed, or otherwise  the assessing authority has to draw inferences as regards certain other facts and ultimately, from the primary facts and the further facts inferred from them, the authority has to draw the proper legal inferences, and ascertain on a correct interpretation of the taxing enactment, the proper tax leviable.	Reasoning
Thus, when a question arises whether certain income received by an assessee is capital receipt, or revenue receipt, the assessing authority has to find out what primary facts have been proved, what other facts can be inferred from them, and taking all these together to decide what the legal inference should be.	Reasoning
9.	None
There can be no doubt that the duty of disclosing all the primary facts relevant to the decision of the question before the assessing authority lies on the assessee.	None
To meet a possible contention that when some account books or other evidence has been produced, there is no duty on the assessee to disclose further facts,which on due diligence, the Incometax Officer might have discovered, the Legislature has put in the Explanation, which has been set out above.	None
In view of the Explanation, it will not be open to the assessee to say, for example  I have produced the account books and the documents You, the assessing officer examine them, and find out the facts necessary for your purpose My duty is done with disclosing these accountbooks and the documents.	None
His omission to bring to the assessing authoritys attention these particular items in the account books, or the particular portions of the documents, which are relevant, will amount to omission to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment.	None
Nor will he be able to contend successfully that by disclosing certain evidence, he should be deemed to have disclosed other evidence, which might have been discovered by the assessing authority if he had pursued investigation on the basis of what has been disclosed.	None
The Explanation to the section, gives a quietus to all such contentions and the position remains that so far as primary facts are concerned, it is the assessees duty to disclose all of them  including particular entries in account books, particular portions of documents and documents, and other evidence, which could have been discovered by the assessing authority, from the documents and other evidence disclosed.	None
10.	None
Does the duty however extend beyond the full and truthful disclosure of all primary facts?	None
In our opinion, the answer to this question must be in the negative.	None
Once all the primary facts are before the assessing authority, he requires no further assistance by way of disclosure.	Reasoning
It is for him to decide what inferences of facts can be reasonably drawn and what legal inferences have ultimately to be drawn.	Reasoning
It is not for somebody else  far less the assessee  to tell the assessing authority what inferences  whether of facts or law should be drawn.	Reasoning
Indeed, when it is remembered that people often differ as regards what inferences should be drawn from given facts, it will be meaningless to demand that the assessee must disclose what inferences  whether of facts or law  he would draw from the primary facts.	Reasoning
11.	None
If from primary facts more inferences than one could be drawn, it would not be possible to say that the assessee should have drawn any particular inference and communicated it to the assessing authority.	None
How could an assessee be charged with failure to communicate an inference, which he might or might not have drawn?	None
12.	None
It may be pointed out that the Explanation to the subsection has nothing to do with inferences and deals only with the question whether primary material facts not disclosed could still be said to be constructively disclosed on the ground that with due diligence the Incometax Officer could have discovered them from the facts actually disclosed.	None
The Explanation has not the effect of enlarging the section, by casting a duty on the assessee to disclose inferences  to draw the proper inferences being the duty imposed on the Incometax Officer.	None
13.	None
We have therefore come to the conclusion that while the duty of the assessee is to disclose fully and truly all primary relevant facts, it does not extend beyond this.	None
14.	None
The position therefore is that if there were in fact some reasonable grounds for thinking that there had been any nondisclosure as regards any primary fact, which could have a material bearing on the question of under assessment that would be sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Incometax Officer to issue the notices under S. 34.	Reasoning
Whether these grounds were adequate or not for arriving at the conclusion that there was a nondisclosure of material facts would not be open for the courts investigation.	Reasoning
In other words, all that is necessary to give this special jurisdiction is that the Incometax Officer had when he assumed jurisdiction some prima facie grounds for thinking that there had been some nondisclosure of material facts.	Reasoning
15.	None
Clearly it is the duty of the assessee who wants the court to hold that jurisdiction was lacking, to establish that the Incometax Officer had no material at all before him for believing that there had been such nondisclosure.	Reasoning
To establish this the company has relied on the statements in the assessment orders for the three years in question and on the statement of Kanakendra Narayana Banerjee in the report made by him to the Commissioner of Incometax for the purposes of obtaining sanction to initiate proceedings under S. 34 and also on his statement in the affidavit on oath in reply to the writ petition.	None
The report is in these words Profit of Rs. 5,48,002 on sale of shares and securities escaped assessment altogether.	None
At the time of the original assessment the then I. T. O. merely accepted the companys version that the sale of shares were casual transactions and were in the nature of mere change of investments.	None
Now the results of the companys trading from year to year show that the company has really been systematically carrying out a trade in the sale of investments.	None
As such the company had failed to disclose the true intention behind the sale of the shares and as such S. 34(1)(a) may be attracted.	None
16.	None
The only nondisclosure mentioned in the report is that the company had failed to disclose the true intention behind the sale of the shares.	None
Mr. Choudhury contends that this is not an omission to disclose a material fact within the meaning of S. 34.The question whether sales of certain shares were by way of changing the investments or by way of trading in shares has to be decided on a consideration of different circumstances, including the frequency of the sales, the nature of the shares sold, the price received as compared with the cost price, and several other relevant facts.	None
It is the duty of the assessee to disclose all the facts which have a bearing on the question but whether the assessee had the intention to make a business profit as distinguished from the intention to change the form of the investments is really an inference to be drawn by the assessing authority from the material facts taken in conjunction with the surrounding circumstances.	Reasoning
The law does not require the assessee to state the conclusion that could reasonably be drawn from the primary facts.	Reasoning
The question of the assessees intention is an inferential fact and so the assessees omission to state his true intentions behind the sale of shares cannot by itself be considered to be a failure or omission to disclose any material fact within the meaning of S. 34.Indeed, an assessee whose contention is that the shares were sold to change the form of investment and not with the intention of making a business profit cannot be expected to say that his true intention was other than what he contended it to be.	Reasoning
Dealing with this question the learned Chief Justice has said The expression that the Respondent had failed to disclose the true intention behind the sale of shares may lack directness, but that deficiency of language is not sufficient to enable the Respondent to contend, in view of the circumstances alleged, that no failure to disclose facts was being complained of.	None
On the facts as stated by the Incometax Officer, it is clear that there had been a failure to disclose the fact that the Respondent was a dealer in shares and what the Incometax Officer meant by the language used by him was that the Respondent had not disclosed that the sale of shares had been of the nature of a trading sale, made in pursuance of an intention to make a business profit, and not of the nature of a change of investment, made in pursuance of an intention to put certain capital assets into another form.	None
If that be so, it is equally clear that the Incometax Officer who, by the way, was a successor to the officers who had made the original assessments, was not merely changing his opinion as to facts previously known, but was taking notice of a new fact.	None
17.	None
The learned Chief Justice seems to have proceeded on the basis that when from certain facts inferences are to be drawn there is a duty on the assessee to state what the correct inference should be and if he has made a wrong statement as regards the inferences to be drawn that also is an omission or failure to disclose a material fact.	Reasoning
For the reasons given earlier we do not think that this is the correct position in law.	None
18.	None
It is clear therefore that if one looked at this report only it would not be possible to say that Incometax Officer had any nondisclosure of material facts by the assessee in mind when he assumed jurisdiction.	Reasoning
It has to be remembered however that in sending a report to the Commissioner, the Incometax Officer might not fully set out what he though amounted to a nondisclosure, because it is conceivable that the report may not be drawn up carefully and may not contain a reference to all the nondisclosures that operated on his mind.	Reasoning
We have however on the record an affidavit sworn by the same Incometax Officer who started the S. 34 proceedings.	Reasoning
It is reasonable to expect that in this affidavit which was his opportunity to tell the court what nondisclosure he took into consideration he would state as clearly as possible the material facts in respect of which there had not been in his view a full and true disclosure.	Reasoning
Mr. Banerjees statements in this matter are contained in paras.	Reasoning
5, 6 and 7 of his affidavit.	Reasoning
They are in these words 5.	None
With reference to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the said petition, I crave reference to the assessment orders, therein mentioned.	None
The assessment order dated the 15th February, 1945, was made by Sri Kali	None
Das Banerjee now Incometax Officer Companies District II and the other two assessment orders were made by l. D. Rozario who is now in the employment of M s. Loverlock and Lewes.	None
I find from the notes made by me in the order sheet of the assessment year 194445 and my order dated the 7th July, 1944, that Mr. Smith of M s. Lovelock and Lewes attended before me and stated that the profits of the company arising out of dealings in shares were not taxable as the company was not a dealer in shares and securities.	None
Subsequently on the 18th August, 1944, M s. Lovelock and Lewes wrote a letter to me setting out the contention of their clients and inter alia stated that throughout the whole history the company bought no shares whatsoever.	None
Sri K. D. Banerjee was accordingly led to believe that the dealings in shares were casual transactions and were in the nature of mere change in investments and the profits resulting therefrom were not taxable.	None
The assessment orders were made on the basis that the petitioner did not carry on any business dealings in shares.	None
A copy of the said letter dated the 18th August, 1944, as also the relevant portion of the note sheet are included in the schedule hereto annexed and marked A. 6.	None
In the assessments for 194546 and 194647, which were completed in April 1950, the profits on sale of shares were included in the total assessable income of the company it having been then discovered that the petitioner was in fact carrying on business in shares contrary to its representation that it was not.	None
The company filed appeals before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, which were rejected in September 1950, and the assessments were confirmed.	None
The company thereafter filed a second appeal before the Incometax Tribunal which appeals are now pending.	None
7.	None
With reference to para.	None
5 of the said petition, I pretended to act under S. 34 of the Incometax Act as alleged.	None
I have reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure of the company to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for its assessments the income, profits and gains chargeable to incometax had been under assessed.	None
I recorded my reasons and made three reports (one for each year) in the prescribed form and submitted them before the Commissioner of Incometax and the latter was satisfied that it was a fit case for issue of a notice under S. 34 of the Incometax Act.	None
Thereafter I issued the prescribed notices under S. 34 of the Incometax Act.	None
The said reports were made and notices issued in respect of all the three years mentioned in the petition and copies of the report and notice for one of such years are included in the schedule hereto annexed and marked A.	None
The report and notices for the two other years are exactly similar.	None
19.	None
It appears from this that statements made by or on behalf of the company which the assessing authority considered to amount to nondisclosure of material facts were these  (i) the company was not a dealer in shares and securities and (ii) throughout the whole of its history the company bought no shares whatsoever.	Reasoning
It has not been suggested before us that in fact at any time up to the conclusion of the assessment proceedings for the years 194243, 194344 and 194445 the company did in fact make a single purchase of shares.	Reasoning
Clearly therefore the Incometax Officer had no reasonable ground for thinking that anything as regards the purchase of shares had not been disclosed.	Reasoning
The company does not dispute that the statement was made on its behalf that it was not a dealer in shares and securities.	Reasoning
It appears clear that the Incometax Officers who made the assessments for the years 194243, 194344 and 194445 proceeded on the basis that this was an investment company and considered the question whether in spite of its being an investment company certain sales of shares wherefrom the company made a profit were by way of trading in shares and not by way of changing the form of investment.	Reasoning
Whether these sales by an investment company should in law be treated as trading transactions, and the profits made from the sales trading profits liable to tax, was the matter which it was the Incometax Officers task to decide.	Reasoning
No duty lay on the company to admit that these transactions were made by way of trade.	Reasoning
The fact that on behalf of the company Mr. Smith of Lovelock and Lewes stated that the company was not a dealer in shares and securities does not therefore amount to an omission to disclose fully and truly any material fact.	Reasoning
20.	None
To ascertain whether the Incometax Officer could have had in mind any non disclosure as a ground for thinking that by reason of such nondisclosure an under assessment had occurred  apart from what was mentioned in the affidavit  we enquired from respondents counsel whether he could suggest any other nondisclosure that might have taken place.	None
Mr. Sastri suggested two.	None
One is that the sales had not been disclosed the other that the memorandum and articles of association of the company had not been shown.	None
This suggestion is against the record and we have no hesitation in repelling it.	None
Not only is it not the ground set out by the Incometax Officer at any stage  not even in the affidavit in court, but the matters mentioned by the officer that the assessee had claimed that the profits realised were of a casual nature obviously indicates that the assessee disclosed that a surplus resulted from the sales which were also disclosed.	Reasoning
21.	None
The assessment orders it is true do not mention the details of the sales.	Reasoning
They state however that the audited accounts of the company were furnished.	Reasoning
The sales of shares were expressly mentioned in the report.	Reasoning
In these circumstances it is reasonable to believe that as regards sales of shares full details were in fact disclosed.	Reasoning
22.	None
Nor can we believe that the two Incometax Officers L. D. Rozario and K. D. Banerjee concluded the proceedings without referring to the memorandum and articles of association of the company.	Reasoning
These officers knew well that the company was claiming to be an investment company only.	Reasoning
They had to consider the question whether sales were of the nature of trade or of the nature of change of investment.	Reasoning
It is unthinkable that they would not examine the memorandum and articles of association.	Reasoning
Besides, it is pertinent to note that in para.	Reasoning
4 of his affidavit Kanakendra Narayan Banerjee refers to the Memorandum of Association and states that by its memorandum of association the company has been authorised to carry on the various kinds of business which have been specified in subsecs.	Reasoning
(1) and (2) of Cl. 3 of the said memorandum of association.	Reasoning
He does not say that the articles or the memorandum of association were not shown during the assessment proceedings for the years 194243, 194344 and 194445.	Reasoning
If he had any reason to believe that these were not shown he would have certainly mentioned that fact.	Reasoning
For that would undoubtedly amount to nondisclosure of a material fact.	Reasoning
23.	None
It must therefore be held that the Incometax Officer who issued the notices had not before him any nondisclosure of a material fact and so he could have no material before him for believing that there had been any material nondisclosure by reason of which an underassessment had taken place.	Reasoning
24.	None
We are therefore bound to hold that the conditions precedent to the exercise of jurisdiction under S. 34 of the Incometax Act did not exist and the Incometax Officer had therefore no jurisdiction to issue the impugned notices under S. 34 in respect of the years 194243, 194344 and 194445 after the expiry of four years.	Reasoning
25.	None
Mr. Sastri argued that the question whether the Incometax Officer had reason to believe that under assessment had occurred by reason of nondisclosure of material facts should not be investigated by the courts in an application under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
226.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel seems to suggest that as soon as the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that there has been under assessment in any year he has jurisdiction to start proceedings under S. 34 by issuing a notice provided 8 years have not elapsed from the end of the year in question, but whether the notices should have been issued within a period of 4 years or not is only a question of limitation which could and should properly be raised in the assessment proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
It is wholly incorrect however to suppose that this is a question of limitation only not touching the question of jurisdiction.	None
The scheme of the law clearly is that where the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that an under assessment has resulted from nondisclosure he shall have jurisdiction to start proceedings for reassessment within a period of 8 years and where he has reason to believe that an under assessment has resulted from other causes he shall have jurisdiction to start proceedings for reassessment within 4 years.	Reasoning
Both the conditions, (i) the Incometax Officer having reason to believe that there has been under assessment and (ii) his having reason to believe that such underassessment has resulted from nondisclosure of material facts, must coexist before the Incometax Officer has jurisdiction to start proceedings after the expiry of 4 years.	Reasoning
The argument that the Court ought not to investigate the existence of one of these conditions, viz., that the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that under assessment has resulted from nondisclosure of material facts cannot therefore be accepted.	None
26.	None
Mr. Sastri next pointed out that at the stage when the Incometax Officer issued the notices he was not acting judicially or quasijudicially and so a writ of certiorari or prohibition cannot issue.	Arguments of Respondent
It is well settled however that though the writ of prohibition or certiorari will not issue against an executive authority, the High Courts have power to issue in a fit case an order prohibiting an executive authority from acting without jurisdiction.	None
Where such action of an executive authority acting without jurisdiction subjects or is likely to subject a person to lengthy proceedings and unnecessary harassment, the High Courts, it is well settled, will issue appropriate orders or directions to prevent such consequences.	None
27.	None
Mr. Sastri mentioned more than once the fact that the company would have sufficient opportunity to raise this question, viz., whether the Incometax Officer had reason to believe that under assessment had resulted from nondisclosure of material facts, before the Incometax Officer himself in the assessment proceedings and if unsuccessful there before the appellate officer or the appellate tribunal or in the High Court under S. 66(2) of the Indian Incometax Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The existence of such alternative remedy is not however always a sufficient reason for refusing a party quick relief by a writ or order prohibiting an authority acting without jurisdiction from continuing such action.	None
28.	None
In the present case the company contends that the conditions precedent for the assumption of jurisdiction under S. 34 were not satisfied and came to the court at the earliest opportunity.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is nothing in its conduct which would justify the refusal of proper relief under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
226.	Reasoning
When the Constitution confers on the High Courts the power to give relief it becomes the duty of the courts to give such relief in fit cases and the courts would be failing to perform their duty if relief is refused without adequate reasons.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present case we can find no reason for which relief should be refused.	None
29.	None
We have therefore come to the conclusion that the company was entitled to an order directing the Incometax Officer not to take any action on the basis of the three impugned notices.	Reasoning
30.	None
We are informed that assessment orders were in fact made on March 25, 1952, by the Incometax Officer in the proceedings started on the basis of these impugned notices.	Reasoning
This was done with the permission of the learned Judge before whom the petition under Art.	Reasoning
226 was pending, on the distinct understanding that these orders would be without prejudice to the contentions of the parties on the several questions raised in the petition and without prejudice to the orders that many ultimately be passed by the Court.	Reasoning
The fact that the assessment orders have already been made does not therefore affect the companys right to obtain relief under Art.	Reasoning
226.	Reasoning
In view however of the fact that the assessment orders have already been made we think it proper that in addition to an order directing the Incometax Officer not to take any action on the basis of the impugned notices a further order quashing the assessment may be also issued.	Reasoning
31.	None
In the result, we allow the appeal, set aside the order made by the appellate Bench of the Calcutta High Court and restore the order made by the Trial Judge, Bose J. The assessment orders made in the proceedings started under S. 34 of the Incometax Act are also quashed.	Decision
The appellant will get its costs here and below.	Decision
Shah, J. 32.	None
I regret inability to agree with the judgment delivered by my learned brother Mr. Justice Das Gupta.	None
33.	None
The facts which give rise to this appeal have been fully set out by my learned brother and it is not necessary to reiterate the same.	None
34.	None
Subsection (1) of S. 34 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, (in so far it is material) stood at the relevant date when the proceedings were commenced, as follows 35.	None
S. 34  (1) if  (a) the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22 for any year or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for that year, or have been underassessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act, or excessive loss or depreciation allowance as been computed, or (b) notwithstanding that there has been no omission or failure as mentioned in cl.	None
(a) on the part of the assessee, the Incometax Officer has in consequence of information in his possession reason to believe that income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for any year, or have been underassessed, or assessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject of excessive relief under this Act, or that excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed, he may in cases falling under cl.	None
(a) at any time within eight years and in cases falling under cl.	None
(b) at any time within four years of the end of that year, serve on the assessee, or, if the assessee is a company, on the principal officer thereof, a notice containing all or any of the requirements which may be included in a notice under subsec.	None
(2) of S. 22 and may proceed to assess or reassess such income, profits or gains or recompute the loss or depreciation allowances and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly as if the notice were a notice issued under that subsection Provided that (i) the Incometax Officer shall not issue a notice under this subsection, unless he has recorded his reasons for doing so and the Commissioner is satisfied on such reasons recorded that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice (ii) the tax shall be chargeable at the rate at which it would have been charged had the income, profits or gains not escaped assessment or full assessment, as the case may be and (iii) where the assessment made or to be made is an assessment made or to be made on a person deemed to be the agent of a nonresident person under S. 43, this subsection shall have effect as if for the periods of eight years and four years a period of one year was substituted.	None
Explanation  Production before the Incometax Officer of account books or other evidence from which material facts could with due diligence have been discovered by the Incometax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure within the meaning of this section.	None
36.	None
This section provides machinery for assessment or reassessment if it be found that income, profits or gains have escaped assessment or have been underassessed or assessed at too low a rate or have been made subject to excessive relief under the Act or excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed, which expression may for convenience of reference be compendiously referred to as are or have been underassessed.	None
Notice under S. 34(1)(a) may be issued if the Income Tax Officer has reason to believe that income in any year has been underassessed by reason of the failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income, or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for assessment for the year in question.	None
The authority of the Income tax Officer is manifestly circumscribed by certain conditions, and may be exercised only if those conditions exist and not otherwise.	None
37.	None
In the case in hand, we are concerned with the operation of cl.	None
(1)(a) of S. 34.	None
If that clause does not apply, notices of reassessment having been served more than four years after the end of the relevant year of assessment must fail.	None
On an analysis of the relevant provisions, the material conditions prescribed for the exercise of the power to commence proceedings for reassessment under S. 34 (1)(a) are these 1.	None
The Income Tax Officer has reason to believe, (a) that income, profits or gains have been underassessed, (b) that this underassessment is by reason of omission or failure to make a return under S. 22 or by reason of failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for assessment for any year 2. that a notice containing all or any of the requirements of S. 22(2) is served on the assessee within eight years from the end of the year of assessment 3. that the Income Tax Officer has recorded his reasons for issuing the notice and the Commissioner is satisfied on such reasons recorded that it is a fit case for issue of such notice.	None
38.	None
The notices issued by the Income Tax Officer in the case before us undoubtedly fulfil conditions (2) and (3).	None
Notices of reassessment were served before the expiry of eight years of the end of the relevant years of assessment.	None
The Income Tax Officer also recorded his reasons in the reports submitted by him to the Commissioner and the Commissioner was satisfied that they were fit cases for the issue of such notices.	None
The dispute in the appeal relates merely to the fulfillment of the two branches of the first condition and that immediately raises the question about the true import of the expression has reason to believe in S. 34(1) (a).The expression reason to believe postulates belief and the existence of reasons for that belief.	None
The belief must be held in good faith it cannot be merely a pretence.	None
The expression does not mean a purely subjective satisfaction of the Income Tax Officer the form of decision as to the existence of reasons and the belief is not in the mind of the Income Tax Officer.	None
If it be asserted that the Income Tax Officer had reason to believe that income had been underassessed by reason of failure to disclose fully and truly the facts material for assessment, the existence of the belief and the reasons for the belief, but not the sufficiency of the reasons, will be justifiable.	None
The expression therefore predicates that the Income Tax Officer holds the belief induced by the existence of reasons for holding such belief.	None
It contemplates existence of reasons on which the belief is founded, and not merely a belief in the existence of reasons inducing the belief in other words the Income Tax Officer must on information at his disposal believe that income has been underassessed by reason of failure fully and truly to disclose all material facts necessary for assessment.	None
Such a belief, be it said, may not be based on mere suspicion it must be founded upon information.	None
39.	None
That the Income Tax Officer had reason to believe that there was underassessment in the material years was not challenged by the appellant and in our opinion rightly.	None
There are on the record the reports of the Income Tax Officer in which the belief is expressly set out.	None
It also appears from the assessment orders for the years 194546 and 194647 that tax has been assessed on the profits made by sale of shares by the company in those years.	None
40.	None
Had the Income Tax Officer reason to believe that by reason of failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for assessment for the three years in question, there had resulted underassessment ?	Issue
The learned Trial Judge, after setting out the evidence, held that the Income Tax Officer had materials before him showing that the companys trading from year to year disclosed that it had been systematically carrying on a trade in the sale of shares and securities.	None
He observed Whether the materials were sufficient or not or whether the belief or opinion is erroneous or not, cannot be enquired into by the court If the Income Tax Officer has made a wrong decision as to the existence of the conditions precedent, the remedy is by way of appeals as provided by the Income Tax Act and by stating a case under S. 66 of the Act.	None
41.	None
In appeal, the High Court confirmed the order.	None
The High Court observed that the use of the expression the true intention behind the sale of shares used in the report made by the Income Tax Officer under S. 34 to the Commissioner may lack directness, but that deficiency of language was not sufficient to enable the company to contend in view of the circumstances alleged that there was no failure to disclose facts being complained of.	None
The High Court also observed On the facts as stated by the Income Tax Officer, it is clear that there had been a failure to disclose the fact that the respondent was a dealer in shares and what the Income Tax Officer meant by the language used by him was that the respondent had not disclosed that the sale of shares had been of the nature of a trading sale, made in pursuance of an intention to put certain capital assets into another form.	None
If that be so, it is equally clear that the Income Tax Officer who, by the way, was a successor to the officers who had made the original assessments, was not merely changing his opinion as to facts previously known, but was taking notice of a new fact.	None
42.	None
Prima facie, the finding recorded by the Court of First Instance and confirmed by the Court of Appeal is one on a question of fact and this court would not be justified in entering upon a reappraisal of the evidence.	None
But it is contended on behalf of the company that the finding is based on no materials, and to that plea I may advert.	None
By S. 22 of the Income Tax Act, a duty is imposed upon every tax payer whose total income exceeds the maximum which is not chargeable to incometax to make a return in the prescribed form and verified in the prescribed manner, setting forth his total income during that year.	None
If the tax payer making the return fails to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for the assessment of the year in question, the jurisdiction of the Income Tax Officer to reassess is invited.	None
The company in its petition for the issue of a writ contended by paragraph 7 that the notices were ultra vires and illegal and that the Income Tax Officer was not invested with jurisdiction to proceed thereunder, inter alia for the reason that the pretended notice was issued without the existence of the necessary conditions precedent which confers jurisdiction under S. 34 aforementioned, whether before or after amendment in 1948.	None
43.	None
The Income Tax Officer, by his affidavit, submitted Para 4  The statements made in paragraph 1 of the said petition are substantially correct.	None
By its Memorandum of Association the company has been authorised to carry on the various kinds of business which have been specified in subcls.	None
(1) to (32) of Cl.	None
(3) of the said Memorandum of Association.	Reasoning
Para 5  With reference to paragraphs 2 and 3 of the said petition, I crave reference to the assessment orders therein mentioned.	None
The assessment order dated the 15th February, 1945, was made by Shri Kali Das Banerjee, now Income Tax Officer Companies District II and the other two assessment orders were made by Mr. L. D. Razario who is now in the employment of M s Lovelock and Lewis.	None
I find from the notes made by me in the order sheet of the assessment year 194445 and my order dated the 7th July, 1944, that Mr. Smith of Messrs, Lovelock and Lewis attended before me and stated that the profits of the company arising out of dealings in shares were not taxable as the company was not a dealer in shares and securities.	None
Subsequently on the 18th August, 1944, Messrs, Lovelock and Lewis wrote a letter to me setting out the contentions of their clients and inter alia stated that throughout the whole of its history the company bought no shares whatsoever.	None
Shri K. D. Banerjee was accordingly led to believe that the dealings in shares were casual transactions and were in the nature of mere change in investments and the profits resulting therefrom were not taxable.	None
The assessment orders were made on the basis that the petitioner did not carry on any business dealing in shares.	None
A copy of the said letter dated the 18th August, 1944, as also the relevant portion of the note sheet are included in the schedule hereto annexed and marked A. Para 6  In the assessment for 194546 and 194647 which were completed in April 1950, the profits on sale of shares were included in the total assessable income of the company it having been then discovered that the petitioner was in fact carrying on business in shares contrary to its representation that it was not.	None
The company filed appeals before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner which were rejected in September 1950, and the assessment were confirmed.	None
The company thereafter filed a second appeal before this Incometax Tribunal which appeals are now pending.	None
Para 7  With reference to paragraph 5 of the said petition, I deny that I pretended to act under S. 34 of the Income Tax Act as alleged.	None
I have reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure of the company to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for its assessments the income, profits and gains chargeable to incometax had been underassessed.	None
I recorded my reasons and made 3 reports (one for each year) in the prescribed form and submitted them before the Commissioner of Income Tax and the latter was satisfied that it was a fit case for issue of a notice under S. 34 of the Income Tax Act.	None
Thereafter I issued prescribed notices under S. 34 of the Income Tax Act.	None
The said reports were made and notices issued in respect of all the three years mentioned in the petition and copies of the report and notice for one of such years are included in the schedule hereto annexed and marked A.	None
The report and notices for the two other years are exactly similar.	None
44.	None
By these averments, the Income Tax Officer asserted (a) the he had reasons to believe that by reason of the omission or failure of the company to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for the assessment, income, chargeable to incometax has been underassessed and that he had recorded his reasons in that behalf in the three reports submitted by him to the Commissioner (b) that in the course of the assessment proceeding for the year 194445, it was represented on behalf of the company that the sales of shares in that year were casual transactions and were in the nature of mere change in investments (c) that in the orders of assessment for the years 194546 and 194647 passed in April 1950, profits earned by sale of shares held by the company were included in the total assessable income of the company, it having been discovered that the company was in fact carrying on the business of selling shares contrary to its earlier representations and (d) that by its Memorandum and Articles of Association, the company was authorised to carry on the business of diverse kinds specified in subcls.	Reasoning
(1) to (32) of Cl.	None
(3) thereof.	None
45.	None
Whereas by a mere bald assertion made by the company in its petition it was averred that the conditions precedent to the exercise of jurisdiction to reassess did not exist, the Income Tax Officer stated in his rejoinder that he had reasons to believe that income had been underassessed and he also set out the grounds on which that belief was founded.	None
The existence of the reasons to believe that income was underassessed has, as already observed, not been challenged nor is the court concerned with the question whether the materials may be regarded by a court before which a dispute is raised, sufficient to sustain the belief entertained by the Income Tax Officer.	None
It is clear the Income Tax Officer asserted on oath that when he issued the notice for reassessment, he had reasons to believe that income of the company had been underassessed and he set out the reasons in support of the belief.	None
46.	None
Counsel for the company submitted that all the material facts necessary for the assessment were fully and truly disclosed in the course of the assessment for the years in question, and if the Income Tax Officer did not draw the correct inference, the jurisdiction to reassess could not be invoked.	None
He urged that it was for the Income Tax Officer, on the preliminary facts disclosed to him, to raise his inferences of fact and to base his conclusions on the preliminary as well as the inferential facts, and if, in arriving at his conclusion on the preliminary and the inferential facts, the Income Tax Officer committed an error, he could not seek to commence proceedings for reassessment on being apprised of the error.	None
It was said that the Income Tax Officer knew that the company was an investment corporation, that the shares held by the company were sold from time to time, and that profits were earned by the sale of those shares, and that on these materials the Income Tax Officer might have held that the company was a dealer in shares, but if he did not draw that inference, the underassessment, if any, was not by reason of failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts.	None
Counsel submitted that the condition of the exercise of jurisdiction under S. 34 is failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for assessment and not failure to instruct the Income Tax Officer about the legal inference to be drawn from the facts disclosed.	None
47.	None
The duty imposed by the Act upon the tax payer is to make a full and true disclosure of all material facts necessary for the assessment he is not required to inform the Income Tax Officer as to what legal inference should be drawn form the facts disclosed by him nor to advise him on questions of law.	None
Whether on the facts found or disclosed, the company was a dealer in shares, may be regarded as a conclusion on a mixed question of law and fact and from the failure on the part of the company to disclose to the Income Tax Officer this legal inference, no fault may be found with the company.	None
But on the evidence in the case, the plea raised by the company that all material facts were disclosed cannot be accepted.	None
The Income Tax Officer has in para 6 of his affidavit referred to the assessment of the years 194546 and 194647 he has also referred to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company therein.	None
In the assessment order for the year 194546, the Income Tax Officer has set out Cls.	None
(1) and (2) of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company.	None
They are (1) To acquire, hold, exchange, sell and deal in shares, stocks, debenturestock, bonds, obligations and securities issued or guaranteed by any company, Government or public body constituted or carrying on business in British India or elsewhere (2) Generally to carry on business as financiers and to under take and carry out all such operations and transactions (except the issuing of policies of assurances on human life) as an individual capitalist may lawfully undertake or carry out 48.	None
The Income Tax Officer in his order of assessment for that year observed that those clauses indicated the purposes for which the company was formed, and also that whenever the shares were first acquired, these became the commodities which could either be held or sold according to the best interests of the company, that whenever, such a commodity is sold, it comes within the activities or properly speaking the profit making scheme as enumerated in the object clauses stated above.	None
These shares sold in course of ten or twelve years whenever opportunities occurred for earning profits on making the sales This company was not an ordinary trader investing its surplus funds in shares and securities quite unconnected with its regular course of business so that the profit or loss also on sale of such shares or securities may be treated as not arising out of its regular business carried on.	None
On the other hand, it is an Investment company of which the very first object clause is to hold and deal in shares.	None
Profit on sale of such shares therefore arises out of its regular course of business and it must be taxable.	None
49.	None
From that order of assessment, it is manifest that the assessing Officer held that the company was formed with the object of acquiring, holding, exchanging, selling and dealing in shares, that the shares acquired became the trading assets of the company to be disposed of when opportunities occurred for earning profits and that the activities of selling shares in which surplus assets of the company were invested were a part of the regular business carried on by the company.	None
50.	None
There is no evidence that the Memorandum and Articles of Association referred to in para 4 of the affidavit were produced in the course of the assessment of the relevant years nor is there evidence to show that it was disclosed that the acquisition of shares was incidental to the business activities and out of the surplus assets of the company and that the same were sold at profit as opportunities arose.	None
There is also no ground for assuming that these facts must have been known to the Income Tax Officer.	None
Counsel for the company suggested somewhat casually that under the Income Tax Rules and the practice prevailing with the Income Tax Officer, the Memorandum and Articles of Association of every company which was being assessed to tax are to be filed with the IncomeTax Officer.	None
But our attention has not been invited to any rule or any material to support the existence of a practice requiring a private limited company to file with the Income Tax Officer the Memorandum and Articles of Association.	None
51.	None
The plea raised by counsel for the company must be examined in the light of the Explanation to subsec.	None
(1) of S. 34.	None
The Explanation provides that Production before the Income Tax Officer of account books or other evidence from which material facts could with due diligence have been discovered by the Income Tax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure within the meaning of the section.	None
If production of documents or other evidence from which material facts could with due diligence have been discovered does not necessarily amount to disclosure, it would be difficult to hold that a presumption about the production of a document at sometime in the past and its possible existence in the files of the Income Tax Officer relating to earlier years may be regarded as sufficient disclosure.	None
Disclosure of some facts, but not all, though the facts not disclosed may have come to the knowledge of the Income Tax Officer, if he had carefully prosecuted an enquiry on the facts and materials disclosed, will not amount to a full and true disclosure of all material facts necessary for the purpose of assessment.	None
A tax payer cannot resist reassessment on the plea that nondisclosure of the true state of affairs was due to the negligence or inadvertence on the part of the Income Tax Officer, and but for such negligence or inadvertence, a full and true disclosure of all material facts necessary for the assessment would have resulted.	None
52.	None
There is no evidence on the record that the Memorandum and Articles of Association were ever produced before the Income Tax Officer in the course of proceedings for assessment.	None
Again, the report of the Income Tax Officer discloses that his predecessor in office was told that the sales of shares effected by the company were casual transactions and were in the nature of a mere change of investments.	None
This was not strictly accurate.	None
The record therefore clearly shows that the company had failed to disclose fully and truly all material facts in relation to assessment in two respects, (1) that it failed to produce the Memorandum and Articles of Association showing the purposes for which the company was incorporated, and (2) that the shares were acquired as part of the business of financiers.	None
The company also made a statement which is partially untrue when it stated that sales were mere casual transactions.	None
There were materials before the Income Tax Officer on which he had reason to believe that by reason of the failure of the company to fully and truly disclose material facts, its income was underassessed.	None
Whether on these facts, a conclusion that in fact the company was carrying on the business of trading in shares could be founded, is at this stage entirely immaterial.	None
If there was reason to believe, the alleged inadequacy of the materials on which the belief could be founded is of no moment.	None
The Income Tax Officer has commenced proceedings for reassessment by issuing notices against the company and he has placed all the materials before the court on which it could be said that he had reason to believe that income of the company had been underassessed by reason of failure on the part of the company to disclose fully and truly all material facts relating to the assessment and if, on those materials, the Income Tax Officer could hold the belief which he says he did, the court in seeking to hold an enquiry into the question whether the Income Tax Officer , notwithstanding his affidavit and materials placed in support thereof, had reason to hold the requisite belief, be arrogating to itself jurisdiction which it does not possess.	None
If the conditions precedent do not exist, the jurisdiction of the High Court to issue high prerogative writs under Art.	None
226 of the Constitution to prohibit action under the notice may be exercised.	None
But if the existence of the conditions is asserted by the authority entrusted with the power and the materials on the record prima facie support the existence of such conditions, an enquiry whether the authority could not have reasonably held the belief which he says he had reason to hold and he did hold, is, in my judgment, barred.	None
53.	None
In that view, the proper order to pass in this appeal would be one of dismissal with costs.	None
Hidayatullah, J. 54.	None
I have had the advantage of reading the judgments prepared by my brethren, Das Gupta and Shah, JJ.	None
The point involved in the case is a very short one, and the answer, as it appears to me, equally so.	None
The appellant Companys income, profits and gains for the assessment years, 194243, 194344 and 194445, were duly assessed and taxed.	None
The orders were respectively passed January 26, 1944, February 12, 1944 and February 15, 1945.	None
55.	None
On March 28, 1951, three notices under S. 34 of the Indian Incometax Act were issued calling upon the appellant company to submit fresh returns in respect of the previous years relative to each of the assessment years above mentioned.	Facts
Since this action was taken after more than four years, the matter fell to be governed by S. 34(1) (a) of the Indian Incometax Act, as amended in 1948.	None
The clause provided an extended period for sending a notice calling for a return for the purpose of assessing or reassessing income, profits and gains which had escaped assessment or had been underassessed for any year within eight years, if the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return of his income under S. 22 for any year or to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year, the income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment etc. 56.	None
In the present case, the appellant Company, which is an investment Company had produced in the back years a list of the shares sold by it, the statements of profit and loss account, and, I am prepared to assume, also the Memorandum and Articles of Association.	None
But the appellant Company gave out that the sales of shares were casual transactions of change of investments.	None
This statement was accepted, though it was found that in later years the Company was dealing in stocks and shares as a business venture, and its statement which was accepted, was not perhaps true.	None
57.	None
The Incometax Officer reported the matter to the Commissioner, and stated as followsProfits of Rs. 5,48,002 on sale of shares and securities escaped assessment altogether.	None
At the time of the original assessment the then I.T.O. merely accepted the companys version that the sales of shares were casual transactions and were in the nature of mere change of investments.	None
Now the results of the companys trading from year to year show that the company has really been systematically carrying out a trade in the sale of investments.	None
As such, the company has failed to disclose the true intention behind the sale of the shares and as such section 34(1) (a) may be attracted.	None
58.	None
The appellant Company applied to the Calcutta High Court for writ under Art.	None
226 which was granted by learned single Judge but the order was reversed on appeal in the High Court.	None
The appellant Company has now appealed on a certificate under Art.	Facts
133 (1) (c) of the Constitution.	None
59.	None
The contention of the appellant company is that all the facts necessary to be disclosed were, in fact, disclosed, that it was not required further to concede that it was trading in shares, which was a matter of inference, from the proved facts, for the Incometax Officer to draw, and that there was thus no question of any nondisclosure.	None
This argument overlooks the addition of the Explanation to the section, which explains cl.	None
(a) of the first subsection.	None
It readsExplanationProduction before the Incometax Officer of accountbooks or other evidence from which material facts could with due diligence have been discovered by the Incometax Officer will not necessarily amount to disclosure within the meaning of this section.	None
60.	None
This means quite clearly that the mere production of evidence is not enough and that there may be an omission or failure to make a full and true disclosure, if some material fact necessary for the assessment lies embedded in that evidence which the assessee can uncover but does not.	None
If there is such a fact, it is the duty of the assessee to disclose it,.	None
The evidence which is produced by the assessee discloses only primary facts but to interpret the evidence, certain other facts may be necessary.	None
Thus, question of status, agency, benami nature of transactions, the nature of trading and like matters may not appear from the evidence produced, unless disclosed.	None
If it be merely a question of interpretation of evidence by an Incometax Officer from whom nothing has been hidden and to whom everything has been fully disclosed, then the assessee cannot be subjected to S. 34, merely because the Incometax Officer miscarried in his interpretation of evidence.	None
But it is otherwise if a contention which is contrary to fact, is raised and the Incometax Officer is set to discover the hidden truth for himself.	None
In the latter case, there is suppression of material fact, or, in other words, that lack of full and true disclosure which would entitle action under S. 34 of the Act.	None
61.	None
The following example explains the meaning.	None
Taking the present case, I set below two statements, one involving full disclosure and a contention, and the other, only a contention with a material fact suppressed1.	None
We are a trading company and our business is according to our memorandum of association to acquire, hold, exchange, sell and deal in shares, stocks, etc.	None
These sales however, were not business sales but only change of investments into trustee securities as decided by the trustees.	None
2.	None
We changed industrial shares into trustee securities because in or about 1934, the trustees decided to convert the Indian Industrial Shares held by the appellant into trustee securities.	None
If the first is decided in favour of the assessee, there is an inference or decision by the Incometax Officer from a full and true disclosure.	None
If the second is decided in favour of the assessee, the question would arise if there was full and true disclosure.	None
62.	None
In the present case, the question whether the transactions were casual transactions of changing investments or regular trading in stocks and shares involves not merely an inference, because the inference depends upon the fact that the appellant Company was formed to trade in stocks and shares.	None
It was open to the appellant Company to contend that in spite of its business a particular transaction was this and not that.	None
But, if the appellant Company was an investment Company dealing in stocks and shares, and knowing this for a fact, did not disclose the fact, the statement was neither full nor true, as it involved a suppression of a material fact necessary for the assessment.	None
The explanation is quite obviously meant to reach an identical situation.	None
The appellant Company might have placed the evidence before the Incometax Officer, but the Incometax Officer had reason to believe that the disclosure was neither full nor true, because the fact that the Company was an investment Company trading in stocks and shares was not disclosed.	None
The Incometax Officer in his report meant no more than this He, therefore, felt that, prima facie, there was not only concealment of a fact but, on the contrary, maintaining of a falsehood, and this was sufficient to bring this matter within the extended period.	None
Every contention contrary to the Incometax Officers opinion is not necessarily concealment of a material fact, but some contentions made with a mental reservation as to the true state of affairs may amount to such concealment, if they involve nondisclosure of facts related to other facts and known to the assessee.	None
63.	None
The Company still persists that the sales of shares were casual transactions, and this contention will, no doubt, be decided hereafter.	None
But the question will be decided after taking into consideration the nature of the business of the Company, and till that is done, the Incometax Officer believes that the contention raised before and persisted in is not a mere contention but maintenance of a falsehood about the nature of the transactions and the business of the Company.	None
The existence of such a belief is sufficiently established by the report of the Incometax Officer and the satisfaction of the Commissioner, and this has not been gainsaid.	None
64.	None
In my opinion, the Divisional Bench of the High Court rightly refused a writ in the circumstances, and I would dismiss this appeal with costs.	None
65.	None
Order In view of the majority opinion, the appeal is allowed with costs here and below.	Decision
66.	None
Appeal allowed.	Decision
