 Gajendragadkar, J.1.	None
This appeal by a certificate granted by the Calcutta High Court arises out of a suit filed by the three appellants against the respondent to recover Rs. 83,640/.	None
The three appellants are respectively the Firm Radhakishan Shivdutt Rai which carries on business at Banaras and Ramkumar Lal for himself and as karta of his joint family as well as Madan Gopal for himself and as karta of his joint family, the latter two being the partners in the firstmentioned Firm Radhakishan Shivdutt Rai for convenience we will refer to the partnership firm hereafter as the appellant.	Facts
The respondent Tayabali Dawoodbhai is a partnership firm which carries on business at Calcutta.	Issue
The appellants case was that the appellant and the respondent had entered into a contract in the first instance on December 18, 1950 through brokers named T. N. Mehrotra and Co., Calcutta.	Facts
This contract was later confirmed by two letters written respectively on January 3 and 15, 1951 by the appellant to the respondent and replied to by the respondent.	Facts
By this contract the respondent agreed to sell 1000 bales of Banaras Hemp particulars of which were set out in the plaint.	Facts
According to the appellant, by letter written on March 14, 1951, the appellant in part performance of the said contract accepted delivery of 110 bales of Banaras Hemp No. 1 and 50 bales of Banaras Hemp No. 2 this delivery was made by the respondent to L. N. Poddar and Co., who acted as the agent of the appellant and paid the price of the said 160 bales.	Facts
In this transaction the respondent realised Rs. 3,840 from the said L. N. Poddar, and Co., in excess of the actual price of the goods delivered to the said company.	Facts
In spite of the repeated demands made by the appellant the respondent failed to deliver the balance of the goods contracted for and thus committed breach of the contract.	Facts
That is how the appellant claimed Rs. 79,800 as difference between the market rate on March 31, 1951 and the contract rate of the balance deliverable under the contract in suit.	Facts
This amount was claimed as damages for the breach of contract.	Facts
In addition an amount of Rs. 3,840 was claimed as having been paid in excess of the value of 160 bales delivered to L. N. Poddar and Co. on behalf of the appellant.2.	Facts
This claim was resisted by the respondent on several grounds.	Facts
The principal contention urged by the respondent, however, was that in relation to the contract in suit the appellant had acted as agent for its disclosed principal Messrs. Khaitan and Sons Ltd., and as such it was not entitled to bring the present suit.	Facts
The respondent further alleged that the said disclosed principal Messrs. Khaitan and Sons had settled all their rights and claims under the suit contract with their agent and so the present claim for damages was not maintainable.	Facts
In regard to the claim for Rs. 3,840 the respondent pleaded that the appellants case was untrue.	Facts
Several other pleas were also raised but with the said pleas we are not concerned in the present appeal.3.	Facts
Mr. Justice Bose who tried the suit framed twelve issues.	Facts
On the principal point in controversy between the parties the learned judge found that the appellant had entered into the contract with the respondent on its own account and not on account of the disclosed principal as alleged by the respondent.	Facts
According to the learned judge the reference to Messrs. Khaitan and Sons Ltd., made in the bought and sold notes on which the respondents plea was based had been inserted by the brokers by mistake or due to some misconception.	Facts
The learned judge also found that the respondent had committed a breach of the contract as alleged by the appellant.	Facts
The appellants case with regard to the excess payment of Rs. 3,840 made by L. N. Poddar and Co. was, however, held not to have been proved.	Facts
In the result a decree was passed in favour of the appellant for Rs. 79,800 along with interest as stipulated in the decree.4.	Facts
Against this decree the respondent preferred an appeal and the main point which was urged on its behalf was directed against the finding of the trial judge that the contract had been entered into by the appellant for itself and not on account of the disclosed principal.	Facts
This contention was based in the Court of Appeal, as in the trial Court, on the bought and sold notes and it was urged that the bought and sold notes clearly showed that the appellant had entered into the contract on account of the disclosed principal Messrs. Khaitan and Sons Ltd. Before the Appellate Court the respondents case was that the said bought and sold notes constituted the terms of the contract and no other evidence was relevant and admissible in order to determine the said terms.	Facts
Das Gupta, J. upheld this plea.	Facts
In his opinion the bought and sold notes issued by the brokers constituted the sole basis for the terms of the contract and the two letters subsequently written on January 3 and 15, 1951 were inadmissible and irrelevant for the purpose of determining the said terms of the contract.	Facts
The learned judge, however, considered the matter also on the alternative basis that the said letters could be considered for ascertaining the norms of the contract and came to the conclusion that on reading the said letters and the bought and sold notes together the result was the same, namely, that the contract had been entered into by the appellant on behalf of the disclosed principal.	Facts
Bachawat, J. differed from Das Gupta, J. on the question about the relevance and admissibility of the two subsequent letters.	Facts
According to him the two bought and sold notes and the two letters between them constituted the terms of the contract.	Facts
He was inclined to take the view that the letters could not be regarded as inadmissible or irrelevant.	Facts
Reading the four documents together the learned judge, however, agreed with the conclusion alternatively recorded by Das Gupta, J., and held that the four documents supported the respondents plea that the appellant had entered into the contract on behalf of the disclosed principal.	Facts
Both the learned judges agreed in holding that there was no evidence to support the appellants plea that the reference to the principal made in the bought and sold notes was a result of any mistake.	Facts
On these findings the decree passed by the trial court was reversed and the appellants suit was ordered to be dismissed.	Facts
In regard to the costs, however, the Appellate Court took the view that the point raised before the Appellate Court about the effect of the bought and sold notes had not been specifically mooted before the trial court and that several other pleas raised by the respondent were found by the trial court to be false and so the proper order as to costs would be that each party should bear its costs throughout.5.	Facts
After this judgment was delivered the appellant applied for and obtained a certificate from the High Court and it is with the said certificate that the present appeal has been brought before this Court.	Facts
On its behalf Mr. Pathak has strenuously contended that the Appellate Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that the contracts in suit had been entered into by the appellant on behalf of the disclosed principal Messrs. Khaitan and Sons Ltd., Banaras.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the purpose of deciding this point we propose to assume in favour of the appellant that the terms of the contract may be gathered from the two bought and sold notes on which the respondent relies as well as the two subsequent letters on which the appellant relies.6.	Reasoning
It would be convenient at this stage to set out the said documents.	None
We will first refer to the brokers notes and the confirmation slips in respect thereon.	None
This is how the brokers notes readT. N. Mehrotra and Co.	None
No. 377Hemp, Oil and Oil SeedsPollock HouseBrokers(3rd Floor)28A, Pollock Street.	None
Any dispute in connection with this deal is subject to Arbitration by Bengal Chamber of Commerce.	Reasoning
Calcutta, 18121950.Radhakrishna Shivadutt Rai,A c Khetan and Sons Ltd.,Shewpur, Banaras.	None
Dear Sirs,We confirm having purchased on your account and risk undaunted goods from Messrs. Tayebali Dawooodbhai, 20 Zakaria Street, Calcutta.	None
Commodity 500 (five hundred) bales of Banaras No.	None
I only with Agmark Jan. March 51 at K. P. Docks Rs. 165 per bale of 400 lbs, each on receipt of the goods.	None
Yours faithfully,For T. N. Mehrotra and Company,Sd.	None
T. N. Mehrotra.	None
Sales Tax number should be furnished by the Buyers otherwise to be charged.	None
T. N. Mehrotra and Co.	None
No.	None
378Hemp, Oil and Oil SeedsPollock HouseBrokers(3rd Floor)Tel	None
Bank 4718 29.A, Pollock Street,1914Calcutta, 181250.Any dispute in connection with this deal is subject to arbitration by Bengal Chamber of Commerce.	None
To M s. Tayabali Dawood Bhai,20, Zakaria Street,Calcutta.	None
Dear Sirs,We confirm having said on your account and risk the undernoted goods, to M S. Radhakrishan Shiv Dutt Rai with A. G. Mark.	None
A C Khetan and Sons Ltd.,Shewpur, Banaras.	None
Commodity (500) Five hundred Bales of Banaras No. 1 only with A. G. Mark.	None
Delivery Jan. March 1951 at K. P. Dock.	None
Price Rs. 165 per bale of 400 lbs.	None
each.	None
Terms of Payment on receipt of goods.	None
Brokerage 080 per bale.	None
Sales Tax number should be furnished by the buyer otherwise to be charged.	None
Yours faithfully,For T. N. Mehrotra and Co.,Sd.	None
To N. Mehrotra.	None
ToM S. T. N. Mehrotra and Co.,Calcutta.	None
We acknowledge receipt of your purchase confirmation memo.	None
No. 377 dated 181250.Signature Gopal Lal GuptaForRadhakrishna Shivadutt Rai.	None
ToM S. T. N. Mehrotra and Co.,Calcutta.	None
We acknowledge receipt of your purchase confirmation memo.	None
No. 378 dated 181250.Signature Gopal Lal GuptaForRadhakrishna Shivadutt Rai.	None
The said confirmation slips were signed by Gopal Lal Gupta for the firm of Radhakrishna Shivdutt Rai.7.	None
After the said notes were sent by the brokers to the respective parties Gopal Lal Gupta on behalf of the appellant wrote a letter to the respondent on January 3, 1951, and on January 15, 1951 the respondent wrote a letter to the appellant.	None
These letters read as follows Messrs. Tayebali Dawoodbhai,3151.20, Zakaria Street,Calcutta.	None
Dear Sirs,We have bought from you one thousand bales of Banaras Hemp through Messrs. T. N. Mehrotra and Co., 28A, Pollock Street Calcutta, on the following terms1.	None
500 (Five hundred) bales Banaras No. 1 with Agmark Rs. 165 (one hundred and sixtyfive) per bale of about 400 lbs, delivery K.P. Docks during January March 1951.2.	None
500 (Five hundred) bales Banaras No. II with Agmark Rs. 145 (one hundred and fortyfive) per bale of about 400 lbs.	None
delivery K. P. Docks during January March 1951.	None
Please note and confirm.	None
Yours faithfully,for Radhakrishna Shivdutt RaiSd.	None
Gopal Lal Gupta.	None
Tayebali Qawoodbhai20, Zakaria Street,Registered.	None
Calcutta1.Calcutta, 15th January, 1951,Messrs.	None
Radhakrishna Shivadutt Rai, Banaras.	None
Dear Sirs,We confirm having sold to you through Messrs. T. N. Mehrotra and Co., Calcutta 1000 (One thousand) bales of Banaras Hemp as follows (i) 500 (Five hundred) bales	None
Banaras Hemp	None
No.	None
I with Agmark at Rs. 165 per bale of about 400 lbs, delivery K. P. Docks during January March 1951.(ii) 500 (Five hundred) bales Banaras Hemp No. II with Agmark at Rs. 145 per bale of about 400 lbs.	None
K. P. Docks delivery during January March 1951.This confirms your letter of 3rd instant,Yours faithfully,for Tayebali Dawoodbhai.	None
Sd. x x xPartner.	None
Copy to Messrs. T. N. Mehrotra and Co. Calcutta, and to Gopinath Mehrotra, Banaras.8.	None
Mr. Pathak contends that in construing the effect of the relevant documents we should not attach any importance to the reference to Khaitan and Sons made in the bought and sold notes for the simple reason that the said reference is the result of a mistake or misconception on the part of the brokers.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that connection he contended that the finding recorded by the trial court on the issue of mistake should be accepted by us and not the finding made by the Appellate Court.	None
We are not impressed by this argument.	None
In regard to these notes we have the evidence of Trilokinath and Gopinath on behalf of the brokers which negatives the theory of mistake or misconception.	Reasoning
Trilokinath has stated on oath that when he got the offer from the respondent he telephoned to his brother Gopinath who is a broker in respect of hemp of the firm of Sewnath Gopinath and he told him about the offer.	Reasoning
Gopinath then informed Trilokinath that the offer was closed either on the 16th or on the morning of the 17th.	Reasoning
This information was received by Trilokinath from Gopinath on the telephone.	Reasoning
Trilokinath was then asked about the information that his brother gave him, and he stated that his brother told him that the offer which he had communicated to him in respect of 1000 bales at Rs. 165 and Rs. 145 had been sold by him to Khaitan Sons and Co.,	Reasoning
Fibre Ltd.	Reasoning
He also added that he received another message from his brother either on the 18th or on the night of the 17th to prepare a contract so that it will be Khaitan and Sons through the appellant.	Reasoning
Thus, it is clear that the evidence of Trilokinath, if believed, clearly shows that there could be no mistake or misappreciation on the part of the brokers, when the notes referred to Khaitan and Sons as principal in respect of the transaction.	Reasoning
Gopinath substantially corroborated the evidence given by Trilokinath.	Reasoning
He stated that when he got the offer from his brother Trilokinath he went to Deokinandan who was working for Khaitan and Sons and it was after discussion with Deokinandan that the souda was closed as one on behalf of Khaitan and Sons.	Reasoning
Having thus closed this contract with Deokinandan, who represented the principal Khaitan and Sons, Gopinath told Trilokinath to close the offer and asked him to prepare the note showing that the appellant was acting as agent for the disclosed principal Khaitan and Sons.	Reasoning
Reading the evidence of the two brothers who worked as brokers in respect of the transaction in suit it is clear that any possibility of a mistake or misappreciation is wholly excluded.9.	None
On behalf of the appellant Gopal Lal Gupta has given evidence.	None
He attempted to explain away the fact that he did not protest against, or object to, the insertion of the name of Khaitan and Sons in the notes by suggesting that when he signed the confirmation slips after receiving the notes he had not noticed the reference to Khaitan and Sons.	None
His case was that the purchase had been made by the appellant for itself and not for any other firm and the suggestion he made was that if he had noticed that the notes had made reference to Khaitan and Sons he would either have insisted upon the said name being deleted or would not have concluded the contract but when his statement that he did not notice the reference to Khaitan and Sons was tested in crossexamination Gopal Lal was shaken, and he had to admit that when he signed the confirmation slip he may have noticed the reference to Khaitan and sons but he did not read the document attentively.	None
He was, however, forced to concede that he had gone through the note before he signed the confirmation slip.	None
It was under stress of crossexamination that Gopal Lal incidentally mentioned that the reference to Khaitan and Sons may have been made by mistake.	None
It is obvious that Gopal Lals evidence which otherwise suffers from the infirmity that it is full of contradictions cannot be accepted on the question of mistake because his explanation about his conduct in signing the confirmation slips considered by itself is wholly unsatisfactory.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our opinion, the Appellate Court was fully justified in reversing the finding of the trial court on this point and in coming to the conclusion that the reference to Khaitan and Sons which the notes made was not the result of any mistake or misconception.10.	Reasoning
In this connection it may be relevant to refer to the attitude adopted by the appellant when the dispute arising between the parties in the present contract had gone before the Bengal Chamber of Commerce for adjudication.	None
In those proceedings the respondent had raised the same plea that it has raised in the present suit.	None
It was urged on its behalf that the appellant was not entitled to make any claim on the contract because it had entered into the contract on behalf of a disclosed principal and on its account.	Arguments of Respondent
Apparently that plea appears to have been accepted and the arbitration proceedings therefore ended as being without jurisdiction.	None
In meeting the plea raised by the respondent it is significant that the appellant thought it fit to urge that the respondents allegation that the appellant was the agent of one Khaitan and Co., was not correct and that there is no firm or company known as Khaitan and Co., or Khaitan and Sons, Ltd., or Khaitan and Sons in Shewpur, Banaras The appellant therefore pleaded that the jurisdiction of the Chamber to entertain the case could not be disputed on that score.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant also alleged that the reference to Khaitan and Sons was superfluous and no importance should be attached to the said words.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the suit itself a faint attempt was no doubt made to challenge the identity of the firm Khaitan and Sons, but Mr. Pathak has very fairly not attempted to raise that point before us.	None
It would thus be noticed that the principal point made by the appellant in the arbitration proceedings before the Chamber in respect of the reference to Khaitan and Sons in the notes was entirely frivolous no case of mistake appears to have been set out at that stage.	Reasoning
Besides, as we have already pointed out, there is no evidence on which a finding of mistake can be reasonably made in favour of the appellant.	Reasoning
Therefore, we must proceed to consider the question about the construction of the relevant documents on the basis that the reference to Khaitan and Sons which the notes make is not the result of any mistake and has been made in the ordinary course of business by the brokers.11.	Reasoning
Let us then consider what the effect of the bought and sold notes is according to the established custom in the mercantile world.	None
Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, for the respondent, contends that, according to the established commercial usage, if there is no variation or disparity in the bought and sold notes, the bought and sold notes issued by the brokers constitute the terms of the contract between the parties for whom the brokers act.	Arguments of Respondent
We are inclined to accept this contention.	None
The effect of such notes issued by the brokers has been frequently considered by judicial decisions.	None
As early as 1846 the Privy Council had occasion to deal with this question in John Cowie v. William Remfry, 3 Moo Ind App 448 (PC).	None
In that case C. and Co. and H. and Co. were merchants at Calcutta.	None
The latter sold to the former a large quantity of indigo through the medium of a broker who drew up a sold note addressed to H. and Co. and submitted it to H. for his approval.	None
H. objected to a particular word appearing in the note whereupon the broker took the sold note to C. and informed him of H.s objection.	None
C. then struck his pen through the word objected to by H. placed his initials over the erasure and returned the note to the broker.	None
The broker then delivered it in that altered form to H. and Co.	None
Next day the broker delivered to C. and Co. a bought note which differed in certain material terms from the sold note.	None
In an action brought by H. and Co. against C. and Co. for the breach of the contract as contained in the sold note the Supreme Court at Calcutta was of the opinion that the sold note alone formed the contract and so it decreed the plaintiffs suit.	None
On appeal by the defendant the Privy Council reversed the finding of the Supreme Court and held that the transaction was one of bought and sold notes and held that the circumstances attending C.s alteration of the sold note and affixing his initials were not sufficient to make that note alone a binding contract.	None
According to the Privy Council, there being a material variation in the terms of the bought note with the sold note they together did not constitute a binding contract.	None
It would thus be seen that the Judicial Committee was dealing with a case where the bought and sold notes did not tally and so the decision was that where the bought and sold notes do not tally the sold note alone cannot constitute the terms of the contract.	None
In dealing with this question, however, their Lordships referred to the mercantile custom in regard to the bought and sold notes and observed thatthe established usage of dealing in the mercantile world should be held in high respect the very existence of such usage shows that in practice it has been found useful and beneficial the presumption is in its favour, and no departure from it is to be inferred from doubtful circumstances.	None
That is why the Privy Council reached the conclusion that this must be considered as a transaction in the contemplation of the parties by bought and sold notes, and that the contract is contained in both of the notes, and not in one inevitably there being a material variation between the two notes the consequence follows, from all legal principles, that no binding contract has been effected.	None
This decision shows that the mercantile usage of entering into contracts evidenced by the bought and sold notes issued by the brokers was treated by the Privy Council as well recognised.12.	None
The next decision to which reference may be usefully made is the case of Sievewright v. Archibald, (1851) 117 ER 1221 at pp. 1228, 1229 17 QB 103.	None
In that case again there was a variation in the bought and sold notes and the variation was material, and so it was held that there was no sufficient memorandum of a contract to satisfy the Statute of Frauds.	None
In dealing with the question raised for the decision of the Court Lord Campbell, C. J., has made certain general observations which throw considerable light in the genesis of the bought and sold notes and the effect which is usually attributed to the said notes by commercial usage.	None
If the bought note can be considered a memorandum of the parol agreement, observed Lord Campbell, C. J.,so may the sold note and which of them is to prevail?	None
It seems to me, therefore that we get back to the same point at which we were when the variance was first objected, and the declaration was amended.	None
I by no means say that where there are bought and sold notes they must necessarily be the only evidence of the contract Circumstances may be imagined in which they might be used as a memorandum of a parol agreement.	None
Where there has been an entry of the contract by the broker in his book signed by him, I should hold without hesitation, notwithstanding some dicta, and a supposed ruling of Lord Tenterden in Thornton v. Meux, (1827) M. and M. 42 to the contrary, that this entry is the binding contract between the parties, and that a mistake made by him, when sending them a copy of it in the shape of a bought or sold note, would not affect its validity.	None
Being authorised by the one to sell, and the other to buy, in the terms of the contract, when he has reduced it into writing and signed it as their common agent, it binds them both, according to the Statute of Frauds, as if both had signed it with their own hands the duty of the broker requires him to do so and, till recent times, this duty was scrupulously performed by every broker.	None
What are called, the bought and sold notes were sent by him to his principals by way of information that he had acted upon their instructions, but not as the actual contract which was to be binding upon them.	None
This clearly appears from the practice still followed of sending the bought note to the buyer, and the sold note to the seller whereas, if these notes had been meant to constitute the contract, the bought note would be put into the hands of the seller, and the sold note into the hands of the buyer, that each might have the engagement of the other party and not his own.	None
But the broker, to save himself trouble, now omits to enter and sign any contract in his book, and still sends the bought and sold notes as before.	None
If these agree they are held to constitute a binding contract if there be any material variance between them they are both nullities, and there is no binding contract.	None
This last proposition, though combated by the plaintiffs counsel, has been laid down and acted upon in such a long series of cases that I could not venture to contravene it, if I did not assent to it but, where there is no evidence of the contract unless by the bought and sold notes sent by the broker to the parties, I do not see how there can be binding contract unless they substantially agree, for contracting parties must consent to the same terms and where the terms in the two notes differ there can be no reason why faith should be given to the one more than the other.	None
These observations seem to establish two propositions, first that if the bought and sold notes show a material variation neither of them nor both of them taken together can be relied upon for the purpose of proving the terms of the contract, and second if the bought and sold notes agree they are held to constitute a binding contract.	None
To the same effect is the observation made by the Privy Council in Ah Shain Shoke v. Moothia Chetty, 27 Ind App 30, when Sir Richard Couch observed thatMoothia Chetty, one of the respondents, said in his evidence he did not consider the contract as concluded until bought and sold notes were signed.	None
He was right in this.	None
They were the only evidence of the contract.13.	None
It is in the light of this legal position that we must consider the effect of the bought and sold notes in the present case.	Reasoning
The notes referred to the appellant and added A C Khaitan and Sons Ltd There is no disparity in the notes at all and so the two notes can be safely taken to evidence the terms of the contract.	Reasoning
When along with the name of the appellant the notes specifically refer to Khaitan and Sons Ltd. with the preceding words A c, there can be no doubt that the appellant is shown by the notes to be acting on account of the disclosed principal.	Reasoning
The appellant realised that the effect of the reference to Khaitan and Sons in the notes would inevitably be to support the plea of the respondent that it was not entitled to bring the present action and so it pleaded that the said reference was the result of a mistake.	Reasoning
Therefore, there can be no doubt that if the material question had to be considered in the light of the bought and sold notes alone the appellant was acting on behalf of the disclosed principal and, on the contract thus entered into, it had no right to sue and can claim no cause of action in its favour.14.	Reasoning
In Gadd v. Houghton, (1876) 1Ex D 357, James, L. J. observedwhen a man says that he is making a contract on account of some one else, it seems to me that he uses the very strongest terms the English language affords to show that he is not binding himself, but is binding his principal.	None
In that case fruit brokers in Liverpool gave a fruit merchant a sold note which reads thus We have this day sold to you on account of James Morand and Co., Valentia, 2000 cases Valentia oranges, of the brand James Morand and Co., at 12s.	None
9d.	None
per case free on board,and the brokers signed the note without any addition.	None
The purchaser brought an action against the broker for nondelivery of the oranges.	None
It was held that the words on account of James Morand and Co. showed the intention to make the foreign principals and not the brokers liable and that the brokers were not liable upon the contract.	None
It would be noticed that in dealing with the question about the brokers liability two points fell to be considered.	None
The first point in support of fixing the liability with the brokers was that the brokers had signed the note without describing themselves as acting for the disclosed principals and the argument was thatwhen a man signs a contract in his own name he is prima facie a contracting party and liable and there must be something very strong on the face of the instrument to show that the liability does not attach to him.	None
This principle was accepted by the learned judge who decided the case but it was pointed out that there was another fact which had an overriding effect and that was that the note showed that the brokers were acting for the disclosed principal and that fact clearly repelled the brokers liability in regard to the contract.	None
In dealing with the argument about the effect of the signature Mellish, L. J. observedwhen the signature comes at the end you apply it to everything which occurs throughout the contract.	None
If all that appears is that the agent has been making a contract on behalf of some other person, it seems to me to follow of necessity that that other person is the person liable.	None
This is one of the simplest possible cases.	None
How can the words on account of Morand and Co. be inserted merely as a description?	None
The words mean that Morand and Co. are the people who have sold.	None
It follows that the persons who have signed are merely the brokers and are not liable?We have referred to these observations made by Mellish, L. J., because as we will presently point out they would be of material assistance in deciding the point which Mr. Pathak has raised on the strength of the two subsequent letters.	None
Thus, the bought and sold notes in this case unambiguously indicate that the appellant was acting for a disclosed principal and the contracting party was the disclosed principal and no other.15.	Reasoning
It is, however, urged by Mr. Pathak that before determining the terms of the contract and the parties to it we must read the notes in question along with the two letters.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have already seen the sequence of the documents.	None
First, the notes were delivered by the brokers to the appellant and the respondent.	Reasoning
Then the respective parties filed confirmation slips and then followed the two letters exchanged between them.	None
Mr. Pathak contends that in its letter addressed to the respondent the appellant has definitely stated that they had ought from the respondent 1000 bales in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pathak places considerable emphasis on the use of the word we without reference to the principal and he also relies on the fact that the letter is signed by the appellant without describing itself as acting on behalf of the principal already disclosed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly he relies on the statement of the respondents letter to the appellant that the respondent had sold to the appellant to you the bales in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Pathak the significance of these letters should not be underestimated in determining the parties to the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no doubt, and indeed it is a matter of commonground before us, that the letters do not constitute all the terms of the contract, and all that is urged by Mr. Pathak is that they should be considered along with the notes.	Reasoning
The notes refer to the fact that if any dispute arises in the deal it is subject to the arbitration by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce.	Reasoning
They also refer to the sales tax number which is to be furnished by the buyers, otherwise they would be charged.	Reasoning
These terms undoubtedly constitute terms of the contract but the argument is that in the correspondence which took place between the parties there is no reference to the principal and indeed the correspondence proceeds on the basis that the appellant acts for itself and not for a disclosed principal, and that should be borne in mind in deciding whether the appellant was acting for the disclosed principal or not.16.	Reasoning
In support of his argument that the signature of the appellant to its letter of January 3, 1951 and the use of the word we in the first paragraph of the letter indicate that the appellant was acting for itself, Mr. Pathak relies on a decision of the Kings Bench Division in H. O. Brandt and Co. v. H. N. Morris and Co., Ltd., (1917) 2 KB 784.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case the plaintiffs who carried on business in Manchester gave to the defendants a bought note dated September 3, 1914.	None
This note was addressed to the defendants and was headed From Messrs. H. O. Brandt and Co., 63 Granby Row, Manchester,	None
For and on behalf of Messrs. Sayles Bleacheries, Salesville, Rhode Island,	None
U.S.A The note stated we have this day bought from you 60 tons pure aniline oil	None
and it was signed H.O. Brandt and Co	None
The plaintiffs sued for nondelivery of the oil.	None
Their claim was resisted on the ground that they had entered into the contract on behalf of a disclosed principal and therefore were not entitled to be sued.	None
It was held by Viscount Reading, C. J. and Scrutton, L.J., Neville, J. dissenting, that the plaintiffs were the contracting parties and were entitled to sue upon the contract.	None
The majority decision was based on three grounds.	None
The first ground was that the plaintiffs had signed the note without describing themselves as acting on behalf of the principal and so it was held, following the language used by Mellish, L. J. in the case of Gadd, (1876) 1	None
Ex D 357, that prima facie when a man signs a document in his own name and states	None
therein I have this day bought from you he is the person liable on the contract.	None
The second consideration was that the reference to the foreign principal was made in the note in order to declare the destination of the goods.	None
There was evidence adduced in the case to show that during wartime the destination of goods intended for export had to be made known.	None
Therefore the reference to the foreign principal was treated as having been made for the purpose of meeting the said requirement and the third circumstance was that the plaintiffs statement at the head of the note that they were acting for and on behalf of a foreign principal could not get rid of the prima facie presumption that a person signing a contract in his own name is personally liable on it.	None
It would thus be seen that the rule of construction which prescribes that if a person signs a contract prima facie he is the contracting party prevailed in that case because the reference to the disclosed principal was otherwise explained as serving another purpose altogether.	None
The said rule of construction prevailed also for the additional reason that the plaintiffs were acting for a foreign principal.	None
It would be remembered that S. 230 of the Indian Contract Act provides that in the absence of any contract to that effect, an agent, cannot personally enforce contracts entered into by him on behalf of his principal, nor is he personally bound by them.	None
There are, however, three cases specified in the section where such a contract would be presumed to exist one of these cases is where a contract is made by an agent for sale or purchase of goods for a merchant resident abroad, in other words, under S. 230 if an agent enters into a contract for a disclosed foreign principal the main provision of S. 230 will not apply because there would be a presumption at there is a contract to the contrary under which the agent would be personally bound by the contract notwithstanding the fact that he has entered into it on behalf of a foreign principal.	None
Therefore, we are not prepared to hold that the decision in the case of H. C. Brandt and Co. (1917) 2 KB 784 lays down an unqualified rule of construction on which the appellant can rely.	None
In fact, it may be pointed out that Nevile, J., who dissented from the majority view, as significantly observed thatI rather gather that I should not have found myself in isolation on this point were it not for the fact that during the, war there is an obligation to disclose the destination of the goods.	None
This observation shows that reference to the disclosed principal was not given its full effect in considering the question about the liability of the agent because it was held by the majority decision that the said reference was primarily, if not exclusively made for the purposes of disclosing the destination of the goods.17.	None
In support of his argument that the relevant recitals in the two letters show that the contract had been entered into by the appellant on its own behalf.	None
Mr. Pathak has also referred us to the statement of the law made by Bowstead on Agency.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question whether the agent is to be deemed to have contracted personally, it is observed,in the case of a contract in writing other than a bill of exchange, promissory note or cheque, depends upon the intention of the parties as appearing from the terms of the written agreement as a whole, the construction whereof is a matter of law for the court(a) if the contract be signed by the agent in his own name without qualification, he is deemed to have contracted personally, unless a contrary intention plainly appears from other portions of the document, (b) if the agent add words to his signature, indicating that he signs as an agent, or for or on behalf of a principal, he is deemed to have contracted personally unless it plainly appears from other portions of the document, that, notwithstanding such qualified signature, he intended to bind himself.	None
In conclusion it, is added that effect should be given to every word used and opinion should be rejected unless it is apparent that they have been introduced per incuriam (P. 266, Art. 116).	None
These observations do not carry the appellants case very far because all that they show is that in determining the question as to whether the agent has entered into the contract on behalf of the principal or not the way he has signed the document has to be considered along with the other recitals made in the relevant documents.18.	None
What then would be the effect of the relevant recitals in the letter on which Mr. Pathak relies?	Reasoning
In this connection it is necessary to recall that we are reading these letters along with the brought and sold notes, and that the bought and sold notes have unequivocally and clearly indicated that the appellant was acting on behalf and on account of the disclosed principal Khaitan and Sons.	Reasoning
If we read the letters in the light of the bought and sold notes it would be clear that the signature of the appellant will not have much significance, nor would the use of the word we by the appellant or you by the respondent make any difference.	Reasoning
Parties knew that the appellant was acting on behalf of the disclosed principal.	Reasoning
It is not suggested that in such a case everytime the agent has to sign expressly stating that he is acting on behalf of the disclosed principal.	Reasoning
Therefore, if the appellant was acting for the disclosed principal the fact that he did not add the relevant description to his signature, or used the word we in the operative portion of the letter would not materially alter the fact spoken to by the notes that the appellant was acting on behalf of the disclosed principal.	Reasoning
It cannot be suggested that these letters intended to alter the position disclosed by the notes.	Reasoning
The letters, like the confirmation slips, are, and must be, presumed to be consistent with the notes and so it would be unreasonable to attach undue importance to the signature and to the use of the relevant words we and you on which reliance has been placed.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, the Appellate Court was right in holding that even if the bought and sold notes are read along with the confirmation slips and the two letters of January 3, 1951 and January 15, 1951, the conclusion is inescapable that the appellant entered into the contract on behalf of the disclosed principal Khaitan and Sons Ltd.	Reasoning
If that be so, it follows as a matter of law that the appellant is not entitled to bring the present suit.19.	None
Mr. Pathak feignly attempted to argue in the alternative that even if the appellant was acting on behalf of the disclosed principal it would be entitled to sue because from the subsequent conduct of the parties a contract to the contrary could be reasonably inferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have, however, not allowed, Mr. Pathak to argue this point.	None
It was conceded by the appellant before the Appellate Court that if it was held that the plaintiff firm was acting as agent for Khaitan and Sons Ltd., the suit was not maintainable.	Reasoning
This concession was made in view of the provisions of S. 236 of the Contract Act.	Reasoning
Besides, the alternative plea which Mr. Pathak wanted to raise does not appear to have been expressly pleaded or considered in the trial court.20.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Decision
In the circumstances of this case we direct that the parties should bear their own costs in this Court.21.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
