 ARUN MISHRA, J.1.	None
Leave granted.2.	None
The appeal has been preferred by the defendant.	Facts
Backdrop facts indicate that one Thopamma wife of Siddagirigowda filed suit O.S. No.245/1968 against her husband in the Court of Munsiff, Doddaballapur for grant of maintenance allowance at the rate of Rs.300 per month and for creating a charge on 13 properties mentioned in the plaint schedule.	Facts
The suit was filed on 17.1.1968.	Facts
During the pendency of the said suit said Siddagirigowda husband of Thopamma executed a sale deed for a sum of Rs.10,000/ in respect of survey No.11 admeasuring 5 acres 18 guntas and survey No.68/1 1 admeasuring 18 guntas, item Nos. 10 and 13 in the aforesaid suit in favour of N.K.Giriraja Shetty, father of respondent No.1.	Facts
On 6.2.1975, a declaration of handing over possession was executed by Siddagirigowda in favour of purchaser regarding delivery of possession of the properties.	None
3.	None
The suit filed by Thopamma i.e. O.S. No.245 of 1968 was decreed on 24.6.1976 that is by granting a maintenance allowance of Rs.100/ per month recoverable from her husband from the date of filing of the plaint till realisation and charge were created on the suit schedule properties including the property which was sold to N.K. Giriraja Shetty on 9.11.1974.	Facts
The first appeal against the same was dismissed on merits on 1.9.1976. 4.	Facts
As the decree was not satisfied, Thopamma, the decreeholder filed an execution petition for enforcement of the decree of maintenance passed in the aforesaid suit.	None
On 28.9.1977, Thopamma filed an application under Order XXI Rule 72 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (for short, CPC) in Court to grant permission to bid at the time of auction of the properties by the court in the execution case by setting off the claim.	Facts
The executing court permitted Thopamma to bid with respect to item Nos.1, 7, 8 and 13 by setting off 2 the maintenance amount.	None
The maintenance arrears had amassed to Rs.11,600/.5.	None
On 5.10.1977, auction of the schedule properties was held and Thopamma purchased item Nos.1, 7, 8 and 13 for Rs.10,185/. 6.	None
Siddagirigowda filed an application under Order XXI Rule 90 CPC on 16.11.1977.	Facts
Father of respondent No.1, N.K. Giriraja Shetty also filed an application under section 47 read with Order XXI Rule 90 CPC to set aside the sale held on 5.10.1977.	Facts
On 5.1.1978 settlement deed was executed between Siddagirigowda and Thopamma by which item Nos.13, 5, 10 and 12 in O.S. No.245 of 1968 and Khasra No.12 (house) were allotted to Thopamma.	None
However, no interest being claimed on the basis of the deed, and its execution had been denied by the parties to it.7.	None
On 31.3.1978, an application filed by Siddagirigowda was dismissed as not pressed under Order XXI Rule 90 whereas the application filed by N.K. Giriraja Shetty in execution case for setting aside the sale was dismissed in default of appearance and sale was confirmed in favour of Thopamma.8.	None
N.K. Giriraja Shetty suppressing the factum of filing of the application under Order XXI Rule 90 read with section 47 and its 3 dismissal filed Suit No.109 of 1978 for the declaration of title and restoration of possession in the Court of Civil Judge, (Junior Division), Nelmangala.	Facts
The suit was later on renumbered as O.S. No.85 of 1989.	Facts
However, sale certificate was issued by the executing court in favour of Thopamma on 1.1.1979 and possession certificate on 29.1.1979 and possession was delivered to her.9.	None
The plaintiff, N.K. Giriraja Shetty averred in O.S. No. No.85 of 1989 that he had bona fide purchased the property for a sum of Rs.10,000/ on 9.11.1974.	None
Possession was also delivered, entries were made in the pahanies, he continued in possession till 1976.	None
Thereafter, defendant dispossessed him in the year 1976.	Facts
Defendant promised to hand over the possession as such the plaintiff did not take any action.	Facts
However, he entered into a deed of settlement in favour of his wife on 5.1.1978 of which he had no right.	Facts
The title continued to vest with the plaintiff.	Facts
He prayed for mesne profits also.	Facts
Plaintiff had later on amended the plaint and averred that defendants have colluded with each other in making the plaintiff to invest heavy amount for purchasing properties by suppressing the fact that there was a charge of maintenance on the properties in O.S. No.245 of 1968.	Facts
He was a bona fide purchaser of the property for value.	Facts
Plaintiff prayed for a declaration that he was the absolute owner of the scheduled properties, prayed for restoration of possession and mesne profits 4 also.	Facts
A suit was filed with respect to survey Nos.11 and 68/1 admeasuring 5 acres 39 guntas and 18 guntas respectively.	None
10.	None
In the written statement filed by Siddagirigowda, defendant No.1, it was contended that sale deed dated 9.11.1974 was a nominal sale deed executed on collateral security and that sum of Rs.10,000/ was borrowed from the plaintiff, Siddagirigowda denied execution of settlement deed dated 5.1.1978 between him and wife Thopamma.	None
There was a charge on properties in O.S. No.245 of 1968 which was decreed and possession of the land was never given to the plaintiff.	None
11.	None
Thopamma, defendant No.2 in her written statement denied plaint averment and contended that scheduled property belonged to the joint family of Siddagirigowda, denied the execution of settlement deed dated 5.1.1978 and that it was not binding on her.	None
She did not claim any right in the suit schedule property under the said settlement deed.	Facts
It was contended that maintenance suit O.S. No.245 of 1968 was decreed and there was a charge on the properties.	Facts
The plaintiff was a friend and an associate of her husband who was fully aware of the maintenance suit and to defeat the maintenance claim, plaintiff and her husband in collusion orchestrated a nominal and fictitious sale deed dated 9.11.1974.	Facts
The said sale deed was executed during the pendency of the lis and was hit by section 52 of the 5 Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (for short TP Act).	Facts
She had purchased the property through court auction in execution.	None
Other averments made in the plaint were also denied.	Facts
On 19.10.1981 a compromise petition was filed between the plaintiff and Siddagirigowda, defendant No.1 wherein defendant No.1 sought withdrawal of the case set up against the plaintiff in the written statement.	Facts
12.	None
Defendant No.2, Thopamma, amended her written statement on 5.3.1987 contending that the plaintiff was not an agriculturist.	Facts
He was a businessman dealing in cloth business, gold and silver jewellery.	None
Thus, he was not entitled to purchase agricultural land vide sale deed dated 9.11.1974. 13.	None
Thereafter, plaint was amended to set up the plea of the bona fide purchaser for value which fact was denied by Thopamma in her additional written statement.	None
The plaintiff had the knowledge of the pendency of maintenance suit of 1968.	None
14.	None
On 23.6.1995, defendant No.1 took a somersault and filed a counterclaim that sale deed was nominal and fictitious and he was ready to get the reconveyance deed executed.	None
The plaintiff filed objections to the counterclaim that it was not maintainable, barred by limitation and plaintiff was not entitled after entering into a compromise, to file a counterclaim.	None
6 15.	None
On 7.11.1996, Thopamma executed a registered deed of sale for a consideration of Rs.2,20,000/ in favour of Siddagangaiah, defendant No.3.	None
Defendant No.1 died on 25.10.1998.	None
Thereafter, Thopamma also died on 17.2.2000.16.	None
The purchaser Siddagangaiah, impleaded defendant No.3 filed a written statement in O.S. No.85 of 1989 contending that he was a bona fide purchaser for value.	None
Thopamma had purchased the properties in the auction dated 5.10.1977.	None
Sale certificate was issued and possession handed over on 29.1.1979.	None
The application under section 47 read with Order XXI Rule 90 filed by the plaintiff was dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Plaintiff had not challenged the auction sale held by the court in favour of Thopamma.	None
Plaintiff was well aware of rejection of his application under Order XXI Rule 90.	None
He did not file an appeal against the said dismissal order and filed a suit suppressing the fact, same was not maintainable.17.	None
The trial court by judgment and decree dated 5.1.2007 dismissed the suit.	None
It was held that the plaintiff was not the absolute owner of the properties and the application under Order XXI Rule 90 read with section 47 was dismissed.	None
That order remained unchallenged.	None
The pleadings in plaint were silent with regard to the said application filed as well as its dismissal, besides the adjacent 7 owners were not examined.	None
Auction sale by Court was not questioned in the plaint.	None
The sale was hit by section 52 of the TP Act and the suit was barred by res judicata.	None
The plaintiff preferred an appeal being R.A. No.123 of 2009 in the first appellate court.	None
The appeal had been allowed vide judgment and decree dated 4.11.2011.	None
The first appellate court held that lis pendens was not applicable.	None
There was confirmation of sale and charge was created by fraud and collusion.	None
The application under Order XXI Rule 90 was dismissed in default of appearance and not on merits by a speaking order.	Arguments of Respondent
Against the decision of the first appellate court, a regular second appeal was filed and the same was dismissed vide judgment and order dated 18.12.2014, hence the present appeal.	None
18.	None
Shri Raju Ram Chandran, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, urged that the suit was hit by the principle of res judicata in view of the dismissal of the application under Order XXI Rule 90 CPC read with section 47 CPC, it could not be said to be maintainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The application was dismissed on 31.3.1978 in default of appearance.	Arguments of Petitioner
The auction sale held by the court had remained unchallenged.	None
It has attained finality.	Arguments of Petitioner
Separate suit for declaration and possession could not be said to be maintainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
819.	None
It was also urged that the decree in favour of defendant No.2, Thopamma attained finality and the dismissal of the application under Order XXI Rule 90 operates as a bar on entertainment of the suit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiff did not come to the court with clean hands and had suppressed the material fact of dismissal of the application and auction held by the court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was however urged that the sale in 1974 was hit by lis pendens.	Arguments of Petitioner
The property was purchased in 1974 whereas the suit was filed in 1968 by defendant No.2 regarding maintenance and for the creation of the charge on the schedule properties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The sale was clearly subject to the provisions contained in section 52 of the TP Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lis commenced from the date of presentation of the plaint.	Arguments of Petitioner
The plaintiff could not be said to be a bona fide purchaser without notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was aware of the suit being a friend of the husband of Thopamma and had also filed an application under Order XXI Rule 90.	Arguments of Petitioner
Possession was not handed over to him under the socalled sale deed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court erred in holding that the charge was created on the date of the decree in the suit i.e., O.S. No.245 of 1968.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has not correctly interpreted the provisions of the Hindu Adoption amp Maintenance Act, 1956 (for short, the Act) nor the provisions of the TP Act have been appropriately considered.	None
20.	None
Shri S.S. Nagananda, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of respondents, contended that the charge was created only on the 9 date of the decree in O.S. No.245 of 1968 on 24.6.1976.	Arguments of Respondent
There was no charge on the date of execution of sale deed in 1974.	Arguments of Respondent
Having regard to sections 39 and 100 of the TP Act as the plaintiff was a bona fide purchaser, the charge could not have been enforced against the properties held by him.	None
The absolute title was conveyed.	Arguments of Respondent
21.	None
Learned senior counsel has also relied upon sections 27 and 28 of the Act so as to contend that it is only a decree which creates a charge that too not against a bona fide purchaser.	Arguments of Respondent
It was not open to Thopamma to question the sale deed executed by the plaintiff.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further contended that the court held an auction on 5.10.1977 and confirmed it on 31.3.1978 in a mechanical manner without a speaking order, ignoring the sale deed dated 9.11.1974, decree holder was bound to disclose to the executing court the factum of execution of sale deed.	Arguments of Respondent
The husband and wife had acted in collusion and fraudulently in order to defeat the right of the bona fide purchaser for consideration.	None
The decreeholder Smt.	None
Thopamma had selectively chosen four items of the suit property which included even the subject property purchased by the plaintiff on 9.11.1974.	Arguments of Respondent
As the sale was never questioned it was binding.	Arguments of Respondent
The dismissal of the suit by the trial court was illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
The application was dismissed under Order XXI Rule 90 in default.	Arguments of Respondent
There was no adjudication of same on merits.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, Smt.	None
Thopamma failed to prove that she got a valid title to the 10 property under the court auction dated 5.10.1977 and confirmation of sale.	None
Judgment debtor, husband had challenged the decree in maintenance case of 1968 in appeal and stay was granted subject to deposit of Rs.5,000/ which was not deposited.	None
Thus, auction so held could not be said to be valid.	Arguments of Respondent
No fresh sale proclamation was issued for holding an auction sale on 5.10.1977, it was necessary to obtain fresh sale orders from the court.	Arguments of Respondent
The sale was void.	Arguments of Respondent
As Siddagirigowda had no saleable interest in the property for which auction was held by the court, noncompliance with the mandatory procedure can be considered by the court suomoto as held in Nani Gopal Paul v. T. Prasad Singh Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1995) 3 SCC 579.	Arguments of Respondent
The court cannot be a mute spectator in view of the manifest illegality committed while conducting the court sale.	Arguments of Respondent
There are concurrent findings by the first appellate court and High Court that the sale made in the execution was fraudulent and collusive.	Arguments of Respondent
No case for interference in the findings of fact is made out.	Arguments of Respondent
Husband of the decreeholder had withdrawn the application under Order XXI Rule 90 on 31.3.1978.	Arguments of Respondent
There were no other bidders except Thopamma.	Arguments of Respondent
The application under Order XXI Rule 90 filed by the plaintiff was dismissed for nonprosecution.	Arguments of Respondent
The order was not on merits.	None
Thus, there was no bar on entertainment of the suit.	Arguments of Respondent
The claim of the appellant was false as the husband of decreeholder Thopamma had filed a declaration in Form 7 claiming to 11 be a tenant under N.K. Giriraja Shetty which claim was rejected vide order dated 24.8.1981 by the Land Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
It was held that there was no tenancy and he had sold the property to N.K. Giriraja Shetty.	Arguments of Respondent
Defendant No.1 husband of Thopamma had filed a compromise petition in favour of N.K. Giriraja Shetty and later on filed a counterclaim that abated due to death of Siddagirigowda and of his wife Thopamma, and none appeared to prosecute the same.	None
Section 18 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, the Evidence Act) had also been relied upon to contend that after parting with the interest, no admission could have been made, and there was noncompliance of Order XXI Rule 66 CPC, and filing of application order under Rule 90 CPC by plaintiff would not constitute admission of irregularities and they were not cured.	Arguments of Respondent
The plaintiff was entitled to the decree that has been rightly granted.	Arguments of Respondent
No case for interference was made out in the appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
22.	None
The first question for consideration is whether owing to the dismissal of the application filed under Order XXI Rule 90 by the plaintiff, the present suit could be said to be maintainable.	None
The fact is not in dispute that after the court has held the auction, an application under Order XXI Rule 90 was filed by the plaintiff, it was dismissed in default of appearance on 31.3.1978.	None
Order XXI Rule 90 CPC is extracted hereunder 12 R. 90.	None
Application to set aside sale on ground of irregularity or fraud.	None
(1) Where any immovable property has been sold in execution of a decree, the decreeholder, or the purchaser, or any other person entitled to share in a rateable distribution of assets, or whose interests are affected by the sale, may apply to the Court to set aside the sale on the ground of a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it.	None
(2) No sale shall be set aside on the ground of irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it unless, upon the facts proved, the Court is satisfied that the applicant has sustained substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud.	None
(3) No application to set aside a sale under this rule shall be entertained upon any ground which the applicant could have taken on or before the date on which the proclamation of sale was drawn up.	None
ExplanationThe mere absence of or defect in, attachment of the property sold shall not, by itself, be a ground for setting aside a sale under this rule.	None
23.	None
Subrule (1) of Order XXI Rule 90 makes it clear that when any immovable property has been sold in execution of a decree, the decreeholder or the purchaser or any other person entitled to share in a ratable distribution of assets, or whose interests are affected by the sale, may apply to the Court to set aside the sale on the ground of a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it.	None
As provided in subrule (2) of Rule 90 of Order XXI merely on the ground of irregularity or fraud, the sale shall not be set aside unless the substantial injury has been caused to the objector by reason of such irregularity or fraud and such an objection should be the one which could not have been raised before the date on which the proclamation 13 of sale was drawn up as provided in Order XXI Rule 90 subrule (3) and mere defect or absence of attachment of the property shall not be a ground for setting aside a sale.	None
It is necessary to prove the substantial injury where fraud or material irregularity has taken place whereby injustice had been suffered.	None
It was held by this Court in Rajender Singh v. Ramdhar Singh Ors., AIR 2001 SC 2220 that mere inadequacy of price is not a ground for setting aside court sale.	None
In the present case, the application under Order XXI Rule 90 was filed by original plaintiff which was dismissed for default in appearance.	None
It was nonetheless dismissal of the application so filed.	None
It was not a case set up that the decree passed in maintenance case was obtained by fraud and substantial injury thereby has been caused.	None
24.	None
Where an application has been filed under Rule 90 Order XXI CPC to set aside a sale on the ground of material irregularity, and the sale is confirmed under Rule 92(1) of Order XXI, the objector is precluded by virtue of the provisions under Order XXI Rule 92(3) from bringing a suit to set aside the sale on the same grounds as held in Brahayya v. Appayya, (1921)	None
44 Mad.	None
351 62 IC 203 AIR 21 Mad. 121, Ma Saw v. Maung Kyaw,	None
AIR 28 Rang 18	None
Nand Kishore v. Sultan, AIR 1926 Lah 165.	None
14 25.	None
When the auction purchaser is the decreeholder himself and when an application is made to set aside the sale on a ground other than that covered by Rule 90 and no application has been made under Rule 89, the case would fall under section 47 as has been laid down in Superior Bank Ltd. v. Budh Singh, (1924)	None
22	None
All LJ 413 Akshia v. Govindarajulu (1924) 47 MLJ 549.	None
Thus, it would depend upon the grounds which are urged in the application.	None
It is permissible to join a claim to set aside a sale on the ground of material irregularity under Order XXI, Rule 90 with a claim under section 47 for a declaration that the sale is a nullity as the decree was passed after the death of the judgmentdebtor.	None
Objection by legal representatives of deceased judgmentdebtor that suit land was ancestral property and sale was not binding on them can be raised under section 47 read with Order XXI Rule 90.	None
However, it would depend upon the nature of the objection whether it was covered under Rule 90 of Order XXI CPC or not.	None
There can be restoration of the petition dismissed for default filed under Order XXI Rule 90 and thereafter if sale has been confirmed, it is provided under Order XXI Rule 92(3) that no suit to set aside an order made under Rule 92(1) shall be brought by any person against whom such an order is made.	None
Order XXI Rule 92(1) provides that where an application has been filed under Order XXI Rule 89, 90 or 91, same has been disallowed, the court shall make an order 15 confirming the sale and thereupon the sale shall become absolute, and no suit shall lie as per the mandate of subrule (3) of Rule 92 of Order XXI CPC against whom such an order is made.	None
The order confirming the sale may be made either where no application is made at all to set aside the sale or where an application is made and disallowed may be that it is dismissed for default.	None
No suit shall lie in either case to set aside the order confirming the sale.	None
The refusal to set aside a sale is an order appealable.	None
In case the court has set aside or refused to set aside a sale that would include a case where an application under Order XXI Rule 89, 90 or 91 has been dismissed for default.	None
26.	None
In the instant case admittedly an application was filed by original plaintiff under Order XXI, Rule 90 read with section 47, on the ground that he was the owner of the land in question purchased by a sale deed dated 9.11.1974 for a sum of Rs.10,000/ and was placed in possession.	Reasoning
He was not aware of the court sale.	Reasoning
There was no beat of drums before the auction was held.	Reasoning
He was not aware of the execution proceedings.	Reasoning
He was a purchaser for value.	Reasoning
The property was not correctly valued.	Reasoning
There were material irregularities in the conduct of the sale.	Reasoning
Hardship would be caused in case auction was confirmed.	Reasoning
Thus, prayer was made to set aside the auction sale.	None
The aforesaid application had been dismissed.	Reasoning
Thus, Order XXI Rule 92(3) would 16 operate as a bar for the entertainment of the fresh suit on the ground so urged.27.	None
The plaintiff has totally suppressed the factum of court auction sale and confirmation in the plaint and did not make any averment that he had filed an application under Order XXI Rule 90(1) and it was dismissed on 31.3.1978 whereas the suit was filed on 19.4.1978 after 19 days of the dismissal of the objection and confirmation of the sale.	Reasoning
The plaintiff has not questioned the auction so held by the court on the ground of fraud or any material irregularity.	Reasoning
He has claimed himself to be a bona fide purchaser.	None
That plea was also raised in the application filed under Order XXI Rule 90.	None
Dismissal of the same would preclude him to file a fresh suit, it was incumbent upon him to question the court auction on any permissible grounds necessary for the entertainment of fresh suit but that has not been done.	None
The grounds which were covered under Order XXI Rule 90 cannot be raised in the instant matter.	None
There is no pleading of fraud or collusion raised in the plaint.	Reasoning
Thus, the first appellate court and High Court both have travelled beyond the pleadings to give a finding that the auction sale was held fraudulently and in collusion.	Reasoning
It is provided in Order VI Rule 4 CPC that the plea of fraud, misrepresentation, and collusion has to specifically set out in the pleadings before any finding can be given on the same.	Reasoning
There is no evidence on record for 17 substantiating the plea which itself was not taken, it has neither been substantiated.	Reasoning
Thus, the first appellate court and the High Court have committed gross illegality by giving the finding with respect to fraud and collusion of the decreeholder and judgment debtor in the court auction so held.	Reasoning
28.	None
The auction purchase made by decreeholder Thopamma had attained finality.	None
Confirmation of sale was not questioned by the plaintiff.	None
Thus, no relief could have been granted and the earlier orders have attained finality and operate as a bar for the entertainment of the fresh suit.	None
29.	None
Coming to the question of lis pendens, Smt.	None
Thopamma had filed the suit in 1968 for the creation of charge of maintenance inter alia on the properties in question.	None
Explanation to Section 52 of the TP Act makes it clear that pendency of a suit or proceeding shall be deemed to commence from the date of the presentation of the plaint.	Reasoning
Thus, on the date of execution of the sale deed on 9.11.1974, the suit filed by Thopamma was pending.	Reasoning
Thus, the provisions contained in section 52 would clearly apply to the case.	Reasoning
In Nagubai Ammal Ors.	None
v. B. Shama Rao Ors.	None
AIR 1956 SC 593 this Court observed 9.	None
On this question, as the plaint in O. S. No. 100 of 191920 praying for a charge was presented on 661919, the sale to Dr. Nanjunda Rao subsequent thereto on 3011920 would prima facie fall within the mischief of section 52 of the Transfer of 18 Property Act, and would be hit by the purchase by Devamma on 281928 in the execution of the charge decree.	None
Sri K. S. Krishnaswami Ayyangar, learned counsel for the appellants, did not press before us the contention urged by them in the courts below that when a plaint is presented in forma pauperis the lis commences only after it is admitted and registered as a suit, which was in this case on 1761920, subsequent to the sale under Exhibit VI  a contention directly opposed to the plain language of the Explanation to section 52.	None
And he also conceded and quite rightly, that when a suit is filed for maintenance and there is a prayer that it be charged on specified properties, it is a suit in which right to immovable property is directly in question, and the lis commences on the date of the plaint and not on the date of the decree, which creates the charge.	None
But he contends that the decision of the courts below that the sale deed dated 3011920 is hit by section 52 is bad on the following three grounds (1) The question of lis pendens was not raised in the pleadings, and is not open to the plaintiff.	None
(2) The suit for maintenance, O. S. No. 100 of 191920 and the sale in execution of the decree passed therein are all collusive, and section 52 has accordingly no application.	None
(3) The purchase by Devamma in execution of the decree in O. S. No. 100 of 191920 on 281928 is void and inoperative, as the Official Receiver in whom the estate of Keshavananda had vested on 1921926 was not a party to the sale proceedings.	None
These contentions must now be considered.	None
(emphasis is ours) 30.	None
About lis pendens, this Court has held that concession was rightly made, thereafter laid down the legal proposition.	None
The sale was clearly subject to the provisions contained in section 52 of the TP Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
31.	None
On behalf of the respondents, reliance has been placed on the provisions of section 39 of the TP Act which deals with transfer where a third person is entitled to maintenance.	None
It provides if such property is transferred the right may be enforced against the transferee who 19 has notice thereof or if the transfer is gratuitous but not against a transferee for consideration and without notice of the right.	Reasoning
Section 39 clearly makes out that charge of maintenance can be enforced against the immovable property held by a transferee.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the transferee was not put in possession of the property is apparent from the plaint and possession of defendant No.1 continued.	Reasoning
The sale also does not appear to be bona fide.	Reasoning
It was clear with the intent to defeat the claim of the wife for maintenance that is why possession had not been handed over.	Reasoning
The case of the plaintiff that though sale deed was executed in 1974, defendant No.1 again took forcible possession in 1976, is not worthy of acceptance.	Reasoning
Apart from that it is not so pleaded in the application under Order XXI Rule 90 that he was not aware of the pendency of the suit at the time of execution of the sale deed on 9.11.1974.	Reasoning
He was a close friend of defendant No.1 and was obviously aware of the factum of litigation pending since 1968.	None
Thus, he could not be said to be a bona fide purchaser at all.	Reasoning
Apart from that, the application under Order XXI Rule 90 read with section 47 CPC containing the said plea stood dismissed.	Reasoning
32.	None
Reliance has also been placed on the provisions contained in section 100 of TP Act which cannot be said to be applicable.	Reasoning
Section 100 provides that property of one person by operation of law is made the security of money for payment to another.	Reasoning
Latter person is said to 20 have a charge on the property.	None
However, no charge shall be in the hands to whom such property has been transferred for consideration and without notice.	None
As already held, N.K.Giriraja Shetty could not be said to be a bona fide purchaser.	None
Besides that, it was clearly subject to the provisions contained in section 52 of the TP Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from that the objection under Order XXI Rule 90 stood dismissed.	None
Thus, he was aware of the auction sale and its confirmation which he ought to have questioned.	None
33.	None
Reliance has also been placed on section 27 of the Act so as to contend that maintenance under the Act shall not be a charge on the estate of the deceased or any portion thereof unless that has been created by the will of the deceased or by the decree of the court by an agreement between the defendant and the owner of the estate or any portion otherwise.	None
It is not the case of creation of charge on the estate of the deceased.	None
Thus, the provision is not applicable.	None
Section 27 is extracted hereunder 27.	None
Maintenance when to be a charge.	None
A dependants claim for maintenance under this Act shall not be a charge on the estate of the deceased or any portion thereof, unless one has been created by the will of the deceased, by a decree of court, by agreement between the dependant and the owner of the estate or portion, or otherwise.	None
34.	None
Section 28 of the Act has been relied on, it provides that where a dependant has a right to receive maintenance out of an estate and 21 such estate or any part is transferred, right to receive maintenance may be enforced against a transferee.	None
However, such transferee should not be a bona fide transferee for consideration and without notice and it cannot be enforced against the transferee for consideration without notice.	None
The provision is of no help in view of findings recorded.	None
35.	None
Reliance has been placed on Sadhu Singh v. Gurdwara Sahib Narike Ors.	None
(2006) 8 SCC 75 in which this Court has laid down that provision of section 39 of the TP Act is akin to the provisions contained in section 28 of the Act.	None
However, no sustenance can be drawn from the aforesaid decision in the facts of the present case.	None
36.	None
It was also contended that the court sale was mechanically made and confirmed without speaking order and without compliance with the mandatory provisions of Order XXI Rule 66.	None
No such ground has been taken in the plaint as such and in the absence of evidence, it cannot be examined.	None
Sale and its confirmation itself has not been questioned on any ground whatsoever.	None
There is total suppression with respect to sale and delivery of possession to defendant No.2.	None
The original plaintiff did not come to the Court with clean hands and was guilty of suppressio veri.	None
22 37.	None
It was also contended that this Court can suomoto take notice of the illegalities as held by this Court in Nani Gopal Paul v. T. Prasad Singh Ors.	None
(1995) 3 SCC 579 .	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that when noncompliance with the mandatory procedure was there, this Court would not remain a mute and helpless spectator and has to undo manifest illegality committed while conducting the court sale fraudulently.	None
There is no dispute with the proposition.	None
However, in the instant case, there is no challenge to the auction proceedings on any ground good, bad or otherwise.	None
In the absence of evidence and suppression of facts, it cannot be examined.	None
38.	None
Once the auction has not been questioned and there is a bar created by Order XXI Rule 92(3), all these questions cannot be agitated or urged.	None
Plaintiff has not come to the court with clean hands as such he could not be said to be entitled to any relief on the grounds so urged.	None
39.	None
Reliance has also been placed on the decision of this Court in Lal Chand v. VIIIth Addl.	None
District Judge Ors.	None
(1997) 4 SCC 356 contending that auction sale on 5.10.1977 was irregular and void ab initio, smacking of collusion and fraud between husband and wife.	Arguments of Respondent
Though the interim order of the Court filed in the appeal has also been relied upon due to its noncompliance of deposit of Rs.5,000/, the 23 property could have been sold in the auction.	None
The sale could not be said to be fraudulent, collusive or ab initio void.	None
Being a purchaser lis pendens, it was not necessary to issue any notice and N.K.Giriraja Shetty was aware of the suit and the charge and of sale, he filed objections under Order XXI Rule 90 CPC and failed to prosecute the same.	None
In Lal Chand (supra) this Court has laid down that the provisions of Order XXI Rule 72 are mandatory and no decreeholder has any right to bid in the auction without permission of the court.	None
However, in the instant case permission had been granted and set off against the decretal amount of maintenance was made in the auction.	None
The amount of Rs.11,600 was due which was a huge amount at the relevant time.	None
It was not the case set up that the sale was not notified in accordance with law as per the provisions contained in Order XXI Rules 66 and 67 CPC. 40.	None
Reliance has also been placed on section 18 of the Evidence Act.	None
In the instant case, there is no admission after parting with the interest made in the execution proceedings inter se husband and wife.	None
The auction was held by the court in accordance with law.	None
It was not the case set up that the decree passed in the maintenance suit was based upon fraud or a collusive one.	None
Nor was such a case so set up with respect to the auction of the properties in the execution of the decree.	None
On the contrary, the husband had preferred an appeal against 24 the judgment and decree passed in the maintenance case, which was dismissed on merits.	None
Section 18 of the Evidence Act states 18.	None
Admission by party to proceeding or his agent.	None
Statements made by a party to the proceeding, or by an agent to any such party, whom the Court regards, under the circumstances of the case, as expressly or impliedly authorized by him to make them, are admissions.	None
by suitor in representative character.	None
Statements made by parties to suits, suing or sued in a representative character, are not admissions, unless they were made while the party making them held that character.	None
Statements made by (1) party interested in subjectmatterpersons who have any proprietary or pecuniary interest in the subjectmatter of the proceeding, and who make the statement in their character of persons so interested, or (2) person from whom interest derivedpersons from whom the parties to the suit have derived their interest in the subjectmatter of the suit, are admissions, if they are made during the continuance of the interest of the persons making the statements.	None
Thus, after parting with the interest, no admission with respect to the interest which has been parted away is admissible, the provision is not attracted in the factsituation of the instant case.	None
The socalled settlement entered into between the husband and wife on 5.8.1978 has not been pressed into service by either and has been disowned by the husband and wife both.	None
They set up a case that no such settlement had been entered into nor any claim had been made by them on the basis thereof.	None
Had that been the case, the provisions of section 18 of the Evidence Act would have been attracted.	None
25 41.	None
Reliance has also been placed on the decision of this Court in V.Swarajyalaxmi Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Authorised Officer, Land Reforms, AIR 2003 SC 2347 to raise the ground that on the date of the court sale defendant No.1 was not having any saleable interest in the property.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus the sale itself was void and vitiated.	Arguments of Respondent
The decision is not attracted as there was a charge on the property and purchase was made during lis pendens and was subject to the provisions contained in section 52.	None
The transaction could not be said to be of bona fide purchase and pendency of the suit without notice.	None
Apart from that objection filed regarding auction has been dismissed and auction has not been questioned in the suit.	None
Thus, the plea set up has no legs to stand in the factual matrix of the case.	None
42.	None
It was also contended on behalf of the respondent that claim was made by defendant No.1 under the Land Reforms Act to be a tenant of N.K.Giriraja Shetty.	Arguments of Respondent
The false claim that has been set up does not carry the cause of the plaintiff as the auction was already held in 1977 and stood confirmed in 1979.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, by the filing of the counterclaim by defendant No.1 and its abatement is not going to serve any purpose of the plaintiff as plaintiff has to succeed on the strength of his own title in the case to recover possession.	None
Merely because defendant No.1 filed a counterclaim that conveyance was 26 nominal and fictitious and it was a transaction of loan, the dismissal of the same does not carry the case of the plaintiff any further.	None
As the property was subject to court auction that was not questioned by him.	None
Thus, he has lost the right, title and interest in the property, if any. 43.	None
Resultantly, we find the judgment and decree passed by the trial court to be appropriate.	None
It has been illegally set aside by the first appellate court.	None
The High Court has also erred in dismissing the second appeal on the impermissible grounds.	None
Thus, the judgment and decree passed by the first appellate court, as affirmed by the High Court, deserves to be and are hereby set aside, and the suit of the plaintiff is ordered to be dismissed.	Decision
The judgment and decree passed by the trial court are restored.	Decision
The appeal is allowed in these terms.	None
In the facts and circumstances of the case, parties to bear their respective costs, as incurred.	None
FINAL ORDERHonble	None
Mr. Justice Arun Mishra pronounced the judgment of the Bench comprising His Lordship and Honble Mr. Justice Uday Umesh Lalit.	None
Leave granted.	None
Appeal is allowed in terms of the Signed Reportable Judgment.	None
