Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by a learned Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court, Lucknow Bench dismissing the appeal filed by the appellant.	Issue
Background facts in a nutshell are as follows The accident in the instant case took place on 1.6.1996.	Facts
The claimant was travelling in a goods carriage, as a gratuitous passenger.	Facts
Undisputedly she was not traveling in the goods carriage in the capacity of owner of goods or representative of owner of goods being transported in the goods carriage.	Facts
This aspect was also accepted by the claimant in the claim petition.	None
Stand of the appellant was that the owner of the goods carriage had not taken any policy for such passenger and there was no requirement under law for obtaining a policy for passenger.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the claimant could not claim indemnification by the appellant and the owners of the offending vehicles were to indemnify the award.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the claimant and the owners of the offending vehicles supported the order of the High Court.	None
In New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Vedwati and Ors.	None
(2007 (3) SCALE 397 ), it was held as under This Court had occasion to deal with cases of passengers traveling in goods vehicles which met accident resulting in death of such person or bodily injury.	None
Such cases belong to three categories i.e. (1) those covered by the old Act, (2) those covered by the Act and (3) those covered by amendment of the Act in 1994 by the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act. 1994 (hereinafter referred to as the Amendment Act).7.	None
The present appeals belong to the second category.	None
In Satpal Singhs case (supra) this Court proceeded on the footing that provisions of Section 95(1) of the old Act are in pari materia with Section 147(1) of the Act as it stood prior to the amendment in 1994.9.	Reasoning
On a closer reading of the expressions goods vehicle.	Reasoning
public service vehicle, state carrier and transport vehicle occurring in Sections 2(8), 2(25), 2(29) and 2(33) of the old Act with the corresponding provisions i.e. Section 2(14), 2(35) 2(40) and 2(47) of the Act, it is clear that there are conceptual differences.	Reasoning
The provisions read as followsOld Act 2 (8) goods vehicle means any motor vehicle constructed or adapted for use for the carriage of goods, or any motor vehicle not so constructed or adapted when used for the carriage of goods solely or in addition to passengers2(25)	None
public service vehicle means any motor vehicle used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward and includes a motor cab contract carriage, and stage carriage.2(29) stage carriage means a motor vehicle carrying or adapted to carry more than six persons excluding the driver which carries passengers for hire or reward at separate fares paid by or for individual passengers either for the whole journey or for stages of the journey2(33) transport vehicle means a public service vehicle or a goods vehicleThe Act (New Act)2(14) goods carriage any motor vehicle constructed or adapted for use solely for the carriage of goods or any motor vehicle not to constructed or adapted when used for the carriage of goods2(35) public service vehicles means any motor vehicles used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers for hire or reward, and includes a maxicab a motorcab, contract and stage carriage2(40) stage carriage means a motor vehicle constructed or adapted to carry more than six passengers excluding the driver for (SIC) or reward at separate fares paid by or for individual passengers either for the whole journey or for stages of the journey2(47) transport vehicle means a pubic services vehicle a goods carriage an educational institution bus or a private service vehicle (Underlined for emphasis)10.	None
Liability as defined in Section 145(c) of the Act reads as follows Liability, wherever used in relation to the death of or bodily injury to any person, includes liability in respect thereof under Section 140.	None
Third party risks in the background of vehicles which are subjectmatter of insurance are dealt with in Chapter VIII of the old Act and Chapter XI of the Act.	None
Proviso to Section 147 of the Act (sic) is to be (sic) with Section 96 of the old Act.	None
Proviso to Section 147 of the Act reads as followsProvided that a policy shall not be required to cover liability in respect of the death arising out of and in the course of his employment of the employee of a person insured by the policy or in respect of bodily injure sustained by such an employee arising out of and in the course of his employment other than a liability arising under the Workmens Compensation Act. 1993	None
(8 of 1923) in respect of the death of or bodily injury to, any such employee(a) engaged in driving the vehicle, or(b) if it is a public service vehicle engaged as conductor of the vehicle or in examining tickets on the vehicles, or(c) if it is a good carriage, being carried in the vehicle, or(ii) to cover any contractual liability.	None
It is of significance that proviso appended to Section 95 of the old Act contained Clause (ii) which does not find place in the Act.	None
The same reads as follows except where the vehicle is a vehicle in which passengers are carried for hire or reward or by reason of or in pursuance of a contract of employment to cover liability in respect of the death of or bodily injury to persons being carried in or upon or entering or mounting or alighting from the vehicle at the time of the occurrence of the event out of which a claim arises.	None
The difference in the language of goods vehicle as appear in the old Act and goods carriage in the Act is of significance.	Reasoning
A bare reading of the provisions makes it clear that the legislative intent was to prohibit goods vehicle from carrying any passenger.	Reasoning
This is clear from the expression in addition to passengers as contained in definition of good vehicle in the old Act.	Reasoning
The position becomes further clear because the expression used is good carriage is solely for the carriage of goods.	Reasoning
Carrying of passengers in a goods carriage is not contemplated in the Act.	Reasoning
There is no provision similar to Clause (ii) of the proviso appended to Section 95 of the old Act prescribing requirement of insurance policy.	Reasoning
Even Section 147 of the Act mandates compulsory coverage against death of or bodily injury to any passenger of public service vehicle.	Reasoning
The proviso makes it further clear that compulsory coverage in respect of drivers and conductors of public service vehicle and employees carried in goods vehicle would be limited to liability under the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 (in short WC Act).	Reasoning
There is no reference to any passenger in goods carriage.14.	Reasoning
The inevitable conclusion, therefore, is that provisions of the Act do not enjoin any statutory liability on the owner of a vehicle to get his vehicle insured for any passenger travelling in a goods carriage and the insurer would have no liability therefor.15.	Reasoning
Our view gets support from a recent decision of a threeJudge Bench of this Court in New India Assurance Company Limited v. Asha Rani and Ors.	Reasoning
(2002 (8) Supreme 594 in which it has been held that Satpal Singhs case (supra) was not correctly decided.	Reasoning
That being the position, the Tribunal and the High Court were not justified in holding that the insurer had the liability to satisfy the award.16.	Reasoning
This position was also highlighted in Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Devireddy Konda Reddy and Others (2003(2) SCC 339).	Reasoning
Subsequently also in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Ajit Kumar and Others (2003(9) SCC 668), in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Baljit Kaur and Others (2004 (2) SCC 1 ) and in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Bommithi Subbhayamma and Others (2005 (12) SCC 243 ), the view in Asha Ranis case (supra) was reiterated.	Reasoning
Above being the position, the impugned order of the High Court is not sustainable and is set aside.	Reasoning
It is open to the claimant to recover the amount awarded from the owners of the offending vehicles.9.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed with no order as to costs.	Decision
