 Shah, J. 1.	None
The question which falls to be determined in these appeals iswhether the appellant Company is liable to pay salestax assessed under the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act, 1950 on the price of coal supplied to allottees outside the taxing State pursuant to directions of the Coal Commissioner issued under the Colliery Control Order, 1945.	Issue
The Company which has its registered office at Hyderabad in the former Part B State of Hyderabad, and now in the State of Andhra Pradesh, carried on the business of mining coal from its collieries and supplying it to consumers in the outside the State of Hyderabad.	Facts
2.	None
These appeals relate to three financial years 195455,195556 and 195657, during which coal was a controlled commodity and its disposal and use could be made only under orders issued by the appropriate authority under the Colliery Control Order, 1945.	Facts
The Company claimed that Rs. 175,67,28612 in the year 195455 Rs. 1. 17,39,636118 in the year 195556, and Rs.	Facts
1,55,18,93765 in the year 195657were not liable to be included in the taxable turnover for levying sales tax under the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act, 1950 because the State Legislature which enacted that Act was, by Art, 286 of the Constitution, prohibited from imposing tax on transactions of supply of coal outside the limits of the State under orders of the Coal Commissioner.	Facts
3.	None
The Commercial Tax Officer, Hyderabad, admitted the claim of the Company for the years 195455 and 195556 for exemption from liability.	Facts
The claim of the Company for the year 195657 was, however, rejected, The Company appealed to the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and to the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Hyderabad, against the order of assessment for the year 195657, but without success.	Facts
The Company then applied to the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in its revisional jurisdiction, and submitted in support of its claim that a part of its turnover was exempt from liability to sales tax under the Hyderabad Central Sales Tax Act because the turnover was in respect of sales, (a) which had taken place outside the State within the meaning of Art.	Facts
286 (1) (a) read with the explanation thereto, and (b) which were effected in the course of interState trade or commerce, and the Parliament had not by law removed the ban against imposition of tax on such sales by the State legislature.	Facts
The High Court rejected these contentions.	Facts
In the meanwhile the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes issued notices to the Company to show cause why the orders of assessment for the years 195455 and 195556 should not be reopened and why the sales which were exempted by the order of the Commercial Tax Officer should not be charged to tax, and by his orders respectively dated February 8, 1961 and November 16, 1960 for the two years 195455 and 195556 brought to tax the turnover which was previously treated as exempt.	Facts
The Orders were carried to the High Court in appeal and the same grounds which were set up in the revision application relating to the assessment year 195657 were set up, beside the ground that the action for reopening the assessments by the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes was barred by limitation and was, therefore, incompetent.	Facts
The High Court rejected these contentions.	Facts
With certificate granted by the High Court, these appeals are preferred by the Company.	Facts
4. at the material time, by S. 2 (k) of the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act, 1950, the expression sale was defined as under.	None
Sale with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means every transfer of property in goods by one person to another in the course of trade of business for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration and includes also a transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of a works contract, but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation, charge or pledge.	None
Explanation 2.	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law for the time being in force, a transfer of goods, in respect of which not tax can be imposed by reason of the provisions contained in Art.	None
286 of the Constitution, shall not be deemed to be sale within the meaning of this clause.	None
The Explanation was evidently introduced into the definition with a view to avoid its operation on transactions which are outside the taxing power of the States by virtue of Art.	None
286 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	None
In these appeals, the Company submitted in the first instance that within the meaning of the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act, there was no sale of coal which was supplied to the consumers pursuant to direction issued by the Coal Commissioner and therefore the taxing provisions of the Act were not attracted, and placed reliance in support thereof on the judgment of this Court in New India Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Bihar.	None
196314	None
STC 316 (AIR 1963 SC 1207 ).	None
But this contention was never raised at any stage before the taxing authorities or even before the High Court, and on the view we take on the other contentions raised in these appeals we need not consider this contention.	None
We proceed to deal with these appeals on the footing that the transactions under which coal was supplied by the Company to the consumers as directed by the Coal Commissioner were sales under the general law of sale of goods.	None
6.	None
Two questions arise for determination(1)	Issue
Whether the transactions of sale were Explanation sales and on that account hit by Art.	Issue
286 (1) (a) of the Constitution, before it was amended by the Constitution (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1956 and (2) whether those transactions were sales which took place in the course of interState trade or commerce.	Issue
7.	None
It is urged that for a part of the period to which these appeals relate, the sales are hit by both the legislative bans contained in Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 (1) (a) and Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 (2).	Arguments of Petitioner
and for the rest by one or the other of such bans.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is necessary in the first instance to summarise the provisions of the Colliery Control Order, 1945, and to set out the manner in which coal was supplied by the Company to its constituents.	None
The Central Government was authorised by notification to fix the price of coal or different prices for different grades of coal which may be sold by colliery owners (Cl. 4).	None
The colliery owners and their agents were prohibited from selling, or offering for sale coal at a price different from the price fixed in that behalf under Cl. 4, and from granting or agreeing to grant any commission, rebate or such other concession in any form having the effect of reducing either directly or indirectly the said price (Cl. 5).	None
A colliery owner could with the consent of the Deputy Coal Commissioner sell coal at the price fixed under Cl. 4 direct to a consumer, if an allotment was made by the Deputy Coal Commissioner to the consumer for such direct sale (Cl. 6).	None
The Central Government could issue directions to any colliery owner regulating the disposal of his stocks of coal or of the expected output of coal in the colliery during any period (Cl. 8) and notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, every colliery owner to whom a direction was given under Cl 8 had to dispose of coal in accordance therewith and could not dispose of coal in contravention thereof (Cl. 9).	None
The Coal Commissioner could order that coal despatched by any colliery owner to any person which was in transit (terminii whereof were defined by the Explanation) shall subject to terms and conditions if any imposed by the Coal Commissioner be diverted and delivered to another person specified in the order Cl. 10A (1).	None
As soon as an order was made under subcl.	None
(1), all the rights of the consignee, the owner of the colliery or other person in the consignment of coal were, subject to the terms of the order, to devolve upon and vest in the person to whom the coal was to be delivered under the order Cl. 10A (2).	None
An allottee of coal could not use it otherwise than in accordance with the conditions of the order of allotment, nor divert or transfer any such coal to any other person except under a written authority from the Central Government (Cl. 12B) and no person could acquire or purchase or agree to acquire or purchase coal from a colliery, and no colliery owner could despatch or agree to despatch or transport any coal from the colliery except under the authority and in accordance with the authority of the Central Government (Cl. 12E).	None
9.	None
Broadly speaking the scheme of the Colliery Control Order was that no person could acquire or purchase or agree to acquire or purchase any coal from a colliery and no colliery owner could sell or agree to sell or despatch coal from the colliery, except under the authority and in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the Coal Commissioner, and that the person to whom coal was supplied also could not utilise it for a purpose other than the purpose for which it was supplied, nor could he dispose of coal supplied to him.	Reasoning
Supply, use and disposal of coal were, therefore, regulated from the stage of production till consumption.	None
10.	None
The manner in which the Colliery Control Order was administered is illustrated by certain documents on the record.	None
The Coal Commissioner addressed a letter to a colliery authorising it to despatch on the request of the specified consumers coal not exceeding the quantities mentioned during certain months and according to the schedule appended.	Reasoning
In the Schedule appended to the letter were set out the names of the concerns to whom coal was to be supplied.	Reasoning
Intimation of the despatch instructions was given to the consumers individually Acting upon this intimation, the consumer addressed a letter to the colliery requesting that the quantity of coal allotted may be despatched to him by train and gave instructions regarding booking, the name of the person to whom coal may be consigned, and also about the collection of price of coal supplied.	Reasoning
The colliery then loaded coal in railway wagons making out a sale note mentioning the cost per ton F. O. R. Colliery with freight to pay and despatched the same by rail to the consumer at the destination requested.	None
In the sale note were set out the name of the buyer, grade and quantity of coal allotted, the terms of sale, cost per ton F. O. R. Colliery, other charges, and particulars of despatch, such as the name of the Railway Station to which the coal should be booked and the name of the consignee.	Reasoning
The sale note was subject to conditions of sale, that the colliery shall not be responsible for nondelivery or late delivery of coal or for any loss occasioned in consequence of fire, snow, heat, flood, strikes, lockouts, shortage of wagons, restrictions on booking, accidental losses, etc, that any taxes, export duty, cess or other charges not in force imposed by the Government after the date of the sale note shall be borne by the purchaser that the colliery reserved the right to demand payment in advance and to have a right of lien on all coal despatched until it was paid for that the sale note was subject to the quantity allotted by the Deputy Coal Commissioner for buyers outside the State and in the event of the Deputy Coal Commissioner cancelling the whole or any part of the said allotment such cancellation shall be deemed to apply equally to the sale note.	Reasoning
11.	None
Under the terms of the sale note the property in the coal consigned passed, so far as the colliery was concerned, to the allotteeoriginal or substitutedwhen the goods were loaded into the railway wagons for conveyance, and thereafter all losses and any new taxes imposed were to be borne by the purchaser, the colliery having only a right of lien on coal not paid for.	Reasoning
Coal supplied was meant for consumption by the allottee therefore, when the allottee was outside the State, it was supplied for the purpose of consumption in the State in which the allottee resided or carried on business.	Reasoning
12.	None
In view of the legislative developments which we will presently notice the period of the three assessment years may be divided into four subperiods.	Reasoning
They are April 1. 1954 to September 6, 1955 September 7, 1955 to September 10, 1956, September 11, 1956 to January 4, 1957 and January 5, 1957 to March 31. 1957.	Reasoning
In making this subdivision we have not taken into account the application of the States Reorganisation Act as a result of which on November 1,1956, the Part B State of Hyderabad ceased to exitence by merger of certain areas including parts of the State of Hyderabad.	Reasoning
The effect of the Reorganisation Act had a bearing only on the territorial operation of the constitutional prohibitions under Art.	Reasoning
286.	None
13.	None
Under the Government of India Act, 1935, it was open to every Provincial Legislature to enact legislation authorising the levy of tax on sale of goods in respect of transaction whether within or outside the Province, provided the Province had a territorial nexus with one or more elements constituting the sale.	None
This resulted in levy of sales tax by many Provinces in respect of the same transaction  each Province fixing upon one or more elements constituting the sale with which it had a territorial nexus.	None
The Constitution with a view to prevent imposition of manifold taxed on the same transaction of sale imposed by Art.	None
286 restrictions on the levy of sale and purchase taxes on certain classes of transaction.	None
Article 286.	None
as it was originally enacted, read as follows(1)	None
No law of a State shall impose, or authorise the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchase takes place (a) outside the State or (b) in the course of the import of the goods into, or export of the goods out of, the territory of India.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of subclause (a), a sale or purchase shall be deemed to have taken place in the State in which the goods have actually been delivered as a direct result of such sale or purchase for the purpose of consumption in that State, notwithstanding the fact that under the general law relating to sale of goods the property in the goods has by reason of such sale or purchase passed in another State.	None
(2) Except in so far as Parliament may by law otherwise provide, no law of a State shall impose, or authorise the imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of any goods where such sale or purchase takes place in the course of interState trade or commerce Provided that the President may by order direct that any tax on the sale or purchase of goods which was being lawfully levied by the Government of any State immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall, notwithstanding that the imposition of such tax is contrary to the provisions of this clause, continue to be levied until the thirtyfirst day of March 1951.	None
(3) No law made by the Legislature of a State imposing, or anthorising the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of any such goods as have been declared by parliament by law to be essential for the life of the community shall have effect unless it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent.	None
14.	None
Article 286 thus imposed qua sales four bans upon legislative power of the States.	None
Clause (1) prohibited every State from imposing or authorising the imposition of, a tax on outside sales and on sales in the course of import into or export outside the territory of India.	None
By Cl.	None
(2) the State was prohibited from imposing tax on the sale of goods where such sale took place in the course of interState trade or commerce.	None
But the ban could be removed by legislation made by the Parliament.	None
By Cl.	None
(3) the Legislature of a State was incompetent to impose or authorise imposition of a tax on the sale or purchase of any goods declared by the Parliament by law to be essential for the life of the community, unless the legislation was reserved for the consideration of the President and had received his assent.	None
15.	None
This Court in Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar, 19552	None
SCR 603 ( (S) AIR 1955 SC 661 ), held that the operative provisions of the several parts of Art. 286, namely Cl.	None
(1) (a), Cl.	None
(1) (b), Cl.(2) and Cl.	None
(3), are intended to deal with different topics and one cannot be projected or read into another, and therefore the Explanation in Cl.	None
(1) (a) cannot legitimately be extended to Cl.	None
(2) either as an exception or as a proviso thereto or read as curtailing or limiting the ambit of Cl.	None
(2).	None
This Court further held that until the Parliament by law made in exercise of the powers vested in it by Cl.	None
(2) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 provides otherwise, no State may impose or authorise the imposition of any tax on sales or purchases of goods when such sales or purchases take place in the course of interState trade or commerce, and therefore the State Legislature could not charge interState sales or purchases until the Parliament had otherwise provided.	None
The judgment in the Bengal Immunity Companys case, 19552 SCR 603 ( (S) AIR 1955 SC 661 ), was delivered on September 6, 1955.	None
16.	None
The President then issued the Sales Tax Laws Validation Ordinance.	None
1956.	None
On January 30, 1956, the provisions of which were later embodied in the Sales Tax Laws Validation Act. 1956.	None
By this Act notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court, no law of a State imposing or authorision the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of any goods where such sale or purchase took place in the course of interState trade or commerce during the period between the 1st day of April.	None
1951 and the 6th day of September, 1955, shall be deemed to be invalid or ever to have been invalid merely by reason of the fact that such sale or purchase took place in the course of interState trade or commerce and all taxes levied or collected or purported to have been levied or collected during the aforesaid period shall be deemed always to have been validly levied or collected in accordance with law.	None
The Parliament thereby removed the ban contained in Art.	None
286 (2) of the Constitution retrospectively but limited only to the period between April 1, 1951 and September 6, 1955.	None
All transactions of sale, even though they were interState could for that period be lawfully charged to tax.	None
But Art. 286 (2) remained operative after September 6, 1955 till the Constitution was amended by the Constitution (Sixth Amendment) Act, i. e. September 11, 1956.	None
By the amendment, the Explanation to Cl.	None
(1) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 was deleted and for Cls.	None
(2) and (3) the following clauses were substituted(2) Parliament may be law formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in any of the ways mentioned in clause (1).	None
(3) Any law of a State shall, in so tar as it imposes, or authorises the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of goods declared by Parliament by law to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce, be subject to such restrictions and conditions in regard to the system of levy, rates and other incidents of the tax as Parliament may by law specify.	None
By Cl.	None
(2) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 as amended, the Parliament was authorised to formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in any of the ways mentioned in Cl.(1), namely, outside the State or in the course of the import into, or export out of the territory of India By the Constitution (Sixth Amendment) Act, the Parliament was entrusted with power under Art.	None
269 (3) to formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the course of interState trade or commerce and to effectuate the conferment of that power in the Seventh Schedule, Entry 92A was added in the First List and Entry 54 in the Second List was amended.	None
The Parliament enacted, in exercise of that power, the Central Sales Tax Act 74 of 1956 (which became operative as from January 5, 1957) to formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the course of interState trade or commerce or outside a State or in the course of import into or export from India and to provide for the levy, collection and distribution of taxes on sales of goods in the course of interState trade on commerce and to declare certain goods to be of special importance in interState trade or commerce etc. 17.	None
For the period April 1, 1954 to September, 6, 1955 therefore transactions which were interState were deemed, because of the Sales Tax Laws Validation Act, taxable by the States  the bar contained in Art 286 (2) having been retrospectively removed.	None
For the period September 7, 1955 to September 10, 1956 Art. 286 (2) having remained in operation and the Sales Tax Laws Validation Act, 1956, not having been extended to cover that period, interState sales could not be taxed by the State Legislature, During the period September 11, 1956 to January 4, 1957 Art. 286 (2) stood repealed by the Constitution (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1956, but the Parliament had assumed to itself the power under Entry 92A of the First List in the Seventh Schedule to tax sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchase takes place in the course of interState trade or commerce.	None
In exercise of the power to formulate principles for determining when a sale or purchase of goods takes place in the course of interState trade or commerce, the Parliament enacted the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 which was brought into force on January 5, 1957, and after that date interState sales could be taxed under the provisions of the Central Sales Tax Act.	None
18.	None
The Company claims that the transactions which are sought to be charged for the period between April 1, 1954 to September 6, 1955 are not taxable, because they were covered by Explanation to Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) (a) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 of the Constitution, before it was amended.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the period between September 7, 1955 and September 10, 1956 it is claimed the transactions are not taxable, because they are covered by the Explanation to Art.	None
286 (1) and also because they are interState sales For the period September 11, 1956 to January 4, 1957 the transactions are not taxable, because they are interState sales not chargeable under any statuteState or Parliamentary  and for the period January 5, 1957 to March 31, 1957, the transactions are not chargeable by the State because they are interState and are chargeable under the Central Sales Tax Act alone.	None
19.	None
The true effect of Explanation to Art. 286 (1) and Art. 286 (2) gave rise to conflicting opinions, but it is unnecessary to enter upon a discussion of earlier cases, for the principles applicable thereto have now been settled by decisions of this Court as to what transactions are covered by the Explanation to Cl.	None
(1) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 before it was amended.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	None
In Shree	None
Bajrang Jute Mills Ltd.	None
Guntur v. State of Andhra Pradesh, 196415 STC 430 (SC), it was held by this Court that a sale falls within the Explanation to Art.	None
286 (1) (a) if goods have actually been delivered as a direct result of the sale for the purpose of consumption in the State in which they are delivered and the expression actually delivered in the context in which it occurs can only mean physical delivery of the goods, or such other action as puts the goods in the possession of the purchaser.	None
The expression actually delivered does not include mere symbolical or notional delivery, e. g., by entrusting the goods to a common carrier, or even by delivery of documents of title like railway receipts.	None
It was said that the rule contained in S. 39 (1) of the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930 has no application in dealing with a constitutional provision which while imposing a restriction upon the legislative power of the States entrusts exclusive power to levy sales tax to the State in which the goods have been actually delivered for the purpose of consumption.	None
The Court also held that if the goods were actually delivered for consumption in another State it was immaterial whether the property in the goods passed in the State from which they were despatched.	None
21.	None
Counsel for the State of Andhra Pradesh contended that in the present case coal despatched from the territory of the taxing State to purchasers in other States was actually delivered within the taxing State and therefore the principle of Shree Bajrang Jute Mills case, 196415 STC 430 (SC), did not apply to those transactions.	Arguments of Respondent
That contention has however no force.	None
The Explanation defines the State in which the goods have actually been delivered for consumption, as the State in which for the purpose of Cl.	None
(1) (a) of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
286 the sale shall be deemed to have taken place.	None
That State alone in which the sale is deemed to take place has the power to tax the sale, and for this purpose it is immaterial that property in the goods has under the general law relating to sale of goods passed in another State in which the allottee resided or carried on business.	None
Delivery of coal to the Railway Administration may amount to delivery to the allottee for the purpose of the general law relating to sale of goods, but thereby coal cannot be said to be actually delivered within the meaning of the Explanation to Art.	Reasoning
286 (1) (a).	Reasoning
It is also true that under the terms of the sale note under which coal was despatched on terms F. O. R. Singareni the Company was not responsible for loss or damage to the consignment after it was loaded in the wagons, that may indicate that the Company had no property in the goods after it was in transit.	Reasoning
But determination of the State in which sale shall be deemed to have taken place is artificially determined not by terms of the contract of sale, nor by the legal concept of passing of passing in the goods sold by the delivery for the purpose of consumption.	None
(sic) As observed by Das Ag.	None
C. J. in the Bengal Immunity Companys case, 19552 SCR 603 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 661 )	None
.The shifting of situs of a sale or purchase from its actual situs under the general law to a fictional situs under the Explanation takes the sale or purchase out of the taxing power of all States other than the State where the situs is fictionally fixed.	None
Salestax under the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act on transactions of coal delivered to the Railway or other carrier for carriage to places outside the taxing State and for delivery for consumption therein is therefore not leviable to be by virtue of the Explanation to Art.	Reasoning
286 (1).	Arguments of Petitioner
22.	None
Fro the period September 7, 1955 to September 10, 1956, the turnover from sale of coal actually delivered outside the State of Andhra for consumption in those States would also be exempt from liability because the Explanation continued to remain in force till September 10, 1956.	None
The Company would also be entitled to exemption from liability to tax because the State had during that period no power to levy tax on interState sales.	None
As pointed out by Venkatarama Ayyar, J., in the Bengal Immunity Companys case, 19552 SCR 603 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 661 ).A sale could be said to begin the course of interState trade only if two conditions concur (1) A sale of goods, and (2) a transport of those goods from one State to another under the contract of sale.	None
Unless both these conditions are satisfied, there can be no sale in the course of interState trade.	None
In these transactions relating to supply of coal, which we have assumed are sales, coal was transported in pursuance of the allotment orders to other States.	None
We have also assumed for the purpose of this argument that compliance with allotment orders resulted in a contract of sale.	None
The transactions were unquestionably in the course of interState trade.	None
23.	None
For the period September 11, 1956 to January 4, 1957 Art. 286 (2) stood repealed and there was no power in the State to tax an interState sale.	None
For the period between January 5, 1957 and March 31, 1957 the power to tax interState sales was governed by the Central Sales Tax, Act, 1956.	None
By the Constitution (Sixth Amendment) Act amending Art 286 (2) and incorporating Entry 92A in List 1 of the Seventh Schedule read with Art. 269 (3) the power to tax sales in the course of interState trade or commerce rested with the Central Government.	None
Salestax for the period from January 5, 1957 to March 31, 1957, has not been levied under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and if the transactions by the Company were taxable under that Act, the State of Andhra Pradesh had no power to tax those transactions.	None
As transactions of sale in the course of interState trade or commerce within the meaning of S. 3 they could not be taxed under the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act, 1950.	None
Section 3 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 provides thata sale x x of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of interState trade or commerce if the sale x x occasions the movement of goods from one State to another or is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods during their movement from one State to another.	None
24.	None
In Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd.	None
Bombay v. S. R. Sarkar, 19611 SCR 379 (AIR 1961 SC 65 ), this Court held that Cl.	None
(a) of S 3 covers sales in which the movement of goods from one State to another is the result of a covenant or incident of the contract of sale, and property in the goods passes in either State.	None
That view was reaffirmed in State Trading Corporation of India Ltd v. State of Mysore, 196314 STC 188 (AIR 1963 SC 548 ), and Cement Marketing Company of India v. State of Mysore, 196314 STC 175 (AIR 1963 SC 980 ).	None
25.	None
Coal in the appeals under review was transported from the colliery of the Company to the consumers outside the taxing State, as a result of the covenant or incident of the contract of sale and therefore the sale must be regarded as an interState sale and not liable to be taxed under the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
1950.The High Court was, in our view, in error in holding that the turnover of the Company in which coal was loaded in railway wagons for conveyance to places outside the taxing State was taxable under the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act.	Reasoning
In that view we do not think it necessary to decide whether the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes was right in reopening the assessments for the years 195455 and 195556 in the manner he has purported to do 26.	Reasoning
The appeals are allowed and the order passed by the High Court is set aside.	Decision
It is declared that the turnover of the Company amounting to Rs. 1,75,67,28612 for the year 195455 Rs. 1,17,39,636118 for the year 195556 and Rs. 1,55,18,95765 for the year 195657 was exempt from liability to sales tax under the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Act, 1950.	Decision
The Company will be entitled to its costs in the appeals in this Court and the High Court.	Decision
There will be one hearing fee.	Decision
27.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
