 Subba Rao, J. 1.	None
This appeal by certificate raises the question whether the village of Mothirambedu is a zamindari estate under the Madras Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Madras Act XXVI of 1948), hereinafter called the Act.	Issue
2.	None
The facts may be briefly stated.	Facts
Mothirambedu village is one of the shrotriem villages in the Chingleput district in the State of Madras.	Facts
The respondent purchased the same from one P. Anathapadmanabacharlu under a sale deed, dated July 10, 1946, for a sum of Rs. 26,000, and was in possession and enjoyment thereof.	Facts
On December 12, 1950, the Government of Madras issued a notification under Section 3 of the Act taking over the said village as a zamin estate.	Facts
The Government took possession of the same on January 3, 1951.	Facts
On March 15, 1954, the respondent filed O. S. No. 22 of 1954 in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Chingleput, againt the State of Madras for a declaration that the said notification of his village as zamindari estate under the said Act was illegal and void.	Facts
In the plaint he claimed that the said village was not an estate within the meaning of the Madras Estates Land Act and, therefore it did not vest in the State.	Facts
But that plea was subsequently given up and nothing need be said in that regard.	Facts
The State filed a writtenstatement asserting that the said village formed part of Tirumazhy Zamindari, that it was separately registered in the office of the Collector and that, therefore, it was a zamin estate within the meaning of the said Act.	Facts
3.	None
The learned Subordinate Judge, Chingleput, held that the suit village was a zamin estate and that, therefore, the said notification was legal and binding on the respondent.	Facts
On appeal, the High Court of Judicature at Madras held that it was not proved that the said village was a zamin village, but it was a whole inam village.	Facts
On that finding it granted the plaintiff a declaration that the notification of the said village as a zamin estate under the Act was illegal and void, as the said village was a whole inam village.	Facts
Hence the appeal.	Facts
4. Learned counsel for the State contended that the said village was included in the assets of the zamindari at the time of the permanent settlement, that it continued to be a part of the said estate till it was abolished under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
5. Mr. T. V. R. Tatachary, learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, argued that the said village was granted as a shrotriem before the permanent settlement to a person holding the office of a Nattuvar, that though the said village was included in the assets of the zamindari, the preexisting tenure was not disturbed, and that the grantee and his successors continued to hold the village as an undertenure from zamindar, as by reason of the permanent settlement the zamindar became an intermediary.	Arguments of Respondent
In short, his contention was that the said village was an undertenure estate falling under S. 3(2)(e) of the Madras Estates Land Act and that in any view, it had not been established that it was a zamin village.	Arguments of Respondent
6.	None
Before we advert to the facts of the case it will be convenient to notice some of the aspects of law relevant to the said facts.	None
The Madras Estates Land Act, 1908 Section 3(2) Estate means (a) any permanently settled estate or temporarily settled zamindari (b) any portion of such permanently settled estate or temporarily settled zamindari which is separately registered in the office of the Collector (c) xx	None
xx xx	None
xx	None
(d) (As it stood before the Amending Act XVIII of 1936) any village of which the land revenue alone has been granted in inam to a person not owning the kudiwaram thereof, provided that the grant has been made, confirmed or recognized by the British Government of any separated part of a village.	None
(After the Amending Act XVIII of 1936) any inam village of which the grant has been made, confirmed or recognized by the British Government, notwithstanding that subsequent of the grant, the village has been partitioned among the grantees or the successors in title of the grantee or grantees (e) any portion consisting of one or more villages of any of the estates specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) which is held on a permanent undertenure.	None
The Act Section 2(3) estate means a zamindari or an undertenure or an inam estate 7. inam state means an estate within the meaning of section 3, Cl.	None
(2)(d), of the Estates Land Act, but does not include an inam village which became an estate by virtue of the Madras Estates Land (Third Amendment) Act, 1936.	None
(15) under tenure estate means an estate within the meaning of S. 3, Cl.	None
(2)(e) of the Estates Land Act.	None
(16) zamindari estate means (i) an estate within the meaning of S. 3, Cl. 2(a), of the Estates Land Act, after excluding therefrom every portion which is itself an estate under S. 3, Cl. 2(b) or 2(e), of that Act or (ii) an estate within the meaning of section 3, Cl. 2 (b) or 2 (c), of the Estates Land Act, after excluding therefrom every portion which is itself an estate under S. 3, Cl. 2 (e), of that Act.	None
The aforesaid provisions may be summarized thus The Madras Estates Land Act recognizes for the purpose of the Act 5 catagories of estates.	None
The Act grouped the said 5 estates under three categories, namely, zamin, undertenure and inam estates.	None
The estates defined in Cls. (a), (b) and (c) of S. 3 (2) of the Madras Estates Land Act, excluding therefrom an undertenure estate, are classified as zamin estates.	None
An estate falling under the definition in S. 3 (2) (d) of the Madras Estates Land Act, excluding therefrom an inam estate which became an estate under the Madras Estates (Third Amendment) Act, 1936, is described as an inam estate under the Act An estate under the definition of S. 3 (2) (e) of the Estates Land Act is brought under the definition of the undertenure estate under the Act.	None
It will be noticed at this stage that though a village is physically a part of a zamindari if it is held on a permanent undertenure, it is excluded from the definition of a zamin estate but included under the definition of an undertenure estate.	None
The result of this classification is, an inam village held under a permanent undertenure is not a zamin estate.	None
A village can be held under a permanent undertenure whether that village was the subjectmatter of a presettlement grant or a postsettlement grant.	None
To illustrate take a village which was granted permanently to an inamdar before 1802 by the British Government.	None
At the time of the permanent settlement the said village was included in the permanently settled estate.	None
The effect of that was that the inamdar who was holding the village under the Government continued to hold the same under the proprietor.	None
Take another illustration after the permanent settlement the proprietor made a permanent grant of the whole inam village to an inamdar.	None
The inamdar held the village under the zamindar.	None
In either case the village was held under the proprietor of the permanently settled estate.	None
The proprietor, who is liable to pay pish kush to the Government, is the tenureholder.	None
He is the intermediary between the inamdar and the Government that is why the inamdar is described as undertenure holder.	None
It is, therefore, clear that to constitute an undertenure it is not material whether the grant was a presettlement or a postsettlement one, but what is important is, in whom the reversionary interest rests.	None
That reversionary interest may rest in the proprietor either because at the permanent settlement the inam was included in the assets of the zamindari or because he himself was the grantor of a permanent undertenure.	None
This aspect of the law was considered in two decisions of the Madras High Court.	None
Where a presettlement Mokhasa village was included in the assets of the zamindari it was held that the village was held under a permanent undertenure within the meaning of S. 3 (2) (e) of the Madras Estates land Act see Veeraswami v. Seetharama kantayya, 51 Mad LJ 394 (AIR 1926 Mad 1089 ), and Narayanaswami Bahadur v. Boda Thammayya, 1930 Mad WN 945.	None
This legal position will be material when we consider the documents filed in this case.	None
7.	None
It may be mentioned that the distinction between zamin estate, inam estate and undertenure estate made under the Act is relevant, inter alia, for the purpose of payment of compensation.	None
The basis on which compensation payable in respect of an inam estate is to be calculated would yield a larger measure of compensation than that in respect of a zamin estate.	None
In regard to an undertenure estate, if the undertenure was created prior to the permanent settlement, the compensation payable would be on the basis adopted for zamin estate with certain deductions if it was created subsequent to the permanent settlement, the compensation would be on the basis adopted for a zamin estate.	None
In the present case, as the inam was created prior to the permanent settlement, if the contention of the respondent was correct, he would get a higher compensation.	None
That is the reason for this dispute.	None
(See Ss. 27, 28, 31, 32, 35, 36 and 37 of the Act).	None
8.	None
It will also be useful to know, as we said for appreciating the evidence, who is a Nattuvar.	None
Nattuvar or Natwar is described in the Manual of Chingleput Ditrict thus, at p. 244	None
The first and highest officer was the Natwar or headman of a Nadu, or circle of villages, the cultivation of which he supervised on the part of the Government.	None
These officers were possessed of considerable privileges, and were men of great dignity and reputed wealth.	None
They appear to have been lost sight of after the territory was made over to the British.	None
The Nabob recognised or ignored them, deprived them of their offices, or restored to them their privileges, as they resisted or fell in with his exactions, or as his rapacity was sharpened by the urgency of his necessities.	None
Such a system had demoralized what was really a very useful body of men, who were, moreover, eager to be relieved from the consequences of the ascendency of the dubashes, which had reduced them to the condition of ordinary ryots.	None
Mr. Place took advantage of the disposition they now showed to return to the discharge of their duties, to which he therefore, restored them under certain guarantees for their good behaviour. ??	None
The natwars were a very ancient body of officials.	None
It will be seen from the said extract that the office of Nattuvar was an important one that it possessed of considerable privileges, that it fell into evil days during the period of the Nawabs, and that during the British rule Mr. Place, the then Collector of Chingleput, restored the office of Nattuvar under certain guarantees for the good behaviour of the Nattuvars.	None
It appears that at the time of permanent settlement in the Chingleput District, which was then described as a Jagir, the office of Nattuvar was abolished but the Nttuvars were allowed to retain the shrotriem village granted to them.	None
This will appear from the appendices to the Report of the Estates Land Committee, at pp. 228 to 253.	None
Learned counsel for both the parties agreed that the extracts given in the statement of case of the respondent are correct.	None
As the report is not available to us, we cite the extracts from the said statement of ease.	None
Paragraph 66 of the said Appendices The permanent settlement of the land revenue having rendered unnecessary all the subordinate officers of revenue between the Collectors and the Curnums, the general instructions directed that those superfluous offices including that of Nattuvar should be abolished.	None
The nature of the powers exercised under the duties attached to that office furnish abundant reason for annulling it but the individual persons now holding it have claim to indulgence, and it is our duty to submit their pretentions to your Lordships consideration.	None
They have been considered to be honorable stations and length of possession has annexed to them the idea of property although the emolument of an office ought under ordinary circumstances to cease with the discontinuance of the office itself, yet it will be just under stated consideration, to grant a compensation in the case of the Nattawars adequate to the loss sustained by the immediate incumbents We recommend that your Lordship in Council should confer on them, as an act of indulgence, the possession of their Shrotriem lands tenable under a Purwanah of Government.	None
Paragraph 67	None
Although the Nauttuwars who were appointed under the authority of Government during Mr. Places management of the Jagheer cannot plead length of service, we yet recommend that they might be included in this arrangement in consideration of the assistance rendered by them in the lease of the lands at that period of time Paragraph 74	None
The Shrotriem lands in general are so connected with the Government lands that it has been deemed expedient to provide for the collection of the shrotriem rent through the channel of the proprietor of the estate in which the shrotriem lands are situated and to provide through the same channel for the collection of the commuted marahs.	None
The Zamindars will, therefore, be entitled (according to usage) subject always to presecution for the abuse of it to call in the aid of the inhabitapts of the shrotriem lands for purposes for which it has been customary to render such assistance.	None
The following extracts from the Minutes of Consultation in the Revenue Department.	None
Dated April 13. 1802.	None
May be useful The subject of the Nauttawars is familiar to the Board.	None
The nature of the office and its connection with the administration of the Revenue has been discussed at length on the records of the Government.	None
A reference to this discussion must demonstrate that the office can no longer be useful.	None
The superior advantages which the Nauttawars have acquired by the enjoyment of the high warum and of manuiams, and the ground of interference which they are calculated to afford with the rights of the proprietor, render it expedient that the motives of such an influence should be removed together with the office.	None
The Board, therefore, authorise the abolition of the office of Nauttawar and the resumption of the emoluments attached to the performance of the duties of that office.	None
At the period, however, of conferring such extensive benefit on the body of people as they will receive from the establishment of a system of permanent revenue and of judicature, the Board are disposed favourably to consider the claims of the present incumbents in the office of Nauttawar.	None
They concur with the Commission that it will be just, under the stated circumstances, to continue to the Nauttawars their Shrotriem lands because they have been considered to be honourable stations and length of possession has annexed to them idea of property.	None
It will be seen from the said extracts that the Commission appointed to go into the question of the abolition of the office of Nattavars recommended that the office should be abolished but the Government should confer on the incumbents the possession of their shrotriem lands under a purvana.	None
The Revenue Board accepted the recommendation of the Commission it agreed to allow the Nattuvars to continue to have possession of their shrotriem lands.	None
It is, therefore, clear that the shrotriem lands were given permanently to Nattuvars by the State, that at the time of permanent settlement the tenure was continued and that their inclusion in the estate only effected a transfer of the reversionary interest from the State to the Proprietor.	None
9.	None
With this background let us look at the documents filed in the case.	None
The earliest document on record is Ex. 7, the certified copy of cowle granted by Mr. Lionel Place, Collector of Honorable Companys Jageer to Rangasami Mudali, dated December 10, 1796.	None
As it is an important document, we shall read it Cowle granted by Lionel Place Esq., Collector of the Honorable Companys Jagheer to Rangaswamy Moodaly	None
Whereas the villages of Moderambedu and Madavapoondy in the district of Poonamalle from neglect and want of mirasdars being in a desolate and uncultivated state producing nothing to the circar.	None
Rangaswamy Mudaly Nautawar of the said district having agreed, provided the meerassee of the said villages,be conferred on him, to clear and render them productive.	None
I do therefore, hereby confer on Rangaswamy Mudali and his heirs the meerassee of the said villages, to continue in the enjoyment of the same, so long as they carry on a proper cultivation, pay all just dues, and are obedient to the circar.	None
Dated this 10th day of December in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninetysix.	None
(Signed) Lionel Place Collector.	None
The genuineness of this document is not in question.	None
It was filed by consent.	None
This document discloses that Rangaswamy Mudali was a Nattuvar in the district of Poonamalle.	None
As the village of Mothirambedu, with which we are now concerned, was in a desolate and uncultivated state for want of mirasdar, the mirasi of the said village was granted permanently to Rangaswami Mudali and his heirs.	None
In Wilsons Glossary, the following meaning to the Tamil expression mirasi is given Inheritance, inherited property or right the term is used, especially in the south of India, to signify lands held by absolute hereditary proprietorship under one of three contingencies.	None
According to Wilson, mirasdar means the holder of hereditary lands or office in a village.	None
It is, therefore, clear that under this document the said village of Mothirambedu was given to Rangaswami Mudali, who was a village officer, in absolute hereditary proprietorship.	None
The village was given under a permanent hereditary grant, subject to, inter alia, the grantee paying all just dues to the Government.	None
This document is couched in clear and unambiguous terms and under it the permanent inam was granted to Rangaswamy Mudali subject to his payment of dues.	None
10.	None
Exhibit B.2 is described as Trimishy Zamindari Statement in regard to waste and unproductive lands.	None
It is not dated.	None
It relates to Mothirambedu village and another village.	None
Under the heading remarks, the following statements are found Watered by Trimishy tank, New Shrotriem to Nautyavalappa Mooduly proposed to be resumed as per Order of the Board, dated 2nd October, 1800 .	None
Another village Alatoor is included with these two and the rent is paid on the whole and the villages are watered by the Trimishy tank Rented for 10 years to Naut Rangaswamy Moodaly 5 of which are expired.	None
The rent raised from 10 pagodas the present Fasli to 25 pagodas the last year by the lease.	None
Watered by the Trimashe tank.	None
Learned counsel for the State contends that this document shows that Ex. A7 was that given to and that Rangaswamy Mudali was only a lessee for 10 years.	None
As we have stated earlier, this statement does not bear any date, though the internal evidence discloses that it came into existence after October 2, 1800.	None
This is not signed by any officer.	None
We do not know on what material the said observations were made and on what occasion this document was prepared and by whom and whether this was acted upon at the time of permanent settlement.	None
We cannot draw any presumption on an unsigned statement which does not even bear a date.	None
This must, therefore, be ignored.	None
11.	None
Exhibit B1 is the copy of the Kabuliat executed by Venkiah, the proprietor of the zamindari of Tirumishi at the time of a permanent settlement of the estate in his favour.	None
The sannad is not produced.	None
It shows that the zamindari consisted of 57purchased villages and 8 Shrotriem villages but the names of the Shrotriem villages are not given.	None
This document ex facie does not show that Mothirambedu was one of the villages that were the subjectmatter of permanent settlement.	None
The learned counsel for the State relied upon the Chingleput Manual wherein a statement showing the particulars of several tenures other than ryotwari in the District of Chingleput is given.	None
Dealing with Saidapet Taluk under the heading Zamindaries, Mothirambedu village is mentioned and under the heading inam villages, enfranchised or unenfranchised, the said village is not shown.	None
From this it is contended that this village was a part of the zamindari and that it must have been one of the shrotriem villages shown as included in the zamindari of Tirumishi in the Kabuliat executed by Venkiah.	None
Be that as it may, the fact that Shrotriem villages have been shown as villages of the zamindari is not decisive in the context of the Act, as permanent undertenure villages, as explained earlier, have been specifically excluded from the definition of zamin estate.	None
12.	None
Exhibit B3 does not bear any date.	None
It contains the names of the zamindars in the Madras Presidency.	None
We do not know for what purpose this document was prepared.	None
Under the heading names of estates, Mothirambedu is given.	None
The name of P. Ananthapadmanabhan is shown under the heading Name of the present holder.	None
Apart from the heading, the expression estate is appropriate in the context of a zamindari as well as a village held under a permanent undertenure.	None
The honorific title zamindar adopted by a particular inamdar does not make him a zamindar and his land does not cease to be an inam.	None
It is either an inam or not under the provisions of the Act.	None
13.	None
Exhibits B4 and B5 are the extracts from the Inam Fair Register of the year 1862 in respect of Mothirambedu village.	None
They deal with some minor inams of small extents.	None
It may be mentioned at this state that these registers were prepared in connection with the inam settlement.	None
They deal with presettlement inams only, which were not included in the assets of the zamindari.	None
Presumably these minor inams in Mothirambedu village were presettlement inams not so included and, therefore, they were the subjectmatter of the enquiry and were eventually confirmed.	None
But it is said that the fact that the minor inams were the subjectmatter of the settlement but the village itself was not settled thereunder indicates that the village was a part of the zamindari.	None
But, as we have pointed out earlier the village, subject to the subsisting tenure, was included in the zamindari and, therefore, there was no scope nor occasion for its being the subjectmatter of inam settlement.	None
14.	None
Exhibit A2 is the titledeed granted to Narasimhachariar and 7 others by the Inam Commissioner, Madras, dated November 24, 1869.	None
The title deed was issued to Narasimhachariar in respect of 2 acres and 39 cents of wet land pursuant to orders made in the Inam Register.	None
But the said 2 acres and 39 cents of wet land is described as situated in the Jari inam village of Mothirambedu taluk of Sairapet District.	None
According to Wilsons Glossary, Jari inam means A grant of land or other endowment still in force, not resumed.	None
This recital, therefore, supports the conclusion that the inam of the village of Mothirambedu taluk was still subsisting, though the right of ultimate reversion vested in the zamindar.	None
15.	None
Exhibit B6 is B Register of Sriperumbudur Taluk of Chingleput District.	None
It contains a list of the inam villages.	None
Mothirambedu minor inam is shown in the list as it should be.	None
Mothirambedu village has no place in that list as it was included in the zamindari.	None
16.	None
The respondent placed before the Court various sale deeds to support his title to the said village.	Reasoning
Under Ex.	Reasoning
A6 a saledeed, dated September 2, 1919, Haji Usman Sahib sold the exclusive miras of Mothirambedu to Rangachariar.	Reasoning
In the sale deed Mothirambedu is described in different places as Miras Mitta, zamin village, Mothirambedu zamin village and Mothirambedu Ega Bhoga Miras zamin.	Reasoning
Ega Bhogam means in Tamil possession or tenure of village land by one person of family without any cosharer.	Reasoning
No doubt the word zamin is ordinarily used to denote the estate of a zamindar, that is the proprietor under the permanent settlement.	Reasoning
But the expression zamindar is also adopted by some of the inamdars as an honorific term.	Reasoning
A mere popular description of an undertenure village as a zamin does not make it a zamin estate under the Act, if it is not one in fact.	Reasoning
Indeed, the document shows that in some parts, for instance in Schedule A, Mothirambedu has been described as Ega Bhoga Miras Mothirambedu zamin village and in Schedule B, Melmanambedu village is described as Shrotriem Melmanambedu village, whereas in the preamble to the document Mothirambedu is described as Miras of Mothirambedu, and Melmanambedu, as Zamin Melmanambedu.	Reasoning
This shows that the character of the village has not been described with any legal precision.	Reasoning
What is more, the character of this village was in dispute in a suit between the zamindar and tenants in the year 1921.	Reasoning
That suit ultimatch went up to the High Court and a Division Bench of the Madras High Court desposed of the appeal on November 23, 1927.	Reasoning
The Judgment is marked as Ex. A4.	Reasoning
Therein the High Court pointed out that the zamindar who was the appellant did not produce the sannad nor did he file any old records relating to the zamindari on the ground that they were not available in the Collectors office.	Reasoning
The only evidence adduced to support his contention was the fact that in regard to the village fixed assessment was paid from the year 1856 onwards, and that it was referred to in certain Government registers as zamin village.	Reasoning
The High Court accepted the finding of the subordinate Judge that it was not a part of the zamindari.	Reasoning
Except the certified copy of the Kamuliat executed by Venkiah, the then zamindar, which does not include this village and the unsigned statement alleged to have been filed in the permanent settlement proceedings, which is not proved, no further material evidence has been placed in the present proceeding.	Reasoning
We do not see any justification to take a different view from that accepted by the High Court in the year 1927.	Reasoning
17.	None
From the discussion of the aforesaid evidence, the following facts emerge In 1796 Mr. Lionel Place, the then Collector of the Honourable Companys Jagheer.	Reasoning
Granted a cowle to Rangaswamy Mudali, who was occupying the office of a Nattuvar, conferring on him the mirasi of Mothirambedu village and another village permanently, subject to his paying all just dues.	Reasoning
At the time of the making of the permanent settlement in Chingleput District, which was then described as a Jagir, it was decided by the Company to maintain Shrotriem, i.e., grants made to Nattuvars, including those granted by Mr. Lionel Place, and realise their dues throught the instrumentality of the zamindar.	Reasoning
This policy was implemented by including the shrotriems in the zamindari by transferring the Companys ultimate reversionary rights to the zamindar.	Reasoning
The result was that the shrotriem tenure in the hands of the Nattuvars continued after the permanent settlement as it existed prior to it.	Reasoning
That is the reason why sometimes the village was described as zamin village and sometimes as Jari Inam village.	Reasoning
That is also why it was not the subjectmatter of permanent inam settlement.	Reasoning
But the fact remains that Shrotriem tenure continued in the hands of the Nattuvar and his successorsininterest, after the permanent settlement as it was before the said settlement.	Reasoning
The tenure under the Government became an undertenure under the zamindar, as the zamindar intervened between the Government and the Nattuvar.	Reasoning
As the village is held under a permanent undertenure, it falls squarely under the definition of S. 3 (2) (e) of the Madras Estates Land Act and is, therefore, an estate thereunder and hence it is an undertenure estate.	Reasoning
As the undertenure estate is excluded from the definition of zamin estate, the notification issued by the Government on the basis that it is a zamin estate is void and the High Court rightly declared it as void.	Reasoning
18.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
19.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
