 Subba Rao, J 1.	None
These four appeals by special leave granted by this Court are preferred against the judgment of a Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court at Hyderabad in a case referred to it by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Hyderabad Bench, under S. 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, hereinafter called the Act, in respect of assessments made on H. E. H. the Nizam of Hyderabad for the assessment years 195051 and 195152.	None
2.	None
The Incometax Officer, B Ward, HyderabadDeccan, by his orders, dated February 15, 1955, and March 31, 1956, rejected the objections raised by the assessee and assessed him to incometax for the said two years.	Facts
Against the said orders the assessee filed two appeals before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, Hyderabad, who by his orders gave some relief in respect of the said assessments.	Facts
On further appeals by the assessee, the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Hyderabad Branch, allowed the appeals of the assessee in part and ordered the assessments to be revised accordingly.	Facts
At the instance of the assessee, the Incometax Appellate Tribunal drew up a statement of case and referred four questions to the High Court of Andhra Pradesh for its decision.	Facts
On July 4, 1961, the High Court answered some of the questions in favour of the assesse and others against him.	Facts
The Commissioner of Incometax filed two appeals to this Court, being Civil Appeals Nos. 46 and 47 of 1964, in so far as the High Courts judgment went against the Revenue and the assessee filed two appeals, being Civil Appeals Nos. 48 and 49 of 1964 against that part of the High Courts judgment which rejected his contentions.	Facts
3. To avoid prolixity and repetition we shall state the relevant facts in considering each of the questions referred to the High Court.	Facts
4.	None
Questions 1 and 3 may be considered together.	Facts
The said questions readQuestion 1.	None
Whether in the circumstances of the case and having regard to International Law and construction of Municipal Laws and or the covenant dated 2511950 between the Assessee and the Government of India, the Assessee was liable to tax under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, in respect of any party of his income.	Facts
Question 3.Whether, in any event, the Assessee enjoyed immunity from taxation under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, in respect of income which accrued or arose to him or was received by him upto 2611950.	Facts
These two questions raise the following points (1) Whether under International Law the assessee is immune from taxation in respect of the assessment year 195051 and (2) whether, having regard to the said Covenant dated 2511950, he was not liable to tax under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	Facts
The High Court held that under the International Law, the assessee being a sovereign upto 2511950 his income upto that date was immune from taxation and that, the Indian Incometax Act not having expressly amended the International Law in its application to India, his income till that date was not liable to tax under the Incometax Act.	Facts
As a corrollary from the said conclusion, the High Court held that as the assessee ceased to be a sovereign from 2611950 the income accrued to him thereafter was liable to tax.	Facts
The High Court rejected the contention of the assessee that he was exempted from the liability to pay incometax under the Covenant entered into by him with the Government of India at the time of merger.	Facts
5.	None
The argument based upon the Covenant may easily be disposed of.	Facts
The relevant articles of the Covenant read as follows Article 3.His	None
Exalted Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad and the members of his family shall be entitled to all the personal privileges and titles enjoyed by them whether within or outside the territories of the Dominion before 1581947.	Facts
Article 4.	None
The Government of India guarantees the succession according to the laws and customs of the Gaddi of the State and the personal rights, privileges, dignities and titles of His Exalted Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad.	None
The argument was that the assessees immunity from taxation as a sovereign was a privilege guaranteed to him under the said articles of the Covenant.	None
This question need not detain us, as it was answered by this Court in Sri Sudhansu Shekhar Sing Deo v. The State of Orissa, 19611 SCR 779 (AIR 1961 SC 196 ) in the context of the claim of exemption from agricultural incometax by an ExRuler of an Indian State based upon articles in a merger agreement, similar to the one now in question.	Facts
This Court held that the privileges guaranteed by the relevant articles of merger agreement were only personal privileges of the appellant as an ExRuler and that those privileges did not justify his claim to immunity from taxation.	Facts
Following this decision we reject the contention of the assessee based upon the said articles of the Covenant.	Facts
6.	None
Now, we shall taken the first question, excluding that part of it which refers to the said Covenant, and question 3. 7.	Facts
Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri, learned counsel for the Revenue, contended that under the International Law a foreign sovereign was not immune from taxation in respect of his private properties situated in the taxing State even if there was such an immunity under the International Law the assessee, being under the suzerainty or the paramountcy of the British Crown, had never enjoyed the status of a sovereign as understood in the International Law and, therefore, not governed by that law and that, in any event, as on 2611950, the date when he became liable to tax, he was no longer a sovereign	Arguments of Petitioner
and therefore he could not claim exemption under the International Law.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
Mr. Palkhivala, learned counsel appearing for the assessee, while conceding that the assessee could not claim exemption under International Law in respect of the assessment for the year 195152, argued that he was not liable to incometax for the assessment year 195051 on the ground that under the Indian Incometax Act, incometax was charged on the assessees income received during the accounting year and that as during the accounting year the assessee was a ruling chief, he was exempt from taxation under the International Law.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued that under the International Law, as understood by English Courts, a foreign sovereign was exempt from taxation, that the said interpretation of the law had become the common law of England and that the said common law was the law of India before the Constitution and it continued to have force thereafter by reason of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
372. 9.	None
The validity of Mr. Palkhivalas contention depends upon our acceptance of four premises, namely, (i) the English Courts have finally accepted the view that under International Law a sovereign is immune from taxation in respect of his private property (ii) that it had become a part of the common law of England (iii) that before the Indian Constitution came into force, the said common law was accepted and applied by the Indian Courts and (iv) that the said common law so accepted as the common law of this country continued to be in force by reason of Art.	None
372 of the Constitution.	None
10.	None
International Law visavis the liability of a sovereign to taxation in respect of his private property is in a process of evolution.	None
It has not yet become crystallized.	None
It is true that some of the textbooks on the subject and some of the decisions support the view that sovereign rulers are exempt from taxation see Halsburys Laws of England, 3drd Edn., Vol. 20, p. 589 Oppenheims International Law, 8th Edn Vol.	None
I, p. 759.	None
But, even in England the House of Lords in Sultan of Johore v. Abubakar Tunku, 1952 AC 318 at p. 343, observed.	None
Their Lordships do not consider that there has been finally established in England any absolute rule that a foreign independent sovereign cannot be impleaded in our Courts in any circumstances.	None
Interesting and instructive discussion on the question of a foreign sovereigns immunity from taxation in respect of his private properties is found in the American Journal of International Law, Vol. 46, at p. 239, under the heading immunity from Taxation of Foreign Stateowned property.	None
After an elaborate consideration of the relevant material on the subject, the learned author concludes thus, at p. 258Immunity from taxation should be the rule when the activities concerned are those normally and traditionally regarded as governmental in character but when a foreign State engages in trading operations of a type generally open to private persons there seems no need to better its competitive position or shift tax burdens to others through giving it exemption from taxes.	None
In dealing with taxation of property, the learned author says, at p. 256, thusThe use of these agreements, combined with the practice discussed above, appears to be bringing about a situation in which it will become generally recognized that international law provides for the tax exemption of foreign stateowned property used for functions generally accepted as public.	None
It is by no means clear, however, that the same result is either probable or desirable when we are dealing with property used for purposes which seem more commercial than governmental.	None
It may also be noticed that in India there is no absolute prohibition against a ruler of a foreign state being sued in India see Ss. 86 and 87 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
He can be sued with the consent of the Central Government.	None
It is not necessary in this case to decide this question, as we are satisfied that H. E. H. the Nizam had never acquired international personality under International Law.	None
We have noticed the aforesaid facts only to indicate that the question is not free from difficulty and that it requires serious consideration when it directly arises for decision.	None
We shall, therefore, assume for the purpose of these appeals that a foreign sovereign who has acquired an international personality has such an immunity from taxation.	None
11.	None
We shall now proceed to consider the question why in our view H. E. H. the Nizam had never acquired personality.	None
As a learned author puts it,Every civilised State which is a member of the family of nations is an International person, Recognition of a State as a member of the family of nations involves recognition of such States (1) equality, (2) dignity, (3) independence, and (4) territorial and personal supremacy.	None
According to Oppenheim, all the said qualities constitute, as a body, the international personality of a State.	None
Unless the State of Hyderabad had the said qualities, its ruler could not claim any of the immunities sanctioned by International Law.	None
A brief history of the status of the Hyderabad State visavis the British Crown would help us to ascertain its status in International Law.	None
12.	None
In 1858 the British Crown took over from the East India Company the administration of the entire territory of India.	None
Thereafter, while the British India was under the direct rule of the Crown, the Indian States remained under the personal rule of their Chiefs under the suzerainty of the Crown.	None
In the Pronouncement of Lord Canning he clearly statedThe Crown in England stands forth the unquestioned ruler and paramount power in all India.	None
This concept of suzerainty by the Crown was also described as Paramountcy.	None
The relationship between the paramount power and the Indian State was described in the White Paper on Indian States, at p. 32, thusAs already stated the paramountry of the British Crown was not coextensive with the rights of the Crown flowing from the Treaties.	None
It was based on Treaties, Engagements, Sanads as supplemented by usage and sufferance and by decisions of the Government of India and the Secretary of State embodied in political practice.	None
The said White Paper further discloses that while the States were responsible for their own internal administration, the Crown accepted responsibility for their external relations and defence.	None
The Indian States had no international status and for external purposes, they were practically in the same position as British India.	None
The Government of India Act, 1935, gave the Indian States an option to join the federation subject to certain conditions but that part of the said Act was abandoned in 1939.	None
The Indian Independence Act of 1947 introduced a change in the relationship between the Crown and the said States.	None
Section 7 (1) (b) of the Indian Independence Act of 1947, readsAs from the appointed day the suzerainty of His Majesty over the Indian States lapses, and with it, all treaties and agreements in force at the date of the passing of this Act between His Majesty and the rulers of Indian States, all functions exercisable by His Majesty at that date with respect to Indian States, all obligations of His Majesty existing at that date towards Indian States or the rulers thereof, and all powers, rights, authority, or jurisdiction exercisable by His Majesty at that date in or in relation to Indian States by treaty, grant, usage, sufferance or otherwise and Provided that notwithstanding anything in Para.	None
(b) of this subsection, effect shall, as nearly as may be, continue to be given to the provisions of any such agreement as is therein referred to which relate to customs, transit and communications, posts and telegraphs, or other like matters, until the provisions in question are denounced by the Ruler of the Indian States on the one hand, or by the Dominion or Province or other part thereof concerned on the other hand, or are superseded by subsequent agreements.	None
Though under this Act the paramountcy of the Crown lapsed in regard to Hyderabad and other States, the preexisting agreements with those States continued in respect of specified matters.	None
The lapse of suzerainty or the breaking of ties with the British Crown did not ipso facto raise their status to that of international personality.	None
It created a void and the position of the States was in a fluid state.	None
No de facto or de jure recognition was given to the Hyderabad State or to any other State by the family of nations.	None
But, after protracted negotiations, the Nizam issued a proclamation on November 23, 1949, accepting the Constitution of India, shortly to be adopted, subject to ratification by the constituent assembly of the Hyderabad State.	None
The said constituent assembly ratified it and thereafter the Hyderabad State was included in Part B of the First Schedule to the Constitution see Appendix LIV, White Paper on Indian States (M. S. 6), p. 369, and Basus commentary on the Constitution of India, 4th Edn., Vol. 4, pp. 3234.	None
It will be seen from the said history that Hyderabad was under the suzerainty of the British Crown till the Indian Independence Act of 1947 was passed and that thereafter, after negotiations with the Indian Dominion, it finally acceded to it.	None
It was never recognized as an international personality by the family of nations.	None
It was all through a vassal of the British Crown.	None
Openheim says in his book on International Law, Vol. 1, 5th Edn., at pp. 165166, that the position of the Indian States to Great Britain is like that of vassal of States which have no international relations whatever either between themselves or with foreign States.	None
In Halls International Law, 8th Edn., the learned author says that the States of the Indian Empire of Great Britain were protected States and that they were not subject to international law.	None
The decision in Sayce v. Ameer Ruler Sadiz Mohammad Abbasi Bahawalpur State, 19522 All ER 64 holding that the Ameer of Bahawalpur State was a foreign sovereign immune from the jurisdiction of the English Court was solely based upon the certificate of the Commonwealth Relations Office and it does not help in deciding the present case.	None
13.	None
It is, therefore, clear that Hyderabad State did not acquire international personality under the International Law and so its ruler could not rely upon international law for claiming immunity from taxation of his personal properties.	None
14.	None
The problem may be looked at from a different perspective, i.e. on the basis of the provisions of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
The Indian Incometax, Act, 1922, hereinafter called the Act, admittedly applied to Hyderabad State from January 26, 1950.Under S. 3 of the Act, where any Central Act enacts that incometax shall be charged in any area at any rate or rates, tax at that rate or those rates shall be charged for that area in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Act in respect of the total income of the previous year of every individual etc.	None
Under S. 2 of the Finance Act of 1950 (Act 25 of 1950), subject to the provisions of subsections (3), (4) and (5) for the year beginning on 1st day of April 1950, incometax shall be charged at the rates specified in Part I of the First Schedule under S. 13 thereof, if immediately before the 1st day of April 1950, there was in force in any Part B States, other than the States mentioned therein, any law relating to incometax or supertax or profits of business etc., that law shall cease to have effect for the purposes of assessment under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, for the year ending March 31, 1951, or any subsequent year.	None
Under S. 2(14A), taxable territories shall be deemed to include the merged territories as respects any period after the 31st day of March, 1949, for any of the purposes of the Act and as respects any period included in the previous year, for the purpose of making any assessment for the year ending on the 31st day of March, 1950, or for any subsequent year.	None
The effect of these provisions is that every individual was liable to incometax from April 1, 1950, at the rates mentioned in the Finance Act in respect of his total income of the previous year in the merged territories.	None
It is not, and it cannot be, disputed that on April 1, 1950, the assessee was not a ruling chief but an ordinary citizen of India, residing, within the meaning of S. 4 of the Act, in that part of India which was a part of Hyderabad State and so he would be liable to incometax on April 1, 1950, in respect of the total income he received in the previous year in the merged territory.	None
It cannot also be disputed that the said taxable total income would be computed after giving the necessary allowances and deductions in the manner prescribed by Ch. III of the Act.	None
But it is said that as the asseesee was exempted under International Law from taxation of his income of the previous year, the Act could not reach that income.	None
That conclusion, according to the learned counsel for the assessee, flows from the nature of the tax, namely, that though the year of assessment is 195051, the charge in not on the income of the year of assessment, but on the income of the previous year.	None
Decided cases no doubt support the contention of the assessee that what is charged in the assessment year or the tax year is the income earned during the accounting year or the earning year.	None
The Act of 1918 which followed the English Acts levied tax on the income of the year of assessment, taking the income of the previous years as a standard or as a measure.	None
But by the Act of 1922 this principle was changed.	None
Now under the Act, tax is assessed in the assessment year on the income of the previous year.	None
The Judicial Committee in Maharaja of Pithapuram v. Commissioner of Incometax, Madras, 194513 ITR 221 at p. 223 (AIR 1945 PC 89 at p. 90) has brought out this distinction when it saidIn the first place, it is clear to their Lordships that under the express terms of S. 3 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, the subject of charge in not the income of the year of assessment, but the income of the previous year.	None
This is in direct contract to the English Incometax Acts, under which the subject of assessment is the income of the year of assessment, though the amount is measured by a yardstick based on previous years.	None
This Court in Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay v. Amarchand N. Shroff, 196348 ITR (SC) 59 (AIR 1963 SC 1448 ) restated that principle with approval.	None
15.	None
Even so, the income of the assessee during the accounting year has to be computed only in the manner prescribed by the Act.	None
Deductions and exemptions from the total income can only be those that are provided under the Act.	None
This aspect of the case has been brought out with clarity in Union of India v. Madan Gopal Kabra, 195425 ITR 58 (AIR 1954 SC 158 ).	None
The facts in that case were the respondent resided and carried on business in the District of Jodhpur in Rajasthan which was one of the States specified in Part B of the First Schedule to the Constitution of India, 1950.	None
The Constitution came into force on January 26, 1950.	None
The Indian Finance Act, 1950, amended the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, in certain respects and made it applicable to the whole of India, except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.	None
In May 1950, the respondent was required to file a return of his income for the year ending March 31, 1950.	None
It was contended by the respondent that the income which accrued or arose to him or was received by him prior to April 1, 1950, was not liable to tax on the ground that such income was not liable to be charged under the provisions of any law validly in force in Rajasthan.	None
This Court held that under subclause (1) of Cl.	None
(b) of S. 2(14 A) of the Incometax Act, Rajasthan was to be deemed to be a taxable territory for the purpose of S. 4A as respects any period before or after March 31, 1950.	None
On that fiction, as the respondent was a resident in such territories within the meaning of S 4A, the income accruing or arising to him in Rajasthan during year 194950 would be taxable.	None
This Court further pointed out that Parliament under Arts.	None
245 and 246 of the Constitution, read with entry No. 82 of List 1 of the Seventh Schedule thereof, can make laws with respect to taxes on income for the whole of the territory of India with retrospective effect.	None
The effect of the said decision is that though by reason of the Finance Act of 1950 the assessee was assessable to incometax only from April 1, 1950, his income of the previous year was taxable even though the said income was not liable to tax before the Indian Incometax Act was made applicable to Rajasthan.	None
To that limited extent it had retrospective operation.	None
If so, we do not see how a person, who was exempted from tax before the Act was extended under the State Law or under the International Law, would be in a better position.	None
16.	None
The legal position as we apprehend may be stated thusUnder the Act an individual is assessed to incometax on the income of the previous year at the rate or rates fixed for the year by the annual Finance Act.	Reasoning
The total income of the assessee during the previous year is computed in accordance with the provisions of the Incometax Act after giving the relevant allowances and deductions therefrom.	Reasoning
If during the assessment year an individual is assessable to tax, the fact that during the previous year he was not liable to tax at all because there was no Incometax Act in the area to which the Act was extended or because that under an Incometax Act in force therein during that year his income was exempted from tax or because of any other law, including International Law, he was so exempt from tax, would not be of any relevance.	Reasoning
After the extension of the Act to the Hyderabad State the charge was under the Act and not under the provisions of the previous law.	Reasoning
Thereafter, the charge as well as the manner of computation of income did not depend upon the preexisting law, but only upon the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Applying the said principles to the instant case, it is manifest that after January 26, 1950, the assessee ceased to be a ruling chief and he was, therefore, liable to assessment under the Act.	Reasoning
If he was assessable to tax, the statutory charge on his income during the previous year was only traceable to the Act, which was retroactive in operation to that extent.	Reasoning
His right to exemption, if any, under International Law during the accounting year was irrelevant to the question of taxation under the Act, as the said law ceased to apply to him during the assessment year.	Reasoning
17.	None
We, therefore, hold that the High Court went wrong in holding that the income received by the assessee upto January 26,1950, was not liable to tax under the Act.	Reasoning
18.	None
The second question readsWhether, having regard to the provisions of Part B States (Taxation Concession) Order, 1950, the assessees income during the year of account was totally exempt from tax.	Issue
The High Court answered the question against the assessee.	None
The facts relevant to the question are as follows The assessee was assessed to incometax in respect of his income arising in Hyderabad in connection with the assessment years 195051 and 195152, having regard to the provisions of Part B States (Taxation Concession) Order, 1950.It was contended that the assessee was immune from liability to tax under the law of incometax of Hyderabad and, therefore, the rate payable by him in terms of the order would be nil with the result that he would not be liable to any tax.	None
The question turns upon the relevant provisions of the said Order.	None
The said Order was issued by the Central Government in exercise of the power conferred on it under S. 60A of the Act.	None
Under that Section, the Central Government has the power, if it considers necessary or expedient so to do, to avoid any hardship or anomaly, or removing any difficulty, that may arise as a result of the extension of the Act to the merged territories, by general or special law to make an exemption, reduction in rate or other modification in respect of incometax in favour of any class of income, or in regard to the whole or any part of the income of any person or class of persons.	None
Pursuant to that power the Central Government issued Part B States (Taxation Concession) Order, 1950, making exemptions, reductions in the rate of tax and modifications specified in that Order.	None
At the outset it may be noticed that under this Order no exemption was given to an ExRuler from paying incometax or supertax in respect of income accrued to him in the Hyderabad State.	None
A perusal of paragraphs 3(ii)(a).	None
3(iii), 3(iv), 3(v) and 3(vi), Para.	None
4(iii), Para. 5 and Para.	None
6 of the Order shows that the Order was made mainly to give relief to assesses in Part B States where the rates of tax were less than the rates prescribed in the Act.	None
Indian rate of tax was defined in Para.	None
3(iii) and State rate of tax was defined in Para 3(v).	None
Under the Explanation to Para.	None
3(v), if there was no State law relating to charge of incometax and supertax, the Schedule annexed to the Order prescribed the rates.	None
The tax on the basis of Indian rate of tax and the State rate of tax before the appointed day were calculated and the lesser rate was made payable see Paras. 5 and 6 of the Order.	None
The entire scheme evolved a machinery to give a rebate on the difference of tax calculated on the basis of the said two rates.	None
The said scheme had nothing to do with exemptions either under the said Order or under the Act.	None
It was argued that, as under the State law the assessee was immune from liability to tax, he was in effect liable to pay only nil tax under the State law.	None
On the basis of nil tax under the State law, the argument proceeded, by applying the principles of the said Order, no tax would by payable by the assessee.	Reasoning
We cannot accept this argument.	Reasoning
The Order was only intended to provide a machinery for scaling down the rates of tax in relation to the States rates.	Reasoning
If there was a State law prescribing rates, it would afford the criterion for scaling down the Indian rate of tax if there was no State law prescribing the rate, the schedule of rates annexed to the Order would govern the taxation.	Reasoning
If the assessee was not liable to pay tax under the State law, his nonliability related only to the domain of exemption.	Reasoning
It would be incongruous to say that a person exempted from taxation was paying a nil rate.	Reasoning
This would be an obvious attempt to subvert the scheme of the Order to reach a desired result.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold, agreeing with the High Court, that the assessee was not entitled to any exemptions under the said Order. 19.	None
We shall not take up the first part of the 4th question, which readsWhether on the facts of the case the interest received by the Assessee in respect of 3 per cent Nizam Government Incometax free loan 136070 Fasli of the face value of Rs. 1,45,200, the 21/2 per cent Nizam Government Incometax free development loan 136469 fasli of the face value of Rs 1.05 crores the 2 1/2 per cent Nizam Government loan 136373 fasli of the face value of Rs. 200 and the 23/4 per cent Hyderabad Government loan 1384 fasli of the face value of Rs. 8 crores was exempt from tax.	Issue
This question relates only to the assessment year 195152.	None
The securities were issued by the Hyderabad State free from incometax.	None
The High Court held that they were exempt from incometax under S. 8 of the Act.	None
Under S. 8 of the act, tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head interest on securities in respect of the interest receivable by him on any of the securities of the State Government.	None
But, under the third proviso thereto, the incometax payable on the interest receivable on the securities of the State Government issued incometax free shall be payable by the State Government.	None
It was argued for the Revenue that the expression securities of a State Government in the proviso does not include the securities issued by the Hyderabad State.	None
This contention was sought to be sustained on the basis of the definition of Government securities in S. 3(24) of the General Clauses Act, 1897, which reads??	None
Government securities shall mean securities of the Central Government or of any State Government but in any Act or Regulation made before the commencement of the Constitution shall not include securities of the Government of any Part B State.	None
Relying upon this clause it was contended that the securities issued by the Government were not covered by the said proviso.	None
There is an obvious fallacy in this argument.	None
To ascertain the meaning of an expression in a Central Act, it is permissible to look into the General Clauses Act to find out how that expression is defined in the General Clauses Act.	None
The General Clauses Act affords a dictionary for words used in the Central Acts to the extent provided thereunder.	None
Proviso 3 to S. 8 of the Act does not use the expression Government securities, but only mentions securities of a State Government There is, therefore, no scope to ascertain the meaning of the latter expression with reference to the definition given to a different expression in S. 3(24) of the General Clauses Act.	None
On the other hand, the expression State Government is defined in Cl.	None
(60) of S. 3 of the General Clauses Act and it readsState Government, (a) as respects anything done before the commencement of the Constitution, shall mean, in a Part A State, the Provincial Government of the corresponding Province, in a Part B State, the authority or person authorised at the relevant date to exercise executive government in the corresponding Acceding State, and in a Part C State, the Central Government.	None
Clause (58) of S. 3 of the General Clauses Act defines State to mean as respects any period before the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, a Part A State, a Part B State or a Part C State.	None
With the aid of the said definitions it will be clear that the expression State Government used in the proviso to S. 8 of the Act takes in the Government of the Hyderabad State.	None
If so, in terms of that proviso, the incometax payable on the interest receivable on the securities of the Hyderabad Government issued incometax free shall be payable by the State Government.	None
Therefore, there are no merits in the contention and the and the High Court rightly rejected it.	None
20.	None
In regard to the same securities the assessee claimed exemption from payment of incometax and supertax under item 8 of the Notification dated March 21, 1922, issued by the Finance Department of the Government of India.	None
It readsThe interest on Government securities held by, or on behalf of, Ruling Chiefs and Princes of India as their private property.	None
This exemption applies both for incometax and supertax.	None
If the assessee was entitled to this exemption, he would get a larger relief than he would under the second proviso to S. 8 of the Act.	None
The said securities were held by the assessee as his private property and, therefore, he was clearly entitled to this exemption.	None
We, therefore, hold agreeing with the High Court, that the assessee was entitled to the exemption under the said item in respect of the said securities.	None
21.	None
Then we come to questions 4(ii) and 4(iii).	None
They read Question 4(ii)Whether on the facts of the case the interest in respect of securities of the Government of India or of the Government of Hyderabad (including Nizam Government Promissory Note), which became payable to the Assessee under the trust created by him known as the Family Trust, was exempt from payment of tax in his hands.	Issue
Question 4(iii)Whether the interest in respect of securities of the Government of India or of the Government of Hyderabad (including Nizam Government Promissory Note), which became payable to the Assessee under the trust created by him known as the Miscellaneous Trust was exempt from payment of tax in his hands.	Issue
These two questions relate to Government securities settled by the assessee in trust, but the income whereof was payable to him under the provisions of the relevant deeds of trust.	None
The assessee executed the two trustsone dated May 10, 1950, known as H. E. H. Nizams Family Trust and the other dated August 6, 1950, known as H. E. H. Nizams Miscellaneous Trust.	None
Under Cl. 3 of the deed of trust relating to the Family trust, the net income of the trust fund, after defraying the expenses and charges of collection, had to be paid by the trustees thereunder to the assessee for and during the term of his natural life.	None
Under the Miscellaneous Trust it was provided that subject to the provisions of subcls.	None
(a) to (j) of Cl. 2 of the said deed, the trustees should pay the balance of the interest and income of the trust fund to the assessee for and during the term of his natural life.	None
At this stage it is not necessary to notice the other recitals in the deeds.	None
We shall have to consider the recitals in the said two deeds in greater detail at a later stage.	None
The assessee claimed exemption in regard to the said interest on the ground that he was exempted under the third proviso to S. 8 of the Act and under item No. 8 of the notification issued by the Finance Department of Government of India on March 21, 1922.	None
The High Court held that after the execution of the trust deed, the assessee was divested of his ownership of the securities and the trustees became their owners.	None
On that basis, it further held that, though the income was interest on securities in the hands of the trustees, it was in the hands of the assessee only the income which he got from the trustees.	None
Briefly stated, the High Court held that the character of the income, namely, interest on securities, had changed when it reached the hands of the assessee.	None
22.	None
The question falls to be decided on a construction of S. 41 of the Act.	None
The relevant part of S. 41 reads(1)	None
In the case of income, profits or gains chargeable under this Act whichtrustee or trustees appointed under a trust declared by a duly executed instrument in writing whether testamentary or otherwise are entitled to receive on behalf of any person, the tax shall be levied upon and recoverable from such trustee or trustees, in the like manner and to the same amount as it would be leviable upon and recoverable from the person on whose behalf such income, profits or gains are receivable, and all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly (2)	None
Nothing contained in subsection (1) shall prevent either the direct assessment of the person on whose behalf income, profits or gains therein referred to are receivable, or the recovery from such person of the tax payable in respect of such income, profits or gains.	None
Under this Section the Revenue has the option to levy or collect tax from the trustee or the beneficiary the tax can be levied upon and recoverable from the trustee in the like manner and to the same amount as it would be leviable upon and recoverable from the person on whose behalf such income, profits or gains are revisable.	None
In short, it imposes a vicarious, liability on the trustee.	None
The expression all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly indicates that there is no distinction in the matter of assessability of the income in the hands of a trustee or the beneficiary, as the case may be.	None
Indeed S. 41 of the Act comes into play on after the income is computed in accordance with Ch. III of the Act.	None
In the case of income from securities S. 8 applies and under the second proviso thereto, the incometax payable on the interest receivable on any security of the State Government issued incometax free shall be payable by the State Government.	None
No tax on interest on such securities is payable by the assessee.	None
After ascertaining the income and after giving the exemptions, the incometax authority has the option to assess the beneficiary directly or, in respect of the same income, the trustee on behalf of the beneficiary.	None
This construction finds support in the decision of the Bombay High Court in Commissioner of Incometax, Ahmedabad v. Balwantrai Jethalal Vaidya,	None
195834 ITR 187 (AIR 1959 Bom 298 ).If that be the scope of the assessment under S. 41 of the Act, we find it difficult to appreciate the contention that the interest on securities in the hands of the trustee becomes an income other than such interest in the hands of the beneficiary.	None
The interest retains its character whether the assessment is made on the trustee or the beneficiary.	None
We cannot, therefore, accept the construction put upon S. 41 of the Act by the High Court.	None
23.	None
This legal position only gives the assessee relief in regard to incometax payable on the interest from securities but the third proviso to S. 8 of the Act does not transfer the liability of the assssee to pay supertax, to the State Government.	None
The exemption from supertax was claimed under item 8 of the notification issued under S. 60 of the Act.	None
We have extracted that item earlier in another context.	None
The interest mentioned in this item is exempt from both incometax and supertax.	None
The short question, therefore, is whether the interest payable to the assessee was in respect of Government securities held by or on behalf of the assessee as his private property.	None
The answer to this question depends upon the provisions of the said two trusts, namely, the Family Trust and the Miscellaneous Trust.	None
The Family Trust was executed by the assessee on May 10, 1950, in respect of the Government securities of aggregate face value of Rs. 9 crores which were his private properties.	None
Under the deed of trust, the trustees were appointed and the securities wee handed over to them.	None
The trustees so appointed were to collect and recover the interest and other income from the securities and were, after meeting the overhead charges, to pay the residue of the income of the trust fund to the assessee absolutely for and during the term of his natural life.	None
After the death of the assessee, the trustees should divide the trust fund and allot it to the innumerable relatives and others mentioned in the trust deed.	None
The trust deed also gave various other directions to the trustees.	None
In short, under the said trust deed the title to the securities was transferred to the trustees and they were under an obligation to pay the interest or to give the corpus in the manner prescribed thereunder during the life time of the assessee or thereafter.	None
Under the trust deed the securities were not held by the trustees on behalf of the assessee as his private property they were held by the trustees for carrying out the trust in terms of the trust deed.	None
After the execution of the trust deed, the securities ceased to be the private property of the assessee and thereafter he would only be entitled to the interest on the securities during his life time in the manner prescribed thereunder.	None
We cannot, therefore, hold that the securities were held by the trustees as private property of the assessee.	None
24.	None
The Miscellaneous Trust consisted of Hyderabad and Government of India Loans.	None
Under this trust deed, trustees were appointed and the said amounts were transferred to them.	None
Under the document the trustees were under an obligation to manage the said fund, recover interest and other income therefrom, and, after bearing the overhead charges, pay the income therefrom in different proportions to the relatives of the assessee and other persons mentioned therein.	None
It is not necessary to consider the complicated provisions of this document.	None
It would be enough to state that under this trust deed also the amounts representing the loans mentioned therein ceased to be the private property of the assessee and the trustees thereunder held the said property for discharging the various obligations imposed on them and for paying the income therefrom to the different persons mentioned therein and in the manner prescribed thereunder.	None
The Government loans, therefore, ceased to be the private property of the assessee and after the execution of the trust deed they were held by the trustees not on behalf of the assessee as his private property but for the purpose of discharging the obligations imposed on them under the deed.	None
25.	None
We, therefore, hold that the income from the said two trusts did not earn the exemption under item 8 of the said notification.	None
26.	None
The result of our view is that in regard to the interest receivable by the assessee from the said securities and loans he was not liable to pay incometax, but he was not exempt from payment of supertax under item 8 of the said notification.	None
27.	None
The next question, as recast by the High Court, reads Question 4(iv).Whether on the facts of the case, the interest at Rs. 1,97,180 on the Government of India securities should be regarded as having accrued in the Hyderabad State and therefore chargeable at the rate obtaining under the Hyderabad Income Tax Act.	Issue
It was urged that the income sought to be taxed accrued in Hyderabad, because the securities were enfaced to be payable in Hyderabad and, therefore, chargeable only at the rate obtaining under the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	None
The High Court negatived the contention.	Reasoning
It held that the said interest accrued only in British India.	Reasoning
Though the assessee raised the question of the correctness of the view expressed by the High Court in the special leave petition, at the time of arguments the learned counsel for the assessee did not press this point.	Reasoning
Therefore, the opinion expressed by the High Court in this regard stands.	Reasoning
We should not be understood to have expressed our view one way or other.	Reasoning
In the result, we answer the questions as follows Question 1 in the affirmative.	None
Question 2 in the negative.	None
Question 3 in the negative.	None
Question 4(i) in the affirmative.	None
Question 4(ii) the assessee was exempt from payment of incometax, but he was not exempt from payment of supertax.	Decision
Question 4(iii)	None
the assessee was exempt from payment of incometax, but he was not exempt from payment of supertax.	None
Question 4(iv) in the negative.	None
28.	None
The aforesaid answers given by us to the 4 questions referred to the High Court by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal will be substituted in the place of those given by the High Court.	Decision
We modify the order of the High Court accordingly in all the appeals.	Decision
As the parties failed in part and succeeded in part, they will bear their own costs here and in the High Court.	Decision
29.	None
Order accordingly.	None
