 	Reasoning
We have have heard both the learned counsel at length We are clearly of the opinion that the judgment under appeal cannot be supported in law.	None
For arriving at this decision, a few facts are required to be stated On 1111954, the property forming the subjectmatter of civil appeal was leased in favour of Caltex (India) Limited (a foreign company).	Facts
On 19101976, the landlord filed a suit for ejectment against the said foreign company.	Facts
On 30121976, Ordinance No. 15 of 1976 came to be promulgated the Caltex Acquisition of Shares of Caltex Oil Refining (India) Limited and of the Undertakings in India of Caltex (India) Limited Ordinance, 1976.	Facts
This Ordinance came to be replaced by Act 17 of 1977 on identical provisions.	Facts
That need not concern us very much.	Facts
However, which is important to notice is clause 7 of the said Ordinance is as under7.	Facts
(1) Every right or interest in respect of any property in India (including a right under any lease or under any right of tenancy or any right under any arrangement to secure any premises for any purpose) which Caltex (India) held immediately before the appointed day, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law or in any agreement or instrument relating to such right or interest, vest in, and be held by, the Central Government on and after the appointed day on the same terms and conditions on which Caltex (India) would have held it, if no negotiations had taken place for the acquisition by the Central Government of the Undertakings of Caltex (India) in India or, as the ease may be, if this Ordinance had not been promulgated.	Facts
On 2411977, the defendants namely Caltex (India) Refinery (Indian Co.) came to be served with the suit summons.	None
On 1421977, the said Indian Company filed an application under Section 9 of the Tamil Nadu City Tenants Protection Act for purchase of the property over which the superstructure had been put.	Facts
The trial court allowed the application.	Facts
On further appeal, that application was dismissed holding that the Indian Company was a transferee.	Facts
Such a transferee could not get the right to purchase under Section 9.	Facts
That judgment of the appellate court came to be confirmed in revision by the High Court Mr Bhatt, learned counsel for the appellant justifiably argues that the learned Judge had gone wrong in his action.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact he has in the decision reported in Bharat Petroleum Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ltd. v. D.X. Francis (1989) 2 LW 261 under similar circumstances had allowed the successorininterest the benefit of Section 96.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, this Court in Hindustan Petroleum Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ltd. v. Shyam Coop.	Arguments of Petitioner
Housing Society has held that the successorininterest, namely, the tenant could avail itself of all the benefits which the tenant had7.	Arguments of Petitioner
In opposing this, Mr K. Ram Kumar, learned counsel for the respondent contended that the right of tenant to purchase the property would not amount of an interest in the property as held by this Court in Swami Motor Transport (P) Ltd. v. Sri Sankaraswamigal Mutt If that be so, clause 7 of the Ordinance cannot confer any right on the Indian Company.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court as in the decision reported in Bharat Petroleum Corpn.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. v. D.X. Francis (1989) 2 LW 261 has referred to the impugned judgment itself which is distinguished on facts.	Arguments of Respondent
That distinction is valid.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindustan Petroleum Corpn.	Arguments of Respondent
Ltd. v. Shyam Coop.	Arguments of Petitioner
Housing Society will have no application to the facts of the case8.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think we need labour very much because clause 7 clearly points to the rights of the Indian Company.	Reasoning
First of all, it contains a non obstante clause.	Reasoning
Therefore, one will have to look at this clause and clause alone.	Reasoning
Consequently, the statutory succession is not only in respect of the right or interest in any property but also their right under any lease or under right of tenancy which the foreign company had.	Reasoning
Therefore, qua tenant, if the foreign company had a right to purchase the property that right will certainly enure to the benefit of the Indian Company.	Reasoning
There cannot be denial of such a right.	Reasoning
Of course, that will be subject to satisfying the condition laid down under the Madras City Tenants Protection Act, 1976 (sic 1922) particularly Section 9.	Reasoning
In this case, there is no dispute that it fulfils all the qualifications so as to entitle the foreign company to purchase under Section 9 of the City Tenants Protection Act.	Reasoning
From this point of view, we are unable to see as to how Swami Motor could be pressed into it.	Reasoning
Once this conclusion is arrived at, it matters very little as to how the distinction is sought to be made by the High Court in Bharat Petroleum Corpn.	Reasoning
Ltd. (1989) 2 LW 261.	Reasoning
The distinction is without any difference.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we hold the appellant is entitled to succeed.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
