 Shelat, J. 1.	None
This appeal, by special leave,, is against the judgment of the High Court of Bombay allowing the writ petition filed by respondent 1 against the dismissal by the Labour Court of his application for dearness allowance made against the appellant company under section 33C (2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.	Issue
2.	None
The facts leading to the said application are as follows Respondent 1 first joined the service of M s Volkart Bros. on March 3, 1930.	Facts
On merger of that concern with the appellantcompany in September 1954, he became the employee of the latter.	Facts
In September 1954, the appellantcompany took over the staff of M s Volkart Bros. on the same terms and conditions as were applicable to them when they were the employees of Volkart Bros. During the period when respondent 1 was in the employment of M s Volkart Bros., he was governed by a scheme of Dearness Allowance framed with the consent of the parties and incorporated in an award (hereinafter referred to as the Bakhale Award) dated May 26, 1951 in I. T. No. 76 of 1950.	Facts
The scheme provided both maximum and minimum dearness allowance, viz.	Facts
Rs. 165 and Rs.	Facts
60/ respectively, and subject to them the dearness allowance payable was 75 for the first hundred, 37 1/2 per cent for the second hundred and 18 per cent for the balance of the wages.	Facts
3.	None
The said scheme was altered by a circular, dated November 16, 1953.	Facts
The two principal changes in the altered scheme were (1) an increase in the minimum and maximum from Rs. 60/ and Rs.	None
165/ to Rs. 70/ and Rs. 300/ per month respectively, and (2) linking the dearness allowance to the cost of living index in the bracket 371380 and providing for adjustment of dearness allowance by certain percentages whenever the index moved by ten points.	None
On August 18, 1956, a charter of demands was served on the company on behalf of the workmen.	None
Demand No. 5 related to dearness allowance and was as followsThe scheme of dearness allowance at present in force should be revised on the following lines with effect from 1st, January, 1956.	Facts
Then followed the lines on which the scheme was sought to be revised, namely, the percentages at which the dearness allowance should be paid.	None
The parties arrived at a settlement dated August 30, 1957, under which the company agreed to pay dearness allowance at 100 on the first hundred with 4 on every ten points movement in the index, 50 per cent on the second hundred with 2 per cent on every ten points movement in the index and 25 per cent for the balance with 1 per cent on every ten points movement in the index of cost of living.	Facts
The minimum dearness allowance was raised to Rs.	None
75/. 4.	None
It may be noted that there was no reference as to the maximum either in demand No. 5 or in the settlement.	Facts
The case of respondent 1 was that the scheme of dearness allowance as prevalent till then was abandoned, a fresh scheme was devised in which there was no provision for any maximum and it was, therefore, that no reference to any such maximum was made in the settlement.	Facts
The companys case, on the other hand, was that the scheme of dearness allowance was not given up, that the demand was only for revision of the existing scheme, viz., to the extent of revising the percentages only on the three slabs of wages, and therefore, the settlement mentioned the alterations made in the scheme, but not the maximum as there was neither a demand for its deletion, and consequently, no settlement regarding it.	Facts
5.	None
According to the company, the maximum was raised from Rupees 300/ to Rs.	Facts
350/ by a circular, dated March 12, 1959.	Facts
That circular was as followsIt has been decided to raise the present maximum Dearness Allowance payable to Rs. 350/ per month which will apply uniformly to all Offices in India with effect from 1st April 1959.	Facts
Dearness Allowance will continue to be paid on the usual basis at the rates applicable at each place subject to the maximum stated above.	None
x x x x x x x The case, however, of respondent I was that the increase in the maximum amount of dearness allowance applied only to the officers of the company and not to the workmen, that no notice of such a change was ever served upon the union and that there was in fact no change made in 1959 in the scheme of dearness allowance, which remained without any provision as to the maximum.	Facts
6.	None
On January 16, 1961, the union served the company with a fresh charter of demands, demand No. 9 whereof related to dearness allowance.	Facts
That demand was in the following wordsThe scheme of Dearness Allowance at present in force should be revised on the following lines with effect from 1st October 1960 When the index is in the bracket 351360.	Facts
for the 1st Rs.100/ of the basic pay wages100 variation 5 for the 2nd Rs. 100/ of the basic pay wages50 variation 2 1/2 for the balance 25 variation 1 1/2 Minimum Rs. 90/, variation Rs.	None
3/. The charter of demands was referred to the tribunal presided over by Mr. Meher who gave his award (hereinafter referred to as the Mehar Award), dated February 18, 1963.	Facts
Paras 33 to 35 of the award dealt with dearness allowance.	Facts
Para 33 first set out the unions complaint that the existing dearness allowance scheme did not adequately neutralise the rise in the cost of living.	Facts
It then set out the existing scheme as followsFor the index number 371380 Basic wageDearness allowanceVariation for 10 points For the first 1001004 For the second 100502 For the balance251 Minimum dearness allowance Rs. 75 variation for 10 points Rs. 2.	Facts
Para 34 set out the companys defence.	Facts
Para 35 set out the changes made by the award in the following termsI revise the wxiisting scheme of dearness allowance as follows The variation for the first slab should be 5 per cent, for the second 2 1/2 per cent, and the third 1 1/4 per cent, and on the minimum dearness allowance Rs. 3.	Facts
The minimum dearness allowance at cost of living index 371380 should be increased form Rs. 75 to Rs. 77.	Facts
the dearness allowance should be revised at this rate from 1st June 1962 7.	Facts
On December 17, 1964, respondent 1 filed an application to the Labour Court under S. 33C (2) for computing the benefit due to him in respect of dearness allowance payable to him under the Meher Award and claimed that the dearness allowance due to him was Rs. 360 for JuneJuly, 1964, Rs. 382.50 P. for August 1964, Rs. 393.75 P. for SeptemberOctober, 1964 and Rs. 405 for November 1964 in accordance with the index of cost of living declared by the Maharashtra Government on the recommendations made by the Lakdawala Committee.	Facts
His plea was that the company was not entitled to limit the dearness allowance due to him at Rs. 365 per month on the plea that the existing dearness scheme as revised by the Meher Award provided for the maximum at Rs. 365 per month and that he was, therefore, entitled to that amount only.	Facts
8.	None
The claim of respondent 1 was denied by the company.	Facts
The companys case was that under the scheme of dearness allowance prevailing in the company there had always been a maximum ever since the Bakhale Award, that that maximum was raised from time to time and since April 1, 1959 it had been Rs. 350/ per month.	Facts
Its case further was that the maximum was not in any way affected by the Mehar Award, that the charter of demands which occasioned that Reference claimed revision of the existing dearness allowance scheme on certain points only, namely, a revision in the percentage variations and an increase in the minimum from Rs.75 to Rs. 90, and that therefore, the rest of the scheme including its provision for the maximum of Rs.	Facts
350/ per month remained intact.	Facts
The companys case was that since the demand and the reference were limited to the percentage variations only, the Maher Tribunal could not have made any other changes, such as the deletion of the maximum, for, such a change would have been beyond its jurisdiction.	Facts
9.	None
The questions, thus, before the Labour Court was what exactly did the Meher Award decide in relation to the question of dearness allowance?	Facts
There can be no doubt that there was an acute controversy between the parties (1) as to whether there was or not any provision for the maximum in the scheme prevailing before the Meher Award.	None
(2) if there was, whether that Award only revised it in terms of para 35 thereof or whether it introduced altogether a fresh scheme which had a provision for the minimum but not for the maximum.	None
In dealing with these questions, the Labour Court, in an elaborate judgment, went into the history of the dearness allowance scheme prevailing in the company eversince the Bakhale Award on the basis of the evidence led by both the parties and ultimately held that a maximum was always provided for in the said scheme, that the scheme which was prevailing immediately before the Meher Award contained a provision for such maximum, viz, Rs. 350/ that the Meher Award was concerned only with the percentage variations and the increase in the minimum existing till then and as neither the demand nor the reference was concerned with the maximum, the award did not and indeed could not deal with it and therefore left it untouched.	Facts
In the result, the Labour Court dismissed the application holding that the company was right in paying dearness allowance at Rs. 350/ per month to respondent 1. 10.	Facts
Respondent 1, thereupon, filed a writ petition in the High Court contending.	None
(1) that the Labour Court, as an executing court, had merely to implement the Meher Award which had fixed no maximum that it exceeded its Jurisdiction when it considered the previous stages of the scheme of dearness allowance and the background for holding that the award had not dealt with or interfered with the existing maximum (2) that as regards the workmen, no maximum dearness allowance had been prevalent at the time of the charter of demands dated January 16, 1961, that demand No. 9 therein was for the entire revision of the scheme which was then prevalent in the company and that the Meher Tribunal made its award providing therein an altogether new scheme.	Facts
The company, on the other hand, contended that the Labour Court had jurisdiction, when called upon to compute the benefits under the award, to interpret that award in order to ascertain what it had done and the benefits it had conferred.	None
In doing so, if it came to findings of fact, those findings could not be interfered with by the High Court under its writ jurisdiction.	Facts
It also submitted that in any event on a true construction of the award read with demand No. 9, the reference and the pleadings of the parties, the conclusion of the Labour Court that the Meher award did not deal or interfere with the existing maximum was correct.	Facts
11.	None
In considering these rival contentions the High Court first set out the five stages of development which had occurred in the history of the company in the matter of dearness allowance and which had been considered by the Labour Court, viz.,(1)	Facts
the Bakhale Award, dated May 26, 1951, the features whereof were (i) a provision for the maximum and the minimum, (ii) percentages of neutralisation on three slabs in the wages (2) the circular of November 16, 1953 by which dearness allowance was linked with the index of cost of living, the basic bracket of which was 371380, the adjustment of the dearness allowance on the movement of the index by 10 points, and the maximum raised to Rs. 300/ per month (3) the charter of demands dated 1881956 and the agreement, dated August13,1957 by which the existing scheme was revised and the minimum and the percentages of variations were revised (4) the circular, dated March 12, 1959, by which the maximum was again raised from Rs. 300/ to Rs. 350/and which inter alia stated (i) that the increase would apply uniformly to all offices in India, and (ii) that dearness allowance will continue to be paid on usual basis at the rates applicable at each place subject to the maximum stated above.	Facts
and (5) the charter of demands and in particular demand No. 9 and the Meher Award.	None
The High Court then observed that the charter of demands, the Reference to the Tribunal of Demand No. 9 and the pleadings before the Tribunal did not refer to any existing maximum and that according to the award the existing scheme of dearness allowance was that which the Tribunal set out in para 33 of its award, i. e., without any maximum being there mentioned and that it was such a scheme which the award revised.	Facts
Relying on the absence of any reference to any maximum, the High Court negatived the companys contention that the demand was for alteration of the existing scheme only.	Facts
That being so, the company, according to the High Court, ought to have brought forward as its defence its case that there was an existing maximum, which should be retained in the scheme, and not having done so, the company must be held to be estopped now from contending that this matter had not arisen before the Tribunal and had accordingly not been decided.	Facts
The High Court also rejected the companys plea that a demand for revision of the scheme meant not its total abolition and substitution of another scheme in its place and held that such a demand would ordinarily mean that the scheme in its entirety was to be replaced by another scheme and that what the award in fact had done was to frame a complete and entire scheme.	Facts
The High Court thought that to accept the companys plea that, the existing maximum was not touched upon by the award meant reading a proviso in the award that the maximum dearness allowance payable to a workman was Rs. 350/ per month, a construction not permissible in the absence of reference to such a maximum in the award.	Facts
The High Court also held that the award had to be construed without reference to the previous history and facts on which the Labour Court relied, that it was not permissible for the Labour Court to rely on such facts, and that even if it was so permissible, it would have come to the same conclusion, viz, that the scheme was not qualified by any maximum.	Facts
On this reasoning the High Court set aside the Labour Courts order basing its interference with that order on the ground that the Labour Court fell into a gross error in examine the previous history as to the dearness allowance, which was irrelevant, thereby deciding the matter in a manner which was altogether erroneous and unjustified and directed the Labour Court to compute the dearness allowance without any reference to the maximum. 12.	Facts
These conclusions were seriously challenged before us.	Facts
The contention was that the Labour Court in dismissing the application acted within its jurisdiction, and that there was no error apparent in its decision justifying the issuance of certiorari.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Tarkunde supported the High Courts order arguing, firstly, that the Labour Court as an executing court under section 33C (2) could not consider facts anterior to the reference to the Meher Tribunal for the purpose of interpreting that award, secondly, that on the construction of that award, as well as the pleadings of the parties before that Tribunal and demand No. 9 the Labour Court was in error in holding that a ceiling of Rs.	Arguments of Respondent
350/ subsisted, and thirdly, that even if the Labour Court could enter into such anterior facts, its construction of the Meher award was patently wrong.	None
13.	None
The question as to the scope of jurisdiction of a Labour Court under S. 33C (2) has been a subject matter of several decisions of this Court.	Issue
It is not necessary to go into those decisions once again as in the Chief Mining Engineer, East India Coal Co. Ltd. v. Rameshwar, (1963) 1	None
SCR 140 (AIR 1968 SC 218 ) all those decisions were examined and the propositions deducible from them were formulated.	None
As stated in propositions (5) and (8), proceedings under S.33C (2) are analogous to execution proceedings and a Labour Court called upon to compute benefits claimed by a workman is in the position of an executing court and as such competent to interpret an award where there is a dispute as to the rights thereunder or as to its correct interpretation.	None
Obviously, if the award is unambiguous, the Labour Court is bound to enforce it, and under the guise of interpreting it, it cannot make a new award by adding to or subtracting anything therefrom.	None
Although it cannot go behind the award, it is nevertheless competent to construe the award where it is ambiguous and to ascertain its precise meaning, for, unless that is done, it cannot enforce the award when it is called upon to do so by an application under S. 33C.	None
As held in Central Bank of India v. Rajagopalan, (1964) 3	None
SCR 140 at p. 152 (AIR 1964 SC 743 at p. 748) a claim under section 33C (2) postulates that the determination of the question about computing in terms of money may in some cases have to be preceded by an inquiry into the existence of the right.	None
Such an inquiry is incidental to the main determination assigned to the Labour Court by that subsection.	None
While inquiring into the question as to the existence of such a right and construing the award, the Labour Court can look into the demand by the workmen in order to ascertain whether the award under which the right is claimed was or was not beyond the scope of the demand in other words, whether the award was within jurisdiction.(of.	None
also Bombay Gas Co. Ltd. v. Gopal Bhiva, (1964) 3	None
SCR 709 at pp.715716(AIR 1964 SC 752 at p. 755).	None
This position was conceded by Mr. Tarkunde.	None
14.	None
Demand No.9, which related to dearness allowance, was that the scheme of dearness allowance at present in force should be revised on the following lines The lines for revision were, firstly, as to the basic bracket in the index of cost of living, i.e. 351360 instead of 371380, secondly as to the percentages of variation, and thirdly, as to the raising of the minimum dearness allowance from Rs. 75 to Rs. 90.	Facts
An argument was raised, both before the High Court and repeated before us which emphasised the word revise in the demand for dearness allowance as against the word abolish in demand No. 2 which was concerned with grades and wage scales.	None
We may not give any undue importance to the use of such a different phraseology in the two demands, for, such demands cannot be expected to have been drafted with meticulous care as to the precise meaning of each of the words therein.	None
But there is no gainsaying that demand	None
No. 9 did postulate that there was a dearness allowance scheme existing in the company when those demands were served on the company and the workmen felt that it did not adequately neutralise the rise in the cost of living, and therefore, the scheme should be revised as regards the basic bracket, the percentages of variation and the minimum dearness allowance payable under that scheme.	None
This is evident from the contentions of the parties before the Meher Tribunal which noted them by stating that whereas the workmen contended that the existing dearness allowance scheme did not adequately neutralise the rise in the cost of living, the companys contention was that the existing scale is fair, but that the company showed its willingness to revise the scheme by accepting the percentages of variation suggested by the workmen provided they did not press their demand for revision of wage scales.	None
It is clear from the award also that that tribunal, in the light of these rival contentions, held that some revision in the dearness allowance scheme is necessary, and revised it by directing that the percentages in the variation should be 5 for the first slab, 2 1/2 per cent for the second and 11/4 per cent for the balance and 3 per cent on the minimum dearness allowance.	None
It raised the minimum from Rs. 75/to Rs. 77/, but declined to revise the basic bracket in the index of cost of living from the existing 371380 to 351360 demanded by the workmen.	None
15.	None
There can, therefore, be no doubt whatsoever that there was an existing scheme of dearness allowance, that workmen felt that it was not satisfactory and wanted its revision in certain particulars viz., in the percentages of variation, the basic bracket and the amount of the minimum.	Reasoning
In paras 145 to 147 of its statement of claim before the Meher Tribunal, the union set out the existing scheme for dearness allowance, the demand for a revision, viz., in the basic bracket in the percentages of variation and the minimum, and claimed that the existing dearness allowance scheme failed to meet its object of neutralising the rise in the cost of living and also claimed, by citing dearness allowance paid by other companies, that the dearness allowance paid by the company was the lowest.	Reasoning
In para 125 of its written statement the company, on the other hand, pleaded that the existing scheme was fair, having regard to the scales of pay, allowances and other terms and conditions and said that it was agreeable to have a revised scheme set out therein if the workmen did not press for revising the wage scales.	Reasoning
In the revised scheme suggested by it, it adopted the variation percentages demanded by the workmen, but insisted that the minimum should remain the same, viz., Rs.	Reasoning
75/.	Reasoning
No doubt, neither the statement of claim by the union, nor the written statement of the company referred to the maximum and clearly for that reason the Tribunal also in its award did not refer to it and concerned itself with the contentions of the parties, (1) as to the basic bracket, (2) the percentages of variation (3) increase in the minimum.	Reasoning
16.	None
The principal controversy between the parties, as is clear from the opening paragraphs of the Judgment of the Labour Court, was whether the scheme of dearness allowance, as revised by the Tribunal, contained the ceiling.	Reasoning
As already stated, the case of respondent 1 was that he was entitled to the dearness allowance as set out in his application, that under the award there was no ceiling and that by paying Rs. 350/ per month, the company withheld from him the benefit accruing to him under the award.	Reasoning
The company, on the other hand, alleged that though the award revised the scheme of dearness allowance as prevailing in the company, it did not affect the existing ceiling of Rs. 350/, and therefore, there was no question of respondent 1 being deprived of any benefit due to him under the award.	Reasoning
Thus, the controversy between the parties before the Labour Court was whether there was a ceiling in the existing scheme, and if so, whether the Meher award did away with that ceiling.	Reasoning
17.	None
The award, of course, could not do away with such a ceiling, if it was there, unless demand No. 9 and the Reference to the Meher Tribunal based on that demand contained anything which required its deletion, or the demand was for a new scheme of dearness allowance altogether and not merely for a revision of the existing scheme.	Reasoning
It is true that neither demand No. 9 nor the Reference, nor the companys written statement before the Tribunal expressly mentioned the ceiling of Rs. 350/ per month.	Reasoning
But the companys case before the Labour Court clearly was that there did exist in the prevailing scheme such a ceiling, that it was not mentioned in its reply before the Tribunal because demand No. 9 raised no controversy about it, nor did it call upon the Tribunal to delete it and that the controversy between the parties in that Reference related only to the question as to the basic bracket, percentages of variation and the increase in the minimum.	Reasoning
18.	None
Upon such a case being before the Labour Court, that court had to and was competent to decide the question whether there was a ceiling in the existing scheme, and if so, whether it was deleted by the Tribunal, in other words, whether the demand was for doing away with the existing scheme and substituting it by a fresh scheme which had no ceiling.	Reasoning
For that purpose, the Labour Court had necessarily to examine demand No. 9, the Reference, the pleadings of the parties, and lastly, the Meher Award, and incidental to such an in quiry it had to examine the question whether there was a ceiling in the scheme existing at the time of that demand and reference.	Reasoning
(see in this connection Ramakrishna Ramnath v. Presiding Officer, Labour Court, Nagpur, (1970) 2 Lab LJ 305 (SC) ).	Reasoning
In doing so, the Labour Court had to examine the various stages the dearness allowance scheme had from time to time gone through.	Reasoning
19.	None
Admittedly, the Bakhale award did contain the maximum.	Reasoning
That scheme was revised by the circular dated November 16, 1953 by which the dearness allowance was linked with the cost of living and the maximum was raised from Rs. 165 to Rs. 300.	Reasoning
That award was terminated and a fresh demand in respect of dearness allowance was made on August 18, 1956.	Reasoning
The demand was that the scheme of dearness allowance at present in force should be revised on the following lines The demand resulted in the settlement dated August 30, 1957.	Reasoning
Neither the demand nor the settlement contained any reference to the maximum of Rs. 300/ although it did exist in the existing scheme.	Reasoning
The case of respondent 1 was that the said settlement did away with such a maximum and that from 1957 onwards there was no ceiling at all.	Reasoning
This case was seriously controverted by the company which produced before the Labour Court the circular, dated March 12, 1959, by which it said that the maximum was raised from Rs. 300/ to Rs.	Reasoning
350/ with effect from April 1, 1959.	Reasoning
The case of respondent 1 with regard to this contention of the company was (1) that no such circular was issued, at least to the knowledge of the union, and (2) that even if it was issued, it was confined to the officers of the company and did not apply to workmen.	Reasoning
The Labour Court held that interpretation by respondent 1 that it applied to officers alone was not correct.	Reasoning
The circular was issued to all offices of the company.	Reasoning
It applied to all the employees of the company as is evident from its para 2 which stated as followsDearness allowance will continue to be paid on usual basis at the rates applicable at each place subject to the maximum stated above.	Reasoning
It also stated that it superseded all other previous circulars.	Reasoning
If this circular was issued, as the Labour Court held it was there can be no doubt that (1) there was a ceiling in the scheme prevalent at that time, (2) that it was raised to Rs.	Reasoning
350/ and (3) that it applied to all the employees and not merely to the officers.	Reasoning
The Labour Court also accepted the companys case that the circular was notified on the notice board of the company and that that amounted to a notice of a change under section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Reasoning
In any event, the change did not adversely affect the workmen.	Reasoning
Nor was the question as to its validity before the Labour Court which used the circular as evidence of a ceiling existing in the scheme right from the time of the Bakhale award.	Reasoning
20.	None
If from all this evidence before it the Labour Court came to the conclusion that a ceiling existed in the scheme of dearness allowance prevailing in the company at all the various stages and that deletion of such a ceiling was not the subject matter of either demand No. 9 it or of the reference before the Meher Tribunal, and that its award was confined to the revision only of the existing scheme in the three matters earlier referred to, it is not possible to say, that the decision of the Labour Court suffered from an error apparent on the face of its decision in respect of which a certiorari can justifiably be issued under Art.	Reasoning
226.	Reasoning
The confines of jurisdiction under Art.	Reasoning
226 have been settled by a series of decisions of this Court, from among which we need mention only the case of Syed Yakoob v. K. S. Radhakrishnan, (1964) 5	Reasoning
SCR 64 (AIR 1964 SC 477 ).	Reasoning
There was no question of any estoppel also against the company against its raising the question of the ceiling in view of the finding by the Labour Court that the question of the ceiling was not the subjectmatter of the reference before the Meher Tribunal.	Reasoning
Such a conclusion of the Labour Court could not be interfered with by the High Court on any one of the wellknown grounds on which only such interference is permissible.	Reasoning
21.	None
The High Court, therefore, was not justified in interfering with the Labour Courts order under its writ jurisdiction.	Decision
The appeal has, therefore, to be allowed, and the writ petition of respondent 1 dismissed.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, however, we think it just that there should be no order as to costs.	Decision
22.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
