Bhan, J. The present appeal has been directed against the final judgment and order dated 16th August, 2001 passed by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Income Tax Reference No. 194/86 whereby the High Court has upheld the order passed by the Tribunal to the effect that the assessee was not entitled to deduction under Section 32(1)(iv) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short the Act).2.	Issue
The question involved in the present appeal relates to the correct interpretation of Section 32(1)(iv) of the Act and that whether in the facts and circumstances of the present case the assesseeappellant, a Chartered Accountants firm would be entitled to deduction under the said section.	Issue
The brief facts are as under The assessee (hereinafter referred to as the appellant) is a firm of Chartered Accountants in Ahmedabad.	Facts
The Assessment relates to the Year 198485 for the financial year ending on 31.03.1984.	Facts
During the relevant year the appellant constructed a building for the purpose of residence for its low paid employees and claimed initial depreciation 40 under Section 32(1)(iv) of the Act amounting to Rs.43,505/ on the actual cost of the building i.e. Rs.1,08,757/. The Income Tax Officer (ITO) vide its order dated 15.1.1985 rejected the claim of the assesseeappellant on the ground that the said provision is applicable to an assessee carrying on business and the same is not available to a professional.	Facts
The Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) for short CIT (A) by its order dated 30.4.1985 reversed the order of the Income Tax Officer relying upon the judgment of this Court in Barendra Prasad Ray V. Income Tax Officer, 1981 (2) SCC 693 , and allowed the claim of the appellant with the further direction to the Income Tax Officer to grant initial depreciation 40 for the building erected by the appellant for the residential purposes of its employees.5.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the order passed by the CIT(A), Revenue filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (for short the Tribunal).	Facts
The Tribunal reversed the order passed by the CIT (A) and restored the order passed by the ITO.	Facts
It was held that the appellant was not entitled to the relief claimed.	Facts
That the judgment in Barendra Prasad Ray (supra) was not applicable to the facts and circumstances of the present case.	Facts
That, Barendra Prasad Ray (supra) was decided by this Court in peculiar facts and circumstances prevailing in that case and the same was restricted to the facts prevalent therein.	Facts
It was also observed that in the said case, this Court was dealing with another provision, i.e., Section 9 of the Act and the observations made therein could not be applied to the facts of the present case.	Facts
The Tribunal also noted the difference between the provisions of Section 32(1) and Section 32(1)(iv) of the Act.	Facts
Aggrieved by the order passed by the Tribunal, the appellant filed a Reference Application under Section 256(1) of the Act before the Tribunal to refer certain questions of law to the jurisdictional High Court for its opinion.	None
The Tribunal referred the following question of law to the jurisdictional High Court for its opinion Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in law in holding that the assessee was not entitled to deduction under Section 32(1)(iv) of the Act?	Facts
The High Court by its impugned judgment has confirmed the order passed by the Tribunal and held that the appellant is not entitled to the deduction claimed by it under Section 32(1)(iv) of the Act on the ground that it was a firm of professionals, who do not come within the purview of Section 32(1)(iv) of the Act.	Facts
The relevant provisions of Section 32 of the Act, as they existed at the relevant time, are reproduced below Section 32  Depreciation(1)	None
In respect of depreciation of buildings, machinery, plant or furniture owned by the assessee and used for the purposes of the business or profession, the following deductions shall, subject to the provisions of Section 34, be allowed(i) xxx xxxx xxx(ii) in the case of buildings, machinery, plant or furniture, other than ships covered by clause (i), such percentage on the written down value thereof as may in any case or class of cases be prescribedProvided that where the actual cost of any machinery or plant does not exceed five thousand rupees, the actual cost thereof shall be allowed as a deduction in respect of the previous year in which such machinery or plant is first put to use by the assessee for the purposes of his business or professionProvided further that no deduction shall be allowed under this clause or clause (iii) in respect of any motor car manufactured outside India, where such motor car is acquired by the assessee after the 28th day of February, 1975, and is used otherwise than in a business of running it on hire for tourists(iia)	None
xxx xxx xxx(iii)	None
xxx xxx xxx(iv) in the case of any building which has been newly erected after the 31st day of March, 1961, where the building is used solely for the purpose of residence of persons employed in the business and the income of each such person chargeable under the head Salaries is ten thousand rupees or less, or where the building is used solely or mainly for the welfare of such persons as a hospital, creche, school, canteen, library, recreational centre, shelter, restroom or lunchroom, a sum equal to forty per cent of the actual cost of the building to the assessee in respect of the previous year of erection of the building.(v) xxxxxxxxxxxx(vi) xxxxxxxxxx	None
Shri Sameer Parekh, learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that Part D of the Act reads as Profit and Gains of Business or Profession.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, Section 32 relates both to business as also profession and since Section 32(1) of which (iv) is a sub clause, the assessee carrying on profession would be entitled to the depreciation under Section 32(1)(iv) though the word profession does not find mention in subclause (iv).	Arguments of Petitioner
That the words business and profession are defined separately under the Act business has been defined under Section 2(13) and profession under Section 2(36) and both the definitions are inclusive.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, Section 2 specifically reads in this Act, unless the context otherwise requires and therefore the definition under the Act are subject to the context and can be read interchangeably at least one term carrying on within its fold other term if the context so requires.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, the word business appearing in subclause (iv) of Section 32(1) in the context clearly refers to both business and profession.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, the word business is used in the context of employees and is clearly intended to cover both business as also profession.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that Section 32(1) (iv) should be given a purposive interpretation to extend the benefit to the professionals as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
That if two opinions are possible, then the one in favour of the assessee should be adopted.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in Barendra Prasad Rays case (supra), this Court in the context of Section 9 of the Act, has construed the words business connection to include professional connection as well.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was observed that the expression business does not necessarily mean trade or manufacture only and the same is used as including within its scope professions, vocations and callings from a long time.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that Barendra Prasad Rays case (supra) was clearly applicable to the facts of the present case and the High Court has erred in distinguishing the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this Mr. V. Shekhar, learned senior counsel appearing for the Revenue, submits that Section 32(1)(iv) specifically refers to and meant for assessees who are in business.	Arguments of Respondent
The same cannot be made applicable to professionals, as there is no reference in this subclause to the assessees who are in profession.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, the assessees who are carrying on profession would be deemed to be excluded by the Statute.	Arguments of Respondent
That the assessees who are not in profession are entitled to the benefit of Section 32(1) of the Act which is meant for the assessees carrying on business only.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, subsection (1) of Section 32 lays down general conditions or basic requirements on fulfillment of which an assessee shall become eligible for deduction as provided in the various clauses which follow.	Arguments of Respondent
That, from the scheme of the section various clauses would operate on further specific conditions laid down in each such individual clause(s).	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that though Section 32(1) refers to both business and profession, the subsections, namely, (i) and (iv) would not be controlled by it.	Arguments of Respondent
That Barendra Prasad Rays case (supra) has no application to the facts of the instant case.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, in the said case, this Court was dealing with a situation arising under Section 9 of the Act which deals with income deemed to accrue or arise in India.	Arguments of Respondent
That the said Section operates in an entirely different field while Section 32 including the surrounding section and subsections operate in different field.	Arguments of Respondent
That the ratio of the said judgment cannot be imported to the fact situation in the present case and the High Court has rightly distinguished the same.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not find much substance in the submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant.	Reasoning
Section 32(1) of the Act does not help the appellant in any way to construe the word business appearing in subsection 32(1)(iv) to include profession as well.	Reasoning
The legislature intended to have different scope for business and profession in Section 32(1).	Reasoning
If the legislature had intended to include profession in the word business, then there was no need to mention two different words, i.e., business or profession in Section 32(1) of the Act.13. Section 32(1) stipulates that on buildings, machinery, plant or furniture which is owned by an assessee and used for the purposes of business or profession, depreciation shall be available by way of deduction.	Reasoning
Section 32(1) uses the phrase the following deductions shall, therefore it is apparent that the said subsection is laying down general conditions or basic requirements, on fulfillment of which, an assessee shall become eligible for deductions as provided in the various clauses which follow.	Reasoning
The learned counsel appearing for the Revenue has rightly contended that from the Scheme of the Section it is discernible that various clauses shall operate on further specific conditions laid down in each individual clause.	Reasoning
Clause (i) deals with case of ships other than ships ordinarily plying on inland waters, clause (ii) pertains to buildings, machinery, plant or furniture, other than ships and is applicable to both business and profession in regard to the claim for depreciation in respect of the building , machinery, plant or furniture.	Reasoning
In clause (iv) the legislature has used the word business only.	Reasoning
It means that the legislature was conscious of the fact that the business and profession are different and separate and they cannot be used interchangeably.	Reasoning
It is a pointer to the fact that the Legislature under clause (iv) intended to restrict the benefit to the assessees carrying on business only.	Reasoning
In subclause (ii) the legislature has specifically extended the benefit of depreciation to the assessees carrying on business as well as profession whereas in subsection (iv), the legislature has restricted the benefit to the asseessees carrying on business only.	Reasoning
This Court rendered the decision in Barendra Prasad Rays case (supra) in the context of Section 9(1), wherein the Court, after discussing the case laws, definitions, dictionary meanings, concluded as under The word business is one of wide import and it means an activity carried on continuously and systematically by a person by the application of his labour or skill with a view to earning an income.	None
We are of the view that in the context in which the expression business connection is used in s.9(1) of the Act, there is no warrant for giving a restricted meaning to it excluding professional connections from its scope.	None
In Barendra Prasad Rays case (supra), this Court was interpreting the expression business connection as used in Section 9(1) of the Act and held that there was no warrant for giving a restricted meaning to it to exclude professional connections from its scope.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 9(1) deals with a different situation.	None
It occurs in Chapter II of the Act, while Section 32 occurs in Part D of Chapter IV of the Act.	None
This decision was rendered on the peculiar facts and circumstance of the said case and has to be restricted to the situation prevailing therein.	None
It cannot be applied to every case irrespective of its facts.	None
Section 32 finds place in Chapter IV, Part D of the Act which deals with profits and gains of business or professions.	None
The wording of two provisions, i.e., Section 9(1) and Section 32 of the Act are quite different and the interpretation put on the words business connection while interpreting Section 9(1), cannot be applied to a fact situation under Section 32(1)(iv) to hold that the expression business occurring in Section 32(1)(iv) would include profession as well.	None
As already observed, Section 32(1) lays down the general conditions or basic requirements on fulfillment of which an assessee shall become eligible for deduction as provided under various clauses which follow.	Arguments of Respondent
Clauses (i), (ii) and (iv) operate in different fields and deal with different set of assessees for the purposes of claiming depreciation.	None
In our opinion Barendra Prasad Rays case (supra) has no application in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
Part D consists of Sections 28 to 43 of the Act which deals with profits and gains of business or profession.	None
Though the phrase has been used in certain sections as business or profession, but nowhere has the phrase been used as the business and profession.	None
In fact, wherever the legislature intended that the benefit of a particular provision should be for both business or profession, it has used the words business or profession and wherever it intended to restrict the benefit to either business or profession, then the legislature has used the word either business or profession, meaning thereby that it intended to extend the benefit to either business or profession, i.e., the one would not include the other.	None
We agree with the submission made by the counsel for the appellant that in view of the settled law, if two interpretations are possible, then the one in favour of the assessee should be adopted.	Reasoning
But, we are of the view that in the present case two interpretations are not possible as the word business occurring in clause (iv) of Section 32(1), by no stretch of imagination, can be said to include profession as well.	Reasoning
If the expression business is interpreted as including within its scope profession, it would not mean that the lacuna has been made good by giving a wider interpretation to the word business.	Reasoning
There is nothing in Section 32(1)(iv) which envisages the scope of word business to include in it profession as well.	Reasoning
If the expression business is interpreted to include within its scope profession as well, it would be doing violence to the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Such interpretation would amount to first creating an imaginative lacuna and then filling it up, which is not permissible in law.	Reasoning
The contention of the counsel for the appellant that Section 32(1)(iv) should be given purposive interpretation to include profession, has thus to be rejected.19.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, we do not find any merit in the appeal and dismiss the same, leaving the parties to bear their own costs.	Decision
