 Shivaraj V. Patil, J. Civil Appeal No. 9445 of 1996 In the light of the contentions raised and submissions made on behalf of the parties, the issue that arises for consideration and decision in this appeal is whether the Trust  Sai Publication Fund, which has been set up by some devotees of Saibaba of Shridi for spreading his message, can be held to be a dealer in respect of sale of books, booklets, pamphlets, photos, stickers and other publications containing message of Saibaba and the turnover of such publication can be assessed to sales tax under the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 (for short the Act).	Issue
The relevant and material facts, leading to filing of this appeal in brief, are that the assessee (the respondent herein) is a Trust created by four devotees of Saibaba of Shridi under a trust deed dated 6.8.1984.	None
The object of the Trust is to spread message of Saibaba of Shridi.	Facts
In furtherance of and to accomplish the said object, the assessee publishes books, pamphlets and other literature containing the message of Saibaba under the aegis of Sai Publications which are available to the devotees of Saibaba on nominal charge to meet the cost.	Facts
The sale proceeds of such publication goes to the Trust and forms part of the property of the Trust, which can be utilized only for advancement of the objects of the Trust.	Facts
There is a specific provision in the trust deed that in the event of failure of the Trust to carry on its aims and objects, the remaining fund in its hands would be handed over to Sansthanam of Shridi.	Facts
In order to avoid any controversy relating to leviability of sales tax on the amount received on sale of such publications, an application was made by the Trust under Section 52(1)(a) of the Act seeking determination of the questions whether the Trust could be said to be carrying on business as defined in Section 2(5A) of the Act and whether it could be considered as a dealer within the meaning of Section 2(11) of the Act.	Facts
The Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax by his order dated 28.9.1989 held that the activity of publication and sale of books etc. amounted to business falling within the ambit of Section 2(5A) and the Trust was a dealer coming within the meaning of Section 2(11) of the Act.	Facts
Consequently, he held that the Trust was liable to pay sales tax on the value of publications sold by it.	Facts
What weighed with the Deputy Commissioner in passing the said order was the amendment of the definition of business in Section 2(5A) of the Act by the Maharashtra Tax Laws (Levy, Amendment Repeal) Act, 1989 with retrospective effect from 16.8.1985 to provide that even without profit motive, it can still be business.	Facts
In the appeal filed before the Maharashtra Sales Tax Tribunal against the said order of the Deputy Commissioner, it was contended on behalf of the Trust that it was not a dealer within the meaning of Section 2(11) of the Act as it was not engaged in any activity which amounted to business in view of the object and activities of the Trust.	Facts
The Revenue supported the order of the Deputy Commissioner relying on the amendment of the definition of business as a result of which profit motive was immaterial.	Facts
The Tribunal, after due consideration of rival submissions looking to the object of the Trust and the nature of its activities, concluded that the assessee could not be held to be a dealer and as such no tax could be levied on the amount received by it from the sale of its publications.	Facts
At the instance of the Revenue, reference was made under Section 61(1) of the Act by the Tribunal to the High Court for its opinion on the following question Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and correct interpretation of the provisions of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959, as amended by Maharashtra Act No. 9 of 1989, dispensing with the profit motive from the concept of the business was the Tribunal justified in holding that the respondent is not a dealer qua its activities of publication and sale of books, booklets and allied publications including photos and strikers?	Facts
The High Court on consideration of the relevant provisions of the Act, facts of the case and keeping in view the decisions cited, answered the aforementioned question referred by the Tribunal in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.	Facts
Hence, the present appeal by the Revenue.	Facts
7.	None
Shri S.K. Dholakia, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant contended that the definition of business is wide and inclusive definition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Despite the same, the High Court committed a serious error of law in taking a view that business activity must still be one which ordinary connotation is regarded as business this is clearly against the legislative intent.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, on the facts that the Trust purchases necessary material and brings some publications and sells the same when profit motive is immaterial having regard to the amended definition of Section 2(5A) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Senior Counsel emphasized that the activity of the Trust in bringing out publications and selling them is regular, frequent, of sizeable volume and continuous.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the assessee was liable to pay sales tax on the amount realized by such sale of its publications.	Arguments of Petitioner
Citing the decision of this Court in Board of Revenue Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. A.M. Ansari Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1976) 3 SCC 512) he submitted that all ingredients of business are satisfied in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that New Delhi Municipal Council vs. State of Punjab Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1997) 7 SCC 339) and State of T.N. Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. Board of Trustees of the Port of Madras (1999) 4 SCC 630) also come to his aid to support his contention.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
Shri Joseph Vellapally, learned Senior Counsel, appearing for the respondent in the connected Civil Appeal No. 1716/1999 argued supporting the impugned judgment while adding that the controversy raised in this appeal is fully covered by the recent judgment of this Court State of T.N. and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
vs. Board of Trustees of the Port of Madras (supra), the very decision cited by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellant.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel for the respondent in this appeal, while adopting the arguments of Shri Vellapally, made submissions supporting the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
9.	None
At the outset, it is useful to notice few provisions of the Act to the extent they are relevant in order to appreciate the respective contentions relating to the controversy that has arisen.	None
S.2(5A) Business includes any trade, commerce or manufacture or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture whether or not such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern is carried on with a motive to make gain or profit and whether or not any gain or profit accrues from such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern and any transaction in connection with, or incidental or ancillary to, the commencement or closure of such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern S.2(11) Dealer means any person who whether for commission, remuneration or otherwise carries on the business of buying or selling goods in the State, and includes the Central Government, or any State Government which carries on such business, and also any society, club or other association of persons which buys goods from or sells goods to its members S.2(19) Person includes any company or association or body of individual whether incorporated or not, and also a Hindu undivided family, a firm and a local authority.	None
S.3 Incident of tax  (1)	None
Every dealer whose turnover either of all sales or of all purchases, made during  (i) the year ending on the 31st day of March 1991 or, (ii) the year commencing on the 1st day of April, 1981, has exceeded or exceeds the relevant limit specified in subsection (4) shall until such liability ceases under subsection (3), be liable to pay tax under this Act on his turnover of sales, and on his turnover of purchases, made on or after the notified days The contention that the Trust in question is dealer within the meaning of Section 2(11) read with Section 2(5A) requires careful scrutiny.	None
As is evident from Section 2(11), every person is not dealer but only those persons who carry on the business by buying or selling goods are regarded as dealers.	Reasoning
From the very definition of dealer, it follows that a person would not be a dealer in respect of the goods sold or purchased by him unless he carries on the business of buying and selling such goods.	None
Dealer and person are separately defined in Section 2(11) and Section 2(19) of the Act respectively.	None
Person means not only natural person but includes any company or association or body of individuals whether incorporated or not and also a Hindu Undivided Family, a firm or a local authority whereas dealer on the other hand means only such persons who carry on the business of buying and selling of goods in the State including those who are deemed to be dealers by virtue of definition of dealer contained in Section 2(11) of the Act.	None
As rightly noticed by the High Court, it is clear from charging Section 3 that every dealer, whose turnover of sale or purchase during any year exceeds the limits specified therein, is liable to payment of tax under the Act on his turnover of sales or purchases.	None
Although the Act provides for levy of tax on the sales or purchases of certain goods in the State of Maharashtra, the levy is restricted only to sales or purchases made by dealers.	None
As is manifest from Section 3 itself, the liability to pay sales tax is only on the dealers.	None
From the combined reading of Section 3, 2(5A) and 2(11) of the Act, it follows that the tax under the Act is leviable on the sales or purchases of taxable goods by a dealer and not by every person.	None
From the facts of the present case, the sole object of the assessee Trust is to spread the message of Siababa of Shridi.	None
It is also not disputed that the books and literature etc.	None
containing the message of Saibaba were distributed by the Trust to the devotees of Saibaba at cost price.	None
There is no dispute that the primary and dominant activity of the Trust is to spread the message of Saibaba.	None
This main activity does not amount to business.	None
The activity of publishing and selling literature, books and other literature is obviously incidental or ancillary to the main activity of spreading message of Saibaba and not to any business as such even without profit motive and it is in a way a means to achieve the object of the Trust through which message of Saibaba is spread.	None
It is clear from the Trust Deed and objects contained therein that it was not established with an intention of carrying on the business occupation of selling or supplying goods.	None
This being the position, it cannot be said that the Trust carries on the business of selling and supplying goods so as to fall within the meaning of dealer under Section 2(11) of the Act.	None
No doubt, the definition of business given in Section 2(5A) of the Act even without profit motive is wide enough to include any trade, commerce or manufacture or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture and any transaction in connection with or incidental or ancillary to the commencement or closure of such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern.	Reasoning
If the main, activity is not business, when any transaction incidental or ancillary would not normally amount to business unless an independent intention to carry on business in the incidental or ancillary activity is established.	Reasoning
In such cases, the onus of proof of an independent intention to carry on business connected with or incidental or ancillary sales will rest on the Department.	Reasoning
Thus, if the main activity of a person is not trade, commerce etc., ordinarily incidental or ancillary activity may not come within the meaning of business.	Reasoning
To put it differently, the inclusion of incidental or ancillary activity in the definition of business presupposes the existence of trade, commerce etc.	Reasoning
The definition of dealer contained in Section 2(11) of the Act clearly indicates that in order to hold a person to be a dealer, he must carry on business and then only he may also be deemed to be carrying on business in respect of transaction incidental or ancillary thereto.	Reasoning
We have stated above that the main and dominant activity of the Trust in furtherance of its object is to spread message.	Reasoning
Hence, such activity does not amount to business.	Reasoning
Publication for the purpose of spreading message is incidental to the main activity which the Trust does not carry as business.	Reasoning
In this view, the activity of the Trust in bringing out publications and selling them at cost price to spread message of Saibaba does not make it a dealer under Section 2(11) of the Act.	Reasoning
This Court in State of T.N. Anr.	None
vs. Board of Trustees of the Port of Madras (supra), after referring to various decisions in regard to business and carrying on business in paras 15 and 16 has stated thus Now the definition of business in Section 2(d) and in most of the sales tax statutes is an inclusive definition and includes trade or business or manufacture etc.	None
This itself shows that the legislature has recognized that the word business is wider that the words trade, commerce or manufacture etc., The word business though extensively used is a word of indefinite import.	None
In taxing statutes, it is normally used in the sense of an occupation, a profession  which occupies time, attention and labour of a person, normally with a profit motive and there must be a course of dealings, either actually continued or contemplated to be continued with a profit motive and not for sport or pleasure (State of A.P. vs. H. Abdul Bakhi Bros. (AIR 1965 SC 531 ).	None
Even if such profit motive is statutory excluded from the definition of business, yet the person could be doing business.	None
The words carrying on business require something more than merely selling or buying etc.	None
Whether a person carries a business in a particular commodity must depend upon the volume, frequently, continuity and regularity of transactions of purchase and sale in a class of goods and the transactions must or ordinarily be entered into with a profit motive (Board of Revenue vs. A.M. Ansari  (1976) 3 SCC 512) .	None
Such profit motive may, however, be statutorily excluded from the definition of business but still the person may be carrying on business.	None
Further in para 30 of the same judgment, it is stated thus In our view, if the main activity was not business, then the connected, incidental or ancillary activities of sales would not normally amount to business unless an independent intention to conduct business in these connected, incidental or ancillary activities is established by the Revenue.	None
It will then be necessary to find out whether the transactions which are connected, incidental or ancillary are only an infinitesimal or small part of the main activities.	None
In other words, the presumption will be that these connected, incidental or ancillary activities of sale are not business and the onus of proof of an independent intention to do business in these connected, incidental and ancillary sales will rest on the Department.	Reasoning
If, for example, these connected incidental or ancillary transactions are so large as to render the main activity infinitesimal or very small, then of course the case would fall under the first category referred to earlier.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In the case on hand, the Revenue neither contended nor proved that in sale of publications the Trust had an independent intention to do business as incidental or as an ancillary activity.	None
This Court in the aforementioned judgment further examined the cases to find out if the main activity was not business.	None
In para 32, reference is made to the case of Bombay High Court in State of Bombay vs. Ahmedabad Education Society 1956 7 STC 497 (Bom) .	None
In that case, the educational society was entrusted with the task of founding a college and for that purpose it was to construct building therefor.	None
It was held that it could not be said to be carrying on business merely because for the above purposes, it established a brick kiln and sold surplus bricks and scrap at cost price without intending to make profit or gain.	None
Having regard to main activities and its objects, it was held that the educational society was not established to carry on business and the sale of bricks was held not excisable to sales tax.	None
Chagla C.J. pointed out that it was not merely the act of selling or buying etc. that constituted a person a dealer but the object of the person who carried on the activities was important.	None
It was further stated that it was not every activity or any repeated activity resulting in sale or supply of goods that would attract sales tax.	None
If legislature intended to tax every sale or purchase irrespective of the object of the activities out of which the transaction arose, then it was unnecessary to state that the person must carry on business of selling, buying etc.	None
In para 33 of the same judgment, this Court has referred to various decision to consider whether one is a dealer or carries on business and the nature and object of activity.	None
The said para reads thus In Girdharilal Jiwanlal vs. CST (1957) 8 STC 732 (Bom) , the Bombay High Court held that an agriculturist did not necessarily fall within the definition of a dealer under Section 2(c) of the C.P. Berer Sales Tax Act (Act 21 of 1967), merely because he sold or supplied commodities.	None
It must be shown that he was carrying on a business.	None
It was held that it must be established that his primary intention in engaging himself in such activities must be to carry on the business of sale or supply of agricultural produce.	None
This High Court held that there was  nothing to show that the petitioner acquired these lands with a view to doing the business of selling or supplying agricultural produce.	None
According to (the assessee) he (was) principally an agriculturist who also deals in cotton, coal, oilseeds and groundnuts.	None
(emphasis supplied).	None
He was having agriculture for the purpose of earning income from the fields but there was nothing to show that he acquired the lands with the primary intention of doing business of selling or buying agricultural produce.	None
This decision was approved by this Court in Dy.	None
Commissioner of Agricultural Income Tax Sales Tax.	None
vs. Travancore Rubber Tea Co. (1967) 20 STC 520 (SC) and it was held that where the only facts established were that the assessee converted latex tapped from rubber trees into sheets and effects a sale of those sheets to its customers, the conversion of latex into sheets being a process essential for transport and marketing of the produce, the Department had failed to prove that the assessee was formed with a commercial purpose.	None
The Allahabad High in Swadeshi Cotton Mills Co. Ltd. vs. STO (1964) 15 STC 505 (All) was dealing with a batch of cases where different bodies were running canteens.	None
One of the cases concerned Aligarh Muslim University which was maintaining dining halls where it was serving food and refreshments to its residentstudents.	None
It was held, referring to observations of this Court in University of Delhi vs. Ram Nath AIR 1963 SC 1873 that it was incongruous to call educational activities of the University as amounting to carrying on business.	None
The activity of serving food in the dining hall was a minor part of the overall activity of the university.	None
Education was more a mission and avocation rather than a profession or trade or business.	None
The aim of education was the creation of a welleducated, healthy, young generation imbued with a rational and progressive outlook of life.	None
On this reasoning, it was held that Aligarh University was not carrying on business and the sale of food at the dining halls was not liable to tax.	None
Likewise after the amendment of the definition of business question arose in Indian Institute of Technology vs. State of U.P. (1976) 38 STC 428 (All) with respect to the visitors hostel maintained by the Indian Institute of Technology where lodging and boarding facilities were provided to persons who would come to the Institute in connection with education and the academic activities of the Institute.	None
It was observed that the statutory obligation of maintenance or the hostel which involved supply and sale of food was an integral part of the objects of the Institute.	None
Nor could the running of the hostel be treated as the principal activity of the Institute.	None
The Institute could not not be held to be doing business.	None
Similarly, in the case of a research organization, in Dy. Commissioner (C.T.) vs. South India Textile Research Assn. (1978) 41 STC 197) (Mad) which was purchasing cotton and selling the cotton yarn cotton waste resulting from the research activities, it was held that the Institute was solely and exclusively constituted for the purposes of research and was not carrying on business and these sales and purchases abovementioned could not be subjected to sales tax.	None
Likewise, in State of T.N. vs. Cement Research Institute of India (1992) 86	None
STC 124 (Mad) it was held that the Institute was an organisation the objects of which were to promote research and other scientific work that the laboratories and workshops were maintained by the organization for conducting experiments and that though the cement manufactured as a result of research was sold, it could not be considered to be a trading activity within Section 2(d) of the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, 1959.	None
Again in Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam vs. State of Madras (1972) 29	None
STC 266 (Mad) the disputes arose with regard to the sales of silverware etc. which are customarily deposited in the hundis by devotees.	None
It was held by the Madras High Court that the Devasthanams main activities were religious in nature and these sales were not liable to tax.	None
(No doubt, the case related to a period where the profit motive was not excluded by statute).	None
We are of the view that all these decisions involve the general principle that the main activity must be business and these rulings do support the case of the respondentPort Trust.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
This decision is directly on the point supporting the case of the respondent after noticing number of decisions on the point including the decisions cited by the learned counsel before us.	None
It may be stated that the question of profit motive to nor profit move would be relevant only where person carries on trade, commerce, manufacture or adventure in the nature of trade, commerce etc.	None
On the facts and in the circumstances of the present case irrespective of the profit motive, it could not be said that the Trust either was dealer or was carrying on trade, commerce etc.	Reasoning
The Trust is not carrying on trade, commerce etc., in the sense of occupation to be a dealer as its main object is to spread message of Saibaba of Shridi as already noticed above.	Reasoning
Having regard to all aspects of the matter, the High Court was right in answering the question referred by the Tribunal in the affirmative and in favour of the respondentassessee.	Reasoning
We must however add here that whether a particular person is a dealer and whether he carries on business, are the matters to be decided on facts and in the circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
For what is stated above, we answer the question set out in the beginning in the negative and in favour of the respondentassessee and dismiss the appeal finding no merit in it but with no order as to costs.	Reasoning
Civil Appeal No. 1716 of 1999 The impugned order was passed by the Tribunal relying on the judgment of the Bombay High Court in the case of Sai Publication Fund impugned in abovementioned C.A. No. 9445/96.	Reasoning
The learned counsel also submitted that the result of this appeal depended on the decision in said C.A. No. 9445/96 as the facts and circumstances of both the cases are similar.	Reasoning
Consequently, in view of the dismissal of the C.A.	Decision
No. 9445/96, this appeal is also dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
