 Hidayatulah, CJ.	None
(on behalf of himself, Mitter, Ray and Jaganmohan Reddy, JJ.)1.	None
These are petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution by the Coffee Board, Bangalore directed against the Joint Commercial Tax Officer, Madras and the State of Tamil Nadu questioning the demand of Sales Tax on certain transactions of sales which the Board claims are sales in the course of export of Coffee out of India and thus not liable to Sales Tax.	None
A preliminary objection was taken at the hearing that the petitions do not lie since no question of a fundamental right is involved.	None
We shall deal with the preliminary objection later as the main petition and the preliminary objection are interlinked.	None
But before we mention the points in controversy it is necessary to state the facts more fully.2.	None
The petitioner is a statutorily constituted body and functions under the Coffee Act, 1942 (VII of l942).	Facts
This Act was passed to provide for the development under the Control of the Union of the Coffee Industry.	Facts
Its main function is to constitute a Coffee Board.	Facts
Previously there was an Ordinance intituled the Indian Coffee Market Expansion Ordinance, 1940 (13 of 1940).	Facts
A Board called the Indian Coffee Market Expansion Board was constituted under the Ordinance.	Facts
The same Board now continues under the name Coffee Board.	Facts
On this Board, all interests are represented and some members of Parliament and Officers of Government have also places Sections 4 to 10 of the Act are concerned with the setting up of the Board.	Facts
As nothing turns upon the constitution of the Board, it is not necessary to give the gist of those sections here.	Facts
The Act imposes duties of Customs and Excise  the former on all coffee produced in India and exported from India and the latter on coffee released by the Board for sale in India from its surplus pool.	Facts
The Act compels the registration of all owners of coffee Estates and licensing of curers and dealers.	Facts
The Act next imposes a control on the sale, export and reimport of coffee into India.	Facts
In respect of sale, it fixes prices for sale of coffee either wholesale or retail by registered owners and licensed curers for the purpose of sale in the Indian Market.	Facts
The Board fixes internal sale quota for each Estate owner and the owner has to observe this quota and also the price fixed.	Facts
The registered owner may not sell coffee unless it has been cured by a licensed establishment or it is sold uncured under a special licence.	Facts
The Act next prohibits the export of coffee from India otherwise than by the Board or under the authorization granted by the Board.	Facts
To this restriction, there are a few minor exceptions such as coffee in specified quantities may be exported by taking on board ships or aircrafts intended for consumption of the crew and the passengers or carried by a passenger for his own use or exported for special purposes specified by the Central Government.	Facts
The Government is authorised to specify the total quantity of coffee to be exported during any year.	Facts
Coffee once exported cannot be reimported into India except under a permit.	Facts
The registered owners are required to furnish periodical returns and to furnish such information as may be prescribed.	Facts
Every registered owner after dealing with the coffee for sale in Indian markets up to the internal quota fixed for him must hand over to the Board all surplus coffee to be included in the Boards Surplus Pool.	Facts
Similarly, curing establishments are required to surrender to the Board all surplus coffee.	Facts
Small producers may, however, be exempted from the operation of this condition.	Facts
After the coffee is delivered to the Board, the control of the Board begins.	Facts
The Board classifies the coffee and assesses its value based on its quantity, kind and quality.	Facts
Once the coffee is delivered to the Board, the registered owner or the licensed curer has no rights over the coffee except to receive its price in accordance with Section 34 of the Act.3.	Facts
We are not concerned in this petition with any internal sales.	None
The Board has elected to make monthly returns and in these petitions taxes on sales made in March and April, 1969 are challenged.	None
Provisional assessments have been made and demand for taxes held due after allowing credit for taxes already paid, has been made by the respondents under the Madras General Sales Tax Act. 1959.	None
Of these certain sales are claimed to be exempted from Sales Tax under the Madras Act by reason of those being in the course of export of coffee out of India.	None
The Taxing authorities held that those sales took mace within Tamil Nadu State and were thus liable to sales tax under the Tamil Nadu Act.	None
The point of difference arises thusThe Coffee Board follows a procedure for selling coffee which is to be exported out of India.	None
Coffee for export is specially screened and selected.	None
It is then exposed in auctions specially held for the purpose.	None
These auctions are known as Export Auctions.	None
To be able to bid on these occasions, exporters have to get themselves registered.	None
The Board maintains a list of registered exporters and gives to each of them a permit which authorises him to take part in the export auction.	None
A specimen of the permit granted with the conditions attaching to it is exhibited as Annexure I.	None
The conditions which are imposed by the permit require a security deposit and a standing deposit from the registered exporter.	None
The security may be in cash or by a guarantee from a bank or Life Insurance Corporation of India.	None
It is provided that the permit is liable to be withdrawn and cancelled by the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer if it is found that the permit holder has sold or attempted to sell coffee bought by him at the export auctions, within the internal market without the written permission of the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer.	None
Similar cancellation is liable to take place ii some of the other conditions of the permit are not followed.	None
The Coffee Board has also prepared a set of rules which incorporate the terms and conditions on sale of coffee in the course of export.	None
These rules have been exhibited as Annexure II and they deal with the conduct of auctions and the procedure to be followed therein.	None
They also provide for additional conditions.	None
Rule 4 provides that only dealers who have registered themselves as exporters of coffee with the Coffee Board and who hold permits from the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer in that behalf will be permitted to participate in the auctions.	None
Agents may, however, participate on behalf of exporters but only for one principal at a time.	None
Before the auction, the registered dealer or the agents must show the permit issued to him or have it in his custody for production, if so desired.	None
Before the auction is held, a catalogue of lots of coffee to be put up for auction is issued with the reserve price fixed by the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer in his discretion.	None
Samples of Coffee are available for prospective buyers.	None
An auction in the usual way takes place but no one is allowed to retract a bid once made.	None
The highest bid is ordinarily accepted but if there are reasons to believe that the highest or any particular bid is not bona fide or genuine or is the outcome of concerted action for the purpose of controlling or manipulating prices or for other improper purposes or that the bidder is not likely to fulfil his contract or is otherwise undesirable, the bid may be rejected.	None
After the bidding comes to an end and the bids have been accepted the payment of price takes place in a particular way.	None
We are not concerned with other provisions dealing with failure to fulfil the obligation as to payment of price, etc., objections to quality and so on.	None
We are concerned with condition No. 26 which is headed Export Guarantee.	None
This condition is vital in the consideration of the questions involved in this case and may be quoted26.	None
It is an essential condition of this Auction that the coffee sold thereat shall be exported to the destination stipulated in the Catalogue of lots, or to any other foreign country outside India as may be approved by the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer, within three months from the date of Notice of Tender issued by the Agent and that it shall not under any circumstances be diverted to another destination, sold, or be disposed of, or otherwise released in India.	None
The aforesaid period may, on application by the Buyer, be extended by the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer in his discretion if he is satisfied that there is good ground to do so, subject nevertheless to the condition that as consideration for such extension, the Buyer shall pay the following additional amounts to the Board . . .	None
The buyer is free to export the coffee either by himself or through any Forwarding Agent but the coffee must not be sold to the Forwarding Agents.	None
In other words, the buyer himself arranges for the export of the coffee he has purchased at the auction and condition 29 imposes an obligation on the buyer to produce immediately after shipping evidence of the export of the coffee to the Chief Marketing Officer.	None
If such evidence is not produced within a period of 60 days after the time allowed to make the export, the registered exporter is deemed to have committed a default and the provisions of conditions 30 and 31 then apply to him.	None
These conditions are as follows30.	None
If the Buyer fails or neglects to export the coffee as aforesaid within the prescribed time or within the period of extension, if any, granted to him, he shall be liable to pay a penalty calculated at Rs. 50/ per 50 kilos which shall be deductible from out of the amount payable to him as per Clause 31.31.	None
On default by the Buyer to export the coffee aforesaid within the prescribed time or such extension thereof as may be granted, it shall be lawful for the Chief Coffee Marketing Officer, without reference to the buyer to seize the unexpected coffee and for that purpose to make entry into any building, godown or warehouse where the said coffee may be stored, and take possession of the same and deal with it as if it were part and parcel of Boards coffee held by them in their Poo1 Stock.	None
4. Conditions 33 and 34 provide for inspection of coffee stocks and accounts and the buyer is required to send weekly returns.	None
Other conditions need not be noticed here because they have no bearing upon the rival cases.	None
The case of the petitioners is that the purchases at the export auctions are really sales by the Coffee Board in the course of export of coffee out of the territory of India since the sales themselves occasion the export of coffee and coffee so sold is not intended for use in India or for sale in the Indian markets.	None
The case of the Sales Tax Authorities is that these sales are not inextricably bound up with the export of coffee and that the sales must be treated as sales taking place within the State of Tamil Nadu which are liable to sales tax under the Madras General Sales Tax Act.	None
The dispute is confined to this aspect of the matter on merits.	None
The preliminary objection to which we referred earlier is only this that the petitions do not show a breach of a fundamental right.	None
The petitioners only claim the benefit of the exemptions incorporated in the Constitution or the statute dealing with the levy and collection of sales tax, and their grievance can be investigated and righted by taking recourse to the appellate, revisional and other remedies under the relevant statute.	None
We shall begin by considering the preliminary objection.5.	None
The preliminary objection consists of two parts.	None
The first part questions the standing of the petitioner to move this Court for the enforcement of its socalled fundamental rights.	None
It is argued that the petitioner being a Corporation, has no right to move this Court for the enforcement of fundamental right to hold, acquire and dispose of property since this right is available only to individuals who are citizens and a Corporation is not a citizen.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed upon State Trading Corporation of India Ltd. v Commercial Tax Officer, Visakhapatnam, (1964) 4	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 99 (AIR 1963 SC 1811 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
The second part is that there is ample provision for remedies under the Sales Tax Act to question the assessment and a petition under Art 32 ignoring those provisions should not be entertained.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case of the State Trading Corporation (1964) 4 SCR 99 (AIR 1963 SC 1811 ) considered the application of Art. 19 (1) (f) in relation to Corporations.	None
It was held that Corporations could not be regarded as citizens for the purpose of Article 19 since that article is concerned with citizens and corporations have not been declared citizens by the Constitution.	None
The question was not considered in relation to Art.	None
31 (1).	None
Some other petitions by Corporations complaining of breach of Article 31 (1) were entertained by this Court and the petitioner before us relies on those cases as precedents.	None
The true position may therefore be stated.6.	None
Property as a fundamental right is mentioned in the Constitution in Articles 19 (1) (f) 31, 31 (A) and 31 (B).	None
In Article 19 (1) (f) it is provided 19.	None
Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.(1) All citizens shall have the right (f) to acquire, hold and dispose of property and 7.	None
To this subclause there is a proviso in Clause (5) which states that nothing in Clause (f) shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevents the State from making any law imposing, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred, either in the interests of the general public or for the protection of the interests of any Scheduled Tribe.	None
The main clause of the Article recognises the institution of private property with all the concomitants of that institution, named, the acquisition, holding and disposal of property.	None
The proviso recognises, in the public interest, restrictions on the right in existing law or hereafter to be imposed by law.	None
The institution of property thus recognised leaves freedom to acquire any kind of property except the one in relation to which there is a restrictive law.	None
Thus it is that certain kinds of properties such as Narcotic drugs, explosives, property in excess of ceiling placed by law, etc. cannot be acquired or held.	None
This restriction curtails the general right and the curtailment must justify itself as a law in the public interest.	None
Next we have Articles 31, 31 (A) and 31 (B).	None
They occur in a section of Part III entitled Rights to Property.	None
The first of these three Articles deals with compulsory acquisition of property.	None
The second and third deal with saving of laws providing for acquisition of Estates, etc., and validation of certain Acts and Regulations declared void by Courts.	None
Two fundamental concepts in Article 31 are (a) that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law and (b) no property shall be compulsorily acquired or requisitioned save for a public purpose and save by authority of law which itself fixes the amount of compensation or specifies the principles on which compensation is to be determined and given and the manner thereof.	None
Other provisions either restrict or amplify the operation of these two fundamental concepts.	None
In Smt.	None
Ujjam Bais case, (1963) l SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ), the question was whether assessment of Sales Tax under a valid Act was open to challenge under Article 32 on the ground of misconstruction of the Act or a notification under it.	None
It was held that the answer was in the negative.	None
That case has given some trouble in view of the different opinions expressed in it.	None
It is therefore necessary to state simply the propositions which are settled by this Court.	None
The ruling recognises the existence of a right to move this Court under Article 32 where the action is taken under an ultra vires statute, or where, although the statute is intra vires the action is without jurisdiction or the principles of natural justice are violated.	None
Errors of law or fact committed in the exercise of jurisdiction founded on a valid law do not entitle a person to have them corrected by way of petitions under Article 32.	None
It is also pointed out that the proper way to correct them is to proceed under the provisions for appeal, etc., or by way of proceedings under Article 226 before the High Court.8.	None
In Ramjilal v. I. T. O. Mohindragarh, 1951 SCR 127 (AIR 1951 SC 97 ) and in Laxmanappa Hanumantappa v. Union of India, 1955 SCR 769 (AIR 1955 SC 3 ), taxation laws were unsuccessfully challenged with the aid of Article 31 (1) read with Article 265 in petitions purporting to be under Article 32.	None
In the former case it was observed as followsIn our opinion, the protection against the imposition and collection of taxes save by authority of the law directly comes from Article 265 and is not secured by Clause (1) of Article 31.	None
Article 265 not being in Chapter III of the Constitution, its protection is not a fundamental right which can be enforced by an application to this Court under Article 32.	None
It is not our purpose to say that the right secured by Article 265 may not be enforced.	None
It may certainly be enforced by adopting proper proceedings.	None
All that we wish to state is that this application in so far as it purports to be founded on Article 32 read with Art. 31	None
(1) to this Court is misconceived and must fail.9.	None
These propositions were not accepted by the majority in Ujjam Bais case (1963) 1	None
SCR 778 (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ).	Arguments of Respondent
It was observed at p. 941 (of SCR) (at p. 1668 of AIR) as followsIf by these observations it is meant to convey that the protection under Article 265 cannot be sought by a petition under Article 32, I entirely agree.	None
But if it is meant to convey that a taxing law which is opposed to fundamental rights must be tested only under Article 265, I find it difficult to agree.	None
Articles 31 (1) and 265 speak of the same condition.	None
A comparison of these two Articles shows thisArticle 31 (1)	None
No person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law.	None
Article 265  	None
No tax shall be levied or collected except by authority of law.	None
The Chapter on Fundamental Rights hardly stands in need of support from Article 265.	None
If the law is void under that Chapter, and property is seized to recover a tax which is void, I do not see why Article 32 cannot be invokedIt is not possible to circumscribe Article 32 by making the remedy depend only upon Art 265.10.	None
The position was summed up thusFrom this, it is clear that laws which do not offend Part III and are not otherwise ultra vires are protected from any challenge whether under Article 265 or under the Chapter on Fundamental Rights.	None
Where the laws are ultra vires but do not per se offend fundamental rights (to distinguish the two kinds of defects), they are capable of a challenge under Article 32.	None
Where they are intra vires otherwise but void being opposed to fundamental rights, they can be challenged under Article 265 and also Art. 32.11.	None
Das, J. (Sarkar J. concurring) put the same thing differently.	None
He observed thatif a quasijudicial authority acts without jurisdiction or wrongly assumes jurisdiction by committing an error as to a collateral fact and the resultant action threatens or violates a fundamental right, the question of enforcement of that right arises and a petition under Article 32 will lie.	None
He added thatwhere a statute is intra vires but the action taken is without jurisdiction, then a petition under Article 32 would be competent.	None
Similar observations are to be found in the opinion of Kapur J. Therefore, the majority view considered that a breach of fundamental right guaranteed by Article 31 (1) is involved in a demand for tax which is not leviable under a valid law.	None
The application of these principles finds ample recognition in the following cases of the Supreme Court(1)	None
State Trading Corporation of India v. The Commercial Tax Officer, (l964) 4 SCR 99 (AIR 1963 SC 1811 ).(2)	None
State Trading Corporation of India v. The State of Mysore, 14 STC 416 (AIR 1967 SC 585 ).(3)	None
Firm A. T. B. Mehtab Majid and Co. v. State of Madras, 14 STC 355 (AIR 1963 SC 928 ).12.	None
It will be noticed that they are all cases of Corporations and have been considered under Article 32.	None
The ruling in the State Trading Corporation case, 14 STC 416 (AIR 1967 SC 585 ) referred to earlier did not render these petitions incompetent because Article 31 (1) is not limited in its operation to citizens.	None
It mentions persons who may be Corporations and group of persons.13.	None
In IndoChina Steam Navigation Co. v. Jasjit Singh, (1964) 6	None
SCR 594 (AIR 1964 SC 1140 ).	Arguments of Respondent
There are some observations that in petitions under Article 32, no claim of a fundamental right can be made under Article 31 (1) if the statute under which action is taken is valid for then Article 19 (1) (f) does not apply.	None
These observations run counter to Ujjam Bais case, (1963) 1	None
SCR 778 (AIR l962 SC 1621), which is binding on us.	None
The first part of the preliminary objection fails.14.The second part need not detain us.	None
We have already held that demand of a tax, not backed by a valid law, is a threat to property and thus gives rise to a right to move this Court under Article 32.	None
The petitioner in such circumstances is not compelled to wait or go through the lengthy procedure of appeals, references, etc.	None
He may move the Supreme Court for the enforcement of the fundamental rights so threatened.	None
This however, is not an absolute right.	None
This Court will limit the petitioner to establishing a breach of fundamental right.	None
It will not allow a petitioner to use the provisions of Article 32 to do duty as an appeal.	None
A clear enough case as laid down in Ujjam Bais case.	None
(1963) 1	None
SCR 778  (AIR 1962 SC 1621 ) analysed by us here, must be made out.	None
A threat to property unbacked by a valid law or a want of jurisdiction or a breach of the principles of natural justice must be clearly made out, to entitle one to the assistance of this Court.	None
If that is successfully done then the provisions for other remedies do not stand in the way.	None
We accordingly allowed the petitioner to raise the point off jurisdiction before us.15.	None
We are concerned in these petitions with the exemption granted by Article 286 (1) (b) of the Constitution which reads286	None
Restrictions as to imposition of tax on the sale or purchase of goods.(1)	None
No law of a State shall impose, or authorise the imposition of, a tax on the sale or purchase of goods where such sale or purchase takes place (a) (b) in the course of the import of the goods into, or export of the goods out of, the territory of India.16.	None
Before the 6th Amendment, the Constitution did not contain any definition of the phrase in the course of export.	None
By that Amendment Parliament has been given the power to indicate the principles on which that phrase is to be construed.	None
In Section 5 (1) of the Central Sales Tax Act 1956, Parliament has given a legislative meaning of the phrase in the course of export of goods out of the territory of India.	None
It runs thus5 (1) A sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to take place in the course of the export of the goods out of the territory of India only if the sale or purchase either occasions such export or is effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after the goods have crossed the customs frontiers of India.	None
The word only in the subsection shows that there are only two transactions which can come within the exception.	None
In the case of sales to registered exporters, the second part does not apply and the matter must, therefore, be judged under the first part.	None
Before the enactment of the Central Sales Tax Act, two rulings of this Court had construed the expression and as the legislative definition gives effect to what was laid down in those two cases a reference to them appears necessary.17.	None
In the State of TravancoreCochin v. The Bombay Co. Ltd. (1952) 3 SCR 1112 (AIR 1952 SC 366 ), four meanings were considered and sales in the course of export were equated to sales which occasioned the export.	None
This Court saidA sale by export thus involves a series of integrated activities commencing from the agreement of sale with a foreign buyer and ending with the delivery of the goods to a common carrier for transport out of the country by land or sea.	None
Such a sale cannot be dissociated from the export without which it cannot be effectuated, and the sale and resultant export form parts of a single transaction.	None
Of these two integrated activities, which together constitute an export sale, whichever first occurs can well be regarded as taking place in the course of the other.	None
Again,We are not much impressed with the contention that no sale or purchase can be said to take place in the course of export or import unless the property in the goods is transferred to the buyer during their actual movement, as for instance, where the shipping documents are endorsed and delivered within the State by the seller to a local agent of the forage buyer after the goods have been actually shipped, or where such documents are cleared on payment, or on acceptance, by the Indian buyer before the arrival of the goods within the State.	None
This view, which lays undue stress on the etymology of the word course and formulates a mechanical test for the application of Clause (b), places, in our opinion, too narrow a construction upon that clause, in so far as it seeks to limit its operation only to sales and purchases effected during the transit of the goods, and would, if accepted, rob the exemption of much of its usefulness.18.	None
In the State of TravancoreCochin v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory, 1954 SCR 53 (AIR1953 SC 333), it was again emphasised that sales and purchases which themselves occasion the export of the goods came within the exemption of Art.	None
286 (1) (b).	None
Purchases in the State by the exporter for purposes of export were not within the exemption but sales in the State by the exporter by transfer of shipping documents while the goods were beyond the customs barrier were held exempted.	None
It was pointed out that the word course denoted movement from one point to another and the expression in the course of implied not only a period of time during which the movement was in progress but postulated also a connected relation.	None
An act preparatory to export could not be regarded as done in the course of the export of the goods.	None
It was like a purchase for production or manufacture.	None
Therefore, a sale in the course of export out of the territory of India should be understood as meaning a sale taking place not only during the activities directed to the end of exportation of the goods out of the country but also as part of or connected with such activities.	None
Das J., (as he then was) wished to add one more meaning which apparently was not accepted.	None
It was that the expression indicated the last purchase by the exporter with a view to export.	None
The meaning given in these two cases is well established.	None
Indeed in the State of Mysore v. Mysore Spinning and Manufacturing Co Ltd., AIR 1958 SC 1002 , this Court said that the point could not be said to be at large.19.	None
Parliament having accepted the construction placed by this Court on the expression, we are now required to find out what is meant by the phrase sale which occasions the export.	None
In BurmahShell Oil Storage and Distributing Co. v. C. T. O., (1961) 1	None
SCR 902 (AIR 1961 SC 315 ) it was pointed out that word export did not mean a mere taking out of the country but that the goods must be sent to a destination at which they could be said to be imported.	None
The same meaning must obviously be given to the phrase in the course of export or in the phrase occasions the export.20.	None
We have thus to see whether the sale is one which is connected with the export of the goods from this country to an importer in another country.	None
The course of export can only begin if there is movement from an exporter to an importer as the result of the sale, and then only the sale can be said to occasion the export.	None
In East India Tobacco Co. v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1962) 13 STC 529 (AIR 1962 SC 1733) , purchases made for executing specific orders received from foreign customers were held not to fall within the exemption.	None
It is not enough that the sale is followed by an export or is made for the purpose or with a view to export, the sale must be integrally connected with the export.	None
On the other hand in B. K. Wadar v. Daulatram Rameshwarlal (1961) 1	None
SCR 924 (AIR 1961 SC 311 ), it was held that if property in the goods passed to the buyer after crossing of the customs frontier for export out of India the sale was in the course of export.	None
This is because the course of export had already begun and therefore the sale followed the commencement of the export operation.21 Transactions of the type of the one in Wadars case, (1961) 1	None
SCR 924 (AIR 1961 SC 311 ), do not cause difficulty.	None
There the course of export is quite clear and it is easy to see that the sale is integrally connected with export.	None
Difficulty is likely to be felt when the sale is not so apparently connected.	None
In K. G. Khosla and Co. v. Dy. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, (1966) 17 STC 473 (AIR 1966 SC 1216 ), the phrase in the course of import was considered.	None
It was held that in Section 3 of the Central Sales Tax Act the phrases occasions the movement of goods from one State to another and occasions the import mean the same thing.	None
The movement, it was pointed out, must be the result of an agreement or an incident of the contract of sale, although it was not necessary that the sale should precede the import.22.	None
A more direct authority is in Ben Gorm Nilgiri Plantations Co., Coonoor v. Sales Tax Officer, (1964) 7	None
SCR 706 (AIR 1964 SC 1752 ).	Arguments of Respondent
In that case sales of the teachests at auctions held at Fort Cochin were claimed to be exempt from the levy of salestax by virtue of Article 286 (1) (b).23.	None
The Tea Act, like the Coffee Act, was passed to control tea industry.	None
Under it also an export allotment for each year is declared and each tea Estate receives an export quota allotment.	None
The tea Estate owner can obtain an export licence.	None
The export quota licence is transferable.	None
A manufacturer obtains from the Tea Board allotment of export quota.	None
The manufacturer then puts the tea in chests which are sold in public auctions.	None
Bids are made by agents or intermediaries of foreign buyers.	None
Agents and intermediaries then obtain licences from the Central Government for export.	None
The question was whether the sale to the agent or the intermediary was a sale in the course of export out of India.24.	None
This Court found nothing in the transaction from which a bond could be said to spring between the sale and the intended export linking them as part of the same transactions.	None
The sellers had no concern with the export, the sale imposed or involved no obligation to export and there was possibility that the goods might be diverted for internal consumption.25.	None
The Court considered the sales as sales for export and not in the course of export.	None
In laying this down the Court observed to occasion export there must exist such a bond between the contract of sale and the actual exportation, that each link is inextricably connected with the one immediately preceding it.	None
Without such a bond, a transaction of sale cannot be called a sale in the course of export of goods out of the territory of India In general where the sale is effected by the seller, and he is not connected with the export which actually takes place, it is a sale for export.	None
Where the export is the result of sale, the export being inextricably linked up with the sale so that the bond cannot be dissociated without a breach of the obligation arising by statute, contract or mutual understanding between the parties arising from the nature of the transaction, the sale is in the course of export.26.	None
The case however did not attempt to lay down any tests, observing that each case will depend on its own facts.	None
We agree that the facts must always play their due part.	None
We think it is possible to state some tests which can be applied in all cases.27.	None
The phrase sale in the course of export comprises in itself three essentials (i) that there must be a sale (ii) that goods must actually, be exported and (iii) the sale must be a part and parcel of the export.	Reasoning
Therefore either the sale must take place when the goods are already in the process of being exported which is established by their having already crossed the Customs frontiers, or the sale must occasion the export.	Reasoning
The word occasion is used as a verb and means to cause or to be the immediate cause of .	Reasoning
Read in this way the sale which is to be regarded as exempt is a sale which causes the export to take place or is the immediate cause of the export.	Reasoning
The export results from the sale and is bound up with it.	Reasoning
The word cause in the expression in the course of means progress or process of or shortly during.	Reasoning
The phrase expanded with this meaning reads in the progress or process of export or during export.	Reasoning
Therefore the export from India to a foreign destination must be established and the sale must be a link in the same export for which the sale is held.	Reasoning
To establish export a person exporting and a person importing are necessary elements and the course of export is between them.	Reasoning
Introduction of a third party dealing independently with the seller on the one hand and with the importer on the other breaks the link between the two for then there are two sales one to the intermediary and the other to the importer.	Reasoning
The first sale is not in the course of export for the export begins from the intermediary and ends with the importer.28.	Reasoning
Therefore the tests are that there must be a single sale which itself causes the export or is in the progress or process of export.	Reasoning
There is no room for two or more sales in the course of export.	Reasoning
The only sale which can be said to cause the export is the sale which itself results in the movement of the goods from the exporter to the importer.29.	Reasoning
The course of export may be established by agreement or by force of law.	None
To be the former the agreement between the seller and the buyer must envisage an export out of India who then become exporter and importer respectively.	None
By force of law a person selling the goods may be compelled to sell them only in an export sale but that too is not essentially different from the first.	None
In either case there is a seller and a buyer who by reason of the sale also become exporter and importer respectively.	None
Any other buyer who is not himself the importer buys for export even if export ultimately results.	None
It is to bring out these results that Parliament has recognised only two cases of sale in the course of import (a) where the sale is effected by a transfer of documents of title to goods after the goods have crossed the Customs frontiers that is to say the goods are already on the way to the importer and (b) when the sale itself causes the export to take place that is to say the exporter and importer negotiate and complete a sale which without more would result in the export of the goods.	None
No other sale can qualify for the exemption under Section 5 (1) read with Article 286 (1) (b).30.	None
The question is whether the sale to the registered exporters can be said to be exempted.	None
In the Indian Coffee Board v. State of Madras, (1956) 7	None
STC 135 (AIR 1956 Mad 449 ) Rajgopalan and Rajgopala Ayyangar JJ.	None
held that the sale to the registered exporter was a sale for export and only the contract of sale entered into by the registered exporter with the buyer abroad that could be brought within the scope of the exemption.	None
The test applied by the High Court is the test we have indicated and which has found approval in the two earlier cases of this Court which have received legislative recognition.	None
The question to ask is does the sale to the registered exporter occasion the export which ultimately takes place?	None
The answer is that on the rulings it must be an integral part of the precise export before it can be said to have occasioned that particular export.	None
Here there are two independent sales involved in the export programme.	None
The first is a sale between the Coffee Board as seller to the export promoter.	None
Then there is the sale by the export promoter to a foreign buyer.	None
Of the latter sale, the Coffee Board does not have any inkling when the first sale takes place.	None
The Coffee Boards sale is not in any way related to the second sale.	None
Therefore, the first sale has no connection with the second sale which is in the course of export, that is to say, movement of goods between an exporter and an importer.31.	None
Mr. Setalvad tried to argue that the first sale by the Coffee Board included in it a compulsion to export and he relied upon the observations of Shah J., in Ben Gorm Nilgiri Plantations case.	Arguments of Respondent
(1964) 7	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 706 (AIR 1964 SC 1752 ).	Arguments of Respondent
These observations were not intended to give exemption to sales for export but to sales in the course of export.	None
One of the indicia of a sale in the course of export is the compulsion to export because the sale which is protected must be itself inextricably bound up with the export.	Reasoning
If this were not so a chain of sales each making a mere condition for terminal export, will be exempted and the distinction between a sale for export and a sale in the course of export will completely disappear.	Reasoning
In the Ben Gorm Nilgiri Plantations case, (1964) 7 SCR 706 (AIR 1964 SC 1752 ), even the purchases by agents of foreign importers were described as sales for export.	Reasoning
No doubt it was said that the sale to the agents did not contain a compulsion to export to the principal but that was said so that the causal connection between the sale and the export could be established.	Reasoning
The compulsion to export here is of a different character.	Reasoning
It only compels persons who buy on their own to export in their own turn by entering into another agreement for sale.	Reasoning
The first sale is, therefore, an independent sale.	Reasoning
It is a sale for export.	Reasoning
Even with the compulsion the sale may not result for Clauses 26, 30 and 31 visualize such happenings.	Reasoning
It follows, therefore, that unless the sale is inextricably bound up with a particular export it cannot be said to be in its course.	Reasoning
If no particular export is in sight the sale by the Coffee Board cannot go beyond the description on sale for export.32.	Reasoning
For these reasons we are of opinion that the decision of the Madras High Court in the case cited above is correct.	Reasoning
For the same reasons we are of opinion that this case does not fall within the ruling in Ben Gorm Nilgiri Plantations case.	Reasoning
The petitioner cannot claim exemption from the tax and the department was right in demanding the tax.	Reasoning
The petitions fail and will be dismissed with costs.33.	Reasoning
Sikri, J.I have had the advantage of reading the draft of the Judgment prepared by the learned Chief Justice.	None
I agree with him that the preliminary objection raised by the respondents is devoid of force, but I regret that I cannot concur with the conclusion that the sales in question were not made in the course of export.	None
With utmost respect, in my opinion he has given an unduly limited meaning to the expression if the sale or purchase occasions such export.	None
My reasons in coming to this conclusion are, in brief, as followsIn Shorter Oxford Dictionary (Illustrated) the word occasion when used as a verb meansTo give occasion to (a person) to induce,To be the occasion or cause of (something) to cause, bring about.	Reasoning
especially in an incidental or subsidiary manner.34.	None
It is said that in the context the word occasion means to cause or to be the immediate cause.	Reasoning
When a word bears two meanings the context must determine which is the appropriate meaning to be adopted.	None
What then is the context with which we are dealing?	None
The context is the export trade and its undoubted economic importance to this country.	None
Further, each country is more and more organising the export trade and directing its flow in particular directions.	None
The course of export is not the same what it was before the intervention of Governments or their agencies.	None
Moreover the idea underlying Art.	None
286 (1) (a) was to restrict the powers of the State to levy taxes on sales or purchases in the course of export so that the export trade may not be hampered.	None
As observed by Patanjali Sastri, C. J., in State of TravancoreCochin v. The Bombay Co. Ltd. (1952) 3	None
SCR 1112 at p. 1119 (AIR 1952 SC 366 at p. 368) lest similar reasoning should lead to the imposition of such cumulative burden on the exportimport trade of this country which is of great importance to the nations economy, the Constituent Assembly may well have thought it necessary to exempt in terms sales by export and purchases by import from sales tax by inserting article 286 (1) (b) in the Constitution.	None
In my view, keeping in view the aforementioned considerations the wider meaning of the word occasion is the more appropriate to apply in the construction of Section 5 (1).35.	None
It is said that Parliament had accepted the narrower meaning of the word occasion because this was the meaning ascribed to it by this Court in (1952) 3	None
SCR 1112 (AIR 1952 SC 366 ) and 1954 SCR 53 (AIR 1953 SC 333 )	None
I, with respect, am unable to appreciate this argument.	None
In the former case this Court was concerned with export sales of certain commodities to foreign buyers on C.I.F. or F.O.B. terms.	None
After setting out the four views presented before it, Patanjali Shastri, C. J., speaking on behalf of the Court, observedWe are clearly of opinion that the sales here in question, which occasioned the export in each case, fall within the scope of the exemption and that is enough to dispose of those appeals.	None
Later he saidWe accordingly hold that what ever else may or may not fall within Article 286 (1) (b) , sales and purchases which themselves occasion the export or the import of the goods, as the case may be, out of or into the territory of India come within the exemption and that is enough to dispose of those appeals.	None
(emphasis supplied).36.	None
It seems to me that it is wrong to interpret that decision to mean that the Court held that in no other case can sales occasion an export.	None
In fact the learned Chief Justice says to the contrary by saying whatever else may or may not fall.37.	None
In State of TravancoreCochin v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory, 1954 SCR 53 (AIR 1953 SC 333 ), this Court, inter alia, held that the last purchase of goods made by the exporter for the purpose of exporting them to implement orders already received from a foreign buyer or expected to be received subsequently in the course of business was not within the protection of Clause (1) (b).38.	None
In the course of discussion, apart from referring to a passage from the earlier judgment in which the word occasion is used, the word occasion is not mentioned again.	None
No mention is made in this judgment of facts similar to which are present in the present case.	None
What happens when there is legal certainty that the goods are headed for a foreign destination and will not be diverted to the domestic market was not considered as the question did not arise.39.	None
In AIR 1958 SC 1002 facts are somewhat closer to the present case, but it does not appear that there was legal compulsion to export and that the Mills, who sold the cloth for sale, could compel the purchasers to export.	None
The general observations therein must be read in the light of facts.40.	None
With respect, I think it is erroneous to assume that Parliament by using the word occasion must be deemed to have used it in the same sense as Patanjali Shastri, C. J., did.	None
It is an ordinary dictionary word and not a technical word.	None
He was using it to describe the transactions in those cases, and the narrower meaning was apposite.	None
Even there he guarded himself by saying whatever else may or may not fall within Article 286 (1) (b).	None
It should also be noted that Patanjali Shastri, C. J., had also qualified the word occasion by adding the words by themselves.	None
These words do not exist in the Act.41.	None
Similar expression occurring in Sections 3 and 5 (2) of the Act has been interpreted by this Court on a number of occasions and I cannot appreciate why the same expression bears a different meaning in Section 5 (l).	None
The earlier cases are referred to in K. G. Khosla v. Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, (1966) 17 STC 473 (AIR 1966 SC 1216 ).	None
Shah, J., in Tata Iron and Steel Co. v. S. R. Sarkar, 11 STC 655 (AIR 1961 SC 65 ), had interpreted Section 3 of the Act as follows In our view, therefore, within Clause (b) of Section 3 are included sales in which property in the goods passes during the movement of the goods from one State to another by transfer of documents of title thereto Clause (a) of Section 3 covers sales, other than those included in Clause (b), in which the movement of goods from one State to another is the result of a covenant or incident of the contract of sale, and property in the goods passes in either State.	None
In other words it was held that a sale occasions the movement of goods when the movement is the result of a covenant or incident of contract of sale.	None
Applying this test this Court observed in (1966) 17 STC 473 at pp. 488489 (AIR 1966 SC 1216 at p.	None
1220).The next question that arises is whether the movement of axlebox bodies from Belgium into Madras was the result of a covenant in the contract of sale or an incident in the contract.	None
It seems to us that it is quite clear from the contract that it was incidental to the contract that the axlebox bodies would be manufactured in Belgium, inspected there and imported into India for the consignee.	None
Movement of goods from Belgium to India was in pursuance of the conditions of the contract between the assessee and the DirectorGeneral of Supplies.	None
There was no possibility of these goods being diverted by the assessee for any other purpose.	None
Consequently we hold that the sales took place in the course of import of goods within Section 5 (2) of the Act, and are, therefore, exempt from taxation.42.	None
It will be noticed that the sale which was sought to be taxed but was exempted was the sale to Southern Railway and the contract under which the movement resulted was with the DirectorGeneral of Supplies.43.	None
The heart of the matter lies in answering one question.	None
Can two sales occasion an export?	None
I find no difficulty in answering this question in the affirmative.	None
Two sales can take place in the course of export if they are effected by a transfer of documents of title to the goods after the goods have crossed the customs frontier of India, and they both will be protected under Section 5 (1) of the Act.	None
Therefore, it cannot be assumed that it is the intention of Section 5 (1) that only one sale can enjoy the protection of Section 5 (1).	None
Accordingly, apart from any assumption, can two sales occasion the export.	None
As I have said occasion does not necessarily mean to cause or to immediately cause it also means to bring about especially in an incidental or subsidiary manner.	Reasoning
If the sale by the appellant brings about the export in an incidental or subsidiary manner it can be said to occasion the export.	None
It was in view of these considerations that Shah J., speaking for the Court, had observed in Ben Gorm Nilgiri Plantations Co. v. Sales Tax Officer, (l964) 15 STC 753 at p. 759 (AIR 1964 SC 1762 at p. 1755).A sale in the course of export predicates a connection between the sale and export, the two activities being so integrated that the connection between the two cannot be voluntarily interrupted, without a breach of the contract or the compulsion arising from the nature of the transaction.	None
In this sense to constitute a sale in the course of export it may be said that there must be an intention on the part of both the buyer and the seller to export, there must be an obligation to export, and there must be an actual export.	None
The obligation may arise by reason of statute, contract between the parties, or from mutual understanding or agreement between them, or even from the nature of the transaction which links the sale to export.	None
A transaction of sale, which is a preliminary to export of the commodity sold may be regarded as a sale for export, but is not necessarily to be regarded as one in the course of export, unless the sale occasions export.44.	None
In this passage Shah, J., clearly visualised that a transaction of sale which is preliminary to export may be regarded as in the course of export if the sale occasions the export.	None
The test postulated may be that there must be ah integral relation or bond between the sale and export.	None
Why Shah, J., held that the sales were not in the course of export was, to use his words that the tea chests are sold together with export rights imputes knowledge to the seller that the goods are purchased with the intention of exporting.	None
But there is nothing in the transaction from which springs a bond between the sale and the intended export linking them up as part of the same transaction.	None
There is no statutory obligation upon the purchaser to export the chests of tea purchased by him with the export rights.	None
The export quota merely enables the purchaser to obtain export licence, which he may or may not obtain.	None
There is nothing in law or in the contract between the parties or even in the nature of the transaction which prohibits diversion of the goods for internal consumption.	None
The sellers have no concern with the actual export of the goods, once the goods are sold.	None
They have no control over the goods.	None
There is therefore no direct connection between the sale and export of the goods which would make them parts of an integrated transaction of sale in the course of export.45.	None
The case, with respect, points out clearly what was lacking in the transaction.	None
It is one way of laying down tests.	None
If these incidents had not been missing the Court would have surely held the sale to be in course of export.46.	None
It seems to me that this judgment is in effect overruling earlier decisions of this Court without saying so.	None
The Calcutta High Court (Ray and Basu JJ.) reviewed the Supreme Court cases exhaustively in S. K Roy v. Addl.	None
Member, Board of Revenue, 18 STC 379 (AIR 1967 Cal 338 ) and came to the conclusion that the mere fact that there is no contract between the seller and the foreign buyer does not conclusively establish that a transaction cannot be one in the course of export.	None
It may still be held to be such a transaction provided it is established that the contract between the seller and the third party occasions the export.	None
Basu J., followed this decision in Serajuddin and Co. v. Commercial Tax Officer, (1969) 23	None
STC 258 (Cal).47.	None
On the facts of this case the Coffee Board, the Sellers, have concern with the actual export of goods.	None
They have made various provisions to see that the purchasers must export.	None
Condition 26, quoted by the learned Chief Justice, clearly provides that the coffee shall be exported to stipulated or approved destinations and it shall not under any circumstances be diverted to another destination, sold or be disposed of or otherwise released in India.	None
If the purchaser commits a default, apart from penalty, it is provided that unexported coffee may be seized.	None
Thus the Coffee Board retains control over the goods.	None
These conditions create a bond between the sale and eventual export.	None
The possibility that in a particular case a purchaser might commit a breach of contract or law end not export does not change the nature of the transaction.48.	None
I would accordingly allow the petition and declare that the sales held by the Coffee Board at the export auctions were in the course of export and exempt under Article 286 (1) (b) of the Constitution, read with Sec. 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, and quash the impugned assessments in so far as they assess such sales.ORDER49.	None
In accordance with the majority judgment, the petitions fail and are dismissed with costs.50.	Decision
Petitions dismissed.	None
