Jeevan Reddy, B.P. (J) Leave granted.	None
The definition of the expression consumer in clause (d) of Section 2 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 excludes from its purview a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose.	None
The question that arises in this appeal is what is the meaning and ambit of the expression any commercial purpose in the said definition.	Issue
By Ordinance 24 of 1993 (which has since been replaced by Amendment Act 50 of 1993)	None
an explanation has been added to the definition of the expression consumer with effect from 18.6.1993.	None
The explanation reads For the purposes of subclause (i) commercial purpose does not include use by a consumer of goods bought and used by him exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of selfemployment.	None
The complaint herein was, however, made before the adding of the said explanation.	None
It would be appropriate to read the definition at this stage.	None
(d) consumer means any person who, (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised or under any system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such person but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose or(ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the person who hires or avails of the service for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first mentioned person.	None
THE FACTUAL MATRIX 3.	Facts
The appellant, Laxmi Engineering Works, is a proprietary concern established under the Employment Promotion Programme.	Facts
It is registered as a small scale industry with the Directorate of Industries, Maharashtra and has also obtained financial assistance from Maharashtra State Finance Corporation in the form of term loan amounting to Rs. 22.10 lakhs besides financial assistance from certain other sources.	Facts
The appellant placed an order with the respondent  P.S.G. Industrial Institute for supply of PSG 450 CNC Universal Turning Central M	Facts
The appellants case is that the respondent not only supplied the machinery six months beyond the stipulated date but supplied a defective machine.	Facts
Soon after it was installed and operated, several defects came to light which the appellant brought to the notice of the respondent.	Facts
A good amount of correspondence took place between the parties and though the respondent sent some persons to rectify the defects, the machine could not be put in proper order.	Facts
The appellant states that he was suffering serious financial loss on account of the defective functioning of the machine and accordingly he lodged a complaint (No. 116 of 1992) before the Maharashtra Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission claiming an amount of Rs. 4, 00, 000/ on several counts from the respondent.	Facts
The respondent appeared before the State Commission and denied the appellants claim.	Facts
Inter alia, it raised an objection that since the appellant has purchased the machine for commercial proposes he is not a consumer within the meaning of the said expression as defined in Section 2(1)(d) of the Act.	Facts
The Commission allowed the appellants claim partly, directing the respondent to pay to the appellant a sum of Rs. 2.48 lakhs within 30 days failing which the said amount was to carry interest at the rate of 18 per annum.	Facts
The respondent filed an appeal before the National Commission which allowed the said appeal on 7th December, 1993 on the only ground that the appellant is not a consumer as defined by the Act.	Facts
The National Commission observed From the facts appearing on record it is manifest that the complainant is carrying on the business of manufacture of machine parts on a large scale for the purpose of earning profit and significantly one single item of machinery in respect of which the complaint petition was filed by him before the State Commission itself is of the value of Rs. 21 lakhs and odd.	Facts
In the circumstances, we fail to see how the conclusion can be escaped that the machinery in question which is alleged to be defective was purchased for a commercial purpose.	Facts
Hence, the complainant is not entitled to be regarded as a consumer and the complaint petition filed by him was not maintainable before the State Commission.	Facts
The order passed by the State Commission is set aside.	Facts
The complaint petition is dismissed.	Facts
The National Commission, however, observed that their order does not preclude the appellant from pursuing his remedy by way of ordinary civil suit.4.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellant submits that the purpose for which the appellant has purchased the said machine cannot be called a commercial purpose and that the appellant cannot certainly be said to be carrying on business of manufacture of machine parts on a large scale for the purpose of earning profit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel pointed out that appellant is a small scale industry and the said machine was purchased by him for the purpose of earning livelihood.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that the appellant is a proprietary concern of Shri Y.G. Joshi, who is a diploma holder in engineering and who proposed to start a small scale industry with financial assistance from public financial institutions to earn his livelihood.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant had entered into an agreement within Premier Automobiles for supplying certain parts required for the manufacture of cars by the said concern.	Arguments of Petitioner
But for this, the appellant has no other business, it is pointed out.	None
On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the purpose for which the appellant purchased the said machine is undoubtedly a commercial purpose as held by the National Commission consistently over the last several years.	Arguments of Respondent
THE ACT AND ITS SCHEME After good amount of consultations with Governments and international organisations, the Secretary General of United Nations submitted draft guidelines for consumer protection to the Economic and Social Council (UNESCO) in 1983.	None
After extensive discussions and negotiations among governments on the scope and content of the guidelines, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted the guidelines for consumer protection by consensus on 9th April, 1985 General Assembly Resolution No. 39/248.	None
The guidelines issued are placed under four heads, viz., objectives, general principles, guidelines and international cooperation.	None
Para 1 under the head objectives bears reproduction.	None
It reads I OBJECTIVES1.	None
Taking into account the interests and needs of consumers in all countries, particularly those in developing countries, recognizing that consumers often face imbalances in economic terms, educational level, and bargaining power, and bearing in mind that consumer should have the right of access to nonhazardous products, as well as the importance of promoting just, equitable and sustainable economic and social development, these guidelines for consumer protection have the following objectives (a) To assist countries in achieving or maintaining adequate protection for their population as consumers(b) To facilitate production and distribution patterns responsive to the needs and desires of consumers(c) To encourage high levels of ethical conduct for those engaged in the production and distribution of goods and services to consumers(d) To assist countries in curbing abusive business practices by all enterprises at the national and international levels which adversely affect consumers(e) To facilitate the development of independent consumer groups(f) To further international cooperation in the field of consumer protection(g) To encourage the development of market conditions which provide consumers with greater cho Under the head guidelines and under the subheading E. Measures enabling consumers to obtain redress, the following guidelines are set out Measures enabling consumers to obtain redress28.	None
Government should establish or maintain legal and or administrative measures to enable consumers or, as appropriate, relevant organizations to obtain redress through formal or informal procedures that are expeditious, fair, inexpensive and accessible.	None
Such procedures should take particular account of the needs of lowincome consumers.29.	None
Governments should encourage all enterprises to resolve consumer disputes in a fair, expeditious and informal manner, and to establish voluntary mechanisms, including advisory services and informal complaints procedures, which can provide assistance to consumers.30.	None
Information on available redress and other disputeresolving procedures should be made available to consumers.	None
In the following year, i.e., 1986, our Parliament enacted the present Act.	None
(The United Kingdom enacted the Consumer Protection Act in 1987).	None
The statement of objects and reasons appended to the Bill says that the Bill is intended to provide for better protection of the interest of consumers and for that purpose to make provision for the establishment of Consumer Councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumer disputes and for other matters connected therewith.	None
Para 4 of the Statement of Objects and Reasons reads To provide speedy and simple redressal to consumer disputes, a quasijudicial machinery is sought to be set up at the District, State and Central levels.	None
These quasijudicial bodies will observe the principles of natural justice and have been empowered to give reliefs of a specific nature and to award, wherever appropriate, compensation to consumers.	None
Penalties for noncompliance of the orders given by the quasijudicial bodies have also been provided.	None
The Preambl es.	None
It reads An Act to provide for the better protection of the interests of consumers and for that purpose to make provision for the establishment of consumer councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumers disputes and for matters connected therewith.	None
It is significant to notice that in the Statement of Objects and Reasons as well as in the Preamble, the new forums which the Act was setting up are referred to as quasijudicial machinery and as authorities respectively but not as Courts.	None
The Act has created the dispute resolution authorities at District, State and National level called District Forum, State Commission and National Commission.	None
Section 3 expressly states that The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.	None
ChapterIII provides for CONSUMER DISPUTES REDRESSAL AGENCIES.	None
The use of the expression agencies is again significant.	None
Section 9, which provides for establishment of forums at three levels, reads thus 9.	None
Establishment of Consumer Disputes Redressal Agencies.  	None
There shall be established for the purposes of this Act, the following agencies, namely  (a) a Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum to be known as the District Forum established by the State Government with the prior approval of the Central Government in each district of the State by notification(b) a Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission to be known as the State Commission established by the State Government with the prior approval of the Central Government in the State by notification and(c) a National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission established by the Central Government by notification.	None
Section 13 prescribes the procedure to be followed by the District Forum on receipt of a complaint from a consumer involving value upto Rupees one lakh (after amendment in 1993, five lakhs).	None
Interalia it provides that the District Forum shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Cou g a suit in respect of matters specified therein.	None
Section 15 provides an appeal from the orders of the District Forum to the State Commission.	None
Section 17 confers original jurisdiction also upon the State Commission in matters the value whereof exceeds Rupees one lakh but does not exceed Rupees ten lakhs (after amendment 5 lakhs and 20 lakhs respectively).	None
Section 18 provides that the procedure of the State Commission shall be the same as that of the District Forum.	None
Section 19 provides an appeal from the orders of the State Commission (made in exercise of its original jurisdiction) to the National Commission.	None
Section 21 confers original jurisdiction upon the National Commission as well where the value of the complaint exceeds Rupee ten lakhs (after amendment in 1993, twenty lakhs).	None
Section 24 declares that (E)very order of a District Forum, State Commission or the National Commission shall, if no appeal has been preferred against such order under the provisions of this Act, be final.	None
(Section 23 provides an appeal to Supreme Court against the orders of the National Commission passed in exercise of its original jurisdiction).	None
Section 25 provides that the orders of the District Forum, State Commission and National Commission shall be executed as if they are decrees or orders of a Court.	None
A review of the provisions of the Act discloses that the quasijudicial bodies authorities agencies created by the Act known as District Forums.	Reasoning
State Commissions and the National Commission are not Courts though invested with some of the powers of a Civil Court.	Reasoning
They are quasijudicial tribunals brought into existence to render inexpensive and speedy remedies to consumers.	None
It is equally clear that these Forums Commissions were not supposed to supplant but supplement the existing judicial system.	Reasoning
The idea was to provide an additional forum providing inexpensive and speedy resolution of disputes arising between consumers and suppliers of goods and services.	Reasoning
The forum so created is uninhibited by the requirement of court fee or the formal procedures of a court.	Reasoning
Any consumer can go and file a complaint.	Reasoning
Complaint need not necessarily be filed by the complainant himself any recognized consumers association can espouse his cause.	Reasoning
Where a large number of consumers have a similar complaint, one or more can file a complaint on behalf of all.	Reasoning
Even the Central Government and State Governments can act on his their behalf.	Reasoning
The idea was to help the consumers get justice and fair treatment in the matter of goods and services purchased a hem in a market dominated by large trading and manufacturing bodies.	Reasoning
Indeed, the entire Act revolves round the consumer and is designed to protect his interest.	Reasoning
The Act provides for businesstoconsumer disputes and not for businesstobusiness disputes.	None
This scheme of the Act, in our opinion, is relevant to and helps in interpreting the words that fall for consideration in this appeal.	None
SECTION 2(1)(d)(i) AND THE EXPLANATION ADDED BY 1993	None
AMENDMENT ACT Now coming back to the definition of the expression consumer in Section 2(1)(d), a consumer means, in so far as is relevant for the purpose of this appeal, (i) a person who buys any goods for consideration it is immaterial whether the consideration is paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or whether the payment of consideration is deferred (ii) a person who uses such goods with the approval of the person who buys such goods for consideration (iii) but does not include a person who buys such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose.	None
The expression resale is clear enough.	None
Controversy has, however, arisen with respect to meaning of the expression commercial purpose.	None
It is also not defined in the Act.	None
In the absence of a definition, we have to go by its ordinary meaning.	None
Commercial denotes pertaining to commerce (Chambers Twentieth Century Dictionary) it means connected with, or engaged in commerce mercantile having profit as the main aim (Collins English Dictionary) whereas the word commerce means financial transactions especially buying and selling of merchandise, on a large scale (Concise Oxford Dictionary).	None
The National Commission appears to have been taking a consistent view that where a person purchases goods with a view to using such goods for carrying on any activity on a large scale for the purpose of earning profit he will not be a consumer within the meaning of Section 2(1)(d)(i) of the Act.	None
Broadly affirming the said view and more particularly with a view to obviate any confusion  the expression largescale is not a very precise expression  the Parliament stepped in and added the Explanation to Section 2(1)(d)(i) by Ordinance Amendment Act, 1993.	None
The Explanation excludes certain purposes from the purview of the expression commercial purpose  a case of exception to an exception.	None
Let us elaborate a person who buys a typewriter or a car and uses them for his personal use is certainly a consumer but a person who buys a typewriter or a car for typing others work for consideration or for plying the car as a taxi can be said to be using the typewriter car for a commercial purpose.	None
The Explanation however clarifies that in certain situations, purchase of goods for commercial purpose would not yet take the purchaser out of the definition of expression consumer.	None
If the commercial use is by the purchaser himself for the purpose of earning his livelihood by means of selfemployment, such purchaser of goods is yet a consumer.	None
In the illustration given above, if the purchaser himself works on typewriter or plies the car as a taxi himself, he does not cease to be a consumer.	None
In other words, if the buyer of goods uses them himself, i.e., by selfemployment, for earning his livelihood, it would not be treated as a commercial purpose and he does not cease to be a consumer for the purposes of the Act.	None
The Explanation reduces the question, what is a commercial purpose, to a question of fact to be decided in the facts of each case.	None
It is not the value of the goods that matters but the purpose to which the goods bought are put to.	None
The several words employed in the Explanation, viz., uses them by himself, exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood and by means of selfemployment make the intention of Parliament abundantly clear, that the goods bought must be used by the buyer himself, by employing himself for earning his livelihood.	None
A few more illustrations would serve to emphasise what we say.	None
A person who purchases an autorickshaw to ply it himself on hire for earning his livelihood would be a consumer.	None
Similarly, a purchaser of a truck who purchases it for plying it as a public carrier by himself would be a consumer.	None
A person who purchases a lathe machine or other machine to operate it himself for earning his livelihood would be a consumer.	None
(In the above illustrations, if such buyer takes the assistance of one or two persons to assist help him in operating the vehicle or machinery, he does not cease to be a consumer).	None
As against this a person who purchases an autorickshaw, a car or a lathe machine or other machine to be plied or operated exclusively by another person would not be a consumer.	None
This is the necessary limitation flowing from the expressions used by him, and by means of selfemployment in the explanation.	None
The ambiguity in the meaning of the words for the purpose of earning his livelihood is explained and clarified by the other two sets of words.	None
It is argued by the learned counsel for the appellant that such a narrow construction may not be warranted by the scheme and object of the enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that there may be a widow or an old or invalid man who may have no other means of livelihood and who purchases an autorickshaw or a car or other machinery to be plied or operated by another person either on payment of consideration on a daily, weekly and monthly basis or as a servant or agent.	Arguments of Petitioner
While there is certainly some logic in the said submission it cannot be accepted in view of the language of the Explanation.	None
We are also of the opinion that the definition of the expression person in Section 2(1)(m) as including a firm (whether registered or not), a Hindu Undivided Family, a cooperative society or any other association of persons (whether registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 or not) makes no difference to the above interpretation.	Reasoning
If a firm purchases the goods, the members of the firm should themselves ply, operate or use the goods purchased.	Reasoning
Same would be the case of purchase by Hindu Undivided Family, cooperative society or any other association of persons.	Reasoning
Reference in this behalf may be made to the definition of the expression consumer in Section 20(6) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1987 of United Kingdom.	Reasoning
It reads thus Consumer  (a) in relation to any goods means any person who might wish to be supplied with the goods for his own private use or consumption(b) in relation to any services or facilities, means any person who might wish to be provided with the services or facilities otherwise than for the purposes of any business of his and(c) in relation to any accommodation, means any person who might wish to occupy the accommodation otherwise than for the purposes of any business of his This definition is undoubtedly narrower than the definition in our Act.	None
The English Act requires that to be a consumer in relation to any goods, a person must put the goods for his own private use or consumption.	None
Notwithstanding this difference in definition, the object of both the enactments appears to be the same, to protect the consumer from the exploitative and unfair practices of the trading and manufacturing bodies and to provide him with an easily accessible, inexpensive and speedy remedy for the wrong suffered by him.	None
THE NATURE AND POWERS OF THE AUTHORITIES CREATED BY THE ACT Having dealt with the meaning of the expression any commercial purpose in Section 2(1)(d) in the light of the scheme of the enactment, it may be necessary to append a clarification to obviate any confusion.	None
Section 24 declares that Every order of a District Forum, the State Commission or the National Commission shall, if no appeal has been preferred against such order under the provisions of this Act, be final.	Reasoning
This Section has to be read along with subsection (3) of Section 13.	None
Section 13 prescribes the procedure to be followed by the District Forum on receipt of a complaint.	None
Subsection (3) of Section 13 says that no proceedings complying with the procedure laid down in subsection (1) and (2) shall be called in question in any Court on the ground that the principles of natural justice have not been complied with.	None
By virtue of Section 18 the procedure prescribed in Section 13 applies to the State Commission as well.	None
From the above provisions, it is clear that the orders of the District Forum, State Commission and National Commission are final as declared in Section 24 and cannot be questioned in a Civil Court.	Reasoning
The issues decided by the said authorities under the Act cannot be reagitated in a Civil Court.	Reasoning
The said provisions make it equally clear that the Forums created by the Act fall in the second category of Tribunals mentioned in The Queen v. Commissioner for Special Purposes of the Incometax, (1888)21 Q.B.D. 313 at p. 319)  which decision has been repeatedly affirmed and applied by this Court  which means that the Forums Commissions under the Act have jurisdiction to determine whether the complainant before them is a consumer and whether he has made out grounds for grant of relief.	Reasoning
Even if the Forum Commission decides the said questions wrongly, their orders made following the procedure prescribed in subsections (1) and (2) of Section 13 cannot be questioned in a Civil Court  except of course, in situations pointed out in Dhulabhai v. State of M.P., 1968 (3) SCR 662.	Reasoning
They can and must be questioned only in the manner provided by the Act.	Reasoning
THE EXPLANATION IS CLARIFICATORY 16.	Reasoning
Yet another clarification the Explanation, in our opinion is only explanatory it is more in the nature of a clarification  a fact which would become evident if one examines the definition (minus the explanation) in the context and scheme of the enactment.	Reasoning
As indicated earlier, the Explanation broadly affirms the decisions of the National Commission.	Reasoning
It merely makes explicit what was implicit in the Act.	Reasoning
It is not as if the law is changed by the said Explanation it has been merely made clearer.	Reasoning
RELEVANT DECISIONS In Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta, 1993 (1) CTJ 929 (Supreme Court) 1994 (1) SCC 243 , the question was whether a public authority engaged in constructing and selling houses can be said to be rendering a service and whether the person purchasing such houses can be called a consumer within the meaning of the said definition.	None
While answering the question in the affirmative, a Bench of this court (Kuldip Singh and R.M. Sahai, JJ.) also examined the scheme and object of the Act and the ambit of the definition of the expression consumer.	None
The following observations are apposite To begin with the Preamble of the Act which can afford useful assistance to ascertain the legislative intention, it was enacted, to provide for the protection of the interest of consumers.	None
Use of the word protection furnishes key to the minds of makers of the Act.	None
Various definitions and provisions which elaborately attempt to achieve this objective have to be construed in this light without departing from the settled view that a Preamble cancontrol otherwise plain meaning of a provision.	None
In fact, the law meets long felt necessity of protecting the common man from such wrongs for which the remedy under ordinary law for various reasons has become illusory The word consumer is a comprehensive expression.	None
It extends from a person who buys any commodity to consume either as eatable or otherwise from a shop, business house, corporation, store, fair price shop to use of private or public services.	None
In Oxford Dictionary a consumer is defined as, a purchaser of goods or services.	Decision
In Blacks Law Dictionary it is explained to mean,one who consumes.	None
Individuals who purchase, use, maintain, and dispose of products and services.	None
A member of that broad class of people who are affected by pricing policies, financing practices, quality of goods and services, credit report, debt collection, and other trade practices for which State and Federal Consumer Protection Laws are enacted.	None
The Act opts for no less wider definition.	None
It reads as under consumer means any person who, (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose or(ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first mentioned personExplanation  	None
For the purposes of subclause (i), commercial purpose does not include use by a consumer of goods bought and used by him exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of selfemployment It is in two parts.	None
The first deals with goods and the other with services.	None
Both parts first declare the meaning of goods and services by use of wide expressions.	None
Their ambit is further enlarged by use of inclusive clause.	None
For instance, it is not only purchaser of goods or hirer of services but even those who use the goods or who are beneficiaries of services with approval of the person who purchased the goods or who hired services are included in it.	None
The legislature has taken precaution not only to define complaint, complainant, consumer but even to mention in detail what would amount to unfair trade practice by giving an elaborate definition in clause (r) and even to define defect and deficiency by clauses (f) and (g) for which a consumer can approach the Commission.	None
The Act thus aims to protect the economic interest of a consumer as understood in commercial sense as a purchaser of goods and in the larger sense of user of services.	None
In Morgan Stanley Mutual Fund v. Kartick Das, 1994 (2) CTJ 385 (Supreme Court) 1994 (4) SCC 225 , a Bench of this Court (M.N. Venkatachaliah, C.J., S. Mohan and Dr. A.S. Anand, JJ.) stated the meaning of the expression consumer in the following words The consumer as the terms implies is one who consumes.	None
As per the definition, consumer is the one who purchases goods for private use or consumption.	Decision
The meaning of the word consumer is broadly stated in the above definition so as to include anyone who consumes goods or services at the end of the chain of production.	None
The comprehensive definition aims at covering every man who pays money as the price or cost of goods and services.	None
The consumer deserves to get what he pays for in real quantity and true quality.	None
In every society, consumer remains the centre of gravity of all business and industrial activity.	None
He needs protection from the manufacturer, producer, supplier, wholesaler and retailer.	None
It must, however, be said that in both the above cases, the question arising herein was not in issue.	None
In Morgan Stanley, the question was whether a prospective investor in the shares of a company is a consumer as defined in Section 2(1)(f).	None
It was held that he was not.	None
Reference to the decisions cited by the learned counsel for the parties would be in order at this stage.	None
In Synco Tex 1991 (1) CPJ 499 1993 (1) CTJ 283 (CP) the appellant purchased from the respondent three generating sets at a total cost of Rs. 5, 53, 000/ for use in his factory.	None
His case was that the generating sets supplied by the respondentcompany were defective and that on that account he suffered substantial business losses.	None
He applied to the State Commission for recovery of the cost of the machines as well as a sum of Rupees four lakhs by way of damages.	None
The State Commission first took up the question whether the complainant can be called a consumer as defined in the Act.	None
(The case arose before the explanation was added by the 1993 Amendment Act).	None
The State Commission held that since the generators were purchased by the appellant for generating electricity in its factory to be used for operating the machinery in the factory for the purpose of commercial production, the appellant cannot be called a consumer.	None
When the matter came to the National Commission by way of appeal.	None
Balakrishna Eradi, J., President, dealt with the meaning of the words for any commercial purpose in the following words (majority opinion)	None
Since cases of resale have been separately referred to, it becomes obvious that the words for any commercial purpose are intended to cover cases other than those of resale of the concerned goods.	None
The words for any commercial purpose are wide enough to take in all cases where goods are purchased for being used in any activity directly intended to generate profit.	None
According to the meaning given in standard dictionaries, the expression commercial means  connected with, or engaged in commerce mercantile having profit as the main aim (See Collins English Dictionary).Pertaining to commerce mercantile (See	None
Chambers Twentieth Century Dictionary).The meaning of the expression commerce as given in the dictionaries is exchange of merchandise, especially, on a large scale (See the Concise Oxford Dictionary).interchange of merchandise on a large scale between nations or individuals extended trade or traffic (See Chambers Twentieth Century Dictionary).	None
Going by the plain dictionary meaning of the words used in the definition section the intention of Parliament must be understood to be to exclude from the scope of the expression consumer any person who buys goods for the purpose of their being used in any activity engaged on a large scale for the purpose of making profit.	None
As already indicated since resale of the goods has been separately and specifically mentioned in the earlier portion of the definition clause, the words for any commerce purpose must be understood as covering cases other than those of resale of the goods.	None
It is thus obvious that Parliament wanted to exclude from the scope of the definition not merely persons who obtain goods for resale but also those who purchase goods with a view to using such goods for carrying on any activity on a large scale for the purpose of earning profit.	None
On this interpretation of the definition clause, persons buying goods either for resale or for use in large scale profit making activity will not be consumer entitled to protection under the Act.	None
It seems to us clear that the intention of Parliament as can be gathered from the definition section is to deny the benefits of the Act to persons purchasing goods either for purpose of resale or for the ed on a large scale.	None
It would thus follow that cases of purchase of goods for consumption or use in the manufacture of goods or commodities on a large scale with a view to make profit will all fall outside the scope of the definition.	None
It is obvious that Parliament intended to restrict the benefits of the Act to ordinary consumers purchasing goods either for their own consumption or even for use in some small venture which they may have embarked upon in order to make a living as distinct from large scale manufacturing or processing activity carried on for profit.	None
In order that exclusion clause should apply it is however necessary that there should be a close nexus between the transaction of purchase of goods and the large scale activity carried on for earning profit.	None
One of the members of the Commission, Shri Y. Krishan, however, took a different view.	None
The learned Member was of the opinion that the words used in Section 2(1)(d)(i) for commercial purpose have to be given a precise and restrictive meaning commercial purpose has to be distinguished from commercial production and commercial activity.	None
The subsection 2(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Consumer Protection Act have to be interpreted harmoniously.	None
The interpretation of the words commercial purpose in Section 2(1)(d)(i) must be logical and equitable so as to avoid patent anomalies and inconsistencies in the application of the law.	None
Viewed in this background, the various tests for determining whether the goods have been purchased for a commercial purpose would be (i) the goods are not for immediate final consumption but that there is only transfer of goods, i.e., resale.(ii) there should be a direct nexus between the purchase of goods and the profit or loss from their further disposal.	None
Such a direct nexus is absent when the goods or services are converted for producing other goods or services.	None
After conversion there is no direct nexus between the kind of goods purchased and the kind of goods sold.(iii) there is nexus of form and kind between the goods purchased and the goods sold.	None
Such a direct nexus of form and kind ceases when the goods undergo transformation or conversion.	None
In brief the immediate purpose as distinct from the ultimate purpose of purchase, the sale in the same form or after conversion and a direct nexus with profit or loss would be the determinants of the character of a transaction  whether it is of a commercial purpose or not.	None
Thus buyers of goods or commodities for self consumption in economic activities in which they are engaged would be consumers as defined in the Act.	None
Secretary, Consumer Guidance and Research Society of India v. M s. B.P.L. India Ltd., 1992 (1) CPJ 140, follows and affirms the decision in Synco Textiles and another decision in Oswal Fine Arts v. M s. H.M.T. Madras, 1991 (1) CPJ 330.	None
In this case, one Mrs. Shanta Manuel had purchased one paper copier from the respondent and installed the same in her premises.	None
The National Commission dealt with the case in the following words In the case now before us, it is clearly established by the materials on record that the purpose of the purchase of the paper copier by Mrs. Shanta Manuel was only to enable her to earn her livel ch being the factual position Mrs. Shanta Manuel cannot be said to have purchased the machine for a commercial purpose inasmuch as the basic perrequisite of large scale trading or business activity for purpose of making profit is totally absent.	None
We hold that the view concurrently expressed by the District Forum and the State Commission that the complainant is not consumer entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of the consumer forum is incorrect and the said finding will stand set aside.	None
Though rendered earlier to the 1993 Amendment, these decisions are broadly in accord with the amended definition.	None
CONCLUSIONS We must therefore, hold that the Explanation added by The Consumer Protection (Amendment) Act 50 of 1993 (replacing Ordinance 24 of 1993) with effect from 18.6.1993 is clarificatory in nature and applies to all pending proceedings.(ii)	Decision
Whether the purpose for which a person has bought goods is a commercial purpose within the meaning of the definition of expression consumer in Section 2(1)(d) of the Act is always a question of fact to be decided in the facts and circumstances of each case.(iii)	Decision
A person who buys goods and use them himself, exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of selfemployment is within the definition of the expression consumer.	Decision
So far as the present case is concerned, we must hold (in agreement with the National Commission), having regard to the nature and character of the machine and the material on record that it is not goods which the appellant purchased for use by himself exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood by means of selfemployment, as explained hereinabove.26.	Decision
The appeal accordingly fails and is dismissed but without costs.	Decision
If the appellant chooses to file a suit for the relief claimed in these proceedings, he can do so according to law and in such a case he can claim the benefit of Section 14 of the Limitation Act to exclude the period spent in prosecuting the proceedings under the Consumer Protection Act, while computing the period of limitation prescribed for such a suit.	Decision
