 Syed Shah Mohammed Quadri, J.	None
In these five appeals the parties are common the Revenue is the appellant and the assessee is the respondent.	None
C.A. Nos. 260003 of 1994, which relate to the assessment years 196768 to 197071, arise from the judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in IncomeTax Reference No. 242 of 1976 dated December 12, 1988.	None
Following that judgment the Division Bench disposed of Income Tax Reference No. 10 of 1987 which pertains to the assessment year 197475 on July 30, 1998 which is under challenge in Civil Appeal No. 3788 of 1999.	None
The common substantial question of law, which arises in these appeals, is question No. 2 noted below.	None
Briefly stated, the facts giving rise to these appeals are as follows The respondentassessee is an Indian resident company.	None
It is carrying on the business of exporting tea.	Facts
In the aforementioned assessment years it claimed weighted deduction under Section 35B of the Incometax Act (for short the Act) in respect of the expenditure of Rs. 1,95,935/ incurred on export of tea from East Africa to the United Kingdom.	Facts
The claim was disallowed by the Incometax Officer on the ground that Section 35B would apply only if the exports were made from India.	Facts
That view was upheld by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
Among others, the following two questions in Income Tax Reference No. 242 1976 and question No. 2 in Income Tax Reference No. 10 of 1987 were referred to the High Court of Judicature at Bombay by the Incometax Appellate.	Facts
Tribunal under Section 256(1) of the Act Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the provisions of Section 40(c)(iii) 40(a)(v) applied in the case of the employees of the Assessee in its overseas branches ?	Facts
(2) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is entitled to weighted deduction under SEction 35B in respect of the expenditure of Rs. 1,95,935/ incurred on export of tea from East Africa to the United Kingdom ?	Issue
The first question was answered in the negative i.e in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue following the judgment in the case of the respondentassessee for the earlier assessment years in Bombay Burmah Trading Corporation Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay CityIV, 1984(145) ITR 793.	None
It is conceded by the learned counsel for the parties that t his question is covered against the Revenue by the judgment of this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax v. Continental Construction Ltd., 1998(230) ITR 485 affirming the judgment in Continental Construction Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, 1990(185) ITR 178.	Facts
Adverting to the second question, the High Court answered it in the affirmative i.e. in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	None
It will be apt to refer to Section 35B of the Act, which is the subjectmatter of debate in all the five appeals.	Facts
35B. Export Markets developments allowance  (1)(a).	None
Where an assessee, being a domestic company or a person (other than a company) who is resident in India, has incurred after the 29th day of February, 1968, but before the 1st day of March, 1983, whether directly or in association with any other person, any expenditure (not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee) referred to in clause (b), he shall, subject to the provisions of this section, be allowed a deduction of a sum equal to one and onethird times the amount of such expenditure incurred during the previous year(b) The expenditure referred to in clause (a) is that incurred wholly and exclusively on (i) advertisement or publicity outside India in respect of the goods, services or facilities which the assessee deals in or provides in the course of his business (viii) performance of services outside India in connection with, or incidental to, the execution of any contract for the supply outside India of such goods, services or facilities.	None
On a plain reading of the provision of subsection (1), extracted above, it is clear that to claim the benefit of this section the following conditions have to be satisfied the assessee must be a domestic company which is resident in India(ii) it must have incurred expenditure after February 29, 1968 but before March 1, 1983(iii) such expenditure should not be in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee(iv) the expenditure might have been incurred either directly or in association with any other person and(v) the nature of the expenditure must answer the description referred to in any one of the subclauses of clause (b).	None
On these requirements being satisfied the assesseecompany becomes entitled to the weighted deduction under Section	None
35B.	None
It is not necessary that the export should be directly exIndia (from India).	None
The Tribunals reading of the Section that the export should be exIndia is not supported by the language of the provision or any authority.	None
The High Court has, therefore, rightly concluded that to avail the benefit of weighted deduction the provision does not require that the export should be exIndia.	None
It must be observed in fairness to Mr. M.L. Verma, learned senior counsel appearing for the Revenue, that he does not seriously dispute this proposition.	None
Once this position is accepted, the order under challenge has to be sustained.	None
However, what Mr. Verma contends is that the respondent claims the expenditure under subclause (viii) for which there is no factual finding by the Tribunal.	None
The High Court, submits Mr. Verma, has gone wrong in recording a fresh finding  the expenditure was incurred with regard to the performance of the service outside India i.e. from East Africa to United Kingdom in connection with the execution of contract for supply of tea in the United Kingdom  and on that basis upholding the claim of the respondent under Section 35B has further submission is neither the High Court nor this Court can do so without calling for a supplementary statement from the Tribunal on this aspect of the fact.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Ranjit Kumar, learned counsel appearing for the respondentassessee company, invited our attention to the orders passed by the IncomeTax Officer, the Commissioner and the Tribunal and contended that there was no dispute with regard to the nature of the expenditure and therefore Mr. Vermas contention has to be rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
We have perused the orders of the Income Tax Officer, the Commissioner, the Appellate Commissioner and the Tribunal as also the order under appeal passed by the High Court.	None
Though a copy of the return containing details of the expenditure claimed by the respondent under the above provision has not been placed on record, the orders of the departmental authorities as well as of the Tribunal and of the High Court leave us in no doubt that the weighted deduction under Section 35B was claimed in respect of the expenditure incurred with regard to the performance of the services outside India i.e. in East Africa and United Kingdom in connection with the execution of the contract for the supply of tea of the United Kingdom.	Reasoning
Indeed, the said fact is embodied in question No. 2 itself.	Reasoning
In view of the position, pointed out above, we find no illegality in the orders under challenge in these appeals.	Decision
The appeals are accordingly dismissed with costs.	Decision
