 Grover, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave from a judgment and decree of the Kerala High Court whereby the appeal preferred by respondent No. 1 herein was allowed and the suit was dismissed.	None
The following pedigree table will be helpful in understanding the facts2.	Facts
The suit out of which the appeal has arisen was instituted in the name of Narasimha Bhatta who was stated to be of weak intellect by his next friend and daughter Adithiamma for a declaration that the will dated September 30, 1955 said to have been executed by him was invalid and also for the cancellation of the deed of settlement dated December 13, 1955, which had also been executed by Narasimha Bhatta in favour of the first respondent and for other incidental reliefs.	Facts
The case as laid in the plaint was that the plaintiff, who was of advanced age, was suffering from diabetes for a long time and his physical and mental condition was very weak.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 was at first unsuccessful in getting a will executed by him by which he bequeathed almost all his properties to the said respondent.	Facts
In December 1955 he was taken to Mangalore by respondent No. 1 and there the latter managed to get executed Ext. B3 by him.	Facts
By this deed of settlement the entire properties which were considerable were given to respondent No. 1, the plaintiff reserving only a life interest for himself besides making some provision for the maintenance of his wife Lakshmiamma.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 was able to obtain benefits under the settlement deed for himself owing to the weak intellect and old age of the plaintiff.	Facts
A declaration was thus claimed that the will and the settlement deed was null and void and were not binding on the plaintiff.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 contested the suit.	Facts
He denied the existence of the will and maintained that the deed of settlement was not executed under undue influence or when the plaintiff was in a weak state of mind.3.	Facts
A number of issues were framed on the pleadings of the parties.	Facts
The trial Court by its judgment dated March 31, 1959, decreed t he suit holding that the will was invalid and that the deed of settlement Ext.	Facts
B3 was also invalid.	None
It was held that the plaintiff was a person of weak intellect and was not in a position to take care of himself and manage his affairs properly on the date of the execution of the aforesaid documents.	Facts
The respondent preferred an appeal to the High Court.	Facts
After hearing the parties the High Court directed that the evidence of three persons, two of whom were doctors and the third was a document writer, should be recorded by the trial Court and the record submitted to it.	Facts
After the receipt of the record the appeal was again heard.	Facts
During the pendency of the appeal the plaintiff died on October 8, 1959 and his widow Lakshmiamma and two daughters, Adithiamma and Parmeshwariamma were impleaded as legal representatives by an order dated November 30, 1959.	Facts
The High Court reversed the judgment of the Court below holding that the gift contained in Ext.	None
B3 was a spontaneous act of the plaintiff and he had exercised an independent will in the matter of its execution.4.	None
It appears that before the High Court the decision of the trial Court relating to the will was not challenged.	None
At any rate since the will was never produced the sole question which we are called upon to decide is whether the deed of settlement Ext.	None
B3 was executed in circumstances which rendered it invalid and void.	None
It was stated in this document that on September 30, 1955 a will had been executed by the executant but he considered it advisable to execute a settlement deed in respect of his immovable and movable properties and also for the discharge of his debts etc.	None
This, it was stated, was being done in supersession of the will.	None
It was stated the respondent No. 1 had been nursing the executant and looking after him and therefore he was conferring full rights over his properties on him subject to the certain conditions.	None
He was to have full right to enjoy the said properties and collect their income till his lifetime.	None
After his death Narayana Bhatta was entitled to take possession of his properties and get the pattas executed in his name and he was to have absolute and perpetual rights in them.	None
Lakshmiamma was to be maintained by Narayana Bhatta.	None
If she found it inconvenient to live with him he was to pay to her annually till her death two candies of Areca which was to be the first charge on the properties.	None
If he failed to give arecanuts on the due dates he was to pay the price thereof at the prevailing market rate together with interest 5 1/2 per annum.	None
Certain debts were mentioned which were intended to be paid off by the executant but if that was not done Narayana Bhatta was to discharge them.	None
The following portion of the deed may be reproducedBesides, only the right of enjoying the properties till my lifetime and collecting their income and using the same for myself, I have no other right, title or interest whatsoever over the properties.	None
I have no right to cancel this deed for any other reasons, and such right also I have completely lose and to this intent this deed of settlement has been executed by me out of my free will and pleasure.5.	None
The first noticeable feature is that the deed of settlement on the face of it was an unnatural and unconscionable document.	Reasoning
Narasimha Bhatta made negligible provision for his wife who was his third wife, the first two having died before he married her.	Reasoning
She was left mainly to the mercy of respondent No. 1.	Reasoning
Admittedly there was a residential house and no provision was made regarding her right to reside in that house till her death.	Reasoning
Apparently there was no reason why he should have left nothing to his two daughters or to his other grandchildren and given his entire estate to only one grandson namely respondent No. 1.6.	None
The circumstances leading to the execution of the deed may next be considered.	None
It is common ground that Narasimha Bhatta was in his seventies at the time of execution.	None
He was suffering from diabetes which had rendered him weak in body.	None
He was living in his house in a village called Sodankur.	None
He was taken in a taxi accompanied by his wife by respondent No. 1 to Mangalore.	None
There he was got admitted into Ramakrishna Nursing Home where he remained from December 10 to December 18, 1955.	None
An application was made to the Joint SubRegistrar, Mangalore, for registering the document at the Nursing Home on December 15, 1955, apparently on the ground that Narasimha Bhatta was not in a fit condition to go to the office of the Registrar.	None
The deed of settlement was then presented to the Joint SubRegistrar on that very day between 5 and 6 p.m. and the registration proceedings took place there.	None
It was subsequently registered in the book kept by the Joint SubRegistrar on December 16, 1955.7.	None
According to the trial Court Upendra Naik D. W. 5 was the brain behind respondent No. 1 in the matter of getting Ext.	None
B3 executed and registered which contained disposition in favour of respondent No. 1.	None
Upendra Naik was an attesting witness and according to him and respondent No. 1 it was Narasimha Bhatta himself who gave the instructions to draft the document a draft was prepared which was read over to him and Ext.	None
B3 was written only after the draft had been approved by him and that respondent No. 1 was not even present at the time the draft was prepared or the document was registered.	None
The scribe had originally not been examined in the trial Court.	None
Under the directions of the High Court his statement was recorded on July 12, 1961.	None
According to him no draft was prepared and that he wrote out the document	None
Ext. B3 at his own house.	None
He put his own signature also as an attesting witness at his own house.	None
He deposed that he wrote out the document	None
Ext. B3 on December 13, 1955, when certain documents of title were handed over to him.	None
Respondent No. 1 and another person Adakala Ramayya Naik who was his friend came to him and it was Ramayya Naik who asked him to write out Ext. B3.	None
He further stated that he met Narasimha Bhatta only on the date of the registration and not on the date when he wrote out Ext. B3.	None
He had known Narasimha Bhatta from a long time and used to write out documents for him.	None
He stated that normally he consulted the person on whose behalf the document was to be written but in this particular case Ramayya Naik told him that Narasimha Bhatta was in the Nursing Home and that Naik himself would give instructions for preparing the document.8.	None
It would, therefore, appear that Narasimha Bhatta was not even consulted by the scribe nor was any draft made with his approval which was given to the scribe from which he prepared the document Ext. B3.	None
The trial Judge did not place any reliance and in our opinion rightly on the evidence of K. Shaik Ummar, D. W. 4, the Joint SubRegistrar of Mangalore.	Reasoning
His statement has not impressed us as reliable.	Reasoning
He said that the wife of Narasimha Bhatta, namely, Lakshmiamma was present during the proceedings for registration and she raised no objection to the document being registered.	Reasoning
He admitted that the hands of the executor were trembling at the time he appended signature.	None
There had been a number of complaints against him and with regard to one of them it was stated by himI was SubRegistrar, Kasaragod between 1946 and 1948, at the time I registered a deed authorising adoption.	None
It was an authority given by Mr. K. P. Subba Rao to his wife.	None
It was registered at the residence of the executant in the evening hours.	None
A little earlier the same day I had attended another house registration at Kumbla about 8 or 10 miles from here.	None
To go there one has to cross a river also.	None
There was a complaint against me that Subba Raos registration took place at night at a time when he was unconscious.	None
I do not know whether the said Subba Rao died the next day.	None
The District Registrar held an enquiry in the matter.9.	None
We may next advert to the evidence of Lakshmiamma the wife of Narasimha Bhatta who was also present at the Nursing Home at the time of execution of document Ext. B3.	None
According to her statement in the beginning of 1955 Narasimha Bhatta who was suffering from diabetes had a fall after which his left arm and left leg could not be moved by him.	None
His mental faculties were also affected.	None
Since then his condition was getting worse.	None
Five or six months before he fell down respondent No. 1 managed to get a will executed by him in which the dispositions were mainly in his favour.	None
When the will was executed Narasimha Bhatta was not in a condition in which he could understand what he was doing.	None
As regards the registration proceedings in the Nursing Home, she stated, that it was the first respondent who gave the document into the hands of an officer who asked Narasimha Bhatta to sign the document and also to affix his thumb impression.	None
Narasimha Bhatta looked scared but respondent No. 1 shouted sign this and give your thumb impression grandfather.	None
According to her she protested against the document being executed in this manner but respondent No. 1 told her to keep quite.	None
In spite of a lengthy crossexamination nothing was brought out to show why this lady who is the grandmother of Respondent No. 1 and who would be expected to be impartial in the dispute between her children and grandchildren should prejure herself and make a false statement.	None
It is true that she would be interested, to a certain extent, in getting the document cancelled or set aside but we see no reason to brush aside her statement with regard to the condition of Narasimha Bhatta at the time the document was executed and the circumstances in which it was got registered.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that the trial Court also relied on her evidence.	Reasoning
We do not find any cogent or convincing reasons in the judgment of the High Court for disbelieving Lakshmiamma nor are we satisfied that the reasons given for accepting the evidence of Upendra Naik D. W. 5 and discarding the testimony of the Scribe C. W. 1 are satisfactory.	Reasoning
It is also difficult to comprehend how the High Court thought that the terms of Ext. B3 were not unconscionable enough as to raise a fair amount of suspicion in the matter.	Reasoning
In view of the unnatural character of the dispositions made in Ext. B3 coupled with the other facts and circumstances mentioned above the burden shifted to respondent No. 1 to establish that Ext. B3 was executed by Narasimha Bhatta voluntarily and without any external pressure or influence while he was not of infirm mind and was fully aware of the dispositions or gifts which he was making in favour of respondent No. 1.10.	None
On behalf of respondent No. 1 main reliance has been placed on the evidence of certain doctors who were the attesting witnesses.	Arguments of Respondent
The first was Dr. K. P. Ganessan D. W. 1.	Arguments of Respondent
He was a highly qualified doctor and according to his statement he was taken to the house of Narasimha Bhatta in the village (Sodhankur) to examine him accompanied by Dr. Vishwanath Shetty.	None
It was stated by Dr. Ganessan that he was not suffering from partial paralysis and was able to understand the questions put to him.	None
This was towards the end of 1955.	None
He examined him again in the Nursing Home at Mangalore where he found him mentally healthy.	None
He had also attested the document Ext. B3.	None
He could not produce any record of the examination made by him nor was any record of the Nursing Home produced at the trial.	None
He admitted that he had never attested any document like Ext.	None
B3 before	None
and he attested the same at the request of respondent No. 1.	None
He admitted that he did not conduct any examination of Narasimha Bhatta with a view to discovering his capacity to execute the document nor did he know the contents of the documents.	None
The impression he got was that it was a will.	None
The evidence of Dr. Ganessan was not accepted by trial Court in view of the discrepancy between his statement and that of Dr. U. P. Mallayya D. W. 7 as also the lack of responsibility shown by the doctor in attesting a will or a document of the nature of Ext. B3 in the manner enjoined by certain books on medical jurisprudence and in particular Taylors Medical Jurisprudence.	None
The view of the trial Court was that these doctors had not given any satisfactory explanation as to why they did not properly examine the mental condition of Narasimha Bhatta at the time he executed the document and that they had merely done the attestation and had never cared to ascertain whether the signature had been subscribed by the executant while he was of a sound disposing mind.	None
Now, Dr. Ganessan was a consultant physician of the Nursing Home.	None
He was quite guarded in his statement relating to the mental condition of Narasimha Bhatta because he stated that when he first examined him towards the end of 1955 in the village which was only a short time before he was taken to Mangalore Nursing Home he found him mentally alright to the best of his knowledge.	None
He further stated that there was no reason to suspect any mental deformity in the executant at the time he attested the document.	None
Dr. M. Subraya Prabhu C. W. 2 who was working as a doctor in the Nursing Home in 1955 deposed that case sheets were maintained in the hospital and that the case sheet relating to Narasimha Bhatta had been taken by Dr. U. P. Mallayya at the time the latter was examined as a witness.	None
According to Dr. Parbhu Narasimha Bhatta would sometimes answer questions put to him and sometimes his wife used to answer the questions put by the doctor.	None
The case sheets, if produced, would have shown what were the exact ailments from which Narasimha Bhatta was suffering when he was in the Nursing Home and what treatment was given to him under the directions of Dr. Ganessan who maintained that his suspicion was that a liver abscess had ruptured into the lung due to dysentery.	None
In the absence of the record of the Nursing Home or any other record we find it difficult to accept what Dr. Ganessan has stated about the mental condition of Narasimha Bhatta at the time when the document Ext.	Reasoning
B3 was executed and registered.	None
Dr. U. P. Mallayyas evidence was also not believed by the trial Court and after going through his evidence we are not satisfied that his statement could be relied upon with regard to the true condition, physical as well as mental, of Narasimha Bhatta at the time	Reasoning
Ext. B3 was executed.11.	None
On behalf of the plaintiff certain doctors were produced.	Reasoning
The trial Court had, while deciding the question whether the suit should be permitted to proceed in forma pauperis, recorded an order on March 15, 1957.	Reasoning
In those proceedings Dr. Kambli had been examined as a witness.	Reasoning
That doctor treated Narasimha Bhatta from March 6, 1956 to March 12, 1956 and he had issued a certificate Ext. A1 wherein it was stated that Narasimha Bhatta was in a weak condition and was subject to loss of memory attended by mental derangement and dotage.	Reasoning
The observation of the trial Court itself was that when Narasimha Bhatta, under its directions, was brought to the Court on March 11, 1957, he looked the blank and did not answer when the Court asked him what his name was.	Reasoning
According to what Narasimha Bhatta stated he was 25 or 30 years of age, at that time.	Reasoning
He could not tell the name of his wife and he was bodily carried by two persons to the judges chamber.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, found that he was a person of weak mind and was incapable of making his own decisions and conducting his affairs.	Reasoning
It may be that the condition of Narasimha Bhatta on March 11, 1957 may not throw much light on what his condition was in December 1955 but the evidence of Dr. Kambli who had examined him only a couple of months after the execution of the document shows that Narasimha Bhatta was suffering from various symptoms which are to be found in a case of advanced senility particularly when a person is also suffering from a disease like diabetes  a wasting disease.12.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that Narasimha Bhatta who was of advanced age and was in a state of senility and who was suffering from diabetes and other ailments was taken by respondent No. 1 who had gone to reside in the house at Sodhankur village a little earlier in a taxi along with Lakshmiamma to the Nursing Home in Mangalore where he was got admitted as a patient.	Reasoning
No draft was prepared with the approval or under the directions of Narasimha Bhatta nor were any instructions given by him to the Scribe in the matter of drawing up of the document Ext. B3.An application was also made to the Joint SubRegistrar, Mangalore for registering the document at the Nursing Home by someone whose name has not been disclosed nor has the application been produced to enable the Court to find out the reasons for which a prayer was made that the registration be done at the Nursing Home.	Reasoning
Lakshmiamma the wife of Narasimha Bhatta who was the only other close relation present has stated in categorical terms that the document was got executed by using pressure on Narasimha Bhatta while he was of an infirm mind and was not in a fit condition to realize what he was doing.	Reasoning
The hospital record was not produced nor did the doctor who attended on Narasimha Bhatta at the Nursing Home produce any authentic data or record to support their testimony.	Reasoning
Even the will was not produced by respondent No. 1 presumably because it must have contained recitals about the weak state of health of Narasimha Bhatta.	Reasoning
The dispositions which were made by Ext. B3, as already pointed out before, were altogether unnatural and no valid reason or explanation has been given why Narasimha Bhatta should have given everything to respondent 1 and even deprived himself of the right to deal with the property as an owner during his lifetime.	Reasoning
All these facts and circumstances raised a grave suspicion as to the genuineness of the execution of the document Ext.	Reasoning
B3 and it was for respondent No. 1 to dispel the same.	None
In our opinion he has entirely failed to do so with the result that the appeal must succeed and it is allowed with costs in this Court.	Decision
The decree of the High Court is set aside and that of the trial Court restored.13.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
