 M. Sahai, J. The only question that arises for consideration is whether the recital in a Deed of Dissolution of partnership, Ext. 48, that Survey Plot No. 699 was a partnership property was admissible in evidence.	Issue
Both the plaintiffappellant and defendantrespondent were partners in Messers Maharashtra Metal Manufacturing Company.	Facts
The partnership was formed in 1952 and it lasted till 1959.	Facts
In 1955 the plot in dispute was purchased by the defendant.	Facts
At the time of dissolution a Partition Deed, Ext. 46, was executed.	Facts
A Deed of Dissolution, Ext. 47, was executed on 1st August, 1961 and another Deed, Ext. 48, was executed on 1st September, 1961.	Facts
In all these Deeds, this plot was mentioned.	Facts
In the last Deed the recital read as under  We both have been carrying on the business of making and selling lotas (a) of copper in partnership for a long time in the name of Messers Maharashtra Metal Manufacturing Company Pune.	Facts
We have duly recorded the deed of dissolution of partnership on the date 19 1961.	Facts
There were factories running at two places and belonging to the our partnership.	Facts
Similarly there is a plot bearing Survey No. 699 of the ownership of our parruership, situated near Saibaba Temple, Satam Poona Road, Swargate and we both reside there.	Facts
The places of both the factories are taken on rent and the same were also (included) in our partnership.	None
In the schedule appended to the Partition Deed it was mentioned that the said property together with the structure standing thereon, the well and the motor fixed on the said well would be treated as joint or common property.	Facts
Since in the Deed of Dissolution of 1st August, 1961 it was mentioned, Survey No. 699 has been purchased in the name of No. 1	Facts
Mungale.	Facts
No. 1	Facts
Mungale should execute a sale deed of half share in this land in favour of No. 2 Bidwai at Bidwais expense.	Facts
The appellant issued notice for execution of the sale deed.	None
But when the defendant neglected to do so the appellant filed the suit for partition by metes and bounds.	Facts
The suit was dismissed by the trial court.	Facts
The two Deeds of Dissolution of pannership were held inadmissible for want of registration.	Facts
The order was upheld in appeal.	Facts
It was held that the recital in Exts.	Facts
46 and 47 with regard to terms of dissolution of partnership did not require registration.	Facts
But so far as it sought to effect the interest of defendant in the nonpartnership immoveable property the document being unregistered was inadmissible.	Facts
In respect of Ext.48 the High Court held that the recital in the document that it was partnership property did not appear to be correct.	Facts
3. Sri Ashok Sen, the learned senior counsel urged that the law is settled that no registration was required of the partnership property as it did not result in transfer of any interest.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on S.V. Chandra Pandian Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. S.V.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sivalinga Nadar Ors., 1993(1) SCC 589.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel urged that in any case Section 14 of the Partition Act indicated that any property acquired subsequently becomes partnership property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sri Tarkunde, the learned senior counsel supported the findings recorded by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the documents, Exts. 46, 47 and 48, did not establish that Plot No. 699 was partnership property.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that in Ext. 46 the mala (garden land) and the present suit property had been separately mentioned.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, it was clear that it was not partnership property.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel urged that the High Court having found documentary evidence to be insufficient or inadmissible examined the oral evidence and held that the land was not partnership property as such it was not an appropriate case in which this Court should exercise its jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel argued that the respondent having proved that the land was purchased by him, it was for the appellant to prove that the property belonged to both.	Arguments of Respondent
The real question that arises for consideration is if the recital in the Deed of Dissolution dated 1.9.1961 showing that plot no.	None
699 was partnership property was inadmissible for want of registration.	None
It was found by the High Court and could not be disputed by the respondent that if plot no.	Reasoning
699 was held to be a partnership property then it did not require registration.	Reasoning
It is true that this plot was purchased in 1955 by the respondent alone, but he was not precluded in law from bringing it in the partnership.	Reasoning
The circumstances and the three documents indicate that even though the land was purchased by the respondent, it appears both the parties have been treating this property as being in joint ownership .of	Reasoning
both.	Reasoning
This may have been due to good relations which existed between them prior to 1959 but there appears no reason to discard the recital in these documents which unequivocally establish that the properly at the time of dissolution was owned by the partnership.	Reasoning
The recital in the Deed of Dissolution of partnership of September, 1961 that it was a partnership property, could not be ignored.	Reasoning
Apart from it, the appellant had filed earlier suit in which the claim of the appellant that these documents were obtained under duress was not accepted.	Reasoning
Even though the suit was dismissed on ground of limitation, but the genuineness of the documents was not doubted.	Reasoning
If that be so, then the recital in the Dissolution Deed could not be ignored.	Reasoning
The High Court was in absence of any challenge to Ext. 48 not justified in recording the finding that recital in the Deed did not carry out intention of executants.	Reasoning
Sri Sen was correct in submitting that once it was held that Plot No. 699 was partnership property then there was no need for registration and the appellants suit was liable to be decreed.	Reasoning
In the result, this appeal succeeds and is allowed.	Decision
The judgments of the two courts below dismissing the plaintiffs suit are set aside and the suit for partition is decreed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
