 F. Nariman, J. Leave granted.	None
The present appeals by the Union of India raise an interesting question as to the applicability of the 1997 Amendment to Section 28 of the Contract Act, 1872.	None
The facts of the three appeals are similar inasmuch as they concern four exporters who belong to what is known as the GPB Group of Companies.	None
By a Memorandum dated 6.11.1995, issued by the Textile Commissioner under the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947, terms and conditions for export of raw cotton and cotton waste for September, 1995  August, 1996 were laid down.	Facts
The shipment was permitted only against an irrevocable letter of credit.	Facts
The exporters were required to furnish a bank guarantee in the prescribed form at the rate of 10 of the contract price.	Facts
The bank guarantee was required to be kept valid up to 6 months with a provision for claims for an additional three months, after the last date of shipment.	Facts
The allocation of quota was on the basis of the highest unit value realization.	Facts
The Textile Commissioner invited applications vide Press Note and Memorandum, both dated 9.1.1996, for export of 10,000 bales of extra long staple cotton.	Facts
It was mentioned in the Press Note and the Memorandum that the shipment period will be 180 days from the date of registration of quota or up to 31.8.1996, whichever is earlier.	Facts
Pursuant to this Press Note and Memorandum, four sale contracts were executed between M s Indocomex Fibres Pvt. Ltd., Singapore and the four exporters, all in January, 1996.	Facts
On 31.1.1996, the four exporters made an application together with a bank guarantee of even date.	Facts
In February, the exporters were permitted to export the total quantity of 9175 bales vide an AllocationcumRegistration Certificate dated 6.2.1996 within a validity period of shipment up to 31.7.1996.	Facts
It may be mentioned in passing that this date was extended as many as three times, the third extension being notified as upto 28.2.1997.	None
As the four exporters failed and neglected to furnish supporting documents regarding export of goods allocated to them within the stipulated period, the Textile Commissioner, by a letter dated 3.1.1997, called upon the exporters to submit the necessary documents within 15 days from the date of issue of this letter but not later than 20.1.1997, failing which the bank guarantees would be enforced.	None
As the exporters failed and neglected to furnish these documents, the Textile Commissioner, vide letters dated 15.5.1997, invoked the bank guarantees.	Facts
Vide letters of even date, the Respondent Bank refused to pay under the said guarantees, stating that the same could be invoked only within the extended period of three months i.e. up to 30.4.1997, and not later.	Facts
By a letter dated 27/28.8.1997, the Textile Commissioner informed the Respondent Bank that in light of the amendment to Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, which came into force on 8.1.1997, the Bank was not absolved of its obligation to make payment under the bank guarantee.	Facts
To this, the Bank vide letter dated 19.9.1997, reiterated its earlier stand and stated that it was not liable to make payment under the bank guarantee after 30.4.1997.	Facts
It may be mentioned in passing that two of the aforesaid group companies, namely GPB Fibres Ltd. and M s Bhagwati Cotton Ltd. were amalgamated on 12.9.1997.	Facts
On 23.7.1998, the Textile Commissioner called upon both the exporters and the Respondent Bank to pay the sums covered by the bank guarantee.	None
As this letter evoked no response, three summary suits  being 2959/1999, 2963/1999 and 2996/1999  were filed on 8.4.1999 by the Union of India and the Textile Commissioner against the exporters and the Bank in the High Court of Bombay.	Facts
By order dated 4.12.2001, as amended on 22.1.2002, unconditional leave to defend the suits was granted to the Bank, and conditional leave to so defend the suits to the exporters upon depositing the amount of Rs.3,82,59,450/ in the Court within 12 weeks from the date of the said order.	Facts
On 20.1.2003/27.2.2003, the Division Bench dismissed the appeal filed by the Union of India on the ground that it was not maintainable under Clause 15 of the Letters Patent of the High Court.	Facts
On 14.8.2003, an SLP filed by the Union of India met with the same fate.	Facts
All four exporters remained ex parte, as a result of which the suits came to be decreed ex parte against the said exporters on 29.11.2004.	None
On contest with the Bank, a learned Single Judge of the Bombay High Court on 22.2.2008, was of the view that as the bank guarantees in question were in force on 8.1.1997, when the amendment to Section 28 of the Contract Act took place, the amended Section 28 would apply to the facts of these cases.	None
This being the case, the clause in the bank guarantees extinguishing rights and discharging the liability of the Bank if a claim were not to be made within three months of the date of expiry of the bank guarantee, was held to be void.	Facts
Consequently, it was held that the invocation of the aforesaid bank guarantees, being without the aforesaid time constraint, was valid, and the said suits were, therefore, decreed in favour of the Union of India and against the bank.	Facts
In an appeal against this judgment, by the impugned judgment dated 20.4.2011, a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, while holding that the amended Section 28 would apply to the facts of these cases, came to the opposite conclusion by following certain judgments of this Court, and therefore, reversed the learned Single Judge, holding that since the bank guarantees were not invoked within the time prescribed, the suits would have to be dismissed.	Facts
The Union of India has filed the present appeals before us.	Facts
Shri A.K. Panda, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of the Union of India, has stated that the Single Judge was correct in applying Section 28(b) as amended in 1997, and that the condition contained in the bank guarantee which restricted the period within which it could be invoked is, therefore, void.	Arguments of Petitioner
To buttress his submission, he cited (1995) 2 SCC 630 , R. Rajagopal Reddy v. Padmini Chandrasekharan.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, the Division Bench, having reiterated that the amended Section 28(b) would apply, was not correct in its conclusion that such clause in the bank guarantees would not be void.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, the Supreme Court judgments relied upon were all preamendment, and could not therefore be relied upon to arrive at the opposite result from the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned senior advocate, and Shri Krishnan Venugopal learned senior advocate, contended that both the Single Judge and the Division Bench were not correct in applying the amendment to Section 28.	Arguments of Respondent
According to both the learned counsel, the bank guarantees themselves being dated 31.1.1996, would not be affected by an amendment made one year later i.e. on 8.1.1997.	Arguments of Respondent
The relevant date and the relevant law applicable would be as on 31.1.1996, which would be the unamended Section 28.	Arguments of Respondent
This being the case, according to them, a catena of judgments has held that if a clause in a contract does not restrict the limitation period within which one can approach a Court, then it is perfectly valid and not hit by Section 28 (unamended).	Arguments of Respondent
For this purpose, they cited several judgments before us.	Arguments of Respondent
An alternative plea was also raised by them that, on the assumption that the amended Section 28 would apply, even then, regard being had to the limited object sought to be achieved by the amendment, which followed a Law Commission Report, it would be clear that even on application of Section 28(b), the aforesaid clause in the bank guarantees would not be hit.	Arguments of Respondent
In particular, they argued that the revised Section 28 suggested by the Law Commission was not in fact enacted verbatim in Section 28(b), and that the crucial words ?or on failure to make a claim?	Arguments of Respondent
are missing in the amended Section 28.	Arguments of Respondent
They also referred to a subsequent amendment of Section 28 in 2012, specifically dealing with bank guarantees, in the course of their arguments.	Arguments of Respondent
The primary contention with which we are faced is whether Section 28 applies in its original form or whether it applies after amendment in 1997.	None
In order to answer this question, it is first necessary to set out Section 28 in its original form and Section 28 after amendment.	Issue
The Section reads as under Original Section 28.	None
Every agreement, by which any party thereto is restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract, by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary tribunals, or which limits the time within which he may thus enforce his rights, is void to that extent.	None
Amendment w.e.f. 08.01.1997 28.	None
Agreements in restraint of legal proceeding, void.	None
Every Agreement, (a) by which any party thereto is restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract, by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary tribunals, or which limits the time within which he may thus enforce his rights, is void to that extent (b) which extinguishes the rights of any party thereto, or discharges any party thereto, from any liability, under or in respect of any contract on the expiry of a specified period so as to restrict any party from enforcing his rights by usual legal proceedings, is void to that extent.?	None
In order to answer this primary question, we have first to see whether the change made in Section 28 could be said to be clarificatory or declaratory of the law, and hence retrospective.	None
It is common ground that the statute has not made the aforesaid amendment retrospective as it is to come into force only with effect from 8.1.1997.	None
The original Section is of 1872 vintage.	None
It remained in this incarnation for over 100 years and was the subject matter of two Law Commission Reports.	None
The 13th Report of the Law Commission of India, September, 1958 examined the Section and ultimately decided that it was not necessary to amend it, given the fact that there is a wellknown distinction between agreements providing for relinquishment of rights as well as remedies as against agreements for relinquishing remedies only.	None
This was reflected in para 57 of the Report as follows ?	None
57.	None
Decided cases reveal a divergence of opinion in relation to certain clauses of insurance policies with reference to the applicability of this Section.	None
On examination, it would appear that these cases do not really turn on the interpretation of the Section, but hinge on the construction of the insurance policies in question.	None
The principle itself is well recognized that an agreement providing for the relinquishment of rights and remedies is valid, but an agreement for relinquishment of remedies only falls within the mischief of Section 28.	None
Thus, in our opinion, no change is called for by reason of the aforesaid conflict of judicial authority.?	None
Several decades passed, until the Law Commission in its 97th Report of March, 1984 suo motu decided that the Section required amendment.	None
An introduction to the Report stated the point for consideration thus ?	None
1.2	None
Under Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 to state the point in brief an agreement which limits the time within which a party to an agreement may enforce his rights under any contract by proceedings in a court of law is void to that extent.	None
But the Section does not invalidate an agreement in the nature of prescription, that is to say, an agreement which provides that, at the end of a specified period.	None
If the rights thereunder are not enforced, the rights shall cease to exist.	None
As will be explained in greater detail in later Chapters of this Report, this position creates serious anomalies and hardship, apart from leading to unnecessary litigation.	None
Prima facie, it appeared to the Commission that the Section stood in need of reform on this point.	None
The arguments for and against amendment of the section will be set out later.	None
For the present, it is sufficient to state that the problem is one of considerable practical importance as such stipulations are frequently found in agreements entered into in the course of business.?	None
After going through the existing case law and finding that the existing case law resulted in economic injustice because of unequal bargaining power, the Law Commission decided to recommend a change in the Section.	None
This was done as follows ?	None
5.1 We now come to the changes that are needed in the present law.	None
In our opinion, the present legal position as to prescriptive clauses in contracts cannot be defended as a matter of justice, logic, commonsense or convenience.	None
When accepting such clauses, consumers either do not realize the possible adverse impact of such clauses, or are forced to agree because big corporations are not prepared to enter into contracts except on these onerous terms.	None
?	None
Take it or leave it all?, is their general attitude, and because of their superior bargaining power, they naturally have the upper hand.	None
We are not, at present, dealing with the much wider field of ?standard form contracts?	None
or ?standard?	None
terms.	None
But confining ourselves to the narrow issue under discussion, it would appear that the present legal position is open to serious objection from the common man?s point of view.	None
Further, such clauses introduce an element of uncertainty in transactions which are entered into daily by hundreds of persons.	None
5.2	None
It is hardly necessary to repeat all that we have said in the preceding Chapters about the demerits of the present law.	None
Briefly, one can say that the present law, which regards prescriptive clauses as valid while invalidating time limit clauses which merely bar the remedy, suffers from the following principal defects (a) It causes serious hardship to those who are economically disadvantaged and is violative of economic justice.	None
(b) In particular, it harms the interests of the consumer, dealing with big corporations.	None
(c) It is illogical, being based on a distinction which treats the more severe flaw as valid, while invalidating a lesser one.	None
(d) It rests on a distinction too subtle and refined to admit of easy application in practice.	None
It thus, throws a cloud on the rights of parties, who do not know with certainty where they stand, ultimately leading to avoidable litigation.	None
5.3	None
On a consideration of all aspects of the matter, we recommend that Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 should be suitably amended so as to amend to render invalid contractual clauses which purport to extinguish, on the expiry of a specified term, right accruing from the contract.	None
Here is a suggestion for redrafting the main paragraph of Section 28.	None
Revised Section 28, main paragraph, Contract Act as recommended 28.	None
Every agreement (a) by which any party thereto is restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract by the usual legal proceedings in the ordinary tribunals, or (b) which limits the time within which he may thus enforce his rights, or (c) which extinguishes the rights of any party thereto under or in respect of any contract on the expiry of a specified period (or on failure to make a claim) or to institute a suit or other legal proceeding within a specified period, or (d) which discharges any party thereto from any liability under or in respect of any contract in the circumstances specified in clause (c), is void to that extent.?	None
A period of 13 years passed after which this Report was implemented.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Amendment reads as follows ?	None
The Law Commission of India has recommended in its 97th report that Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 may be amended so that the anomalous situation created by the existing Section may be rectified.	None
It has been held by the courts that the said Section 28 shall invalidate only a clause in any agreement which restricts any party thereto from enforcing his rights absolutely or which limits the time within which he may enforce his rights.	None
The courts have, however, held that this Section shall not come into operation when the contractual term spells out an extinction of the right of a party to sue or spells out the discharge of a party from all liability in respect of the claim.	None
What is thus hit by Section 28 is an agreement relinquishing the remedy only i.e. where the timelimit specified in the agreement is shorter than the period of limitation provided by law.	None
A distinction is assumed to exist between remedy and right and this distinction is the basis of the present position under which a clause barring a remedy is void, but a clause extinguishing the rights is valid.	None
This approach may be sound in theory but, in practice, it causes serious hardship and might even be abused.	None
2.	None
It is felt that Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 should be amended as it harms the interests of the consumer dealing with big corporations and causes serious hardship to those who are economically disadvantaged.	None
3.	None
The Bill seeks to achieve the above objects.	None
What emerges on a reading of the Law Commission Report together with the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Amendment is that the Amendment does not purport to be either declaratory or clarificatory.	None
It seeks to bring about a substantive change in the law by stating, for the first time, that even where an agreement extinguishes the rights or discharges the liability of any party to an agreement, so as to restrict such party from enforcing his rights on the expiry of a specified period, such agreement would become void to that extent.	None
The Amendment therefore seeks to set aside the distinction made in the case law up to date between agreements which limit the time within which remedies can be availed and agreements which do away with the right altogether in so limiting the time.	None
These are obviously substantive changes in the law which are remedial in nature and cannot have retrospective effect.	None
In Sukhram v. Harbheji, 1969 3 S.C.R. 752, this Court held ?	None
Now a law is undoubtedly retrospective if the law says so expressly but it is not always necessary to say so expressly to make the law retrospective.	None
There are occasions when a law may be held to be retrospective in operation.	None
Retrospection is not to be presumed for the presumption is the other way but many statutes have been regarded as retrospective without a declaration.	None
Thus it is that remedial statutes are always regarded as prospective but declaratory statutes are considered retrospective.	None
Similarly sometimes statutes have a retrospective effect when the declared intention is clearly and unequivocally manifest from the language employed in the particular law or in the context of connected provisions.	None
It is always a question whether the legislature has sufficiently expressed itself.	None
To find this one must look at the general scope and purview of the Act and the remedy the legislature intends to apply in the former state of the law and then determine what the legislature intended to do.	None
This line of investigation is, of course, only open if it is necessary.	None
In the words of Lord Selborne in Main v. Stark 1890 15 A.C. 384 at 388, there might be something in the context of an Act or collected from its language, which might give to words prima facie prospective a large operation.	None
More retrospectivity is not to be given than what can be gathered from expressed or clearly implied intention of the legislature.?	None
(pp.758759)	None
Considering that the subject matter of Section 28 is ?agreements?, the unamended Section 28 would be the law applicable as on 31.1.1996, which is the date of the agreement of bank guarantee.	None
It now remains for us to deal with the case law cited by both sides.	None
In R. Rajagopal Reddy v. Padmini Chandrasekharan, (1995) 2 SCC 630 , this Court was called upon to interpret the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988.	None
A 3Judge Bench of this Court overruled Mithilesh Kumari v. Prem Behari Khare, (1989) 2 SCC 95 , in arriving at the conclusion that the 1988 Act was prospective and not retrospective.	None
In so overruling the Division Bench judgment, this Court held that the Act is not expressly retrospective, so that an enquiry would lie as to whether it could be said to be clarificatory or declaratory.	None
The language of Section 4(1) of the statute made it clear that it would apply to suits filed only after the 1988 Act came into force Further, the Bench went on to quote Maxwell on Interpretation as follows ?	None
Perhaps no rule of construction is more firmly established than this that a retrospective operation is not to be given to a statute so as to impair an existing right or obligation, otherwise than as regards matters of procedure, unless that effect cannot be avoided without doing violence to the language of the enactment.	None
If the enactment is expressed in language which is fairly capable of either interpretation, it ought to be construed as prospective only.?	None
The rule has, in fact, two aspects, for it, involves another and subordinate rule, to the effect that a statute is not to be construed so as to have a greater retrospective operation than its language renders necessary.?	None
para 14	None
It then went on to hold as follows ?	None
As regards, reason 3, we are of the considered view that the Act cannot be treated to be declaratory in nature.	None
Declaratory enactment declares and clarifies the real intention of the legislature in connection with an earlier existing transaction or enactment, it does not create new rights or obligations.	None
On the express language of Section 3, the Act cannot be said to be declaratory but in substance it is prohibitory in nature and seeks to destroy the rights of the real owner qua properties held benami and in this connection it has taken away the right of the real owner both for filing a suit or for taking such a defence in a suit by benamidar.	None
Such an Act which prohibits benami transactions and destroys rights flowing from such transactions as existing earlier is really not a declaratory enactment.	None
With respect, we disagree with the line of reasoning which commanded to the Division Bench.	None
In this connection, we may refer to the following observations in Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 5th Edn., 1992, by Shri G.P. Singh, at page 315 under the caption Declaratory statutes? ?	None
The presumption against retrospective operation is not applicable to declaratory statutes.	None
As stated in Craies and approved by the Supreme Court For modern purposes a declaratory Act may be defined as an Act to remove doubts existing as to the common law, or the meaning or effect of any statute.	None
Such Acts are usually held to be retrospective.	None
The usual reason for passing a declaratory Act is to set aside what Parliament deems to have been a judicial error whether in the statement of the common law or in the interpretation of statutes.	None
Usually, if not invariably, such an Act contains a preamble, and also the word ?declared?	None
as well as the word enacted.?	None
But the use of the words it is declared? is not conclusive that the Act is declaratory for these words may, at times be used to introduce new rules of law and the Act in the latter case will only be amending the law and will not necessarily be retrospective.	None
In determining, therefore, the nature of the Act, regard must be had to the substance rather than to the form.	None
If a new Act is to explain an earlier Act, it would be without object unless construed retrospective.	None
An explanatory Act is generally passed to supply an obvious omission or to clear up doubts as to the meaning of the previous Act.	None
It is well settled that if a statute is curative or merely declaratory of the previous law retrospective operation is generally intended.	None
The language shall be deemed always to have meant?	None
is declaratory, and is in plain terms retrospective.	None
In the absence of clear words indicating that the amending Act is declaratory, it would not be so construed when the preamended provision was clear and unambiguous.	None
An amending Act may be purely clarificatory to clear a meaning of a provision of the principal Act which was already implicit.	None
A clarificatory amendment of this nature will have retrospective effect and, therefore, if the principal Act was existing law when the Constitution came into force the amending Act also will be part of the existing law.	None
In Mithilesh Kumari v. Prem Behari Khare (1989) 2 SCC 95 (1989) 1	None
SCR 621 Section 4 of the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 was, it is submitted, wrongly held to be an Act declaratory in nature for it was not passed to clear any doubt existing as to the common law or the meaning or effect of any statute.	None
The conclusion however, that Section 4 applied also to past benami transactions may be supportable on the language used in the section.?	None
para 17 Similarly, in Purbanchal Cables Conductors (P) Ltd. v. Assam SEB, (2012) 7 SCC 462 , this Court had to decide whether the Interest on Delayed Payments to Small Scale and Ancillary Industrial Undertakings Act, 1993 could be said to be retrospective.	None
After a review of various judgments of this Court, this Court held ?	None
There is no doubt about the fact that the Act is a substantive law as vested rights of entitlement to a higher rate of interest in case of delayed payment accrues in favour of the supplier and a corresponding liability is imposed on the buyer.	None
This Court, time and again, has observed that any substantive law shall operate prospectively unless retrospective operation is clearly made out in the language of the statute.	None
Only a procedural or declaratory law operates retrospectively as there is no vested right in procedure.	None
In the absence of any express legislative intendment of the retrospective application of the Act, and by virtue of the fact that the Act creates a new liability of a high rate of interest against the buyer, the Act cannot be construed to have retrospective effect.	None
Since the Act envisages that the supplier has an accrued right to claim a higher rate of interest in terms of the Act, the same can only be said to accrue for sale agreements after the date of commencement of the Act i.e. 2391992 and not any time prior.?	None
paras 51 and 52 Similarly, in CIT v. Vatika Township (P) Ltd., (2015) 1 SCC 1 , this Court held that the proviso to Section 113 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1961 was prospective and not retrospective.	None
In so holding, the Constitution Bench adverted to certain general principles as under ?	None
Of the various rules guiding how a legislation has to be interpreted, one established rule is that unless a contrary intention appears, a legislation is presumed not to be intended to have a retrospective operation.	None
The idea behind the rule is that a current law should govern current activities.	None
Law passed today cannot apply to the events of the past.	None
If we do something today, we do it keeping in view the law of today and in force and not tomorrows backward adjustment of it.	None
Our belief in the nature of the law is founded on the bedrock that every human being is entitled to arrange his affairs by relying on the existing law and should not find that his plans have been retrospectively upset.	None
This principle of law is known as lex prospicit non respicit law looks forward not backward.	None
As was observed in Phillips v. Eyre (1870)	None
LR 6 QB 1, a retrospective legislation is contrary to the general principle that legislation by which the conduct of mankind is to be regulated when introduced for the first time to deal with future acts ought not to change the character of past transactions carried on upon the faith of the then existing law.	None
The obvious basis of the principle against retrospectivity is the principle of ?fairness?, which must be the basis of every legal rule as was observed in LOffice Cherifien des Phosphates v. YamashitaShinnihon Steamship Co. Ltd. (1994) 1 AC 486 (1994) 2 WLR 39 (1994) 1	None
All ER 20 (HL)	None
Thus, legislations which modified accrued rights or which impose obligations or impose new duties or attach a new disability have to be treated as prospective unless the legislative intent is clearly to give the enactment a retrospective effect unless the legislation is for purpose of supplying an obvious omission in a former legislation or to explain a former legislation.	None
We need not note the cornucopia of case law available on the subject because aforesaid legal position clearly emerges from the various decisions and this legal position was conceded by the counsel for the parties.	None
In any case, we shall refer to few judgments containing this dicta, a little later.?	None
paras 28 and 29 On a conspectus of the aforesaid decisions, it becomes clear that Section 28, being substantive law, operates prospectively as retrospectivity is not clearly made out by its language.	Reasoning
Being remedial in nature, and not clarificatory or declaratory of the law, by making certain agreements covered by Section 28(b) void for the first time, it is clear that rights and liabilities that have already accrued as a result of agreements entered into between parties are sought to be taken away.	Reasoning
This being the case, we are of the view that both the Single Judge and Division Bench were in error in holding that the amended Section 28 would apply.	Reasoning
Considering that the unamended Section 28 is to apply, it is important to advert to the said Section and see what are its essential ingredients.	Reasoning
First, a party should be restricted absolutely from enforcing his rights under or in respect of any contract.	Reasoning
Secondly, such absolute restriction should be to approach, by way of a usual legal proceeding, the ordinary Tribunals set up by the State.	Reasoning
Thirdly, such absolute restriction may also relate to the limiting of time within which the party may thus enforce its rights.	Reasoning
At this point, it is necessary to set out the exact clause in the bank guarantees in the facts of the present cases.	None
One such clause reads as under ?.	None
Unless a demand or claim under this guarantee is made against us within three months from the above date (i.e. On or before 30.4.97), all your rights under the said guarantee shall be forfeited and we shall be relieved and discharged from all liabilities hereunder.?	None
A similar clause contained in another bank guarantee reads thus ?	None
.Provided	None
however, unless a demand or claim under this guarantee is made on us in writing within 3 months from the date of expiry of this guarantee in respect of export of 416.500 M.T. 2450 Bales OF Raw Cotton, we shall be discharged from all liability under this guarantee thereafter.?	None
A reading of the aforesaid clauses makes it clear that neither clause purports to limit the time within which rights are to be enforced.	None
In other words, neither clause purports to curtail the period of limitation within which a suit may be brought to enforce the bank guarantee.	None
This being the case, it is clear that this Court?s judgment in Food Corpn. of India v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd., (1994) 3 SCC 324 , would apply on all fours to the facts of the present case.	None
The judgment of Venkatachala,J. and Bharucha,J. set out the relevant clause in a fidelity insurance guarantee as follows ?	None
however, that the Corporation shall have no rights under this bond after the expiry of (period) six months from the date of termination of the contract.?	None
On the facts in that case, the High Court had allowed the appeals of the Insurance Companies stating that the said clause did not entitle the Corporation to file suits against Insurance companies after the expiry of the six months period from the date of termination of the respective contracts entered into.	None
In setting aside the High Court judgment, this Court held that none of the clauses in the bond required that a suit should be instituted by the Corporation for enforcing its rights under the bond within a period of six months from the date of termination of the contract.	None
The restriction adverted to in the clauses of the bond envisaged the need for the Corporation to lodge a claim based on the bond, and that if this was done, a suit to invoke rights under the bond could be filed within the limitation period set out in the Limitation Act.	None
In a separate concurring judgment R.M. Sahai, J. after going into the case law in paragraph 3 of his judgment, made an extremely perceptive observation.	None
He stated that where the filing of the suit within limitation is made dependent on any condition precedent, then such condition precedent not curtailing the limitation period within which a suit could be filed, would be valid and not hit by Section 28.	None
In paragraph 8 of the judgment, the learned Judge put it thus ?	None
It does not directly or indirectly curtail the period of limitation nor does it anywhere provide that the Corporation shall be precluded from filing suit after expiry of six months.	None
It can utmost be construed as a condition precedent for filing of the suit that the appellant should have exercised the right within the period agreed to between the parties.	None
The right was enforced under the agreement when notice was issued and the company was required to pay the amount.	None
Assertion of right is one thing than enforcing it in a court of law.	None
The agreement does not anywhere deal with enforcement of right in a court of law.	None
It only deals with assertion of right.	None
The assertion of right, therefore, was governed by the agreement and it is imperative as well that the party concerned must put the other side on notice by asserting the right within a particular time as provided in the agreement to enable the other side not only to comply with the demand but also to put on guard that in case it is not complied it may have to face proceedings in the court of law.	None
Since admittedly the Corporation did issue notice prior to expiry of six months from the termination of contract, it was in accordance with the Fidelity Insurance clause and, therefore, the suit filed by the appellant was within time.?	None
para 8 In National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Sujir Ganesh Nayak Co., (1997) 4 SCC 366 , this Court had to decide whether condition 19 of an insurance policy was hit by the unamended Section 28.	None
Condition 19 reads as follows ?	None
Condition 19.In	None
no case whatever shall the company be liable for any loss or damage after the expiration of 12 months from the happening of loss or the damage unless the claim is the subject of pending action or arbitration.?	None
After referring to the relevant case law and a detailed reference to the Food Corporation judgment, this Court held ?	None
Clause 19 in terms said that in no case would the insurer be liable for any loss or damage after the expiration of twelve months from the happening of loss or damage unless the claim is subject of any pending action or arbitration.	None
Here the claim was not subject to any action or arbitration proceedings.	None
The clause says that if the claim is not pressed within twelve months from the happening of any loss or damage, the Insurance Company shall cease to be liable.	None
There is no dispute that no claim was made nor was any arbitration proceeding pending during the said period of twelve months.	None
The clause therefore has the effect of extinguishing the right itself and consequently the liability also.	None
Notice the facts of the present case.	None
The Insurance Company was informed about the strike by the letter of 2841977 and by letter dated 1051977.	None
The insured was informed that under the policy it had no liability.	None
This was reiterated by letter dated 2291977.	None
Even so more than twelve months thereafter on 25101978 the notice of demand was issued and the suit was filed on 261980.	None
It is precisely to avoid such delays and to discourage such belated claims that such insurance policies contain a clause like clause 19.	None
That is for the reason that if the claims are preferred with promptitude they can be easily verified and settled but if it is the other way round, we do not think it would be possible for the insurer to verify the same since evidence may not be fully and completely available and memories may have faded.	None
The forfeiture clause 12 also provides that if the claim is made but rejected, an action or suit must be commenced within three months after such rejection failing which all benefits under the policy would stand forfeited.	None
So, looked at from any point of view, the suit appears to be filed after the right stood extinguished.	None
That is the reason why in Vulcan Insurance case (1976) 1 SCC 943 while interpreting a clause couched in similar terms this Court said (SCC p. 952, para 23) ?	None
It has been repeatedly held that such a clause is not hit by Section 28 of the Contract Act.?	None
Even if the observations made are in the nature of obiter dicta we think they proceed on a correct reading of the clause.?	None
para 21	None
In H.P. State Forest Co. Ltd. v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., (2009)	None
2 SCC 252 , this Court had to decide whether clause 6(ii) of an insurance policy was hit by the unamended Section 28.	None
This clause reads as follows ?	None
6(ii)	None
In no case whatsoever shall the Company be liable for any loss or damage after the expiration of 12 months from the happening of the loss or damage unless the claim is the subject of pending action or arbitration it being expressly agreed and declared that if the Company shall declaim liability for any claim hereunder and such claim shall not within 12 calendar months from the date of the disclaimer have been made the subjectmatter of a suit in a court of law then the claim shall for all purposes be deemed to have been abandoned and shall not thereafter be recoverable hereunder.?	None
After a copious reference to Food Corporation and S.G. Nayak?s case, this Court held that such clauses would not be hit by Section 28.	None
Considering that the respondents?	Reasoning
first argument has been accepted by us, we do not think it necessary to go into the finer details of the second argument and as to whether the aforesaid clauses in the bank guarantee would be hit by Section 28(b) after the 1997 amendment.	Reasoning
It may only be noticed, in passing, that Parliament has to a large extent redressed any grievance that may arise qua bank guarantees in particular, by adding an exception (iii) by an amendment made to Section 28 in 2012 with effect from 18.1.2013.	Reasoning
Since we are not directly concerned with this amendment, suffice it to say that stipulations like the present would pass muster after 2013 if the specified period is not less than one year from the date of occurring or nonoccurring of a specified event for extinguishment or discharge of a party from liability.	Reasoning
The appeals are, therefore, dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
