 SURINDER SINGH NIJJAR, J. This appeal is directed against the final order of the High Court of Delhi dated 19th December	None
, 2002 passed in Criminal Appeal No. 169 of 1999, whereby the accused Dr. Mahender Singh Dahiya has been acquitted of the charges under Sections 302 and 201, Indian Penal Code (for short IPC) by setting aside the judgment of the trial court whereby he had been convicted under Sections 302 and 201 IPC and sentenced to imprisonment for life and fine of Rs.5,000/ for the offence under Section 302 IPC and also imprisonment for seven years and fine of Rs.5,000/ for offence under Section 201 IPC.	Issue
Before the trial court, the prosecution had succeeded in proving that Dr. Mahender Singh Dahiya (hereinafter referred to as the respondent) had committed the murder of his wife Namita, a British national of Indian origin, on the intervening night of 27th/28th May, 1979.	Facts
The murder was allegedly committed on the very first night of the honeymoon in room No. 415, Hotel Arenberg, Brussels, Belgium.	Facts
It is further the case of the prosecution that after committing the murder, the respondent had dismembered and extensively mutilated the body of the victim.	Facts
He subsequently disposed of the body parts at different places in the city of Brussels.	Facts
This was done with the intention of destroying the evidence of the murder.	Facts
The aforesaid conviction and sentence were challenged before the Delhi High Court by way of an appeal.	Facts
The High Court upon reappraisal of the entire evidence accepted the appeal and acquitted the respondent of both the charges.	Facts
Aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment of the High Court, the State through CBI, New Delhi is in appeal before this Court.	Facts
The High Court notices at the very outset of the impugned judgment that this is an unusual case and perhaps the first of its kind.	Facts
We are of the opinion that the High Court had good reasons for making such a statement.	Facts
The peculiarity which makes this murder case rather rare is not only the ghastly and the brutal manner in which the offence is alleged to have been committed but also the complexities created by a number of unique factors.	Facts
The accused respondent herein is an Indian.	Facts
He is an Orthopedic Surgeon.	Facts
The alleged victim of the crime Namita, though of Indian origin was a British citizen.	Facts
She had grown up in England since she was 5 or 6 years old.	Facts
The offence was allegedly committed in a third country, i.e., Belgium.	Facts
Consequently, the investigation of the case was conducted in three different countries.	Facts
Initially, the Belgium authorities investigated the crime.	Facts
Thereafter, the Scotland Yard in London also participated in the investigation.	Facts
It was concluded in India.	Facts
The investigation in Belgium and U.K. had been conducted according to the law and procedure of those countries.	Facts
This led to its own difficulties.	Facts
Initially, the Belgium authorities had requested for extradition of the respondent for his trial in Belgium.	Facts
Later, the request was abandoned by the Belgium authorities.	Facts
The case was ultimately investigated by the CBI and the charge sheet was presented on 30th July, 1985.	Facts
At the trial, a large number of witnesses being foreign nationals were examined on commission either in Belgium or in England.	Facts
This further complicated the issues.	Facts
Ultimately, the trial court convicted the respondent on 1st March, 1999, i.e., twenty years after the alleged commission of the crime.	Facts
We may now notice some of the undisputed facts, which are necessary for appreciation of a peculiar situation in which the alleged offence is said to have been committed.	Facts
The respondent belongs to a village called Turkpur, District Sonepat, Haryana.	Facts
He obtained his MBBS degree from Punjab University, Rohtak in 1973 and M.S. Degree in (Orthopedic) from A.I.I.M.S., New Delhi in December, 1978.	Facts
He got himself registered with the Punjab Medical Council.	Facts
Jagdish Singh Lochab (PW48) a native of Punjab had migrated to England in 1962.	Facts
He was settled there with his family viz.	Facts
wife Smt.	Facts
Chandermukhi (PWUK1), three daughters namely Namita, Amita Lochab (PWUK2) and Shiela (PWUK3) and two sons.	Facts
Namita born in India in May, 1956 had acquired British citizenship.	Facts
During 1978, Namita was working as accounts trainee with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), London.	Facts
In JulyAugust, 1978, Jagdish Singh Lochab (PW48) visited India to find suitable boy for marriage with his daughter Namita.	Facts
They found the respondent to be a suitable match for their daughter.	Facts
After making the selection of the proposed groom, Namita was called from London.	Facts
The engagement ceremony was held between the respondent and Namita on 31st August, 1978 at village Turkpur followed by a marriage ceremony according to Hindu rites and customs at Delhi on 5th September, 1978.	Facts
However, as per the understanding of the parents of Namita, the said marriage was to be treated as engagement only as there would have to be a registered marriage in London subsequently.	Facts
Therefore, the marriage was not consummated and Namita along with her parents returned to London on the night of 5th September, 1978.	Facts
As arranged, the respondent reached London on 27th February, 1979.	Facts
He started living with his inlaws at 22, Friars Way, Action, W3, London.	Facts
At the same time, he pursued his medical studies.	Facts
He got himself registered as a post graduate student at Royal National Institute of Orthopedics, London on 12th March, 1979.	Facts
Jagdish Singh Lochab (PW48) purchased a house (No. 312, Horn Lane Act, London) in the joint name of Namita and respondent valued 20,000 UK Pounds.	Facts
He paid 10,000 UK Pounds, the remaining price was to be paid in installments.	Facts
A joint bank account No.91053728 was also opened in the name of Namita and the respondent at Midland Bank, Acton High Street, London and two cheque books, one each in the name of Namita and the respondent were issued by the bank.	Facts
On 5th or 6th April, 1979, 18th birthday party of Sheila, younger sister of Namita was celebrated where all the friends (boys girls) of the three daughters of PW48 including UK23 Philips David Abbey, a colleague of Namita were invited in the party.	Facts
Mr. and Mrs. Lochab left the house at about 7.30 pm and returned at about 1.30 a.m. in the morning.	Facts
On their return the accused started abusing the whole family, he was aggressive and alleged Namita to be characterless, as she had been dancing and mixing with boys.	Facts
Namita was upset with the behaviour of the accused and was crying.	Facts
She told her mother that it did not seem possible for her to spend the rest of her life with the accused.	Facts
The next morning the whole family sat together along with the accused and discussed about the incident of the previous night.	Facts
When the accused was told that Namita wants to cancel the engagement, he apologized for his conduct in the previous night.	Facts
During the night of 10th April,1979 at 1.30 a.m.	Facts
Namita wrote a letter (exhibit CW13, Volume9, page 286) to the accused addressing him as Mahendra, suggesting that wedding should be cancelled in the month of May, until both of them were ready for the same.	Facts
She advised him to get some self confidence to prove himself responsible enough to look after a wife and a home.	Facts
In reply, the accused wrote a letter, to Namita addressing her as Nita, which is exhibit CW14 (Vol.9, page 290).	Facts
On 26th May.	Facts
1979, the marriage between Mahender and Namita was registered at the Office of the Registrar of Marriages, London.	Facts
It was followed by a reception the same evening at the Phoenix Restaurant, London.	Facts
A honeymoon trip for the newly wedded couple was arranged for five days commencing from 27th May, 1979 to certain European countries through Cosmos Tours, London.	Facts
In the morning of 27th May, 1979, Mahender and Namita left for the honeymoon trip.	Facts
They were seen off by her family at Victoria Railway Station, London.	Facts
They carried two suit cases, one of red colour belonging to Namita and the other of brown colour belonging to Mahender containing their clothes and other articles.	Facts
The group of tourists including Namita and the respondent reached Brussels at about 6.30 p.m. the same evening.	Facts
All the tourists in the group stayed at the fourth floor of Hotel Arenberg, Brussels.	Facts
Mahender and Namita checked into room no. 415.	Facts
After some time they went for a short sight seeing tour Brussels by Night.	Facts
They returned to the hotel at about 11.00 p.m. and retired to their room.	Facts
Hereafter, there are two versions, one according to the appellant and another according to the respondent.	Facts
The prosecution version is that the respondent had strangled his wife Namita to death in their hotel room.	Facts
He had then proceeded to dismember and mutilate parts of her body which were subsequently disposed of in the rubbish container and the lake.	Facts
The respondent entered UK on the same day, i.e., 29th May, 1979 and withdrew an amount of 200 UK Pounds from the joint account he had with his wife bearing Account No. 91053728 from the Midland Bank, London.	Facts
In the afternoon of 30th May, 1979, after withdrawing the money from the bank, he went to the house of his inlaws.	Facts
He was carrying two suitcases.	Facts
He, however, could not give any satisfactory explanation to his inlaws about the whereabouts of his wife Namita.	Facts
He rather falsely stated to them that she had abandoned him at Brussels on the morning of 28th May, 1979, carrying away her clothes and money.	Facts
The respondent wanted to get away from the house as soon as possible without giving any explanation as to what happened in Brussels.	Facts
He was, however, restrained by the family members with the assistance of a neighbour.	Facts
Thereafter, Namitas father Jagdish Singh Lochab (PW48) took the respondent to Acton police station to lodge a missing persons report about the disappearance of Namita.	Facts
On the way back from the police station along with his father inlaw, the respondent escaped by jumping onto a running bus.	Facts
Thereafter, he stayed in the YMCA, London without disclosing his identity particulars.	Facts
He left for India via Frankfurt, West Germany and reached Delhi on 6th June, 1979.	Facts
He afterwards, remained underground and absconding and could not be traced in spite of various efforts until 9th May, 1983.	Facts
He was hiding in a village in District Lalitpur, U.P., where he had taken up the practice of general medicine under the fake name of Dr. M. Singh.	Facts
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties.	None
Very elaborate submissions have been made by Mr. P.P. Malhotra, learned Additional Solicitor General for the appellants and Mr. Siddharth Aggarwal for the respondent.	None
Mr. Malhotra has submitted on behalf of the appellant that the High Court has committed a grave error in reversing the well reasoned judgment recorded by the trial court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submits that the trial court had meticulously examined the entire sequence of events.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence of the witnesses relating to various facts and circumstances was discussed under various heads in order to see if the chain of circumstances for bringing home guilt for offences with which the accused had been charged was complete or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial court discussed the facts which were sought to be proved by the prosecution under the following heads  Native place of the accused and his educational qualifications.	Arguments of Petitioner
B. Marriage of the accused, his departure for U.K. his stay at the house of his inlaws and registration of the marriage there C. Birthday party at the house of his in laws his conduct at and after the birthday party his relations with Namita before and after the Birthday party, letters exchanged between the accused and Namita and the apology, if any, tendered by the accused with regard to his conduct D. Arrangement for conducted tour to Brussels departure from London on the morning of 27.5.79 and reaching Brussels in the evening sightseeing tour of Brussels by the accused and Namita on the evening of 27.5.79 and return to the Hotel E. Visit of the tour guide, Richard Anthony Cushnie (PWUK12) in the morning of 28.5.79 when the accused told him about his decision to stay back the manner in which the accused dealt with the Pantry clerk, Benselin Myriam (PWBG24) who wanted to enter his room to check the refrigerator visit of the chamber maid, Ms. Mujinga Maudi (PWBG22) for the purpose of cleaning the room and her observations about the condition of the accused at that time the condition in which the room of the Hotel was found and request of the accused for his stay in the hotel for extra night and what these point out to ?	Arguments of Petitioner
F. The arrival of the accused in London without Namita his explanation given to the parents of Namita regarding Namitas disappearance from Belgium his conduct at the time accompanying father of Namita to Acton P.S. to report about Namitas disappearance and his alleged escape by jumping into a running bus and if these circumstances are of any effect ?	Arguments of Petitioner
G. Recovery of parts of human body on the morning of 29.5.79 and subsequent recovery of torso from the lake on 2.8.79.	None
Collection of evidence pertaining to the crime from room No. 415 of Hotel Arenberg, Brussels and reports of the forensic tests connecting the recovery of the murder.	Arguments of Petitioner
I. Report of the post mortem in respect of the parts of the human body recovered on 29.5.79 and other evidence showing that the dismembered parts were that of Namita.	Arguments of Petitioner
J. Evidence connecting the torso to be of Namita.	Arguments of Petitioner
K. Evidence collected from the suitcase allegedly brought by the accused to London establishing that the blood in the suitcase was of Namita.	Arguments of Petitioner
L. Other evidence in the form of recovery of clothes and shoes of Namita along with dismembered human body.	Arguments of Petitioner
M. Absconding of the accused and the efforts made by the police in apprehending him visvis explanation given by the accused in that regard.	Arguments of Petitioner
N. Reference received from Belgium Government for extradition of the accused and subsequent abandonment of the request and sanction granted by Central Government for prosecution of the accused in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
O. Other facts referred to on behalf of the accused breaking the chain in circumstantial evidence.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General then drew our attention to the findings of the trial court on each point.	None
He drew our particular attention to Point C relating to the resentment of the respondent to the friendly behaviour of Namita towards the other men in particular PWUK23 at the birthday party.	Arguments of Petitioner
These facts, according to Mr. Malhotra, were found to be proved by the trial court which provided strong motive to the respondent for committing the murder of his wife.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Malhotra, this finding has been wrongly reversed by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Point D related to the behaviour of respondent and his wife Namita in the coach.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malhotra laid special emphasis on Point E which related to the respondents behaviour as observed by PWUK12, PWBG22, and PWBG24.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the trial court had elaborately considered the evidence of these witnesses and rightly concluded that the respondent had murdered his wife by strangulation and thereafter he had mutilated her body by disjointing the limbs from the joints.	Arguments of Petitioner
The conclusion of the High Court, according to him, is improbable.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Arguments of Petitioner
In summing up Mr. Malhotra submitted that there is conclusive evidence to prove that it was the respondent who committed the murder of his wife.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having committed the murder he discarded the body parts as narrated above.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Malhotra had placed strong reliance on the cumulative effect of the circumstances established on the record.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied on the following facts  Namita was last seen alive in the company of the respondent on the night intervening 27/28th May,1979 (2) The respondent floated the false defence about the Namita having left him in the morning of 28th May, 1979.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) He did not make any complaint to the Belgium Police.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) He did not inform either the tour guide or any staff member of the hotel about his wife having voluntarily left.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) He made no efforts to trace his wife for two days.	Arguments of Petitioner
(6) He deliberately stayed in the hotel on 28th and left for U.K. on the 29th May, 1979.	Arguments of Petitioner
At the same time the body parts were discovered in the rubbish container which is only two hundred meters away from the hotel.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7) The body parts recovered from the rubbish bin have been identified to be those of Namita by reliable expert evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
(8) The cloth recovered in the rubbish bin had been identified to be those of Namita.	Arguments of Petitioner
(9) The blood group of the body stains found in the bathroom matches the blood group of Namita.	Arguments of Petitioner
(10) The palm prints of the palm recovered from the rubbish bin match the palm print of Namita.	Arguments of Petitioner
(11) The torso recovered has been identified to be that of Namita from Vergote lake which is only seventeen minutes walking from the hotel.	Arguments of Petitioner
(12) Therefore, there is scientific evidence to establish the identity of the victim to be that of Namita.	Arguments of Petitioner
(13) He ran away from the father of the deceased at the first opportunity that he got.	Arguments of Petitioner
(14)	Arguments of Petitioner
He remained absconding and hiding for a period of four years till he was discovered.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the basis of the aforesaid, learned Additional Solicitor General submitted that the judgment of the High Court deserves to be set aside and judgment of the trial court ought to be restored.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Aggarwal, on the other hand submitted that The prosecution has miserably failed to establish any motive for the alleged crime.	None
There is no material even to indicate what weapon was used by the respondent in the commission of the crime.	Arguments of Respondent
He emphasised that no weapon of offence was either recovered or produced during the trial.	Arguments of Respondent
ii)	None
The prosecution case is based only on hypothesis.	Arguments of Respondent
First such hypothesis is based on the opinion of the doctor, who conducted the postmortem examination.	Arguments of Respondent
This doctor had stated that it was evident that the dismemberment of the body parts of the victim was committed by a professional doctor or a butcher, who knows the anatomy of the human body.	Arguments of Respondent
This could be done with the aid of certain surgical instruments which could have been carried by the respondent with him as he was an Orthopedic Surgeon.	Arguments of Respondent
iii)	None
The other possibility floated on behalf of the prosecution was that as the body parts had been simply disjointed at the various joints, it could be done by using a fork and a butter knife, which would be available to the respondent in the hotel room.	Arguments of Respondent
iv) Mr. Aggarwal had pointed out that it would have been virtually impossible for the respondent to have carried surgical instruments with him through international borders without the same coming to the notice of the customs authorities.	Arguments of Respondent
Giving the sequence of events, as projected by the prosecution, it would have been impossible for the respondent to have procured the surgical instruments within the city of Brussels.	Reasoning
Learned counsel had also pointed out the impossibility of mutilation of the body simply by using a butter knife and a fork.	None
vi)	None
Mr. Aggarwal had next pointed out that if the murder had been committed during the intervening night of 27th/28th May, 1979 in room no. 415, i.e., fourth floor of the hotel, where many other guests of the tour group were staying, atleast, someone or the other of the guests should have heard the screams of the victim.	Arguments of Respondent
The dismemberment of the body must have caused some tangible noise which could easily have been heard by any passer by.	Arguments of Respondent
vii)	None
He had next submitted that the prosecution has not given any clear version as to how the body parts were removed from the hotel to the different locations where they were discovered.	Arguments of Respondent
The prosecution has failed to produce any material objects to demonstrate how the body parts were shifted from the hotel room to the rubbish container.	Arguments of Respondent
The prosecution had suggested that the body parts had been removed in the red suitcase (Ex.CW/26).	Arguments of Respondent
viii)	None
Mr. Aggarwal had pointed out that not a single witness was produced by the prosecution who might have seen the respondent carrying the red suitcase from the hotel to the container lying at a distance of about two hundred meters from the hotel or to Vergote canal lake.	Arguments of Respondent
ix) Even otherwise, he had pointed out that the body parts would not have fitted in the suit case.	None
The length of the suitcase was measured 67.5 cms.	Arguments of Respondent
while the torso measured 69 cms.	Arguments of Respondent
He had also pointed out that the torso was recovered more than two months after the incident which would indicate that it was thrown into the lake by someone much later than 28th May, 1979 or a few days prior to 2nd August, 1979.	Arguments of Respondent
If the torso had been thrown in the lake on or around 28th May, 1979, it could not have remained submerged for two months and would have appeared on the water surface within a few days of its disposal.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further pointed out by Mr. Aggarwal that other parts of the body remained untraced even till the time of trial.	None
xi) With regard to the respondents return to England, the learned counsel had pointed out that if the intention of the respondent was to escape, he would not have drawn only 200 pounds from the joint account, which in fact had a balance of over 800 pounds.	Arguments of Respondent
The amount withdrawn by the respondent would not have been sufficient even to buy a ticket back to India.	Arguments of Respondent
He had pointed out that Namitas air ticket from London to Delhi (Ex.CW/3) had been purchased for 350 pounds.	None
xii) Learned counsel then pointed out that the prosecution theory about the respondents return to his inlaws home to collect his certificates is quite implausible in as much as duplicate certificates are easily available (and were in fact obtained by the respondent).	None
xiii)	None
Making a reference to the material on the record, the counsel had pointed out that the certificates were in fact not found inside the respondents suitcase at all in the inventory of the contents of suitcases drawn up in Belgium.	None
xiv)	None
It was the case of the defence that even according to the parents of Namita, respondent had returned to their home to pick up his belongings.	Arguments of Respondent
This, according to the learned counsel, would not be the rationale behaviour of a guilty individual, who would not have risked returning to their house for the sake of his clothes.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact according to Mr. Aggarwal, respondent had no need for any clothes.	Arguments of Respondent
He had a suitcase full of clothes with him in Belgium.	Arguments of Respondent
He in fact returned to his inlaws home for discussion confrontation with the parents of Namita and to decide his future course of action.	Arguments of Respondent
xv)	None
On his return, he found the behaviour of his mother in law very hostile.	Arguments of Respondent
This is clear from the evidence of PWUK2 which indicates that the family tried to search him.	Arguments of Respondent
He was in the house for more than three hours having arrived at 2 p.m.	Arguments of Respondent
The missing persons report lodged by PW48 is timed at 5.30 p.m. xvi)	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent had no intention according to Mr. Aggarwal, to escape.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that the entire incident within the inlaws house has been fabricated to suit the prosecution version, which is belied by the inconsistencies in the narration of events by the family members.	Arguments of Respondent
He made references to relevant portions of the statement recorded by PWUK1, PWUK2, PWUK3 (on commission) and PW48, in the trial court.	Arguments of Respondent
Similarly, according to Mr. Aggarwal, the prosecution version is belied by the conduct of the respondent at the Acton Police Station where the missing persons report was lodged.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent had duly informed the police officer of the fact that Namita had walked out on him at 6.00 a.m. on 28th May, 1979.	Arguments of Respondent
On this basis, the missing persons report was lodged by PW48.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents explanation regarding the circumstances in which Namita left him was made known to PWUK17, Nicolas Linfoot, Sergeant Officer, Police Station, Acton.	Arguments of Respondent
He had also given the evidence on commission which was available at the trial.	Arguments of Respondent
In his statement on commission, PWUK17 disclosed that the respondent was nervous and agitated during the interview.	Arguments of Respondent
He specifically returned to the police station after they had walked out of the station to complain that he felt threatened by his inlaws and expecting trouble from them.	Arguments of Respondent
xvii)	None
Mr. Aggarwal then pointed out various events to show that the respondent was never intending to either hide or abscond.	Arguments of Respondent
Undoubtedly on 28th May, 1979, he jumped on a running bus to get away from his fatherin law as he was apprehensive of an altercation with him.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out by Mr. Aggarwal that respondent had already informed PW48 that he would prefer to stay at the YMCA, where he actually stayed till 30th May, 1979.	Arguments of Respondent
If the respondent had a guilt conscience and wanted to abscond, there was no reason to return to England.	Arguments of Respondent
He could have let to a safe place directly from Belgium.	None
xviii)	None
With regard to the letter written to the Prime Minister, he points out that these letters and telegrams to authorities were sent as he apprehended threat to his life and false implications.	None
He, therefore, sought protection of the authorities.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent had even produced witnesses from the village where he was practicing medicine, who stated that he had clearly disclosed his full name.	Arguments of Respondent
He stayed in the village Bansi for threefour years.	None
xix)	None
Mr. Aggarwal, therefore, submits that the appellant did not want to reside at Turkpur to avoid the social stigma.	None
He feared of retribution and false implication.	Arguments of Respondent
His fears were not without any basis.	Arguments of Respondent
The trial court record shows that on 14th October, 1992, two years after his second marriage, an attempt was made on his life while he was in his clinic at Kharkhoda. xx)	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Aggarwal then pointed out that while recording evidence on commission, the Belgium authorities did not comply with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.P.C.), 1973 and the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.	Arguments of Respondent
This was in spite of the specific directions given by the trial court to both the parties to carry the relevant provisions of law with them to ensure compliance with the Indian law.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact the requisition for commission sent to the Belgium Court specifically requested that the procedure prescribed under Sections 135159 of the Indian Evidence Act and that of Section 162 of Cr.	Arguments of Respondent
P.C. be followed.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel also pointed out to numerous inconsistencies and contradictions in the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and submitted that the High Court has rightly concluded that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the respondent beyond reasonable doubt.	None
We have examined the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties, particularly keeping in view the gruesome nature of the crime and the complexities presented in the investigation, as also at the trial of this particular case.	None
Undoubtedly, this case demonstrates the actions of a depraved soul.	None
The manner in which the crime has been committed in this case, demonstrates the depths to which the human spirit soul can sink.	None
But no matter how diabolical the crime, the burden remains on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused.	None
Given the tendency of human beings to become emotional and subjective when faced with crimes of depravity, the Courts have to be extra cautious not to be swayed by strong sentiments of repulsion and disgust.	None
It is in such cases that the Court has to be on its guard and to ensure that the conclusion reached by it are not influenced by emotion, but are based on the evidence produced in the Court.	None
Suspicion no matter how strong can not, and should not be permitted to, take the place of proof.	None
Therefore, in such cases, the Courts are to ensure a cautious and balanced appraisal of the intrinsic value of the evidence produced in Court.	None
In our opinion, the High Court has examined the entire evidence dispassionately and with circumspection.	None
It has noticed that the evidence produced by the prosecution in this case is purely circumstantial.	None
The principles on which the circumstantial evidence is to be evaluated have been stated and reiterated by this Court in numerous judgments.	None
We may notice here the observations made by this Court, in the case of Hanumant Govind Nargundkar Vs.	None
State of M.P. (1952 SCR 1091 ) on the manner in which circumstantial evidence needs to be evaluated.	None
In the aforesaid judgment, Mahajan, J. speaking for the Court stated the principle which reads thus It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	None
Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	None
In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	None
The aforesaid proposition of law was restated in the case of Naseem Ahmed Vs.	None
Delhi Admn ((1974) 3 SCC 668 ), by Chandrachud J. as follows This is a case of circumstantial evidence and it is therefore necessary to find whether the circumstances on which prosecution relies are capable of supporting the sole inference that the appellant is guilty of the crime of which he is charged.	None
The circumstances, in the first place, have to be established by the prosecution by clear and cogent evidence and those circumstances must not be consistent with the innocence of the accused.	None
For determining whether the circumstances established on the evidence raise but one inference consistent with the guilt of the accused, regard must be had to the totality of the circumstances.	None
Individual circumstances considered in isolation and divorced from the context of the overall picture emerging from a consideration of the diverse circumstances and their conjoint effect may by themselves appear innocuous.	None
It is only when the various circumstances are considered conjointly that it becomes possible to understand and appreciate their true effect.	None
We are of the opinion that the High Court was fully alive to the aforesaid principles and has assessed the evidence in the correct perspective.	None
Upon consideration of the factual and the legal position, the High Court summed up the final conclusion.	None
We are unable to accept the submission of Mr. Malhotra that the conclusions reached by the High Court are not plausible conclusions.	None
Thereafter, the High Court systematically and chronologically examined the series of incidents circumstances relied upon by the prosecution to establish the guilt of the respondent.	None
It would be appropriate to discuss these incidents circumstances under different headings.	None
Motive Upon consideration of the evidence on record, the High Court concluded as follows Bearing in mind the legal position emerging out of the said authorities and having regard to the totality of the facts and circumstances which can be said to have been established on record, it is not possible to infer any motive on the part of the appellant what to talk of a motive so strong to commit the crime.	None
In assessing the evidence, the High Court was aware of the legal principles that absence of motive may not necessarily be fatal to the prosecution.	None
Where the case of the prosecution has been proved beyond reasonable doubt on the basis of the material produced before the Court, the motive loses its significance.	None
But in cases based on circumstantial evidence, motive for committing the crime assumes great importance.	None
In such circumstances, absence of motive would put the Court on its guard to scrutinize the evidence very closely to ensure that suspicion, emotion or conjecture do not take the place of proof (See Surinder Pal Jain Vs.	None
Delhi Administration (1993 Supp (3) SCC 681) and Tarseem Kumar	None
Vs. Delhi Administration (1994 Supp (3) SCC 367)).	None
We may also notice here the observations in Subedar Tewari Vs. State of U.P. (1989 Supp (1) SCC 91) wherein it has been observed that  The evidence regarding existence of motive which operates in the mind of an assassin is very often than (sic) not within the reach of others.	None
The motive may not even be known to the victim of the crime.	None
The motive may be known to the assassin and no one else may know what gave birth to the evil thought in the mind of the assassin.	None
Again reiterating the role played by motive in deciding as to whether the prosecution has proved the case beyond reasonable doubt against an accused, this Court in the case of Suresh Chandra Bahari Vs. State of Bihar (1995 Supp (1) SCC 80) held as under Sometimes motive plays an important role and become a compelling force to commit a crime and therefore motive behind the crime is a relevant factor for which evidence may be adduced.	None
A motive is something which prompts a person to form an opinion or intention to do certain illegal act or even a legal act with illegal means with a view to achieve that intention.	None
In a case where there is motive, it affords added support to the finding of the Court that the accused was guilty for the offence charged with.	None
But the evidence bearing on the guilt of the accused nonetheless becomes untrustworthy or unreliable because most often it is only the perpetrator of the crime alone who knows as to what circumstances prompted him to adopt a certain course of action leading to the commission of the crime.	None
In our opinion, the conclusion recorded by the High Court is in accordance with the aforesaid principles.	None
Merely because the respondent objected to the behaviour of Namita towards her male friends at the birthday party of her sister Shiela would not be sufficient to hold that the appellant had the necessary motive to kill her.	None
It is inconceivable that the respondent would have married Namita only for the purpose of committing her murder, that too on the very first night of their honeymoon.	None
Both the trial court and the High Court, in our opinion, have correctly recorded the conclusion that it was in fact in the interest of the respondent that Namita had remained alive.	None
The success of his very objective to remain permanently in England was dependent on the continuance of his marriage for at least another year.	None
We are also not much impressed by the submission of Mr. Malhotra that the simmering resentment which was caused by Namitas refusal to consummate the marriage would be sufficient to impel the respondent to commit her murder.	None
In our opinion, the High Court has correctly concluded that the two letters Ext.CW13 and Ex.	None
CW14 exchanged between Namita and Mahender would tend to show that respondent was in fact trying to make amends after the birthday party on 5th /6th	None
April, 1979.	None
There was no untoward incident thereafter.	None
It is accepted by all that the marriage was duly registered on 26th May, 1979 and that the couple voluntarily left for the honeymoon.	None
The trial court upon examination of the entire evidence had in fact concluded that something had gone amiss in the hotel room occupied by Mahender and Namita on the night of 27th/28th May, 1979.	None
If that be so, the High Court rightly concludes, that this fact alone would contradict the theory of respondent having any premeditated strategy or design for committing the murder of his wife.	None
The High Court correctly concluded that it is highly improbable to comprehend that respondent had a predetermined mind or motive to cause the death of Namita on the honeymoon night itself at the first available opportunity of being in the company of the deceased in a closed room as suggested by the prosecution.	None
Had the attitude of the parties been as suggested by the prosecution, they would not have agreed to a marriage followed by a honeymoon trip outside London.	None
The High Court also noticed that there was nothing to suggest that Namita or her family members had apprehended any harm or threat to life of Namita at any stage till the couple left for the honeymoon on morning of 27th May, 1979.	None
The High Court found it impossible to accept the prosecution theory that the respondent had married the deceased only with a view to do way with her to take revenge for her appalling behaviour at Shielas birthday party.	None
Had the respondent been so resentful, there was no question of the marriage being solemanised.	None
LAST SEEN CIRCUMSTANCE EVIDENCE  On this issue, the High Court has merely recorded that the respondent has not disputed that Namita was with him in the room throughout the night.	None
This position is also maintained by Mr. Aggarwal before us.	None
The respondent had, however, claimed that Namita had left him at 6.35 a.m., in the morning of 28th May, 1979.	None
The High Court upon examination of the evidence of the Manager of the Hotel concluded that it was not possible to hold that Namita was seen alive by anyone in the morning of 28th May, 1979.	None
The High Court, therefore, observed that it was for the respondent to explain about her disappearance.	None
The explanation given by the respondent consistently from the beginning is that Namita had left him voluntarily early in the morning of 28th May, 1979.	None
It is also his case that she married him only under pressure from her parents.	None
She had purchased a new suitcase in which she packed most of her clothes immediately upon returned from the Brussels by Night tour.	None
The red suitcase with which she had traveled from London to Belgium was left with the respondent containing some of her clothes.	None
This suitcase even though had a blood stain was carried back to the house of Namitas parents by the respondent himself.	None
It seems inconceivable that a person who has committed the murder of his wife and has used the aforesaid suit case for storing and carrying the body parts would bring it back to England risking his own safety.	None
The respondent also narrated before the police that his wife had left him voluntarily on the morning of 28th May, 1979.	None
This fact was further reiterated by him in the letter to the Prime Minister of India which runs as follows  After seeing these historical places we reached to our room.	None
We took our bath and she gave me half currency my passport and ticket to me.	None
She asked me to go out for a while and then came with new suitcase.	None
She accommodated the maximum articles possible in that and left the rest in the suitcase which she took with her from her house.	None
Then she told me that dear Mahendra I want to tell you something very important and that is I have married you just for the sake of my parents for which they were pressing me.	None
Now I will think about my future and you also should think about your own future.	None
Do not object me for anything saying this she went out and asked me not to follow her.	None
I waited till morning when the Cosmos Coach guide came to room and asked to get ready for the further tour	None
but I told him that I am waiting for my wife because she has gone out.	None
In our opinion, the last seen evidence would not necessarily mean that the respondent had killed his wife.	None
Given the previous attitude of Namita, it is quite possible that she had walked out on her husband.	None
EVENTS ON THE MORNING OF 28th May, 1979  The most important circumstance relied upon by the prosecution relates to the state of affairs which existed in Room No.415 of Hotel Arenberg and the behaviour pattern exhibited by the respondent on the morning of 28th May, 1979.	None
This was sought to be proved by the evidence given by three witnesses, namely, PWUK12 Richard Anthony Cushnie, PWBG22 Mujinga Maudi and PWBG24  Benselin Myriam.	None
The High Court notices that the prosecution had sought to project through these witnesses a certain state of affairs to prove that the respondent had a guilty mind.	None
The High Court rejected the evidence of the tour guide (PWUL12) as being inconsistent.	None
The High Court notices that this witness had gone up to room no.415 to inform the couple that the tour party was ready to leave.	None
He knocked on the door.	None
It was half opened by the respondent.	None
He found the respondent was perspiring but at the same time assumed his behaviour to be quite normal or non exceptional.	None
The High Court also notices that this witness had prepared two reports Ext.CW42/A and CW42/B after the termination of the tour.	None
None of the two reports make any mention about the abnormal behaviour of the respondent.	None
These reports rather indicate that the witnesses must have been in a hurry when they visited room no.415 and could not have talked to the respondent for more than a couple of minutes.	None
In fact, in one of the reports, this witness mentions the fact that the fatherinlaw of the respondent had told him that Namita had abandoned the respondent on the morning of 28th May, 1979.	None
In our opinion, the High Court was justified in concluding that this statement would support the defence plea.	None
We may also notice that this witness in his cross examination clearly stated that 1979 was his first year as a tour courier.	None
He accepted that portion of the report (marked 8) was written by him.	None
The aforesaid portion contained the words It could be that the wife left very early and the arranged marriage giving her the opportunity.	None
It is conceivable that the girl left early in the morning.	None
The arranged marriage having given her opportunity to leave home and make a life on her own and therefore satisfy the desires of both parties.	None
He also stated in the cross examination that on his visit to room no. 415, he could not have remained with the respondent much more than 2 minutes.	None
He goes on to say that at the time the coach was waiting, we were anxious to be away.	None
I did not enter the room at any stage during that period of 2 minutes.	None
I did not try and peep inside the room.	None
Such being the state of affairs, we are unable to accept the submission of Mr. Malhotra that the High Court wrongly discarded the evidence of this witness.	None
In rejecting the evidence of PWBG22 Majinga Maudi, the High Court noticed that this witness was examined by the police on a number of occasions, but she could not even give the correct room number.	None
She actually stated that she visited room no.410.	None
The High Court also concluded that from her evidence it becomes apparent that the respondent did not even put a latch on the door nor did he take any extra precaution to keep the room closed.	None
This witness was able to enter the room without knocking.	None
Mr. Malhotra, however, laid considerable emphasis on the part of the statement that when she entered the room she saw the respondent sitting on the bed with hands on his face and she thought him to be sick.	None
This witness also stated that she wanted to open the curtains of the window but the respondent did not allow her to do so.	None
According to Mr. Malhotra, this would clearly indicate that the respondent was deeply distressed and disturbed.	None
Mr. Malhotra also emphatically reiterated that this witness proved that the bathroom was totally soaked with water and there were wet towels on the floor of the bathroom.	None
When she was cleaning the room, the respondent did not leave her for a second.	None
The High Court, however, notices that this witness did not find any incriminating article like the body or body parts either in the room or in the bathroom, nor she found even a trace of blood on the carpet or on the wall.	None
This witness had herself stated that the respondent had left the room unattended knowing perfectly well that this witness could enter the room in his absence.	None
We do not accept the submission of Mr. Malhotra that the cause of respondents distress was the murder that he had committed.	None
It could equally be the distress of a husband whose wife deserted him on the honeymoon.	None
In our opinion, the High Court has correctly assessed the evidentiary value of the statement of this witness.	None
The other witness relied upon by the prosecution was PWBG24 who wanted to enter the room in order to take the inventory of the mini bar.	None
He was, however, not permitted to do so by the respondent.	None
The High Court notices that the earlier witness had actually stated that he had come inside the room and he had talked to her.	None
From the above, it becomes apparent that it was only on a very careful consideration of the evidence of all the witnesses, the High Court concluded that the behaviour of the respondent cannot be said to be consistent only with the guilt of the respondent.	None
In our opinion, the High Court correctly notices that no explanation was forth coming as to where the body or dismembered body parts could have been concealed by the respondent throughout the night of 27th/28th May,1979 as well as the morning and the afternoon of 28th May, 1979.	None
The High Court notices that it is the case of the prosecution that the body parts were disposed of after the evening of 28th May, 1979.	None
The suggestion of the prosecution that the body might have been kept either in the cupboard or under the bed was correctly held to be conjectural.	None
RECOVERY OF BODY PARTS FROM THE RUBBISH CONTAINER AND THE IDENTIFICATION THEREOF  	None
The next circumstance relied upon by the prosecution to connect the respondent with crime is the recovery of body parts allegedly of Namita viz.	None
head, severed upper and lower limbs minus thigh portion from a refuge container lying at Rue De Loxum in the morning of 29th May, 1979 and that of torso from Vergote Lake, Brussels on 2nd August, 1979.	None
Certain pieces of clothings and a shoe were also recovered form the rubbish container which according to the prosecution had also belonged to Namita.	None
The body parts were recovered by a rag picker namely Verbeleen Marcel, PWBG6.	None
He had been looking for some lead or copper in the rubbish container for selling.	None
Instead, he found a packet which was wrapped with a black pullover containing an arm in the shape of a hand without fingers, two arms cut into four pieces.	None
On seeing such a sight, he became nervous and called the police.	None
Responding to his call, two policemen arrived.	None
PWBG13, Van Eesbeek Pierre, a police officer of Brussels on reaching the site looked into the waste container and found a pair of legs and the feet.	None
These remnants were wrapped in chiffon and inside a plastic bag.	None
The other witness of the recovery is PWBG 21, Vindevogel Rene.	None
He has stated that he had accompanied PWBG13, Van Eesbeek Pierre.	None
They had found in the container, inside a cardboard box, two pieces of arms and on further search found a red cloth wrapped packet with plastic and when he opened it, a head rolled down.	None
According to him, his colleague found one of the two legs and the feet in other side of the container, also packed in a red fabric.	None
The High Court, therefore, concluded that only one piece of clothing found near the body parts was a black pullover and some red fabric, which might have been used for wrapping the body parts.	None
These witnesses did not speak about the recovery of any other clothing or shoes as is sought to be proved through PWBG8 Nelissen Urbain, PWBG14 Etienne Martin, PWBG25, Lecerf Jacques, PWBG27 Pissoort Jean and PWBG28 Dooms Jeanean.	None
It is noticed by the High Court that none of these witnesses except PWBG28 Dooms Jeanean speaks about the recovery of any clothing or shoe from the site of recovery.	None
In fact PWBG28 Dooms Jeanean could not speak with certainty as to what garments or shoes were discovered from the container.	None
The High Court further notices that the details of clothing and shoes do not find mention in the report of the police dated 30th May, 1979.	None
The report simply mentions that there were several pieces of ladies clothing which were seized and would be described in a special report.	None
It appears that no contemporaneous report of recovery of these clothings was prepared.	None
The report was subsequently prepared on 8th June, 1979 in the form of an inventory of items found on 29th May, 1979.	None
These for the first time specified a pink brown cardigan covering the legs, a black pullover and red fabric which are described by the witnesses.	None
The High Court also notices that the police had already collected and seized various articles and things from the house of PW48, Mr. Lochab in London on 5th June, 1979, 6th June, 1979 and 7th June, 1979.	None
In our opinion, the High Court has reached the appropriate conclusion that the possibility of these garments and articles having been planted by the police by obtaining the same from the house of Namita with the object of fixing the identity of the body parts belonging to Namita by means of the clothes can not be ruled out.	None
It is noteworthy that no contemporaneous recovery memo was prepared by the police on 29th May, 1979 itself.	None
There was omission of the details of the allegedly recovered clothes in the statement of the witnesses.	None
Articles had already been seized from the house of Namita on three consecutive days 5th, 6th and 7th June, 1979.	None
The Special Report containing the inventory of the clothes is dated 8th June, 1979.	None
It is in this report that clothes are mentioned for the first time.	None
We are unable to accept that even in the face of such material, the conclusion reached by the High Court is not plausible.	None
We may also notice that prosecution had allegedly recovered the clothes Namita had taken on the trip.	None
Namitas wedding dress was stated to have been recovered as part of the clothings.	None
The High Court, in our opinion, correctly observed that ordinarily a woman would not carry her wedding dress on her honeymoon trip.	None
The High Court also notices that though the prosecution had taken custody of all the clothes which Namita had taken with her on the honeymoon trip, they were not produced at the trial for identification by the witnesses.	None
Only photographs of the clothings, which had been allegedly taken on 12th June, 1979 i.e. after 16 days, were produced.	None
Mr. Malhotra had, however, submitted that these clothes were torn, lacerated in blood stains and, therefore, must have withered away into waste beyond recognition.	None
In our opinion, the High Court has correctly taken view that the prosecution was duty bound to produce the clothings at the trial.	None
It was through these clothings and articles that the prosecution had sought to establish the identity of the deceased.	None
The High Court, in our opinion, correctly recorded the conclusion that on consideration of the relevant evidence of the witnesses and various documents on record, the prosecution had miserably failed to establish the recovery of clothes or shoes by means of any cogent and reliable evidence.	None
The High Court also held that the identification of the clothings and shoes as belonging to Namita through the testimony of PW48 Jagdish Singh Lochab and PWUK2 Amita Lochab was not sufficient to discharge the burden of proof which lay on the prosecution.	None
The High Court notices that the identification of the shoes by Mr. Lochab could not be definitely said to have made in the presence of any police officer.	None
Mr. Lochab was unable to remember if any police officer was present or not at the time of the identification.	None
In the first instance, he had stated that the officer had recorded his statement and he had signed the same with regard to the identification of the clothes.	None
However, in the same breath, when confronted with the previous statement made to the Belgium Investigation Authorities, he denied it.	None
The High Court also notices that there was no mention of any identification test of clothings having been made by these witnesses.	None
In our view, the High Court had drawn the only logical conclusion from the aforesaid that this witness was not consistent so far as the identification of the clothes are concerned.	None
The prosecution did try to prove that the shoes recovered were only purchased in Britain and that it had been purchased from Top Shop.	None
The High Court observed that the test identification of the property has not been done in accordance with certain well settled legal parameters.	None
Certain safeguards had to be observed to rule out the possibility of any doubt or confusion.	None
Apart from the technical objections with regard to the test identification, the High Court adversely commented that only photographs of the clothes were produced.	None
We, therefore, find no merit in the submission of Mr. Malhotra that the clothes had been definitely identified as belonging to Namita.	None
IDENTITY OF THE BODY	None
PARTS	None
This now brings us to a vital segment of the case which had to be proved by the prosecution i.e. identity of the body parts recovered on 29th May, 1979 and 2nd August, 1979 as that of Namita.	None
To link the body parts to Namita, the prosecution had examined a number of witnesses.	None
Heavy reliance was placed by the prosecution on the report of the postmortem examination conducted by Dr. Rilleret (since dead) and PWBG4 G. Voordecker, Forensic Pathologist.	None
The prosecution also relied on the evidence of PWBG5 Lambert Claudine and Stomatologist PWBG20	None
Wackens Georges, who had examined the dental specifics of the body and the report of finger palm prints experts.	None
The other witnesses relied upon by the prosecution were PWUK1 Smt.	None
Chandermukhi Lochab and PW48 Jagdish Singh Lochab, i.e. mother and father of Namita.	None
They gave description of certain identification special marks which Namita had on her person.	None
According to Jagdish Singh Lochab (PW48), Namita was about 54 of height, the hair of her head were black, she had 31 teeth instead of 32 as one tooth had been extracted at young age she had a scar on her right knee, had a fracture of her left wrist and had a smallpox inoculation mark on her left upper arm.	None
PWBG4 Voordecker Guy has concluded its report as under The victim had been strangulated.	None
ii)	None
The hair of the victim were black.	None
iii)	None
The victim was a young woman of nonwhite race of a height of 1 meter 60 cms.	None
(Emphasis supplied) iv)	None
The victim had a special feature at the teeth level i.e. the existence of a single upper central incisor tooth.	None
An old Coutaneous triangular cicatricies mark of three centimeters was there on the surface of right knee cap.	None
vi)	None
There were burns on the chin at the left retro articular region and also on the limbs, on the left and right arms and left forearm.	None
These burns appeared to be caused after death.	None
vii)	None
The dislocation of the body was work of a doctor surgeon or a butcher.	None
viii)	None
The autopsy was done on 29th May, 1979 and the death took place within 48 hrs.	None
ix)	None
The autopsy was carried out on 29th May, 1979 but report submitted on 11th December, 1979.	None
The examining doctor could not say if there were vaccination marks on left arm and callosities in the front side of the feet.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Stomatologist PWBG20 Wackens Georges concluded his opinion as follows That the body belonged to a person having feminine sex.	None
ii)	None
It was of a person between 20 and 30 years of age who was of African or Indian origin.	None
(Emphasis supplied) iii) Left upper incisor was not there which might have been lost since long time.	None
iv) The teeth were of a person who lived in an affluent social status.	None
Mr. Aggarwal has criticised the veracity of the aforesaid findings on a number of grounds which have also been considered by the High Court.	None
Mr. Aggarwal has reiterated the submissions which were made before the High Court.	None
He submits that the postmortem examination on the body parts recovered in the morning of 29th May, 1979 was conducted by Dr. Rilleret and Voordecker Guy on 29th May, 1979 itself.	None
The report is given about seven months later on 11th December, 1979.	None
In this report, the conclusions are as under From all the findings we are entitled to admit that the (sick) considered human remains are of a young woman of about 160 cms, of coloured race.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The cuts were made after death by an individual who is apparently experienced in disjoining and who respected the anatomic characteristics.	None
The presence of bloodstains in the eyes makes us think a murder by constriction.	None
The remains were burned superficially.	None
According to Mr. Aggarwal, the postmortem report was prepared after consultation with the father and sister of Namita.	None
This fact is apparently mentioned on page 24 of the report of Dr. Rilleret.	None
We may also notice that the postmortem examination of the torso trunk portion recovered on 2nd August, 1979 was performed by Dr. Rilleret (since dead) and PWBG4 Voordecker Guy on 3rd August, 1979.	None
On a comparison of the evidence gathered respectively on 29th May, 1979 and 2nd August, 1979, these witnesses have recorded the conclusion that the human remains examined at the later date do correspond to the same body namely to the corpse of Namita Lochab.	None
The High Court upon considering the entire evidence relating to this issue, however, concluded that no reliance could be placed on the reports presented by the prosecution for the purpose of establishing the identity of the body parts as that of Namita.	None
The High Court highlighted that PWBG20 Wackens Georges, Stomatologist had in the first instance stated on examination of the dental specificities of the body parts on 30th May, 1979, he recorded the report X.	None
However, subsequently he stated that he had given another report marked A.	None
He then tried to explain that the provisional report was marked X and the final report was marked A. Upon comparison of the two reports, the High Court concluded that the two reports are wholly inconsistent.	None
In the alleged provisional report, on the basis of the stomatological examination PWBG28 Dooms Jeanean had concluded as under Female individual, at least thirty years old and of North African type.	None
Lived for a long time in a civilized, upper middleclass environment.	None
Good education.	None
Taking much care for her teeth.	None
Regularly visited her dentist, who looks tidy, experienced and serious.	None
The individual lacks one upper left central incisor and her left canine should have been rather conspicuous.	None
The individual had probably a tic, such as biting her fingernails.	None
This, and the other mentioned facts, suggest that the individual should be between 29 and 30 years old.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
However, in the final report, the conclusions recorded were as under Individual belonging to the female sex whose age is presumed between 20 and 30 years and belonging to the NorthAfrican, Indian type.	None
(Emphasis supplied) Lived since long in a civilized society in a well off category.	None
Had good education.	None
Taking very good care of teeth and used to visit regularly her dentist.	None
The later used to take good care of them regularly and seriously.	None
The individual did not have a left upper central incisive and had a prominently visible left canine.	None
It may not be overlooked that the individual have had a habit, such as nibbling her fingers.	None
A perusal of the aforesaid clearly shows that in the report which was prepared contemporaneously, the experts had put the age of the deceased between 29 to 30 years.	None
A perusal of the same shows that initially the report states that the individual was atleast 30 years old and of NorthAfrican type.	None
At the end of the report, it is stated that the individual should be between 2930 years only.	None
This opinion undergoes a change by the time a final report is prepared.	None
It is now stated that the Individual belonging to the female sex whose age is presumed between 20 and 30 years, and belonging to NorthAfrican Indian type.	None
The differences between the two reports are so glaring, understandably, the High Court was compelled to hold that the second report was clearly an afterthought and deliberate improvement over the earlier report.	None
The High Court, in our opinion, appropriately concluded that this must have been made to cover up the first report which did not connect the body parts with that of Namita in as much as age of Namita was stated to be around 25 years.	None
In fact, it is a matter of record that Namita was born in 1956, that would make her only 24 years at the relevant time.	None
The High Court thereafter took up the issue with regard to the missing incisor tooth.	None
We have noticed earlier that PW48 Mr. Lochab had stated that Namita had 31 teeth instead of 32 as one tooth had been extracted when she was of a very young age.	None
The High Court notices that in his earlier statement, he had stated that another tooth had been fixed at the place of the tooth so extracted.	None
This was done so that no anomaly existed in her denture.	None
This witness was also not able to speak with certainty about the Namita having a scar on her right knee.	None
The High Court also took note of the fact that this witness did not mention any of these identification marks at the time when he had lodged the missing report.	None
He had rather stated that he was not aware of any visible marks or scars or other peculiarities of Namita.	None
He was not even sure about the colour of Namitas hair as he had stated that her hair were dark brown.	None
Contrasted with this, the evidence of the mother PWUK1 was that one of the Namitas front tooth was missing.	None
However, there was no gap in between the incisors.	None
She had stated that Namita had a scar mark on her left knee.	None
She also stated that Namita had three inoculation marks on her shoulder.	None
The High Court notices that this witness was, however, not able to give details of any identification marks on her other children.	None
This, in our opinion, would be sufficient to justify the conclusion reached by the High Court that neither the mother PWUK1 nor the father PW48 of Namita were exactly aware sure of any identification marks of Namita.	None
The High Court, therefore, observed that a possibility can not be ruled out that these witnesses may have given these marks after the disclosure of such marks in the postmortem examinations report.	None
In fact, it may be noteworthy that no vaccination inoculation marks have been found by the doctors, who conducted the postmortem examination.	None
Mr. Malhotra had, however, emphasised that the identity of Namita had been established from the comparison of palm prints found in the house of her parents and the palm prints of the body parts found in the rubbish container.	None
The High Court examined this issue with due care and caution.	None
It is noticed that PWUK18 Christopher John Coombs, the finger print expert was not able to conclude that the evidence produced would connect the palm prints with the palm prints of Namita.	None
The reports submitted by the doctors contained numerous discrepancies.	None
This apart the identification marks given by the witnesses did not coincide with the reports.	None
Therefore, the High Court concluded that no implicit reliance could be placed upon them for the purpose of establishing the identity of these body parts as that of Namita.	None
RECOVERY OF THE BLOOD FROM THE BATHROOM Mr. Malhotra had emphasised that the examination of the blood recovered form the bathroom and the blood group of Namita, both being identical, the High Court wrongly failed to rely upon the same.	None
The High Court rejected the blood report on the grounds that report in many columns used the term Nihil meaning No.	None
The report also contained question marks, blank spaces at various places.	None
The report suggests that it is merely a comparison of favorable characteristics.	None
The experts did not provide any explanation in regard to the terms that had been used in the report.	None
In fact, the High Court records a conclusion that the report used different methods i.e. ABO method and Gm method without giving any justification as to why the two different methods were used.	None
Therefore, the High Court concluded that unfavorable characteristics factors detected during the course of examination had been suppressed.	None
The High Court also took note of the fact that the prosecution failed to place on record any cogent evidence with regard to the blood group of Namita.	None
PW48 only stated her blood group was O, but even he was not able to say whether it was O or O. The High Court quite appropriately observed, on the basis of the opinion of the examining experts, that more than fifty per cent population of Belgium has O blood group.	None
In such state of affairs, the High Court was constrained to conclude that the prosecution has not been able to establish even this limb by means of cogent and reliable evidence.	None
Mr. Aggarwal had also pointed out a number of other infirmities with regard to the noncomparison of a blood sample taken from the body parts recovered.	None
He had pointed out that no reliance could have been placed on the analysis of the blood by PWBG17.	None
According to Mr. Aggarwal this witness had examined crusts lumps of dark red blood.	None
This, according to Mr. Aggarwal, would indicate that the blood belonged to a living person since it was coagulated and that the blood was fairly new.	None
This in turn would lead to a reasonable inference that the blood did not belong to Namita Lochab, in as much, as her blood should been powdery i.e. noncoagulated (belonging to a dead person).	None
It should have been brownish black black in colour as it would have been old blood, since it was recovered more than two weeks after the alleged dismemberment of her body in the bathroom.	None
In support of the submission, Mr. Aggarwal had relied on Parikhs Textbook of Medical Jurisprudence Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, in particular on page 7.11 and 7.23.	None
In the aforesaid textbook, it is stated as under Character Sometimes, it is possible to determine if blood came from (a) living or dead body (b) artery or vein (c) victim or assailant (d) infant or adult, and (e) male or female.	None
Living or dead body Blood which has effused during life can be peeled off in scales on drying due to the presence of fibrin.	None
Blood which has flowed after death tends to break up into powder on drying.	None
The issue was raised before the High Court.	None
The High Court, however, rejected the reports for the reason stated as not being intrinsically reliable.	None
We are of the considered opinion that there is no reliable evidence to indicate that the blood that was recovered from the bathroom of room no. 415 definitely belonged to Namita.	None
It must be remembered that the only drop of blood that was found was at the base of the bidet, in the bathroom.	None
The bathroom would be used successively by different tourists occupying the room.	None
This apart, the very recovery of the blood stains from the bidet seems highly doubtful.	None
It has come into the evidence of PWBG19 Salomone Levy, the Manager of the hotel in whose presence the blood stains were allegedly lifted, that many tourists had occupied room no. 415 between 29th May, 1979 and 12th June, 1979.	None
According to him, no tourists guests ever complained of any blood spot on the bidet.	None
The first ever discovery of blood was stated to be on 12th/13th June, 1979, i.e., about 14 days of the alleged incident.	None
If the blood stains lifted from the bidet were of a person who was killed on 28th May, 1979, the same could not be of red or red brown colour.	None
The colour of the stain would have been blackish brown.	None
It appears to us that the High Court was wholly justified in rejecting the evidence with regard to the recovery of blood from the bidet.	None
We now come to the final circumstances relied upon by the prosecution with regard to the conduct of the respondent after returning to England.	None
We are of the considered opinion that the High Court was not correct in drawing an adverse inference against the respondent because he remained in hiding till he was arrested by the CBI.	Reasoning
In this case, the subsequent conduct of the appellant is not consistent with the expected conduct of a guilty person.	Reasoning
If the respondent had any intention of absconding, he could have done so initially after the alleged murder of his wife.	Reasoning
He had no need to come back to England.	Reasoning
Having come back he need not have gone directly to the house of his inlaws.	Reasoning
Not only did he come back to England, he carried with him the red suitcase containing some of Namitas clothes.	Reasoning
According to the prosecution, this suitcase had contained blood stains which had belonged to Namita.	Reasoning
It is inconceivable that a person having a guilty mind would have been carrying such an incriminating article back to the house of his in laws.	Reasoning
As noticed above, he went back to India apprehending danger from his fatherinlaw and family.	Reasoning
This apprehension of danger to his life at the instance of his fatherinlaw continued even in India.	Reasoning
The fact that an attempt was made on his life had been duly recorded by the trial court.	Reasoning
The respondent had been petitioning the police authorities as well as the Home Minister and the Prime Minister of India seeking protection.	Reasoning
Evading arrest would certainly be an illegal act but it does not lead to the only conclusion that the respondent was hiding due to a guilty conscience.	None
We may also notice here the observations made by this Court in the case of Matru Alias Girish Chandra Vs.	None
The State of Uttar Pradesh ((1971) 2 SCC 75 ) which are as follows The appellants conduct in absconding was also relied upon.	None
Now, mere absconding by itself does not necessarily lead to a firm conclusion of guilty mind.	None
Even an innocent man may feel panicky and try to evade arrest when wrongly suspected of a grave crime such is the instinct of selfpreservation.	None
The act of absconding is no doubt relevant piece of evidence to be considered along with other evidence but its value would always depend on the circumstances of each case.	None
Normally the courts are disinclined to attach much importance to the act of absconding, treating it as a very small item in the evidence for sustaining conviction.	None
It can scarcely be held as a determining link in completing the chain of circumstantial evidence which must admit of no other reasonable hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused.	None
We are of the considered opinion that the respondent did not come out of hiding due to fear as also to avoid arrest by the police but it certainly can not be concluded that he was hiding because of a guilty conscience.	None
We may also notice here that according to the prosecution, dismemberment of the body parts was performed either with surgical instruments or with the aid of a butter knife and a fork.	None
However, at the trial, the prosecution did not produce any evidence with regard to the recovery of any weapon of offence.	Reasoning
Nor any weapon was produced in court, at the trial.	Reasoning
Even according to the sequence given by the prosecution, it would have been impossible for the respondent to procure the surgical instruments in the city of Brussels during the night intervening 27th/28th May, 1979.	Reasoning
It is a matter of record that the entire group of tourists did not return back to the hotel till after 11 O clock during the tour Brussels by Night.	Reasoning
Namita was with him throughout the tour.	Reasoning
Equally he could not have carried the surgical instruments with him without the same being noticed at the customs barriers.	Reasoning
This apart, prosecution has miserably failed to establish that the respondent had any intention of committing the murder of his wife at the commencement of the honeymoon trip.	Reasoning
Even Namitas parents did not entertain any such apprehensions.	Reasoning
It is also the prosecution case that something went amiss in room no.	Reasoning
415 during the night of 27th/28th May, 1979.	Reasoning
Therefore, it makes the possession of surgical instruments by the respondent on the fateful night in Brussels virtually impossible.	Reasoning
We are also unable to accept that such severance of the body parts could possibly be achieved by use of a simple butter knife.	Reasoning
It is simply too farfetched a notion to be taken seriously.	None
We are of the considered opinion that the conclusions reached by the High Court would clearly show that the prosecution had miserably failed to connect the respondent with the alleged murder of his wife.	Decision
The conclusions recorded by the High Court are fully justified by the evidence on record.	Decision
We are, therefore, unable to agree with Mr. Malhotra that there has been any miscarriage of justice in the facts and circumstances of this case.	Decision
Before we part with this judgment, we must place on record our appreciation of the very valuable assistance rendered by Mr. P.P. Malhotra, the learned Additional Solicitor General and Mr. Siddharth Aggarwal, who appeared for the respondent.	Decision
We, therefore, find no merit in the appeal.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
