Dalveer Bhandari, J. This appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated 20th May, 2002 passed by the Customs Excise Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, West Zonal Bench at Mumbai vide Order No.CII/1570/WZB/2002 in Appeal No.E2354/96 Bombay.	None
The short question for consideration in this appeal is whether ethylene and propylene manufactured by the respondent assessee and used in its factory in the further manufacture of the same goods would be entitled to the benefit of exemption contained in notification no.217/86.	Issue
The respondent assessee M s National Organic Chemical Industries Limited manufactured ethylene and propylene by cracking raw naphtha in a naphtha cracker.	Facts
Ethylene and propylene fall under chapter 29 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 (hereinafter referred to as the Tariff Act).	Facts
During the process of cracking raw naphtha, gases such as methane and ethane automatically emerge as byproducts and is an inevitable consequence of cracking of raw naphtha.	Facts
Methane and the ethane fall under chapter 27 of the Tariff Act.	None
It is the common case of the parties that a part of the ethylene and propylene manufactured by the aforesaid process is captively consumed by using the same as a refrigerant in the process of separation and to provide external treatment to keep some of the products at lowtemperature to prevent their polymerization.	None
The remaining quantity of ethylene and propylene is sold as the final product.	None
The case of the appellant as set out in appeal is as follows The respondent assessee holds Central Excise Registration for manufacture of excisable goods falling under chapter Nos. 27, 28, 29, 32, 38, 39 and 40 of the Schedule to the Tariff Act.	None
The respondent manufactures petro chemicals falling under chapters 27 and 29 from raw naptha.	None
Raw Naptha is cracked in cracker containing number of burners and heated upto 800 degree centigrade.	Facts
After the process of cracking, Ethylene and Propylene gases are produced in the factory.	Facts
These gases are also captively consumed as a refrigerant for cooling since they have the property of reducing temperatures upto 100 degree c. and 30 degree c. respectively.	Facts
The captively consumed ethylene and propylene are further used in refrigeration to manufacture products falling under chapters 27 and 29.	None
The methane and ethane manufactured in this process fall under chapter 27.	Facts
Ethylene and propylene fall under chapter 29.	Facts
The manufacture of the products falling under chapter 27 has never been informed to the authorities through the classification list filed by the assessee.	None
It is the further case of the appellant that as per Exemption Notification No.217/86 CE dated 2.4.1986, the inputs ethylene and propylene (falling under chapter 29) captively consumed in the manufacture of finished goods falling under chapter 29 are exempted from excise duty.	Facts
As per the said notification such exemption will not be available to ethylene and propylene used in the manufacture of goods falling under chapter 27, namely methane and ethane.	Facts
In other words, excise duty will have to be paid by the respondent assessee for such of the quantity of ethylene and propylene (inputs) captively consumed and used in the manufacture of products falling under chapter 27 namely methane and ethane.	Facts
In the circumstances, five showcause notices were issued to the respondent assessee demanding central excise duty for the inputs ethylene and propylene used in the manufacture of finished products falling under chapter 27.	None
The extended period of limitation was also invoked.	Facts
Penalty was also proposed.	None
Following five showcause notices were issued to the respondent.	None
S.No.  	Facts
Date  Period1.	Facts
03.02.1993  	Facts
July 1992 to December, 19922.	Facts
04.06.1993  	Facts
May 1988 to June 19923.	Facts
02.08.1993  January 1993 to May 19934.	Facts
28.12.1993  June 1993 to November 19935.	Facts
29.06.1994  December 1993 to February 1994	Facts
By order in original dated 12.7.1996, the Commissioner Central Excise, MumbaiIII confirmed the duty demands, imposed penalty and ordered interest for delayed payment of duty but did not order confiscation of land, building, plant, machinery, etc. of the assessee.	Facts
The appeal filed by the assessee before the Tribunal was allowed by setting aside the order of the Commissioner through the impugned order dated 20.5.2002.	None
Aggrieved by the impugned order rendered by the Tribunal, the Revenue is in appeal before this Court.	None
According to the appellant, the assessee is not entitled to get the benefit of the exemption notification if the inputs manufactured in the factory are captively used for the manufacture of final products not specified in column 3 of the Table annexed to the notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
Chapter heading 27 is not available in column 3 of the Table.	Arguments of Petitioner
The methane and ethane, the finished products manufactured by using ethylene and propylene as refrigerant fall under chapter 27.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, as per the notification the ethylene and propylene (inputs) used for the manufacture of goods falling under chapter 27 are not entitled to get exemption from duty as per the notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the order in original there is specific finding that ethylene and propylene are used in the manufacture of goods falling under chapter 27.	None
It was contended by the respondent that ethylene and propylene were used as refrigerant to cool hydrocarbon gases, which result from the cracking of naphtha.	Arguments of Respondent
It is as a result of this cracking that ethylene, propylene along with ethane, methane and other substances emerge.	Arguments of Respondent
The emergence of ethane and methane is inevitable.	Arguments of Respondent
Since it only emerges in the manufacture of other substances, which are specified in column no.3 of the table, their emergence (ethane and methane) should not by itself justify denial of the benefit.	None
The respondent has submitted a chart indicating the process of manufacturing of ethylene and propylene.	None
The chart also reveals how ethane and methane emerge as by products.	Arguments of Respondent
The chart is reproduced as under The process of manufacture indicated in the chart indicates that some gases automatically emerge in the process of cracking of naphtha, including ethane and methane.	None
The respondent further submitted that part of ethylene and propylene manufactured by it is captively consumed or used in or in relation to the manufacture of the same goods.	None
The emergence of ethane and methane, therefore, by itself is not a ground for denying the exemption contained in the notification.	Reasoning
The respondent assessee submitted that there was no way by which the respondent could have manufactured ethylene and propylene without producing ethane and methane.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not as if by using a smaller quantity of raw material or other goods involved in the process, the respondent could have averted the emergence of ethane and methane.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, in the technology utilized for the manufacture of ethylene and propylene, the emergence of ethane and methane was inevitable.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, while it is no doubt correct to say that the ethylene and propylene have been used in or in relation to the manufacture of ethane and methane, the identical quantity of the same goods has simultaneously been used in the manufacture of ethylene and propylene.	Arguments of Respondent
The emergence of ethane and methane is, therefore, by itself is not a ground to deny the benefit of the exemption notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. K. Radhakrishnan, learned senior advocate appearing for the appellant in support of his submission placed reliance on the case of Novopan India Ltd., Hyderabad v. Collector of Central Excise and Customs, Hyderabad 1994 Supp (3) SCC 606 and submitted that in case of ambiguity the benefit of doubt must go the Revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as this proposition of law is concerned there is no quarrel, but it has no application to the facts of this case.	None
Reliance has also been placed by Mr. Radhakrishnan on the case of Commissioner of Central Excise, ChandigarhI v. Mahaan Diaries (2004) 11 SCC 798.	None
In this case, the Court held that in order to claim benefit of a notification, a party must strictly comply with the terms of the notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
If on wording of the notification the benefit is not available then by stretching the words of the notification or by adding words to the notification benefit cannot be conferred.	None
Reliance was also placed on the case of Commissioner of Central Excise, Trichy v. Rukmani Pakkwell Traders (2004) 11 SCC 801.	None
The same principle has been reiterated in this case and the court held that exemption notifications have to be strictly construed.	Arguments of Petitioner
They must be interpreted on their own wording.	Arguments of Petitioner
To be entitled to the benefits of a notification, a person has to strictly comply with the conditions of that notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
If on a plain reading of the notification the benefit is not available then merely on the basis of principles applied in infringement cases benefit cannot be claimed.23.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. D.B. Shroff, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent submitted that he is not questioning the wellsettled proposition of law, but the respondent assessee in this case is entitled to the benefits of the notification on a plain reading of the notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Shroff further placed reliance on the following decisions In Union of India Others v. Tata Iron Steel Company Limited, 1977 (1) ELT 61 , a fourJudge bench of this Court held as under 23.	None
The High Court rightly said that the Notification does not say that exemption is granted only when duty paid pig iron is used and that the exemption would not be available if dutypaid pig iron is mixed with other nonduty paid materials.	None
If the intention of the Government were to exclude the exemption to dutypaid pig iron when mixed with other materials then the notification would have used the expression only or exclusively or entirely in regard to dutypaid pig iron.	None
The object of the notification was to grant relief by exempting the dutypaid pig iron.	None
In Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Ahmedabad, 1996 (86) ELT 177 , this Court observed as under The Exemption Notification does not require that the ammonia should be used directly in the manufacture of fertilisers.	None
It requires only that the ammonia should be used in the manufacture of fertilisers.	None
The Exemption Notification must be so construed as to give due weight to the liberal language it uses.	None
The ammonia used in the water treatment, steam generation and inert gas generation plants, which are a necessary part of the process of manufacturing urea, must, therefore, be held to be used in the manufacture of ammonia and the raw naphtha used for the manufacture thereof is entitled to the duty exemption.	None
Mr. Shroff also placed reliance on Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd. V. Collector of Central Excise, Vadodara 1997 (92) ELT 294.	None
In this case, this Court observed as under Under this notification pyrolysis gasolene which falls under chapter 27 is produced in the appellants factory and it is utilised for the manufacture of goods.	None
As such it would be exempt from the whole of the duty of excise leviable thereon assuming that any duty of excise is leviable on it.	None
Therefore, we fail to see how any duty of excise can be levied on any part of pyrolysis gasolene manufactured in the factory of the appellant.20.	None
Pyrolysis Gasolene being an intermediate product which is produced in the factory of the appellant, and it being utilised for the manufacture of other goods, it would be totally exempt from payment of excise duty under the second exemption notification.	None
In National Organic Chemical Industries Ltd. V. Collector of Central Excise, Bombay 1997 (89) ELT 643 , this Court observed as under Crude petroleum is refined to produce raw naphtha.	None
Raw naphtha is further refined, or cracked, to produce the said products.	None
This is not controverted.	None
It seems to us to make no difference that the appellants buy the raw naphtha from others.	None
The question is to be judged regardless of this, and the question is whether the intervention of the raw naphtha would justify the finding that the said products are not derived from refining of crude petroleum.	None
The refining of crude petroleum produces various products at different stages.	None
Raw naphtha is one such state.	None
The further refining, or cracking, of raw naphtha results in the said products.	None
The source of the said products is crude petroleum.	None
The said products must, therefore, be held to have been derived from crude petroleum.	None
In Doypack Systems (Pvt.)	None
Ltd. v. Union of India 1988 (36) ELT 201 , this Court had an occasion to examine the expressions pertaining to, in relation to and arising out of and observed as under 46.	None
The expressions pertaining to, in relation to and arising out of, used in the deeming provision, are used in the expansive sense, as per decisions of courts, meanings found in standard dictionaries, and the principles of broad and liberal interpretation in consonance with Article 39(b) and (c) of the Constitution.	None
Mr. Shroff further placed reliance on Commissioner of Central Excise, Coimbatore v. Jawahar Mills Ltd. 2001 (132) ELT 3 wherein this Court whilst interpreting the words used in the factory of manufacture used in clause (c) of the Explanation to Rule 57 Q (1) held that the goods need not be used for producing the final product or used in the process of any goods for the manufacture of final product or used for bringing about any change in any substance for the manufacture of final product and the only requirement is that the same should be used in the factory of the manufacturer.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, it can be seen that the language used in the explanation is very liberal.	Arguments of Respondent
We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the judgments cited at the Bar.	Reasoning
The Tribunals finding that the ethylene and propylene used as refrigerant has been used in or in relation to the manufacture of the same goods.	Reasoning
The inevitable and automatic emergence of ethane and methane, therefore, by itself is no ground for denying the exemption contained in the notification.	Reasoning
The Tribunal came to the categoric finding that the respondent could not have manufactured ethylene and propylene without manufacturing its byproducts ethane and methane.	Reasoning
The Tribunal held that in any technology the emergence of ethane and methane was inevitable and hence while it is no doubt correct to say that the ethylene and propylene have been used in or in relation to the manufacture of ethane and methane, the identical quantity of the same goods has simultaneously been used in the manufacture of ethylene and propylene.	Reasoning
The emergence of ethane and methane, therefore, cannot be a ground to deny the benefit of exemption to the respondent.	Reasoning
In our considered view, no interference is called for in the wellreasoned judgment order of the Tribunal.	None
The appeal being devoid of any merit is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
However, in view of the facts circumstances of the case, the parties are directed to bear their own costs.	Decision
