 These appeals by special leave arise from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court dated 10101978 made in LPA No. 115 of 1975 and batch.	None
The Division Bench consisting of Honble Chief Justice T.V.R. Tarachari and Honble Justice S. Ranganathan, as they then were, in an elaborate judgment rendered by the latter running into 129 pages, considered threadbare two questions of law raised for consideration, namely, the validity of the notification under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (1 of 1894) (for short the Act) acquiring an extent of 3470 acres in Naraina village for public purpose, viz., Planned Development of Delhi and secondly, whether the substance of the notification under Section 4(1) was published in the locality as envisaged under subsection (1) of Section 4 of the Act.	Facts
The learned Judges have upheld the judgment of the learned Single Judge and held that the planned development of Delhi is a public purpose and that, therefore, notification was not beset with any vagueness in the likely need of the land for the said purpose.	Facts
It is held that the substance of the notification was published in the locality, Naraina.	Facts
The Division Bench considered elaborately various discrepancies pointed out in compliance with the publication of the substance of the notification as noted in the judgment.	Facts
Thereafter, it was held that they were satisfied that the substance of the notification was in fact effected as per law.	Facts
The material facts are that notification under Section 4(1) of the Act was published in the Gazette on 24101961.	Facts
The substance of the notification was published on 21111961.	Facts
The declaration under Section 6 was published on 7121966 after enquiry under Section 5A.	Facts
The first question, therefore, is whether the land was needed or was likely to be needed for public purpose as envisaged under Section 4(1) of the Act ?.	None
The contention of Shri Lekhi, the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants, is that the lands situated within the Delhi Cantonment are governed by the provisions of the Cantonments Act, 1924.	Arguments of Petitioner
The land in its jurisdiction is required to be developed as per the provisions contained in that Act and the rules made thereunder.	Arguments of Petitioner
The interim General Plan drawn up for development of Delhi in 1957 and revised Master Plan in 1962 under the Delhi Development Act, 1957 (61 of 1957) (for short the Development Act) effective from 191962 and the further revised plan 1992 which would be elongated till 2001, do not envisage any development in respect of the acquired land.	None
The Master Plans do indicate that the land use is undetermined which would indicate that the land was not itemised to the effect that it was needed for any kind of specified public purpose as required under the Master Plan as per the provisions of the Development Act which requires various steps to be taken thereunder, namely, Master Plan, Regional Plan, Zonal Plan and Zonal Development Plan.	None
In all the steps, there should be specification of the land required for specified public purpose.	None
An elaborate study by a group of experts undertook to demarcate various lands situated at different places for various purposes mentioned in the plans appended thereunder.	None
The land in question was not specifically demarcated for any of the purposes.	None
It would, therefore, be clear that the land is not needed or is likely to be needed for any public purpose.	None
Accordingly, the acquisition is a colourable exercise of power to deprive the owners of the land.	None
He further contended that, as a fact, there was no publication of the substance of the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act, in the locality.	None
Publication of the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act in the State Gazette and of the substance thereof in the locality are mandatory requirements under Section 4(1) of the Act.	None
Noncompliance thereof renders the entire acquisition void.	None
Three versions on publication of the substance emerge from the record, namely, one, as given and translated by the counsel for the appellants in the High Court second, as given by the court translator as was got done by the High Court and the third, the affidavit filed by Daryao Singh, who was a peon attached to the office of the Land Acquisition Officer.	Reasoning
The three versions are diametrically inconsistent.	Reasoning
Consequently, there is no acceptable version found from the record.	Reasoning
In those circumstances, unless it is proved to the hilt that substance of the notification was in fact published in the locality, the acquisition cannot be declared to be valid in law.	Reasoning
The benefit of doubt should go to the owners in upholding the acquisition as it is an expropriator action.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, had not considered this aspect of the matter in the proper perspective.	Reasoning
Consequently, when the special leave petitions came to be filed in this Court, this Court had called upon the respondents to produce the original record.	Reasoning
Since the records had not been produced, adverse inference was drawn and unqualified leave was granted though notice was limited to 2nd point.	Reasoning
These circumstances would clearly indicate that there is no compliance of the requirement of publication of the substance of Section 4(1) notification in the locality.	Reasoning
Resultantly, the presumption available under Section 114(e) of the Evidence Act, 1872 stands displaced.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, was clearly in error in holding that the substance of the notification under Section 4(1) was published in the locality.	Reasoning
Shri Nambiar, the learned Senior Counsel for the Union of India, contended that the High Court extensively considered the entire record and returned a finding that the notification under Section 4(1) was not only published in the Gazette but also its substance was got published in the locality as evidence from the record.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court after perusal and elaborate consideration recorded the finding that there are no suspicious features in the publication of the substance of the notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the presumption under Section 114(e) of the Evidence Act would be applicable to the facts in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Ravinder Sethi, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Delhi Development Authority, has contended that the Master Plan and the interim General Plan do indicate that the lands are needed for public purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
The entire Naraina area was required for the planned development.	Arguments of Respondent
Except the lands in dispute of an extent of 14 bighas, all the lands were acquired and the Naraina residential scheme was implemented and around three lakh people are living there.	Arguments of Respondent
Though the land in question is partly situated in the cantonment area, the Development Act stands attracted to the area which was not actually needed for the purpose of cantonment.	Arguments of Respondent
The notings regarding the interim General Plan at various places do indicate that the Delhi Development Authority intended to develop the area of the lands situated within the cantonment.	Arguments of Respondent
Under those circumstances, the public purpose has been specifically envisaged under the notification.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court consistently has taken a view that planned residential development is a public purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
Elaboration thereof after the acquisition would be undertaken at a later point of time.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the public purpose as required under Section 4(1) of the Act has been satisfied.	Arguments of Respondent
He, therefore, contends that the Division Bench has correctly interpreted the provisions of the Master Plan, the Development Act and the Cantonment Act in arriving at the above conclusion.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the diverse contentions, the first question that arises for consideration is whether the land in question is needed for a public purpose ?	Issue
If the finding is held against the State, it would not be necessary to go into the second question.	None
Public purpose has been defined in Section 3(f) of the Act with an inclusive purpose of various developments and extension, planned development and improvement of the village etc.	None
The controversy is no longer res integra.	None
In Aflatoon v. Lt. Governor of Delhi a Constitution Bench of this Court, (Mathew, J. speaking for the Court) after an elaborate consideration, held that the acquisition for planned development of Delhi is a public purpose.	Reasoning
In the case of an acquisition of a large extend of land comprising several plots belonging to different persons, the specification of the purpose can only be with reference to the acquisition of the whole area.	None
Unlike in the case of an acquisition of a small area, it might be practically difficult to specify the particular purpose for which every item of land comprised in the area is needed.	None
Under those circumstances, the acquisition of planned development was held to be for public purpose.	None
It is not necessary to burden the judgment with the development of the law in this behalf.	None
Relevant decisions in this behalf are Ratni Devi v. Chief Commr.	None
Pt. Lila Ram v. Union of India Om Prakash v. Union of India Ram Chand v. Union of India State of T.N. v. L. Krishnan and Jai Narain v. Union of India.	None
Suffice it to state that when an authority constituted under the Act has initiated the action for acquisition of a large area of land comprising several plots for planned development, the specification of a particular land needed for a specified purpose intended to be undertaken for the development ultimately to be taken up, is not a condition precedent to initiate the action for acquisition and publication of the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act in the Gazette does not get vitiated on account thereof.	None
The reasons are not far to seek.	None
In drawing details, the scheme required detailed examination consistent with plans and ecological balance.	None
Shri Lekhi sough to place reliance on the judgments of this court in Somavanti v. State of Punjab and Khub Chand v. State of Rajasthan.	Arguments of Petitioner
Somavanti case relates to acquisition for a company and Munshi Singh case Munshi Singh v. Union of India, was considered and distinguished in T.N. case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Khub Chand case relates to compliance of Section 4(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
So it is not necessary to deal with these cases in detail.	Reasoning
Suffice it to state that each case has to be considered on the facts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
The planned development of Delhi was held to be a public purpose in Aflatoon case followed by several judgments including the latest judgment of this Court in Jai Narain case.	Reasoning
The question then is whether the interim General Plan 1956, the Master Plan under the Development Act brought on statute in 1962 w.e.f. 191962 and further amended plan in 1990 are required to necessarily specify the purpose for which land is needed visavis the provisions of the Cantonments Act, 1924.	Reasoning
It is true that when acquisition of the land was within the limits specified under Section 4 and declaration under Section 5 of the Cantonments Act, 1924 was published, the Cantonment Board and the authorities constituted thereunder get the power and jurisdiction to deal with the lands within its jurisdiction for the development.	Reasoning
None of their representatives finds berth in Planning Council under the Development Act.	Reasoning
Equally, under the Development Act the Delhi Development Authority and the various authorities constituted thereunder are required to prepare the Master Plan, the Zonal Plan and the Area Development Plan as required for planned development of the land.	Reasoning
But one fact that needs to be emphasised and always kept in mind is that all these are development activities to be undertaken subsequent to the acquisition after the land is available.	Reasoning
The harping and insistence on compliance of details by Shri Lekhi from several provisions in various Acts do not need elaborate consideration.	Reasoning
As a fact the High Court had done that exercise and in our view in correct perspective.	Reasoning
They need reiteration.	Reasoning
Once a public purpose has been specified by the Governor in the notification and on specification obviously on presumptive satisfaction thereof the Governor issued the notification as required under Section 4(1) the absence of the specification and further elaboration of the development do not have the effect of rendering the satisfaction reached by the Governor illegal and the notification under Section 4(1) published by the Governor in exercise of the power of eminent domain is not rendered void.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is not necessary to elaborately deal in detail with the manner in which the development has to be undertaken when the land is situated within the cantonment area.	Reasoning
In fact, Section 12(3)(ii) of the Development Act takes care of the development in cantonment area when there would be a conflict between the authorities under the Development Act and the need for prior approval in that behalf of the cantonment, which is a local authority, for developing land under the Development Act.	Reasoning
As a fact, except the land in question, the land in Naraina was developed as per plan.	Reasoning
Under those circumstances, since the High Court has elaborately dealt with this aspect of the matter in the judgment running into 129 pages, we feel it unnecessary to burden this judgment with further discussion in that behalf.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we hold that the notification under Section 4(1) is not vitiated on account of the fact that planned development was not specified with particularisation of the land in question needed for the public purpose The next question is whether the mandatory requirements of Section 4 (1) have been complied with ?	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that the notification under Section 4(1) was published in the Gazette.	Issue
Therefore, the first limb of the statutory requirement stands satisfied.	None
The serious dispute is as regards the publication of the substance of the notification in the locality.	Reasoning
In this behalf, the High Court also has spent considerable time and dealt with in about 20 pages in considering this question.	Reasoning
In paragraph 57 of the judgment, the learned Judges have stated that the notification under Section 4(1) as regards the endorsement made on the back of the publication of the substance was put in issue and it was noted.	Reasoning
The translated copy given by the learned counsel for the appellant was dealt with in paragraph 58 and thereafter in paragraph 59 the contentions raised by the learned counsel were dealt with.	Reasoning
When there was a dispute, as regards the contents of the respondent, the learned Judges felt it expedient to have it translated by the court translator of the enforcement in Urdu and extracted as under Received one copy.	None
I shall affix the same to some conspicuous place sd  Illegible 21.11.	None
The proclamation shall be got done through the Chowkidar sd  Illegible 21.11.	None
Sir It is submitted that one copy of the notice has been affixed outside the Court of the Land Acquisition Collector one copy of the notice has been affirmed outside the Court of Deputy Commissioner, one copy of the notice has been affixed outside the Tehsil Office at Kashmere Gate, and one copy has been got affixed at the spot in Village Naraina through the Lumbardar	None
The report is submitted sd  Illegible 21111961.	None
It would be seen that the copy of the notification was received by the peon, Daryao Singh and he made an endorsement that he received the copy and affixed the same on some conspicuous place.	None
Thereafter, he made an endorsement which reads that A copy of the notice was affixed outside the Court of the Land Acquisition Collector one copy of the notice was affixed outside the Court of the Deputy Commissioner one copy of the notice was affixed outside the Tehsil Office at Kashmere Gate and one copy of the notice has been got affixed on the spot through Lumbardar as was read out by our Court Officer whose services we requisitioned.	None
The only difference in the translated copy of the court translator of the Delhi High Court that was explained to us by our Court Officer is that the name of Village Naraina was not specifically mentioned at the bottom.	None
It is sought to be explained by the learned counsel for the Union of India that on the top of the front page Village Naraina was found written.	None
Our Court Officer also has mentioned that Village Naraina was found written on the top.	None
When these endorsements are read together it would be clear that the substance of the notification was got affixed in Village Naraina since he had already made an endorsement that he received the copy and he would get the substance of the notification affixed in some conspicuous place as endorsed on 21111961.	None
The serious contention raised here and also in the High Court was that Daryao Singh, the peon of the Land Acquisition Collectors office made inconsistent statements in his affidavit filed in the year 1978 and the endorsement contained thereunder with reference to one endorsement dated 11111961.	None
In this behalf, the High Court also had dealt with in extenso and it has concluded in paragraph 62 thus.	None
So there is no reason to suspect any mala fides in this interpolation which adds nothing to the entry in the context of the statutory requirements.	None
The second entry similarly records the Lumbardar undertaking to proclaim by beat of drum.	None
It would thus be seen that the High Court having carefully perused the record and extensively considered the same had record, as a finding of fact thus We are therefore of opinion that we should accept the record as showing that a copy of the notice was affixed at a conspicuous place in the locality in which the lands proposed to be acquired were situated.	None
After perusing the record and satisfying ourselves and also considering various cogent and weighty reasons given by the learned Judges, we are of the opinion that the substance of the notification under Section 4(1) was duly published in the locality.	Reasoning
It is not the law and could not and would not be the law that publication of the substance of Section 4(1) notification in the locality should be established beyond shadow of doubt and benefit should be extended to the owner or interested person of the land.	Reasoning
Obvious thereto, presumption under Section 114(e) of the Evidence Act has been raised that official acts have been properly done unless proved otherwise.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that it was properly done.	Reasoning
It is futile to reiterate the settled legal position that the publication of the notification under Section 4(1) in the Gazette and substance thereof in the locality are mandatory requirements and the omission thereof renders the notification void.	Reasoning
In Khub Chand case this Court had held the same view.	Reasoning
But as records earlier, since substance of the notification was published in the locality, the second limb of the requirement also stands complied with.	Reasoning
Considered from this perspective, we are of the considered view that the High Court has not committed any error of law.	Reasoning
Another contention raised by Shri Ravinder Sethi is that the claimant in the first appeal had purchased the property after the declaration under Section 6 was published and that therefore he does not get any right to challenge the validity of the notification published under Section 4(1).	Reasoning
Since his title to the property is a void title, at best he has only right to claim compensation in respect of the acquired land claiming interest in the land which his predecessorintitle had.	Reasoning
In support thereof, he placed reliance on the judgments of this Court in State of U.P. v. Pista Devi Gian Chand v. Gopala Mahavir v. Rural Institute and Laxmi Engineering Works v. P.S.G. Industrial Institute.	Reasoning
We need not deal at length with this issue as is the settled legal position.	Reasoning
But since other appellants are owners of the lands who are challenging the validity of the notification and since we have upheld the validity of the notification though others have challenged its validity, it is not necessary to dismiss the appeal of Bahadur Singh on this ground alone as we are upholding the notification under Section 4(1) in the appeals of other appellants.	Reasoning
The appeals are accordingly dismissed, but in the circumstances, without costs.	Decision
