 Ramaswamy, J. Leave granted.	None
These appeals by special leave arise from the judgment of the High Court of Punjab Haryana, made on 19.4.1996 in LPA Nos. 2 and 3 of 1996.	None
The admitted facts are that the appellants have formulated a Scheme for voluntary retirement of the employees who have completed 45 years of age, effective from April 1, 1989 for a period of three months subject to the conditions specified in the scheme.	Facts
The respondents had accepted the scheme and retired thereunder.	Facts
Thereafter by Office Order No. 45/90 dated March 1, 1991 pay scales were revised in respect of existing employees and those who retired from time to time.	Facts
In furtherance thereof, the respondents claimed and revision of the scale of pay was sought to be given effect by the office but the audit objection to the payment thereof was raised.	Facts
Consequently, the respondents filed the writ petitions in the High Court and the learned single Judge allowed the writ petition and appeals were dismissed.	Facts
Thus, these appeals by special leave.4.	Facts
Shri V. Reddy, learned Additional Solicitor General, contends that the Scheme is a special scheme containing the mode of payment of compensation as calculated in terms of the Scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a distinction between those employees who retired voluntarily under the Conduct Discipline and Appeal Rules and those who retired under the Scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
The revised scales of pay are applicable to those persons who are enumerated in Clause 2.2.2 of the office orders providing for Revision of Pay Scales.	Arguments of Petitioner
Proceedings dated March 1, 1991 refers to the candidates who retired voluntarily.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Rule 24.2 of the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules, the revision of the Provident Fund would be effected only in respect of those employees who retired under the special scheme the scale and gratuity have to be revised in terms of the revised scales of pay but not the payment of the difference of pay.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Shri Manoj Swarup, learned counsel for the respondents, contends that no distinction has been drawn in the proceedings dated March 1, 1991 between the employees who retired under the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules or under the Special Scheme and those who retired voluntarily under the Scheme and are entitled to the same benefit of the revision of the pay scales as contemplated under the Office Order dated March 1, 1991.	Arguments of Respondent
He also contends that even clause 2.3 negatively puts that they are disentitled to the payment.	Arguments of Respondent
The word salary is linked to the other components, namely, additional dearness allowance, ad hoc pay, additional pay etc.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the word pay would include revised pay.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereby the respondents are entitled to the benefit of the revised pay scales.5.	Arguments of Respondent
In support thereof, he placed reliance on the judgment of this Court in Prantiya Vidhyut Mandal Mazdoor Federation Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Rajasthan State Electricity Board Ors., 1992(3)	Arguments of Respondent
SCT 113(SC)	Arguments of Respondent
JT 1992(3)	Arguments of Respondent
SC 51 (1992) 2 SCC 723.	Arguments of Respondent
Therein the dispute relating to the revision of the pay was pending before the Industrial Tribunal.	None
Pending dispute, the wages were revised.	None
Consequently, after the award was made, the revision of the wages was effected.	None
The question was whether the P.F. was required to be recalculated on the basis of the revised scales ?	None
This Court had held that in view of the revision of the pay scales, the P.F. requires to be decided on the basis of the revised wages payable to the employees as was recalculated.	None
The ratio therein has no application to the facts in these cases.	None
The question, therefore, is whether the respondents are entitled to the benefit of the revised scales of pay under the Office Order No. 45/90 dated March 1, 1991 ?	Issue
It is not in dispute that the respondents have not completed 50 years of age for voluntary retirement under clause (b) or clause (c) of Rule 24.2 on attaining the age of superannuation.	None
They contemplate thus An employee may at any time after completing the age of 50 years voluntarily retire by giving one months notice in writing.(c)	None
The Competent Authority may also retire an employee at any time after he completes 50 years by giving one months notice or one months salary wages in lieu of the notice, if it is considered in the interest of the Company.	None
Thus, an employee who is normally entitled to remain in service until he reaches the age of superannuation of 58 years, is entitled to retire either voluntarily by giving one months notice on attaining the age of 50 years and the Company may, if it considers it necessary, in the interest of the Company, retire an employee by giving one months notice or one months salary wages in lieu thereof.	None
Thus, those who retired under the above Rule would be construed to have voluntarily retired from service.	None
It is seen that a special voluntary retirement scheme had been introduced by the Company.	None
The objective of the Voluntary Retirement Scheme is to achieve the optimum level of manpower with the desirable average agemix as per the changing needs of the Company.	None
In regard to the respondents, they come under the Scheme B which contains that the scheme is applicable to all regular permanent employees of the Company as notified from time to time who have put in 15 years of service or more in the Company and who are of the age of 45 years and above as on the date of the submission of the application for voluntary retirement.	None
It is, thus, seen that there is a distinction between the employees who retire under the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules on attaining the age of 50 years and the employees who accept voluntary retirement on completion of 15 years of service or more in the Company and who are of the age of 45 years and above.	None
In other words, before attaining the age of 50 years as contemplated under the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules, the benefits enumerated for such of the employees who opt for and where option is accepted by the Company, are postulated in Clause (b) of Scheme B which says that the eligible employees requesting for voluntary retirement, subject to acceptance of their requests by the Company Competent Authority, shall be entitled to receive benefits at the following rates for the remaining period of service prior to the date of retirement on superannuation from the service of the Company.	None
The computation thereof has been enumerated in the scheme which reads as under It has been decided to introduce a Voluntary Retirement Scheme for the employees of the Company as per the enclosed copy comprising of two parts viz., Scheme A and Scheme	None
B.	None
The scheme will be in operation from 1.4.1989 for a period of three months, subject to the following further conditionsi) Scheme A shall be applicable only to the employees of Lamp Unit, Hyderabad in WG Cadre with the terms and conditions specified in Scheme A for a period of three months from 1.4.1989.ii) Scheme B shall be applicable to all the Units Divisions (including Lamp), Business Group Directorates, other offices and Corporate Office with the terms and conditions specified in the enclosed scheme, for a period of three months from 1.8.1989.iii)	None
The scheme does not confer any right on any employee to have his request for voluntary retirement accepted by the competent authority.	None
Right to accept or reject the application for voluntary retirement shall entirely vest with the Company.iv) Acceptance of application for Voluntary Retirement shall depend inter alia on availability of funds in the respective Units Divisions Business Group Directorates, other Offices and Corporate Office.v)	None
The eligible employees requesting for voluntary retirement, subject to acceptance of their requests by the competent authority shall be entitled to such benefits as are specified in the scheme.	None
Such employees may be persuaded to deposit the benefits received, in the Companys Fixed Deposit Scheme.2.	None
The existing Medical Retirement Scheme and Voluntary Retirement Scheme introduced for Hyderabad based Units of the Company	None
shall stand discontinued with the introduction of the above Voluntary Retirement Scheme.3.	None
The Units and areas within the Units, where the Scheme could be implemented will separately be intimated by the DPS.4.	None
The progress of implementation of the Scheme with regard to the number of employees in each cadre and the total amount paid on account of compensation shall be reported to DPS every month.	None
For the computation of the payment of the compensation in terms of the calculation, the Note postulates that the salary mentioned under Scheme A and B shall mean basic pay, Dearness Allowance, Interim Relief ad hoc Relief and Personal Pay, if any, and shall be calculated on the basis of a calendar month.	None
In other words, this contract has expressly omitted to mention the revised scale of pay from time to time.	None
The reason would be obvious.	None
An employee who retires on completing the age of 50 years but before the age of 58 years, is not entitled to the payment of any special component of the salary as indicated hereinbefore.	None
On the other hand, he will be entitled only to the retiral benefits as are available under the normal Rules.	None
If the company, in public interest, instead of giving one months notice makes payment of salary in lieu thereof then employee would be entitled to nothing more except other retiral benefits like pension, gratuity etc.	None
The procedure in regard to the calculation of the payment of the compensation and method of computing the compensation has been provided in Para Vl the details whereof are not material for the purpose of these cases.	None
Para IX of the Special Scheme postulates that retirement on medical grounds in terms of clause 24.1 and voluntarily retirement in terms of clause 24.2(b) and (c) of the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules of the Company shall fall outside the purview of the scheme.	None
In other words, the special scheme excluded such of the employees who voluntarily retired under Rule 24.1 or 24.2(b) and (c) of the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules of the Company.	None
Para Xll in this behalf is more relevant wherein it says that the Chairman and Managing Director shall have power to amend, modify, alter or withdraw the above Scheme either in whole or in part, at his directions, if the circumstances so warrant.	None
In other words, whatever components are enumerated thereunder would be binding on the parties until the Chairman and the Managing Director before acceptance amends, modifies, alters or withdraws the above scheme.	None
It is seen that the Office Order No. 45 dated March 1, 1991 provides that the revised pay scales shall be effective from 1.1.1987 and will remain in force for the period of five years upto 31.12.1991.	Reasoning
Clause 2.2 provides that the revised pay scales shall also be applicable on a pro rata basis to those categories of employees who were on the rolls of the company as on 31. 12.1986 but have subsequently separated due to superannuation and voluntary retirement etc.	Reasoning
Those who retired on attaining the age of 58 years or voluntarily retired under Rule 24.2(b) or (c), as the case may be, under the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules referred to hereinbefore.	Reasoning
The benefits of the revision of pay scales shall not be applicable to those persons who were on the rolls of the Company as on 31.12.1986 but subsequently left the service of the company before the date of issue of Office Order No. 45/90 for any reason, whatsoever, including resignation except the category mentioned in clause 2.2 above.	Reasoning
Thereby, the necessary implication is that all those who are covered and stand on the same footing are excluded except to the extent of gratuity, revision of the terminal benefits as mentioned in para 6.13 which postulates that gratuity paid or payable to employees covered under Clause 2.2 will be recalculated on the revised pay subject to the prescribed ceiling.	Reasoning
Thus, it could be seen that the distinction has been drawn between employees who retired voluntarily under Rule 24.2 of the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules or the employees who retired under the Special Scheme operating from time to time.	Reasoning
The respondents having retired under the Special Scheme are not employees covered under the voluntary retirement under Rule 24.2 of the Conduct, Discipline and Appeal Rules referred to hereinbefore.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the High Court was not right in directing recomputation of the compensation under Office Order No. 45 dated March 1, 1991.11.	Reasoning
The appeals are accordingly allowed.	Decision
Consequently, the writ petitions stand dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
