 Mudholkar, J (B. P. Sinha, C.J.,Kajagopala Ayyangar and Venkatarama Aiyar, JJ. concurring.)1.	None
The petitioners who have acquired over six acres of land by purchase for Rs. 4,50,000 in February, 1961 under five sale deeds and one lease deed claim to have done so for the purpose of establishing a paper mill in collaboration with Messrs. R. S. Madhoram and Sons who had been granted a licence for the establishment of a paper plant in Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
The aforesaid land is statute in the village Meola Maharajpur, Tehsil Ballabhgarh, District Gurgaon and abuts on the Mathura Road, and is only about 10 or 12 miles from New Delhi.	Facts
Respondent No. 6, Air Conditioning Corporation (P) Ltd., is a private limited concern and holds a licence from the Government of India for starting a factory for the manufacture of various ranges of refrigeration compressors and ancillary equipment.	Facts
We may mention here that initially this project was allotted to the State of West Bengal but at the request of the State of Punjab its location was shifted to the State of Punjab.2.	Facts
The respondent No. 6 requested the State of Punjab for the allotment of an appropriate site for the location of the factory.	Facts
The petitioners contend that the respondent No. 6 being interested in acquiring land in the village Meola Maharajpur approached the State of Punjab in or about the month of March, 1961 for the purpose of acquiring land for their factory under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (thereinafter referred to as the Act).	Facts
One of the petitioners having learnt of this made an application on March 23,1961 to the Deputy Commissioner, Gurgaon requesting him that none of the lands purchased by the petitioners should be acquired for the benefit of the respondent No. 6.	Facts
Owners of adjacent lands Mr. Om Prakash, Mr. Ram Raghubir, Mr. Atmaram Chaddha and Mr. Hari Kishen who are petitioners in W. P. 247 and 24S of 1961 which were heard along with this petition made similar requests.	Facts
The petitioners allege that they were assured by the Deputy Commissioner that their lands would not be acquired for the benefit of respondent No.6.	Facts
Thereafter the respondent No. 6 purchased by private treaty a plot of land measuring approximately 70,000 sq. yards contiguous to the land owned by the petitioners on or about April 21, 1961.3.	Facts
The petitioners grievance is that notwithstanding the assurances given to them by the Deputy Commissioner, Gurgaon, the Governor of Punjab, by notification dated August 25, 1961, under S. 4 of the Act declared that the lands of the petitioners in this petition as well as those of the petitioners in the other two writ petitions were likely to be needed by Government at public expense for a public purpose, namely, for setting up a factory for manufacturing various ranges of refrigeration compressors and ancillary equipment.	Facts
It accordingly notified that the land in the locality described in the notification was required for the aforesaid purpose.	Facts
Similarly it authorised the SubDivisional Officer and Land Acquisition Officer Palwal to enter upon and survey the land in the locality and to do all other acts required or permitted by S. 4 of the Act.	Facts
It further directed that action under S. 17 of the Act shall be taken because there was urgency and also directed that the provisions of S. 5A shall not apply to the acquisition.	Facts
On August 19, the Governor of Punjab made a notification under S. 6 of the Act to the effect that he was satisfied that the land specified in the notification was required by Government at public expense for public purpose, namely, for setting up a factory for the manufacture of refrigeration compressors and other ancillary equipment and declared that the aforesaid land was required for the aforesaid purposes.	Facts
This declaration was made to all whom it may concern and the SubDivisional Officer, Palwal was directed to take all steps for the acquisition of this land.	Facts
Finally the notification provided for the immediate taking of possession of the land under the provisions of S. 17(2)(c) of the Act.	Facts
Both these notifications were published in the Punjab Government Gazette of August 25, 1961.4.	Facts
The petitioners contend that these notifications and the land acquisition proccedings permitted to be taken under them violate their fundamental rights under Art. 19 (1) (f) and (g) to possess the said land and carry on their occupation, trade or business and that, therefore, they must be quashed.5.	Facts
It is their contention that they have purchased this land bona fide for industrial purposes as land in the vicinity of this land is being acquired by industrialists for establishing various industries.	Facts
The purpose is said to be the establishment of a paper manufacturing plant.	Facts
According to them they have entered into an arrangement with Messrs. R. S. Madho Ram and Sons who hold industrial licence No. L/24(1) N60/62.	Facts
The proposed industry, according to them, would employ about 200 people.	Facts
The industry they wish to start is a new one so far as they are concerned, whereas, according to them, the respondent No. 6 is already engaged in refrigeration industry and as far as they know it has established a factory for manufacturing refrigeration equipment at Hyderabad in the State of Andhra Pradesh.6.	Facts
It may be mentioned that some time after the notification was published, that is, on September 29, 1961, the Government of Punjab sanctioned the expense of Rs. 100 for the purpose of acquisition of this land.	Facts
According to the petitioners this was an after thought and besides, a token contribution of this kind is not sufficient to show that the acquisition is being made partly at public expense.7.	Facts
The petition was opposed not only by respondent No. 6 but also by the State of Punjab which is respondent No. 1 to the petition.	Facts
The respondent No.1 denied that the petitioners had purchased the land for a bona fide industrial purpose and would in fact use it for such purpose.	Facts
It also denied that any assurance was given to the petitioners that their lands would not be acquired.	Facts
It admitted that the respondent No. 6 had made an application in December, 1960 for acquiring land for setting up its factory and that, therefore, the Punjab Government agreed to do the needful.	Facts
According to respondent No. 1 the acquisition proceedings have been undertaken for a public purpose and at public expense as stated in the notification and that the State Government would make part contribution towards the payment of compensation of the land out of public revenues.	Facts
In the circumstances it is contended that the petitioners would not be entitled to any relief whatsoever.	Facts
They would of course get compensation for the land as determined by the Land Acquisition Officer.8.	Facts
The action of the State Government is said to be legal and in accordance with the provisions of the law because what was done was permissible under Ss. 4 and 6 of the Act, that it was done bona fide, that part of the compensation would be paid out of the public revenues, that the declaration made by the Government is conclusive evidence under subsec.	Facts
23 of S. 6, that the land is needed for a public purpose, that the notifications were made on different dates though they were published in the same issue of the Gazette and are perfectly valid, that the land is not being acquired for a company but for a public purpose, that, therefore, the provisions of part VII of the Act are inapplicable and that the lands are lying vacant and their owners will be paid compensation.	Facts
No question of depriving them of their fundamental rights under Art.	Facts
19(1)(f) and (g) or of violation of their right under Art.	Facts
14 therefore arises.9.	Facts
According to respondent No. 1 it would be open to the petitioners to make their claim for compensation to the Land Acquisition Officer for such loss as the acquisition would entail on them.	Facts
It also stated that as the land purchased by the respondent No. 6 through private negotiation has no access to the main road and as the land is inadequate to meet the minimum essential requirements the acquisition of the lands in question became necessary.10.	Facts
On behalf of the respondent No. 6 it is stated that the need for a factory like the one in its contemplation is acutely felt in India inasmuch as manufacture of compressors and the components of big and small airconditioners, refrigerators, water coolers and cold storage cabinets is not being carried out anywhere in the country so far.	Facts
The import of these goods naturally drains away a considerable amount of foreign exchange.	Facts
It was, therefore, felt that by starting manufacture of these articles in our country not only will foreign exchange be saved, but some foreign exchange will eventually be earned by the export of manufactured goods.	Facts
They further contend that the purpose for which the factory is being set up must be regarded as a public purpose because inter alia it is intended by manufacturing the aforesaid goods, to cater to the needs of the public at large.	Facts
It is in view of these circumstances that the Government of India, accepting the recommendation made in this regard by the licensing committee under the Industries Development and Regulation Act, 1951, issued a licence in its favour on April 8, 1951.	Facts
It then pointed out that it has secured the collaboration in this project of a well known American Company named BorgWarner International Corporation of Chicago, which is the biggest manufacturers of air conditioning plants and equipment in the world, and that the collaboration agreement has been approved by the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce.	Facts
Its grievance is that this agreement has not been implemented so far because it has not been able to get the land for constructing the building in which the necessary machinery and implements could he installed.	Facts
Finally it says that originally the licence was issued for setting up a factory in the State of West Bengal and that it was at the instance of the Government of Punjab that the Central Government permitted the location of the factory to be shifted from West Bengal to Punjab.	Facts
According to it once the factory gets going it is likely to employ at least 1,000 workers.11.	Facts
It is not necessary to refer to the other affidavits and the rejoinder affidavits except to some portions of the additional affidavit filed by Mr. M. R. Bhagat, Under Secretary on behalf of the respondent No. 1.	Facts
We are referring only to those portions which were relied on during the arguments before us.	Facts
In that affidavit it is denied that any license had been granted to Messrs. R. S. Madho Ram and Sons for the establishment of a paper plant in the Punjab.	Facts
According to respondent No. 1 Messrs. R. S. Madho Ram and Sons were granted a licence on August 17, 1960 for the establishment of an industrial undertaking, in Ghaziabad (U.P.) for the manufacture of writing and printing paper and pulp.	Facts
It further stated that even this licence has been cancelled by the Government of India by their letter dated January 31, 1962 since the said licensee did not take any effective steps to establish the same.	Facts
It then stated that the Air Conditioning Corporation which was incorporated as a private limited company has since, with the permission of the Central Government, been converted into a public limited company with the name and style of York India Ltd., and that the company has been granted a licence to manufacture refrigeration equipment by the Industrial Licensing Committee.	Facts
There is an agreement between York India Ltd., and Messrs. York Corporation, U. S. A. a subsidiary of BorgWarner of the U. S. A. whereunder the latter have undertaken to give all technical assistance and technical training to the Indian personnel as also to contribute 50 of the initial investment in the undertaking.	Facts
The respondent No. 6 expects to manufacture 70 of the equipment in the very first year and cent per cent by the end of 1966.	Facts
It further stated that the foreign collaborators also have agreed to sell the products of the firm outside India at prices and on terms and conditions most favourable to the Indian firm, thereby enabling it to obtain access to the foreign market.	Facts
The foreign collaborator would make available to the Indian personnel the technical knowhow and other information necessary for the manufacture of refrigeration materials and that such assistance will itself be very valuable.	Facts
It denied that the respondent no. 6 has established a factory similar to the one now intended to be established in Hyderabad as alleged by the petitioners.	Facts
It is admitted that licences have been granted to two other concerns in India for the manufacture of similar equipment.	Facts
Neither of those licensees has actually started production, at any rate so far, and, therefore, it is not correct to say that similar equipment is already being manufactured in India.	Facts
Then it stated the products that are to be manufactured by the respondent till now were being imported into India from foreign countries and goods worth about R. 3,83,70.000 in 1960 and for the first ten months in 1961 Rs 3,55,50,000 were imported by the various licensees holding import licences.	Facts
It also stated that the respondent No. 6 was granted licence to establish a factory in West Bengal but since no one had been granted a licence to establish a factory of this kind in the Punjab its licence was transferred to Punjab.	Facts
The proposed factory would employ a large number of persons and thus help to solve to some extent the existing problem of unemployment in Punjab.	Facts
Finally it stated that the establishment of the factory as such is in furtherance of the industrial development of the Punjab State and is, therefore, for a public purpose.12.	Facts
On behalf of the petitioners Mr. Pathak has raised the following five contentions(1)	None
The acquisition is not for a public purpose either within S. 4 or S. 6 of the land Acquisition Act or for a purpose useful to the public as contemplated in S. 41 and that the action of the Government amounted to acquiring property from one person and giving it to another.(2) The alleged contribution of Rs. 100 made by the government is a colourable exercise of power, that no such intention was mentioned prior to the notification and that the amount of Rs. 100 is so unsubstantial a sum compared to the value of the property that it cannot raise an inference of Government participation in the proposed activity.(3) That the property is in fact being acquired for a company and, therefore, the Provisions of Part VII of the Act should have been complied with.	Arguments of Petitioner
Noncompliance with those provisions vitiates the acquisition.(4)	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners proposed paper mill would be as good an industrial concern as the one intended to be established by respondent no. 6 and the Government, in preferring the latter to the former, has violated the guarantee of equal protection of law provided by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution.(5) That the notifications under Ss. 4 and 6 could not have been made simultaneously and are, therefore, without efficacy.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
We may deal with the third point raised by Mr. Pathak first, that is regarding noncompliance of provisions of Part VII.	Reasoning
It is common ground that those provisions were not complied with.	Reasoning
The reason for that is, that according to the respondents the acquisition is not for a company but for a public purpose, partly at public expense.	Reasoning
Indeed, the respondents at no stage have relied on the provisions of Part VII of the Act and, therefore, the main question to be considered is whether the acquisition is for a public purpose partly at public expense or not.	Reasoning
If it is not so, then, of course, the petitions must succeed.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is the first two contentions raised by Mr. Pathak which primarily need our consideration.14.	Reasoning
According to learned counsel for the petitioners the statement made in the affidavits on behalf of the State as well as on behalf of the respondent No. 6 make it perfectly clear that the land is being acquired for the respondent No. 6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance is placed particularly upon that portion of the affidavit of the State where it is stated that the land is acquired for enabling the respondent No. 6 to have access to the main road and for meeting their minimum, requirements for establishing their factory.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further stated that the compensation for all the land which is being acquired is to come out of the pockets not of the State Government but the respondent No.6 itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt, the Government has said that it has sanctioned the payment of Rs. 100 towards the payment of compensation but that is only an insignificant fraction of the total amount of compensation that would be payable in respect of these lands, the petitioners themselves having paid Rs. 4,50,000 to the persons from whom they acquired these lands.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents the learned Advocate General for Punjab contended that the declaration of the Government in the notification that the land is required for a public purpose is made conclusive by Subs. 3 of S. 6 of the Act and therefore, it is not open to this Court to go behind it and try to satisfy itself whether in fact the acquisition is for a public purpose or not.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively he contended that the land is being acquired for a public purpose because the object of the acquisition is to establish a new industry and do away with imports of refrigeration equipment and to enable technical education to be imparted to Indian personnel in a new field.	Arguments of Respondent
He further said that the acquisition will not only save foreign exchange by lessening imports but will enable foreign exchange to be earned from the export of goods manufactured in the proposed factory.	Arguments of Respondent
The new industry is said to be of great economic importance inasmuch as it will enable the Preservation of food which will otherwise be destroyed.	Arguments of Respondent
Refrigeration equipment also contributes towards the maintenance of health because it enables storage of medicines such as antibiotic which are liable to be decomposed at normal temperatures prevailing in our country.	Arguments of Respondent
The industry proposed to be started will open a new avenue of employment and diminish unemployment and generally advance the industrial development of the country.	Arguments of Respondent
Finally he said that a part of the land is required for building houses and quarters for the workers of the factory and to give amenities to them.	Arguments of Respondent
All these purposes are, therefore, said to be public purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed by him on Vol. 19 of Encyclopaedia Britannicai pp.	Arguments of Respondent
45 to 57 for showing the mainfold applications of refrigeration in various industries and activities.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was also made to Vol. 18 of Encyclopaedia Britannica, p. 745	Arguments of Respondent
wherein facilities for providing refrigeration have been grouped under the heading public utility.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was also made to the next page where it is stated Every public utility must be in possession of natural resources upon which that industry is based.	Arguments of Respondent
Their sites must have strategic locations.	Arguments of Respondent
Limitation in the choice of this agent of production tends to make the cost of acquiring or leasing these facilities greater than it would be if the industry had a wider range of choice.	Arguments of Respondent
Furthermore, utilities must make allowances in advance for probable increase in the required capacity.	Arguments of Respondent
For these reasons utilities are provided with the governmental power of eminent domain which makes possible the compulsory sale of private property.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying upon the affidavit of Mr. Bhagat, to which we have referred earlier the learned Advocate General of Punjab said that the object of the Government in acquiring these lands is to enable a new industry to be established not only for saving foreign exchange and earning foreign exchange but also for securing the industrial advancement of the country, enabling the citizens to obtain technical education in a new field, relieving to some extent the pressure of unemployment and so on.	Arguments of Respondent
For all these reasons he contends that the acquisition must be deemed to be for a public purpose even though the bulk of the compensation for the acquisition will come from the pockets of respondent No. 6.16.	None
In our opinion the question whether any of the aforesaid purposes falls within the expression public purpose would arise for consideration only if the declaration of the Government is not conclusive or if the action of the Government is colourable.	Reasoning
If, as contended by the learned AdvocateGeneral, subs.(3) of S. 6 concludes the matter  and the validity of this provision is not challenged  and the action of the Government is not colourable the other question would not arise for consideration.17.	Reasoning
It is strenuously contended on behalf of the petitioners that subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) of S. 6 does not debar this Court from considering whether a proposed acquisition is for a public purpose or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said, in the Bust place, that this provision only makes the declaration conclusive evidence, and not conclusive proof and then contended that the declaration is conclusive evidence only of a need and nothing more.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
A distinction is sought to be made between, conclusive proof and conclusive evidence and it is contended that where a law declares that a fact shall be conclusive proof of another, the Court is precluded from considering other evidence once such fact is established.	Reasoning
Therefore, where the law makes a fact conclusive proof of another the fact stands proved and the Court must proceed on that basis.	Reasoning
But , the argument proceeds, where the law does not go that far and makes a fact only conclusive evidence as to the existence of another fact, other evidence as to the existence of the other fact is not shut out.	Reasoning
In support of the argument reliance is placed on S. 4 of the Evidence Act which in its third paragraph defines conclusive proof as follows When one fact is declared by this Act to be conclusive proof of another the Court, shall, on proof of the one fact, regard the other as proved, and shall not allow evidence to be given for the purpose of disproving it.	Reasoning
This paragraph thus provides that further evidence is barred where, under the Evidence Act, one fact is regarded as proof of another.	None
But it says nothing about what other laws may provide.	Reasoning
There are a number of laws which make certain facts conclusive evidence of other facts (See Companies Act, 1956, S. 132 the Indian Succession Act, 1925, S. 381 Christian Marriages Act, 1872 S. 61 Madras Revenue Act, 1869, S. 38 Oaths Act, 1973, S. 11)	Reasoning
The question is whether such provision also bars other evidence after that which is conclusive evidence is produced.19.	None
The object of adducing evidence is to prove a fact.	None
The Evidence Act deals with the question as to what kind of evidence is permissible to be adduced for that purpose and states in S. 3 when a fact is said to be proved.	None
That section reads thusEvidence means and includes(1)	None
all statements which the court permits or requires to be made before it by witnesses, in relation to matters of fact under inquiry such statements are called oral evidence(2)	None
all documents produced for the inspection of the Court such documents are called documentary evidence.	None
A fact is said to be proved when, after considering the matters before it, the Court either believes it to exist or considers its existence so probable that a prudent man ought, under the circumstances of the particular case, to act upon the supposition that it exists.	None
Since evidence means and includes all statements which the Court permits or requires to be made, when the law says that a particular kind of evidence would be conclusive as to the existence of a particular fact it implies that that fact can be proved either by that evidence or by some other evidence which the Court permits or requires to be advanced.	None
Where such other evidence is adduced it would be open to the Court to consider whether, upon that evidence, the fact exists or not.	Reasoning
Where, on the other hand, evidence which is made conclusive is adduced the Court has no option but to hold that the fact exists.	Reasoning
If that were not so, it would be meaningless to call a particular piece of evidence as conclusive evidence.	Reasoning
Once the law says that certain evidence is conclusive it shuts out any other evidence which would detract from the conclusiveness of that evidence.	Reasoning
In substance, therefore, there is no difference between conclusive evidence and conclusive proof.	Reasoning
Statutes may use the expression conclusive proof where the object is to make a fact nonjusticiable.	Reasoning
But the legislature may use some other expression such asconclusive evidence for achieving the same result.	Reasoning
There is thus no difference between the effect of the expression conclusive evidence from that of conclusive proof, the aim of both being to give finality to the establishment of the existence of a fact from the proof of another.20.	Reasoning
Learned counsel contends that it is open to the Court to examine whether the action of the executive, even in the absence of an allegation that it is mala fide, is related to the section or not and for this purpose to consider whether the acquisition is for a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention he has relied upon the decision in State of Bihar v. Sir Kameshwar Singh, 1952 SCR 88) at p. 935 (AIR 1952 SC 2.52 at p. 273).	Arguments of Petitioner
There Mahajan J. (as he then was) has expressed the view that the exercise of power to acquire compulsorily is conditional on the existence of public purpose and that being so this condition is not an express provision of Art. 31(2) but exists aliuned in the content of the power itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
That, however, was not the view of the other learned Judges who constituted the Bench.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus according to Mukherjea J. (as he then was) the condition of the existence of a public purpose is implied in Art. 31(2).	Arguments of Petitioner
(See pp 957,958,(of SCR) (at p. 279 of AIR)).	Arguments of Petitioner
Das J. (as he then was) was also of the same view.	Arguments of Petitioner
(See pp. 986988 (of SCR) (p. 287 of AIR)).	Arguments of Petitioner
Similarly Patanjali Sastri C. J. has also taken the view that the existence of public purpose is an express condition of cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
2 of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31.21.	None
The Constitution permits acquisition by the State of private property only if it is required for a public purpose.	Issue
But can it, therefore, be said that the provisions of a statute must be so construed that the declaration by the Government as to the existence of public purpose is necessarily justiciable?	Issue
We are not concerned here with a postconstitution law but will, a preconstitution law.	None
The Act has been in operation since 1894.The validity of the law was challenged before this Court in Babu Barkya Thakur v. State ofBombay 19611	None
SCR 128 (AIR 1960 SC 1203 ), on the ground that it infringes the provisions of Arts. 31(2) and 19(1)(f) of the Constitution.	None
But this Court held that the law being a preConstitution law is protected from the operation of Art. 31(2) by the provisions of Art.	None
31(5)(a).	None
It also held, following the decision in the State of Bombay v. Bhanji, Munji, 19551 SCR 777 ((s) AIR 1955 SC 41 ), and that in Liiavati Bai v. State of Bombay, 1957 SCR 721 ((S) AIR 1957 SC 521 ), that the attack under Art. 19(1)(f) of the Constitution is futile.22.	None
The argument, however, is that the protection which the Act enjoys is only to this extent that even though any of its provisions be in conflict with Art. 31(2) the Act cannot be challenged on that ground the protection does not however extend to other provisions of Part III of the Constitution, such as Art. l9(1)(f).As	Reasoning
we understand the decision in Bhanji Munji case, 19551 SCR 777 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 41 ), what this Court has held is that for a right under Art.	Reasoning
19(1)(f) to hold property to be available to a person	Reasoning
, he must have the property with respect to which he can assert such right.	Reasoning
If the right to the possession of the property is taken away by a law protected by Art. 31(5)(a), Art. 11(1)(f) is not attracted.	Reasoning
That is the decision of this Court and it has been followed in two other cases.	Reasoning
All the decisions are binding upon us.	Reasoning
It is contended that none of the decisions has considered the argument advanced before us that a law may be protected from an attack under Art. 31(2) but it will still be invalid under Art.	Reasoning
13(2) if the restriction placed by it on the right of a person to hold property is unreasonable.	Reasoning
In other words, for the law before us to be regarded as valid it must also satisfy the requirements of Art. 19(5) and that only thereafter can the property of a person be taken away.	Reasoning
It is sufficient to say that though this Court may not have pronounced on this aspect of the matter we are bound by the actual decisions which categorically negative an attack based on the right guaranteed by Art.	Reasoning
19(l)(f).The binding effect of a decision does not depend up on whether a particular argument was considered therein or not, provided that the point with reference to which an argument was subsequently advanced was actually decided.	Reasoning
That point has been specifically decided in the three decisions referred to above.23.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that since the Act provides that the declaration made by the State that a particular land is needed for a public purpose shall be conclusive evidence of the fact that it is so needed the Constitution is not thereby infringed.24.	Reasoning
For ascertaining the extent to which the determination by the State is conclusive it would be desirable to examine the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
The preamble states that the law is for the acquisition of land needed for public purposes and for companies and incidental matters connected therewith.	None
Section 2(f) defines public purpose as followsthe expression public purpose includes the provision of village sites in districts in which the appropriate Government shall have declared by notification in the Official Gazette that it is customary for the Government to make such provision This is an inclusive definition and not a compendious one and, therefore, does not assist as very much in ascertaining the ambit of the expression purpose.	None
Broadly of the speaking expression public purpose would, however, include a purpose in which the general interest of the community, as opposed to the particular interest of individuals, is directly and vitally concerned.	None
Then there is S.4 which enables the State to publish a preliminary notification whenever it appears to it that land in any locality is needed or is likely to be needed for a public purpose.	None
The other aspects of the section have no bearing upon the point before us and we need not refer to them.	None
Then there is S.SA which gives to the person interested in the land which has been notified as being needed or likely to be needed for a public purpose or for a company, the right to object to the acquisition of the land.	None
Such objection has to be heard by the Collector and after making such further enquiry as he thinks necessary the record has to be submitted to the appropriate Government along with the report containing the Collectors recommendations and the objections.	None
Subsection (2) of S.5A makes the decision of the Government on the objections final.	Reasoning
This is followed by S.6, subs.	None
(1) of which provides that when the Government is satisfied that any particular land is needed for a public purpose, or for a company, a declaration should be made to that effect and such declaration should be published in the Official Gazette.	None
Subsection (2) specifies the matters including the purpose for which the land is needed which are to be set out in the declaration.	None
Subsection (3) makes the declaration conclusive evidence of the fact that the land is needed for a public purpose or for a company, as the case may be.	None
Section 17 of the Act confers special powers on the Government which are exercisable in cases of emergency, Subsection (4) thereof provides that in those cases which fall under subs.	None
(1) or subs.	None
(2) the appropriate Government may direct that the provisions of S.5A of the Act shall not apply and also empowers the Government to make a declaration under S. 6 in respect of the land to be acquired at any time after the publication of the notification under subs.	None
(1) of S.4.	None
These are the provisions which have a bearing on the point under consideration.25.	None
It is clear from these provisions that the object of the law is to empower Government to acquire land only for a public purpose or for a company, and where it is for a company the acquisition is subject to the provisions of Part VII.	Reasoning
As has been pointed out by this Court in R. L. Arora v. State of (Uttar Pradesh, C. A. No.446 of 1959, D 15 121961 (AIR 1962 SC 764 ), the acquisition for a company contemplated by Part VII is confined only to cases where the Government is satisfied that the purpose of obtaining the land is erection of dwelling houses for workmen employed by the company or for the provision of amenities directly connected therewith or for the construction of some work which is likely to prove directly useful to the public.26.	Reasoning
After a notification under subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 4 is published a person interested in the land is entitled to object to the acquisition.	Reasoning
That objection may be raised on any ground as for instance that the land is not in fact needed at all for any purpose or that it is not suitable for the purpose for which it is sought to be acquired or that the purpose is not a public purpose or what is said to be a company is not a company and so on.	Reasoning
Finality is attached to the decision of the Government which ultimately has to decide such objections.	Reasoning
Then follows S.6 which enables the Government to make a declaration provided that it is satisfied that a particular land is needed for a public purpose or for a company.	Reasoning
No doubt, it is open tothe State Government in an emergency, by exercising its powers under subs.	Reasoning
(4) of S. 17 to say that the provisions of S. 5A would not apply.	Reasoning
But for construing the provisions of S. 6 it would be relevant to bear in mind that section.	Reasoning
The scheme of thee act is that normally the Provisions of S. 5A have to be complied with.	Reasoning
Where, in pursuance of the provisions objections are lodged these objections will have to be decided by the Government.	Reasoning
Fox deciding them the Government will have before if the Collector proceeding.	Reasoning
It would therefore be clear that the declaration that a Particular land is needed for a public purpose or for a company is not to be made by the Government arbitrarily, but on the basis of material placed before it by the Collector.	Reasoning
The provisions of subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S.5A make the decision of the Government on the objections final while those of subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S.6 enable the Government to arrive at its satisfaction.	Reasoning
Subsection (3) of S.6 goes further and says that such a declaration shall be conclusive evidence that the land is needed for a public purpose or a for a company.27.	Reasoning
It is however argued by learned counsel that the conclusiveness or finality attached to the declaration of Government is only as regards the fact that the land is needed but not as regards the question that the purpose for which the land is needed is in fact a public purpose or what is said to be a company is really a company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsection (1), does not effect a dichotomy between need and public purpose company.	Reasoning
There is no justification for making such a dichotomy.	Reasoning
By making it, not only will the language of the section be strained but the purpose of the law will be stultified.	Reasoning
The expression must be regarded as one whole and the declaration held to be with respect to both the elements of the expression.28.	Reasoning
The Government has to be satisfied about both the elements contained in the expression needed for a public purpose or a company.	Reasoning
Where it is so satisfied, it is entitled to make a declaration.	Reasoning
Once such a declaration is made subs.	Reasoning
(3), invests it with conclusiveness.	Reasoning
That conclusiveness is not merely regarding the fact that the Government is satisfied but also with regard to the question that the land is needed for a public purpose or is needed for company, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Then again the conclusiveness must necessarily attach not merely to the need but also to the question whether the purpose is a public purpose or what is said to be a company is a company.	Reasoning
There can be no need in the abstract.	Reasoning
It must be a need for a public purpose or for a company.	Reasoning
As we have already stated the law permits acquisition only when there is a public purpose or when the land is needed for a company for the purposes set out in S.40 of the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, it would be unreasonable to say that the conclusiveness would attach only to a need and not to the fact that that need is for a public purpose or for a company.	Reasoning
No land can be acquired under the Act unless the need is for one or the other purpose and, therefore it will be futile to give conclusiveness merely to the question of public purpose or the purpose of a company.	Reasoning
Upon the plain language of the relevant provisions it is not possible to accept the contention put forward by learned counsels.29.	Reasoning
Learned counsel put the matter in a slightly different way and said that S. 6(3) presupposes that the jurisdictional fact exists, namely, that there is public purpose or the purpose of a company behind the acquisition and, and therefore question whether it exists or not is justiciable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act has empowered the Government to determine the question of the need of land for a public purpose or for a company and the jurisdiction conferred upon it to do so is not made conditional upon the existence of a collateral or extraneous fact.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the existence of the need for a public purpose which gives jurisdiction to the Government to make a declaration under S. 6(1) and makes it the sole judge whether there is in fact a need and whether the purpose for which there is that need is a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
The provisions of subs.	Reasoning
(3) preclude a court from ascertaining whether either of these ingredients of the declaration exists.30.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, however, said that that does not mean that in so far as the meaning to be the expression public purpose is concerned the courts have no power whatsover.	None
In this connection the decision of the Privy Council in Hamabai Framjee Petit v. Secy. of State for India, 42 Ind App. 44 (AIR 1914 PC 20), was referred to.	None
In that case certain land in Malabar Hill in Bombay was being acquired by the Government of Bombay for constructing residences for Government officers and the acquisition was objected to by the lessee of the land on the ground that the land was not being taken or made available to the public at large and, therefore, the acquisition was not for a public purpose.	None
When the matter went up before the High Court Batchelor J. observedGeneral definitions are, I think, rather to be avoided where the avoidance is possible, and I make no attempt to define precisely the extent of the phrase public purpose in the lease it is enough to say that in my opinion the phrase, whatever else it may mean, must include a purpose that is, an object or aim in which the general interest of the community, as opposed to the particular interest of individuals is directly and vitally concerned.	None
In that case what was being considered was reentry clause in a lease deed and not provisions of the Land Acquisition Act.	None
That clause left absolutely to the lessor, the East India Company, say whether the possession should be resumed by it the land was required for a public purpose.	None
It was in this context that the question whether the land was needed for a public purpose was considered.	None
The argument before the Privy Council rested upon the view that there cannot be a public purpose in taking land if that land, when taken, is not in some way or other made available to the public at large.	None
Rejecting it they held that the true view is that expressed by Bachelor J., and observedThat being so, all that remains is to determine whether the purpose here is a purpose in which the general interest of the community is concerned.	None
Prima facie the Government are good judges of that.	None
They are not absolute Judges.	None
They cannot say sic vole sic jebeo but at least a Court would not easily hold them to be wrong.	None
But here, so far from holding them to be wrong the whole of the learned Judges, who are thoroughly conversant with the conditions of Indian life, say that they are satisfied that the scheme is one which will redound to public benefit by helping the Government to maintain the efficiency of its servants.	None
From such a conclusion their Lordships would be slow to differ, and upon its own statement it commends itself to their judgment.	None
Mr. Pathak strongly relied on these observations and said that the Privy Council have held that the matter is justiciable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is enough to say, that that was not a case under the Land Acquisition Act and therefore, conclusiveness did not attach itself to the satisfaction of the Government that a particular purpose fell within the concept of public purpose.31.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Pathak then contended that the question as to the meaning to be given to the phrase public purpose is not given conclusiveness by subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3), of S.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him all that subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3), of S. 6 says is that the Governments declaration that particular land is needed for a public purpose or a company shall be conclusive and that it does not say that the Government is empowered to define what is a public purpose and then say that the particular purpose falls within that definition.	Arguments of Petitioner
As already stated no attempt has been made in the Act to define public purpose in a compendious way.	Arguments of Petitioner
Public purpose is bound to vary with the times and the prevailing conditions in a given locality and, therefore, it would not be a practical proposition even to attempt a comprehensive definition of it.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is be of this that the legislature has left it to the Government to say what is a public purpose and also to declare the need of a given land for a public purpose.32.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended on the basis of the decision of this Court in AIR 1962 SC 764 , that the Courts have power to consider whether the purpose for which land is being acquired is a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case land was being acquired, as already stated, for a company and the real question which arose for consideration was, what is the meaning to be attached to the words useful to the public occurring in cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1), of S.40 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The land was required by the company to enable it to establish its works and it was contended before this Court that the products manufactured by the company will be useful to the public in general and, therefore, the acquisition would be covered by cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) of subs.(1) of S. 40.	Arguments of Petitioner
Negativing this contention Wanchoo J., who spoke for the Court observedIt is true that it is for the Government to be satisfied, that the work to be constructed will be useful to the public,    but this does not mean that it is the Government which has the right to interpret the words used in S. 40(1)(b)   	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the Court which has to interpret what those words mean.	None
After the court has interpreted these words, it is the Government which has to carry out the object of Ss. 40 and 41 to its satisfaction.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government cannot say that Ss. 40 and 41 mean this and further say that they are satisfied that the meaning they have given to the relevant words in these sections has been carried out in the terms of the agreement provided by themThe Government cannot both give meaning to the words and also say that they are satisfied on the meaning given by them.	Arguments of Petitioner
The meaning has to be given by the Court and it is only thereafter that the Governments satisfaction may not be open to challenge  We have already indicated what these words mean and if it plainly appears that the Government are satisfied as a result of giving some other meaning to the words, the satisfaction of the Government is of no use, for then they are not satisfied about what they should be satisfied.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present case the Government seems to have taken a wrong view that so long as the product of the works is useful to the public and so long as the public is entitled to go upon the works in the way of business, that is all that is required by the relevant words in Ss. 40 and 41.33.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was no doubt argued before the Court that the declaration made by the Government under S. 6(1) that the land was needed for a company is conclusive and, therefore, the question as to the actual purpose of the acquisition is not justiciable.	Reasoning
This Court pointed out that S. 6(3) makes the declaration under S. 6(1) conclusive evidence of the fact that the land is needed for a public purpose or for a company and that as the declaration stated that the land was needed for a company and that fact was not disputed by the parties, the provisions of S. 6(3) were of no assistance.	Reasoning
We may point out that even according to that decision conclusiveness attaches itself to the declaration that the land is required for a public purpose and, therefore, instead of assisting the petitioners it in fact assists the respondents.	Reasoning
No doubt, in so far as an acquisition for a company is concerned Part VII requires that before a declaration under S. 6(1) is made the Government should be satisfied that the land is required for one of the two purposes set out in S. 40(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
The Government can consent to the making of a declaration under S. 6(1) after it is satisfied under S. 41 about the fact that the land is required for a company for the purposes set out in cls.	Reasoning
(a) and (b) of that section.	Reasoning
But the declaration made thereafter is confined only to one matter and that is that the land is required for a company and nothing more.	Reasoning
The question whether in fact the land is required by the company for the purposes set out in cls.	Reasoning
(a) and (b) of S. 40(1) is not germane to the declaration.	Reasoning
No doubt the power of the Governments to make a declaration with respect to an acquisition for a company is circumscribed and therefore, the Government is expected to exercise it with due regard to the limitation placed upon it.	Reasoning
But it does not follow that subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 6 makes the declaration conclusive evidence not only of the fact that the land is required for a company but also of the fact that the land is required by a company for a purpose specified in S. 40(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
The observations made by Wanchoo J., therefore, do not assist the petitioners.34.	Reasoning
Reliance was then placed on two decisions of this Court in which the meaning of the expression public purpose is considered.	None
One is 19611 SCR 128 (AIR 1960 SC 1203 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
There this Court observedIt will thus be noticed that the expression public purpose has been used in its generic sense of including any purpose in which even a fraction of the community may be interested or by which it may be benefited.	Arguments of Petitioner
Later in the same judgment this Court pointed out that where a large section of the community is concerned its welfare is a matter of public concern.	None
The other is Pandit Jhandu Lal v. State of Punjab, 19612 SCR 459 (AIR 1961 SC 343 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
There this Court has pointed out that the purpose of public utility referred to in Ss. 40 and 41 are akin to the public purpose.35.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt in these decisions this Court stated what, broadly speaking, the expression Public purpose means.	Reasoning
But in neither case the question arose for consideration as to whether the meaning to be given to the expression public purpose is justiciable.36.	Reasoning
Now whether in a particular case the purpose for which land is needed is a public purpose or not is for the State Government to be satisfied about.	Reasoning
If the purpose for which the land is being acquired by the State is within the legislative competence of the State the declaration of the Government will be final subject, however, to one exception.	Reasoning
That exception is that if there is a colourable exercise of power the declaration will be open to challenge at the instance of the aggrieved party.	Reasoning
The power committed to the Government by the Act is a limited power in the sense that it can be exercised only where there is a public purpose, leaving aside for a moment the purpose of a company.	Reasoning
If it appears that what the Government is satisfied about is not a public purpose but a private purpose or no purpose at all the action of the Government would be colourable as not being relatable to the power conferred upon it by the Act and its declaration will be a nullity.	Reasoning
Subject to this exception the declaration of the Government will be final.37.	None
A number of decisions were cited before us by the learned AdvocateGeneral in support of the contention that the declaration of the Government is final.	None
One of those decisions is Wijeyesekara v. Festing, 1919 AC 646 (AIR 1919 PC 155).	Arguments of Respondent
In that case dealing with Ceylon Ordinance No. 3 of 1876 (Acquisition of Land Ordinance, (Ceylon), 1876) which incidentally did not contain a provision similar to that of subsec.	Arguments of Respondent
(3) of S. 6, their Lordships observedThe whole frame of the ordinance shows that what the District Court is concerned with is the assessment of compensation but their Lordships do not desire to rest their opinion that the decision of the Governor is final merely upon the question of the Court before which the question is raised.	Arguments of Respondent
It appears to their Lordships that the decision of the Governor that the land is wanted for public purposes is final, and was intended to be final, could not be questioned in any Court.	Arguments of Respondent
There, the land was required for a road and the contention was that the Government did not take the opinion of the Surveyor General as to its fitness for such purpose.	None
On this ground it was contended that the Governors declaration could be questioned.	Arguments of Respondent
But this was negatived by the Privy Council.	Arguments of Respondent
Following this decision in Suryanarayana v. Province of Madras, ILR (1946)	Arguments of Respondent
Mad 153 (AIR 1945 Mad 394 ) a Full Bench of the Madras High Court held that a declaration by the Provincial Government under S. 6(1) of the Act that certain lands were required for a public purpose is final and where there is no charge against the Provincial Government that it had acted in fraud of its powers its action in directing the acquisition cannot be challenged in a court of law.	Arguments of Respondent
Similar view has been taken in Samiruddin Sheikh v. SubDivisional Officer, AIR 1954	Arguments of Respondent
Assam 81, Gopalakrishna v. Secy., Board of Revenue, Madras, AIR 1954 Mad 362 , S. Jagannadha Rao v. State of Andhra Pradesh, AIR 1960 Andh Pra 343.	Arguments of Respondent
Secy. of State v. Akbar Ali, ILR, 45 All 433 (AIR 1923 All 523 (2)).	Arguments of Respondent
Several other decisions to the same effect, some of them post Constitution, were also mentioned by the learned AdvocateGeneral, which take the same view as in these decisions.	Arguments of Respondent
Not a single decision was however, brought to our notice in which it has been held that the question as to what is a public purpose or whether it exists can be enquired into by the Court even in the absence of colourable exercise of power, because S. 6(3) has become void under Art.	Reasoning
13(2) of the Constitution.38.	Reasoning
It was next contended that subsec.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 6 cannot stand in the way in a proceeding under Art.	Reasoning
226 or under Art.	Reasoning
32 of the Constitution and in support of this argument reliance was placed upon the decision in Chudalamuthu Pillai v. State, ILR (1952) TravCo.	Reasoning
488 (AIR 1952 TravCo.	Reasoning
522).	Reasoning
Maharaja Luchmeswar Singh v. Chairman of the Darbhanga Municipality, 17 Ind App 90 (PC), Rajendra Kumar v. Govt.	Reasoning
of West Bengal,	Reasoning
AIR 1952 Cal 573 , Arjan Singh v. State of Punjab, ILR (1958) Punj 1451 (AIR 1959 Punj 588).	Reasoning
In the first mentioned case it was contended that the order was actuated by mala fides and also that there were various irregularities in the proceedings.	Reasoning
As we have already indicated, if the declaration is vitiated by fraud, then the declaration is itself bad and what is bad cannot be protected by subsec.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 6.	Reasoning
In the next case the act of the Court of Wards in handing over the wards lands for a nominal consideration for a public purpose was challenged in a suit.	Reasoning
The challenge was upheld by the Privy Council on the ground that lawful possession could only be taken by the State in strict compliance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act.	Reasoning
The question raised here did not arise for consideration in that case.	Reasoning
In the other two cases the declaration was challenged under Art.	Reasoning
226 and in both the cases the challenge failed.	Reasoning
In the first of the two latter mentioned cases it failed on the ground that there was no fraud and in the second on the ground that the provisions of subsec.(3) of S. 6. precluded the court from challenging the validity of the declaration.	Reasoning
None of these cases, therefore supports the contention of the petitioners.39.	Reasoning
Moreover we are not concerned here with the powers of the High Court under Art.	Reasoning
226	Reasoning
but with those of this Court.	Reasoning
It is said however that the bar created by S. 6(3) would not stand in the way of this Court while dealing with a petition under Art.	Reasoning
32	Reasoning
and, therefore, it is open to us to ascertain whether an acquisition is for a public purpose or not.	Reasoning
While it is true that the powers of the Court cannot be taken away by any law which may hereafter be made unless the Constitution itself is amended we are here faced with a provision of law which is a preconstitution law and which is protected by the Constitution to the extent indicated in Art.	Reasoning
31(5) (a) and an attack on its validity on the ground that it infringes the right guaranteed by Art. 19	Reasoning
(1) (f) has failed.	Reasoning
Therefore it is a good and valid law and the restriction placed by it on the powers of this Court under Art.	Reasoning
32 must operate.40.	Reasoning
Though we are of the opinion that the courts are not entitled to go behind the declaration of the Government to the effect that a particular purpose for which the land is being acquired is a public purpose we must emphasise that the declaration of the Government must be relatable to a public purpose as distinct from a purely private purpose.	Reasoning
If the purpose for which the acquisition is being made is not relatable to public purpose then a question may well arise whether in making the declaration there has been on the part of the Government a fraud on the power conferred upon it by the Act.	Reasoning
In other word the question would then arise whether that declaration was merely a colourable exercise of the power conferred by the Act, and, therefore the declaration is open to challenge at the instance of the party aggrieved.	Reasoning
To such a declaration the protection of S. 6 (8) will not extend.	Reasoning
For, the question whether a particular action was the result of a fraud or not is always justiciable, provisions such as S. 6(8).	None
notwithstanding.41.	None
We were referred by the learned Advocate General to a recent decision of the House of Lords in Smith v. East Elloe Rural District Council, 1956 AC 786 to which reference was made by the learned AdvocateGeneral.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case their Lordships were considering the Acquisition of Land (Authorisation of Procedure) Act, 1946, (9) and 10 Geo. 6, C. 49) Sch.	Arguments of Respondent
I, Pt IV paras 15, 16.	Arguments of Respondent
Paragraph 15 (1) of Part IV, Sch.	Arguments of Respondent
I to the Act provides as followsIf any person aggrieved by a compulsory purchase other desires to question the validity thereofon the ground that the authorisation of compulsory purchase thereby granted is not empowered to be granted under this Acthe may, within six weeks from the date on which notice of the confirmation or making of the order is first publishedmake an application to the High CourtParagraph 16 provides as follows.	None
Subject to the provisions of the last foregoing paragraph, a compulsory purchase ordershall not be questioned in any legal proceedings whatsoeverThe land having been made the subject of compulsory purchase the owner brought an action in which, among other things, ca declaration was added that the order was made confirmed wrongfully and in bad faith in procuring its order and confirmation.	None
The House of Lords held by majority that the action could not proceed except against the clerk for damages because the plain prohibition in paragraph 16 precluded the Court challenging the validity of the order.	Reasoning
They also held that paragraph 15 gave no opportunity to a person aggrieved to question the validity of a compulsory purchase order on the ground that it was made or confirmed in bad faith.	Reasoning
As we have already said the condition for the exercise of the power by the State Government is the existence of a public purpose (or the purpose of a company) and if the Government makes a declaration under S. 6(1) in fraud of the powers conferred upon it by that section the satisfaction on which the declaration is made is not about a matter with respect to which it is required to be satisfied by the provision and therefore, its declaration is open to challenge as being without any legal effect.	Reasoning
We are not prepared to go as far as the House of Lords in the above case.42.	Reasoning
This brings us to the second argument advanced before us on behalf of the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel contends that there could be no acquisition for a public purpose unless the Government had made a contribution for the acquisition at public expense.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the acquisition in question was merely for the benefit of a company and that the action of the Government was only a colourable exercise by it of its power to acquire land for a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention is that before making a declaration under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 6 the Government ought to have taken decision that it will contribute towards the acquisition.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case before us not such decision was taken by the Government till September 29, 1961, that is just one day after this writ petition was admitted by the Court and stay order issued by it.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is then said that the contribution of the Government towards the cost of acquisition being a very small fraction of the total probable cost of acquisition was to be Rs. 100 only but also omits to mention that what was decided was that the Government was to bear only a part of the cost of acquisition and not the whole of it.	Arguments of Petitioner
The notification is said to be thus misleading and to create the impression that the entire cost of the acquisition is to come out of the public exchequer.	Arguments of Petitioner
Finally it is contended that the establishment of an industry by a private party for manufacturing refrigeration equipment cannot fall within the meaning of the expression public purpose.43.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is no doubt true that the financial sanction for the contribution of Rs. 100 as part of the expenses for acquisition was accorded by the Finance Department on September 29, 1961.	Reasoning
No doubt also that a day prior to the according of sanction this petition had been admitted by this Court and a stay order issued.	Reasoning
But from these two circumstances, it would not be reasonable to draw the inference that the declaration made by the Government was a colourable exercise of its power.	Reasoning
The provisions of subsec.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 6, however, do not require that the notification made thereunder must set out the fact that the Government had decided to pay a part of the expenses of acquisition or even to state the extent to which the Government is prepared to make a part contribution to the cost of acquisition.44.	Reasoning
It is then contended that before the Government could spend any money from the public exchequer for acquiring land a provision has to be made in the budget and the absence of such provisions would be a circumstance relevant for consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is sufficient to say that the absence of a provision in the budget in respect of the cost of acquisition, whole or part, cannot affect the validity of the declaration and that if Government does spend some money without allotment in the budget, its expenditure may perhaps entitle the Accountant General to raise an audit objection or may enable the Public Accounts Committee of the State Legislature to criticise the Government.	Reasoning
But that is all.	Reasoning
Again, where the expenditure is of a small amount like Rs. 100 it may be possible for the Government to make payment form Contingencies and thus avoid objections of this kind.	Reasoning
Whatever that may be, these are not circumstances which would suffice to show that the declaration was colourable.	None
It was stated at the bar by the learned AdvocateGeneral that the entire scheme of establishing a refrigeration factory in Punjab was examined at various stages and at different levels of Government a well as by different ministries and it was then decided to make a part contribution towards the cost of acquisition from public funds.	None
As required by the Financial Rules the consent of the Finance Department had to be obtained for this purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
This particular stage occupied considerable time and that is why there was a delay in according sanction.	Arguments of Respondent
The statement of the learned AdvocateGeneral was not challenged on behalf of the petitioner.	None
Moreover the declaration under subsec.	Reasoning
(1) 6 is clear on the point that the land is being acquired at public expense, and the provisions of subsec.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 6 preclude a Court from going behind such a declaration unless it is shown that the Government has in fact decided not to contribute any funds out of the public revenues for that purpose.	Reasoning
For, if the Government had in fact taken a decision of that kind then the exercise of the power to make an acquisition would be open to challenge as being colourable.45.	Reasoning
Then it is contended that the contribution by the State towards the cost of acquisition must be substantial and not merely nominal or token as in the case.	None
The argument is that though the law permits acquisition for a public purpose to be made by the State by contributing only a part of the cost of acquisition that part cannot be a particle and in this connection reliance was placed on the decision in Chatterton v. Cave, (1978) 3 AC 488 at pp. 491, 492 which was followed in Ponnaia v. Secy. of State.	Arguments of Petitioner
AIR 1926 Mad 1099.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the latter case the High Court of Madras observed that the Legislature, when they provided that a part of the compensation should be paid from public revenues, did not mean that this condition would be satisfied by payment of a particle, e.g., one anna in Rs. 5,985.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case land was being acquired for making a road between two villages in Ramnad District.	Arguments of Petitioner
A sum of Rs. 5,985 was required for the acquisition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Out of this amount only one anna was agreed to be contributed by the Government and it was contended on its behalf that this contribution satisfied the requirements of S. 6 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that the declaration made under subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1)of S. 6 could not be challenged in view of the provisions of subsec.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) of S. 6 and reliance was placed on the decision in 1919 AC 646 (AIR 1919 PC 155).	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the High Court the fact that the Governments share in the cost of acquisition being 1/90,000 part of the amount, there was not real and bona fide compliance with the terms of the section and that this was an indication of the illusory character of the object for which the provisions of the Act were being made use of.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court then referred to the decision in Chattertons case, (1878) 3 AC 483 and pointed out that the House of Lords were averse to putting an interpretation on the words on part thereof occurring in the Dramatic Copyright Act, (3 and 4 William IV, c. 15) as would make a part to mean a particle.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court also referred to the decision in Maharaja Luchmeswar Singhs case, 17 Ind App 90 (PC) and held that the acquisition was a colourable exercise of the power conferred by the Act.46.	None
This decision was not followed by the same High Court in Senga Naicken v. Secy. of State, ILR 50	None
Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245 ) where it was held that the States contribution of one anna out of Rs. 92686 for acquiring land for a road, Rs. 92676 having been contributed by the ryots was sufficient compliance with S. 6 (1) of the Act.	None
Both these decisions came up for consideration in Suryanarayanas case, ILR (1946)	Arguments of Respondent
Mad 153 (AIR 1945 Mad 394 ) (FB) and there Ponnaias case, AIR 1926 Mad 1099 was overruled and the view taken in Senga Naickens case, ILR50 Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245 ) was approved.47.	None
Chattertons case, (1878) 3 AC 483 was a case of infringement of copyright where two plays had been adapted from a common source by the parties to the litigation.	None
In that case it was accepted before the Court that the Dramatic Copyright Act protected parts of dramatic work and prohibited their use by persons other than the proprietor of the Copyright.	None
It was pointed out that in the case of ordinary copyright of published works the protection was restricted only to the whole of the work and did not extend to portions of those works.	None
The Dramatic Copyright Act also contained a provision directing that infringement of the copyright would entitle the proprietor to damages of not less that 40 shillings.	None
It was suggested that these differences indicated an intention to prevent the invasion of the dramatic copyright independently of the quantity or materiality of the portion of dialogue of dramatic incident proved to have been copied by another.	None
Dealing with this argument Lord Hatherley	None
observedNow it appears to me, my Lords that this argument goes much too far.	None
As was said by the counsel for the respondent, the appellant would wish to read the word part in the Dramatic Copyright Act as particle, so that the crowing of the cock in Hamlet, or the introduction of line in the dialogue, might be held to be an invasion of the copyright entitling plaintiff to 40s. damages and consequently, as the law stood I believe at the time of the passing of the statute of 3 and 4 Will, 4, to the costs of his action.	None
(pp. 4912)48.	None
Then after pointing out that while in the case of an ordinary copyright of published works a fair use made by other would not amount to a wrong justifying an action at law, the position of dramatic performance is not the same, he observedThey are not intended to be repeated by others or to be used in such a way as a book may be used, but still the principle de minimis non curat lex applies to a supposed wrong in taking a part of dramatic works, as well as in reproducing a part of a book.	None
(p.492)Finally he observed that the parts which were so taken were neither substantial nor material parts and as it was impossible to say that damage had accrued to the plaintiff from such taking, his action must fail.49.	None
Lord OHagan observedPart, as was observed, is nor necessarily the same as particle, and there may be a taking so minute in its extent and so trifling in its nature as not to incur the statutory liability.50.	None
It is clear, therefore, that the analogy of Chattertons case, (1878) 3 AC 483, cannot possibly apply to a case under the Act.	Reasoning
As was pointed out in Senga Naickens case, ILR 50 Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245)Admittedly both of the litigants had derived their compositions from a common source and it stands to reason that before you can compel a man to pay damages for stealing the product of your brain, time and labour, you must be able to point out that any resemblance between his production and yours is not merely accidental but is a designed theft of the product of your brain.	Reasoning
Otherwiseone might go to the absurdity of objecting to a man using the same words though in a different collocation as you have done.	None
With these observations we agree.51.	None
Now, as regards Maharaja Luchmeswar Singhs case, 17 Ind App 90 (PC).	Reasoning
The facts were these.	Reasoning
The plaintiffs land was under the management of the Court of Wards during his minority.	Reasoning
A notification under S. 6(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1870 was made with respect to certain land belonging to the plaintiff for being acquired by the Government at the expense of the Darbhanga Municipality for a public purpose, that is, construction of a public ghat or landing place in the town of Darbhanga.	Reasoning
But instead of complying with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act and inquiring into the value of the land, the Collector who was the Chairman of the Municipality and also representative of the Court of Wards took possession of the land and handed it over to the municipality.	Reasoning
The compensation paid to the plaintiff was Rs.	Reasoning
1/ an amount agreed to by the Manager.	Reasoning
The plaintiff, after attaining majority, instituted a suit for possession of land and for mesne profits.	Reasoning
His suit was dismissed by the courts below and he preferred an appeal before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.	Reasoning
Allowing the appeal, their Lordships observedThe offer and acceptance of the rupee was a colourable attempt to obtain a title under the Land Acquisition Act without paying for the landHow this case could at all have any bearing upon the point which arose for consideration in Ponnaias case, AIR 1926 Mad 1099 , we fail to see.	Reasoning
This case is also relied on before us on behalf of the petitioners and we have referred to it earlier on this judgment.	Reasoning
It has nothing whatsoever to do with the question of contribution by the State towards the cost of acquisition.52.	Reasoning
We would like to add that the view taken in Senga Naickens case	Reasoning
ILR 50 Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245 ), has been followed by the various High Courts in India.	Reasoning
On the basis of the correctness of that view the State Governments have been acquiring private properties all over the country by contributing only token amounts towards the cost of acquisition.	Reasoning
Titles to many such properties would be unsettled if we were now to take the view that partly at public expense means substantially at public expense.	Reasoning
Therefore, on the principle of stare decisis the view taken in Senga Naickens case, ILR 50 Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245 ), should not be disturbed.	Reasoning
We would, however, guard ourselves against being understood to say that a token contribution by the State towards the cost of acquisition will be sufficient compliance with the law in each and every case.	Reasoning
Whether such contribution meets the requirements of the law would depend upon the facts of every case.	Reasoning
Indeed the fact that the States contribution is nominal may well indicate, in particular circumstances, that the action of the State was a colourable exercise of power.	Reasoning
In our opinion part does not necessarily mean a substantial part and that it will be open to the Court in every case which comes up before it to examine whether the contribution made by the State satisfies the requirement of the law.	Reasoning
In this case we are satisfied that it satisfies the requirement of law.	Reasoning
What is next to be considered is whether the acquisition was only for a company because the compensation was to come almost entirely out of its coffers and, therefore, it was in reality for a private purpose as opposed to public purpose.	None
In other words, the question is whether there was on the part of the Government a colourable exercise of power.	None
Elaborating the point it is said that the establishment of a factory for manufacturing refrigeration equipment is nothing but an ordinary commercial venture and can by no stretch of imagination fall within the wellaccepted meaning of the expression public purpose, that even if it were to fall within that expression the factory is to be established not by the Government, nor by Government participation but solely by the respondent No. 6, a public limited concern and that, therefore, the concern could acquire land for such a purpose only after complying with the provisions of Part VII and that the use of the provisions of S. 6(1) is merely a colourable device to enable the respondent No. 6 to do something, which, under terms of S. 6(1), could not be done.53.	Reasoning
Public Purpose as explained by this Court in Babu Barkaya Thakurs case 1961l	None
SCR 128 (AIR 1960 SC 1203 ) means a purpose which is beneficial to the community.	None
But whether a particular purpose is beneficial or is likely to be beneficial to the community or not is a matter primarily for the satisfaction of the State Government.	None
In the notification under S. 6(1) it has been stated that the land is being acquired for a public purpose, namely, for setting up a factory for manufacturing various ranges of refrigeration compressors and ancillary equipment.	None
It was vehemently argued before us that manufacture of refrigeration equipment cannot be regarded as beneficial to the community in the real sense of the word and that such equipment will at the most enable articles of luxury to be produced.	Reasoning
But the State Government has taken the view that the manufacture of these articles is for the benefit of the community.	Reasoning
No materials have been placed before us from which we could infer that the view of the Government is perverse or that its action based on it constitutes a fraud on its power to acquire land or is a colourable exercise by it of such power.54.	Reasoning
Further, the notification itself sets out the purpose for which the land is being acquired.	Reasoning
That purpose, if we may recall, is to set up a factory for the manufacture of refrigeration compressors and ancillary equipment.	Reasoning
The importance of this undertaking to a State such as the Punjab which has a surplus of fruit, dairy products etc., the general effect of the establishment of this factory on foreign exchange resources, spread of education, relieving the pressure on unemployment etc., have been set out in the affidavit of the respondent and their substance appears in the earlier part of this judgment.	Reasoning
The affidavits have not been controverted and we have, therefore no hesitation in acting upon them.55.	Reasoning
On the face of it, therefore, bringing into existence a factory of this kind would be a purpose beneficial to the public even though that is a private venture.	Reasoning
As has already been pointed out, facilities for providing refrigeration are regarded in modern times as public utilities.	Reasoning
All the greater reason, therefore, that a factory which manufactures essential equipment for establishing public utilities must be regarded as an undertaking carrying out a public purpose.	Reasoning
It is wellestablished in the United States of America that the power of eminent domain can be exercised for establishing public utilities.	Reasoning
Such a power could, therefore, be exercised for establishing a factory for manufacturing equipment upon which a public utility depends.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that quite apart from the provisions of subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 6 the notification of the State Government under s. 6 cannot be successfully challenged on the ground that the object of the acquisition is not to carry out a public purpose.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, accept the petitioners contention that the action of the Government in making the notification under subs.	Reasoning
(1) of S. 6 was a colourable exercise of the power conferred by the Act.56.	None
The next argument to be considered in whether there has been a discrimination against the petitioners.	Arguments of Petitioner
They claim that as they intend to establish a factory for manufacturing paper which is also an article useful to the community they are as good an industrial concern as the respondent No. 6 and the State Government in taking away land from them and giving it to respondent No. 6 is practising discrimination against them.57.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the first place it is denied on behalf of the respondents that the petitioners are going to establish a paper factory.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not disputed that no new factory can be established without obtaining a licence from the appropriate authority under the Industries Development and Regulation Act, 1951 and that the petitioners do not hold any licence of this kind.	None
According to the petitioners, however, they had entered into an agreement with the firm of Messrs R. S. Madhoran and Sons for establishing such a factory and that in collaboration with them they propose to establish a factory on the land which are now being acquired.	None
It is true that a licence for erecting a paper factory was granted to Messrs. R. S. Madhoram and Sons but the location of that factory is to be in Uttar Pradesh and not in the State of Punjab.	None
Without, therefore, obtaining the approval of the appropriate authority the location of the factory could not be shifted to the land in question which, as already stated, is situate in the State of Punjab.	Reasoning
Moreover this licence has since been cancelled on the ground that Messrs R. S. Madhoram and sons have taken no steps so far for establishing a paper factory.	Reasoning
It is necessary to mention that the petitioners allege that his cancellation was procured by the respondents with the object of impeding the present petitioners.	Reasoning
With that, however, we need not concern ourselves because that licence as it stood on the date of the petitions did not entitle Messrs R. S. Madhoram and Sons to establish a factory in the State of Punjab.58.	Reasoning
Apart from that is always open to the State to fix priorities amongst public utilities of different kinds, bearing in mind the needs of the State, the existing facilities and other relevant factors.	Reasoning
In the State like the Punjab where there is a large surplus of fruit and dairy products there is need for preserving it.	Reasoning
There are already in existence a number of cold storages in that State.	Reasoning
The Government would, therefore, he acting reasonably in giving priority to a factory for manufacturing refrigeration on equipment which would be available for replacement in these storages and which would also be available for equipping new cold storages.59.	Reasoning
Apart from this it is for the State Government to say which particular industry may be regarded as beneficial to the public and to decide that its establishment would serve a public purpose.	Reasoning
No question of discrimination would, therefore, arise merely by reason of the fact that Government has declared that the establishment of a particular industry is a public purpose.	Reasoning
The challenge to the notification based on Art. 14. of the Constitution must, therefore, fail.60.	None
It is the last and final contention of the petitioners in these petitions that the notifications under Ss. 4 and 6 cannot be made simultaneously and that since both the notifications were published in the Gazette of the same date, that is, August 25, 1961 the provisions of law have not been complied with.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is that the Act takes away form a person his inherent right to hold and enjoy that property and, therefore, the exercise of the statutory power by the State to take away such property for a public purpose by paying compensation must be subject to the meticulous observance of every provision of law entitling it to make the acquisition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that under subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 4 the Government has first to notify that a particular land is likely to be needed for a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter under S. 5A a person interested in the land has a right to object to the acquisition and the whole question has to be finally considered and decided by the Government after hearing such person.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only thereafter that in a normal case the Government is entitled to make a notification under subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 6 declaring that it is satisfied after considering the report, if any made under S. 5A, subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) that the land is required for a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is the sequence in which the notifications have to be made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The reason why the sequence has to be followed is to make it clear that the Government has applied its mind to all the relevant facts and then come to a decision or arrived at its satisfaction even in a case where the provisions of S. 5A need not be complied with Undoubtedly the law requires that notification under subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1), of S. 6 must be made only after the Government is satisfied that particular land is required for a public purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
Undoubtedly also where the Government has not directed under subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4), of S. 17 that the provisions of S. 5A need not be complied with the two notifications, that is, under subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1), of S. 4 and subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 6 cannot be made simultaneously.	Arguments of Petitioner
But it seems to us that where there is an emergency by reason of which the State Government directs under subs.	None
(4) of S. 17 of the Act that the provisions of S. 5A need not be complied with the whole matter, that is, the actual requirement of the land for a public purpose must necessarily have been considered at the earliest stage itself that is when it was decided that compliance with the provisions or S. 5A be dispensed with.	Reasoning
It is therefore, difficult to see why the two notifications cannot, in such a case.	Reasoning
be made simultaneously.	Reasoning
A notification under subs.	Reasoning
(1), of S. 4 is a condition precedent to the making of notification under subs.	Reasoning
(1), of S. 6.	Reasoning
If the Government, therefore, takes a decision to make such a notification and therefore, takes two further decisions, that is, to dispense with compliance with the provisions of S. 5A and also to declare that the land comprised in the notification is in fact needed for a public purpose, there is no departure from any provision of the law even though the two notifications are published on the same day.	Reasoning
In the case before us the preliminary declaration under S. 4(1) was made on August 18, 1961 and a declaration as to the satisfaction of the Government on August 19, 1961 though both of them were published in the Gazette of August, 25, 1961.	Reasoning
The preliminary declaration as well as the subsequent declaration are both required by law to be published in the official gazette.	Reasoning
But the law does not make the prior publication of notification under subs.	Reasoning
(i) of S. 4 a condition precedent to the publication of a notification under subs.	Reasoning
(l) of S. 6.	Reasoning
Where acquisition is being made after following the normal procedure the notification under the latter section will necessarily have to be published subsequent to the notification under the former section because in such a case the observance of procedure under S. 5A is interposed between the two notifications.	Reasoning
But where section 5A is not in the way there is no irregularity in publishing those notifications on the same day.	Reasoning
The serial numbers of the notifications are Nos. 5809/41(B)	Reasoning
(I),6118755 dated August 18, 1961 and 58084 IB(I)61/18760 dated August 19, 1961 and it would appear from them that the preliminary notification did in fact precede the final declaration.61.	None
These were the only objections raised before us and as everyone of them has failed the petitions must be dismissed.	Decision
We accordingly dismiss them with costs.	Decision
As, however, all petitions were heard together there will be only one hearing fee.	Decision
Subba Rao, J.62.	None
I have perused the judgment prepared by my learned brother, Mudholkar, J. With great respect, I cannot agree.63.	None
The facts are fully stated by my learned brother and they need not be restated except to the extent relevant to the question I propose to consider.64.	None
About six acres of land purchased by the petitioners in Writ Petition No. 246 of 1961 for a sum of Rs. 460,000 (sic) in February 1961 is situate in villags Meola Maharajpur, Tehsil Balabhagarh, District Gargaon.	Facts
On August 25, 1961 the Governor of Punjab published a notification dated August 18, 1961 in the Official Gazette under S. 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, hereinafter called the Act, to the effect that the said land was likely to be needed by the Government at public expense for a purpose, namely, for setting up a factory for manufacturing various ranges of refrigeration compressors and ancillary equipment.	Facts
Under S. 17 of the Act the appropriate Government directed that the provisions of S. 5A will not apply to the said acquisition.	Facts
On the same day, another notification under S. 6 of the Act dated August 19, 1961 was published to the effect that the Governor of Punjab was satisfied that the land specified therein was required by the Government at public expense for the said purpose.	Facts
On September 29, 1961, the Government of Punjab sanctioned an expense of Rs. 100 for the purpose of acquisition of the said land.	Facts
The validity of the said notification is questioned or various grounds.	Facts
But as I am, in favour of the petitioners on the question of interpretation of the proviso to S. 6 of the Act, I do not propose to express my opinion on any other question raised in the case.	None
The material part of S. 6(1) of the Act readsSubject to the provisions of Part VII of this Act, when the appropriate Government is satisfied, after considering the report, if any, made under section 5A, subsection (2), that any particular land is needed for a public purpose, or for a Company, a declaration shall be made to that effect under the signature of Secretary to such Government or of some officer duly authorized to certify its orderProvided that no such declaration shall be made unless the compensation to be awarded for such property is to be paid by a Company, or wholly or partly out of public revenues or some fund controlled or manged by a local authority.	None
Under that section, the Government may declare that a particular land is needed for a public purpose or for a company, and the proviso imposes a condition on the issuance of such a declaration.	None
The condition is that no such declaration shall be made unless the compensation to be awarded for such property is to be paid by the company or, wholly or partly, out of the public revenues.	None
A reasonable construction of this provision uninfluenced by decisions would be that in the case of an acquisition for a company, the entire compensation will be paid by the company, and in the case of an acquisition for a public purpose the Government will pay the whole or a substantial part of the compensation out of public revenues.	None
The underlying object of the section is apparent it is to provide for a safeguard against abuse of power.	None
A substantial contribution from public coffers is ordinarily a guarantee that the acquisition is for a public purpose.	None
But it is argued that the terms of the section are satisfied if the appropriate Government contributes a nominal sum, say a pie, even though that total compensation payable may run into lakhs.	None
This interpretation would lead to extraordinary results.	None
The Government may acquire the land of A for B for a declared public purpose, contributing a pie towards the estimated compensation of, say Rs. 1,00,000.	None
If that, was the intention of the Legislature, it would not have imposed a condition of payment of part of the compensation, for that provision would not serve the purpose for which it must have been intended.	None
Therefore, a reasonable meaning should be given to the expression wholly or partly.	None
The proviso says that the compensation shall be paid by the company or, wholly or partly, out of public revenues.	None
A contrast between these two modes of payment suggests the idea that in one case the compensation must come out of the companys coffers and in the other case the whole or some reasonable part of it should come from public revenues.	None
This idea excludes the assumption that practically no compensation need come out of public revenues.	None
The juxtaposition of the words wholly or partly and the disjunctive between them emphasize the same idea.	None
It will be incongruous to say that public revenue shall contribute rupees one lakhs or one pie.	None
The payment of a part of compensation must have some rational relation to the compensation payable in respect of the acquisition for a public purpose.	None
So contrued part can only mean a substantial part of the estimated compensation.	None
There cannot be an exhaustive definition of the words substantial part of the compensation.	None
What is substantial part of a compensation depends upon the facts of each case, the estimate of the compensation and other relevant circumstances.	None
While a court will not go meticulously into the question to strike a balance between a part and a whole, it will certainly be in a position to ascertain broadly whether in a particular case the amount contributed by the Government towards compensation is so illusory that it cannot conceivably be a substantial part of the consideration.	None
There is some conflict of view on this question.	None
The House of Lords in (1878) 3 AC 483 at p. 498 defined the word part in the context of the provisions of the Dramatic Copyright Act.	None
The words in the statute were production or any part thereof.	None
The plaintiffs therein were the proprietors of a drama called The Wandering Jew and it was alleged that the defendant produced a drama on the same subject.	None
It was found that the drama of the defendant was not, except in respect of two, scenes or points, a copy from, or a colourable imitation of, the drama of the plaintiffs.	None
In that context the House of Lords construed the relevant words production or any part thereof Lord O Hagan observedPart as was observed, is not necessarily the same as particle, and there may be a taking so minute in its extent and so trifling in its nature as not to incur the statutable liability.	None
This decision may not be directly in point, but the construction placed upon the expression part is of general application.	None
In the context of that statute, the court found that the Legislature clearly intended by the words any part a real substantial part.	None
A Division Bench of the Madras High Court, consisting of Spencer and Ramesam, JJ.	None
directly considered this point in AIR 1926 Mad 1099 .	None
There, a total sum of Rs. 5,985 was required for the acquisition of the property of the appellant therein and the Government contributed from Provincial revenues an amount of one anna towards that compensation.	None
The learned Judges held that it was an indication of the illusory character of the object for which the provisions of the Act had been made use of.	None
Adverting to the argument that any small contribution by the Government would satisfy the requirement of S. 6 of the Act, Ramesam, J., observed at p. 1100We think that the Legislature, when they passed the Land Acquisition Act, did not intend that owners should be deprived of their ownership by a mere device of private persons employing the Act for private ends or for the gratification of private spite or malice.	None
These are weighty observations of a judge of great experience, who was also the Government Pleader before he became a judge of the Madras High Court.	None
The observations also indicate the statutory object in insisting on a substantial contribution from public revenues, for a strict insistence thereon would prevent to a large extent the abuse of power under the Act.	None
But unfortunately the correctness of this decision was not accepted by another Division Bench of the same High Court, consisting of Odgers and Madhavan Nair, JJ., in ILR 50	None
Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245 ).1 have carefully gone through the judgment in that case, and, with great respect to the learned Judges, I cannot see any acceptable reasons for departing from the earlier view of the same court.	None
Odors, J., concentrated his criticism of the earlier judgment more on the reliance by the earlier Bench on the decision of the House of Lords that on the intrinsic merits of the decision itself.	Reasoning
It is true that the learned Judges in the earlier decision relied upon the observations of the House of Lords, but that was only in support of their conclusion why the expression part should not be understood as a particle.	Reasoning
But the main reason they gave was that, having regard to the object of that proviso, the Legislature in using the word part could have only meant a substantial part or otherwise the object would be defeated and the abuse of power which it intended to prevent could easily be perpetrated under the colour of the Act.	Reasoning
The second reason given by Odgers, J. was stated by the learned Judge thus at p. 314 (of ILR Mad) (at p. 247 of AIR)I invited the learned Advocate for the appellant to say where a particle would end and part begin of this sum of Rs. 600.	Reasoning
It is true an anna is a very small part of Rs. 600.	Reasoning
But nevertheless it is a part.	None
This adherence to the strict latter in complete disregard of the spirit of the section certainly defeats the purpose of the legislation.	Reasoning
The word partly in the proviso should be construed in the setting in which it is used and not in vaccum, as the learned Judge sought to do.	Reasoning
The third reason the learned Judge gives for his conclusion was stated at p. 315 (of ILR Mad) (at.	Reasoning
p. 241 of AIR) thusSuppose on appeal the compensation had been enhanced.	Reasoning
There is no doubt the Government would have to defray the extra sum out of the public revenues and having once undertaken the acquisition they could not call on the constituents again.	Reasoning
This comment again, in my view, is beside the point.	None
It is not the duty of the Government to meticulously fix a figure it may agree to bear a definite proportion of the compensation that may ultimately be awarded to a claimant and in that even subsequent variations by hierarchy of tribunals would not cause any difficulty, for the proportion would attach itself to the varying figures.	Reasoning
That apart, it need not be particular fraction of the compensation ultimately awarded.	Reasoning
If the Government agrees to contribute a substantial part of the estimated compensation that would meet the requirements of the section.	Reasoning
The other learned Judge, Madhavan Nair, J. in substance agreed with the judgment of Odgers, J., and did not disclose any additional reasons for differing from the decision of the earlier Bench.	Reasoning
In my view, the decision in ILR 50 Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245 ) is not correct.	Reasoning
These two were considered by a Full Bench of the Madras High Court in ILR (1946)	Reasoning
Mad 153 at p. 158 (AIR 1945 Mad 394 at p. 395)(FB).	Reasoning
There Sir Lionel Leach, C. J., delivering the judgment of the Full Bench, noticed the judgment of the Division Bench in AIR 1926 Mad 1099 and the criticism offered on the judgment by the latter Division Bench in ILR 50 Mad 308 (AIR 1927 Mad 245 ) and observedWe are in entire agreement with this criticism.	None
Then the learned Chief Justice proceeded to observeIn interpreting the proviso we can only have regard to the words used and, in our judgment, it is sufficient compliance with the proviso if any part of the compensation is paid out of public funds.	None
One anna is a part of the compensation.	Reasoning
It is true it is a small part, but it is nevertheless a part.	None
This literal interpretation of the word part de hors the setting in which that word appears in the section, in my view, makes the condition imposed on the exercise of the jurisdiction by the Government meaningless and also attributes to the Legislature an intention to impose a purposeless and ineffective formality.	Reasoning
For the reasons already given, I cannot accept the correctness of this judgment.	Reasoning
I therefore, hold that unless the Government agrees to contribute a substantial part of the compensation, depending upon the circumstances of each case, the condition imposed by the proviso on the exercise by the appropriate Government of its jurisdiction is not complied with.	Reasoning
In the instant case it is impossible to say that a sum of Rs.100 out of an estimated, compensation which may go even beyond Rs. 4,00,000 is in any sense of the term a substantial part of the said compensation.	Reasoning
The Government has clearly broken the condition and therefore, it has no jurisdiction to issue the declaration under S. 6 of the Act.65.	Reasoning
In this view it is not necessary to express my opinion on the other questions raised in this case.66.	Reasoning
In the result the said notification is quashed and respondents 1 to 5 are hereby prohibited from giving effect to the said notification and taking any proceedings thereunder.67.	Decision
It is common case that the order in Writ Petition No, 246 of l961 would govern Writ Petitions Nos. 247 and 248 of 1961 also.	Decision
A similar order will issue in these two petitions also.	Decision
The respondents will pay the costs of the petitioners in all the petitions.	Decision
Order68.	Decision
In view of the majority opinion the Court dismissed the Writ Petitions with costs.	Decision
There will be one set of hearing fee.69.	Decision
Petitions dismissed.	Decision
