 K. Das, J. 1.	None
These are twelve petitions under Art.	Issue
32 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Messrs.	Issue
Kanji Shavji Parekh are the petitioners in three of the petitions, numbered 235, 236 and 240.	Issue
The petitioners of the remaining cases are nine other firms.	Issue
It is stated that all these firms, including Messrs. Kanji Shavji Parekh are established importers holding quota rights for importing stationary articles and have their places of business in Calcutta.	Issue
2.	None
These petitions have been heard together, as they raise identical questions.	None
They have been argued together, and Mr. N. C. Chatterji appearing for all the petitioners has taken us in detail through the facts of petition No. 235 of 1956.	None
He has stated that the facts of the other petitions are exactly similar in nature, with only minor differences in dates, names and other unimportant details which have no.	None
bearing on the questions at issue.	None
We shall accordingly state the facts of Petition No. 235 of 1956 in detail, and we are relived from the task of stating the facts of the other petitions.	None
3.	None
The relevant are these, Messrs. Kanji Shavji Parekh is a registered partnership firm, having its principal place of business in Calcutta.	Facts
The partners of the firm are citizens of India.	Facts
The firm is an established importer of stationary articles and has quota rights for importing stationary items including goods known as Artists Materials and described in Appendix 10 at pages 376 and 377 of the Import Trade Control Policy Book for the licensing period July to December 1954.	Facts
On 4th August 1954, the Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports gave a license to the said firm, hearing after called the petitioners, to import goods known as Artists Material, falling under serial No. 168 (C) of part IV of the Policy Statement for the period July to December, 1954.	Facts
Item 168 of the said statement related to articles made of paper and papier machie, stationery including drawing and copy books etc.	Facts
Subitem (c) related to other articles under the same item.	Facts
A fuller description of Artists Materials as given in Appendix XX referred to above.	Facts
Item 11 of the said Appendix was Crayons.	Facts
The approximate value of the goods as mentioned in the licence was Rs. 2, 088 and the validity of the licence was for a period of twelve months from the date of issue.	Facts
But before the issue of the said licence, the petitioners had in the middle of June 1954 arranged with Messrs. Crystal Company, local agents and representatives of Messrs. Lyra Lead Pencil Company, Nuremberg, West Germany, for the purchase of Lyra brand crayons.	Facts
The petitioners stated that the said crayons were coloured crayons in twelve assorted colours  12 crayons to a box and 12 boxes to a carton.	Facts
On 14th June 1954, the petitioners wrote to the Assistant Collector of Customs for Appraisement, Calcutta, enclosing a carton of Lyre brand crayons and enquiring as to the proper customs classification of the said crayons.	Facts
On 3rd July 1954, a reply was given to the petitioners by the Assistant Collector of Customs for Appraisement, Calcutta, to the effect that Lyra brand crayons were classifiable under item No. 45 (a) of the Indian Customs Tariff.	Facts
It is worthy of note, however, that the letter contained a foot note which stated that the classification was provisional and was liable to revision in the light of examination of the goods at the time of importation.	Facts
After having obtained the licence on 4th August 1954, the petitioners placed an order through Messrs. Crystal Company for importing 486 dozen boxes of Lyra brand coloured Crayons.	Facts
The order was confirmed in September, 1954.	Facts
The petitioners opened an irrevocable letter of credit in favour of the manufactures through a bank, and on or about 10th January 1955 the goods arrived from Hamburg in West Germany to the port of Calcutta in India.	Facts
The petitioners then field a Bill of Entry, through their clearing agents, under the provisions of the Sea Customs Act (Act VIII of 1878).	Facts
On that Bill of Entry, an endorsement was made by the Assistant Collector of Customs which was to the following effect  Collectors order in File S. 6140/55A. Goods assessable under item 45 (4) ICT and accept the licence produced.	Facts
Declare number of pieces and length of the pencil both in words and Figures.	Facts
The endorsement showed that the Assistant Collector of Customs instead of assessing duty under item 45 (a) was assessing duty under item 45 (4) of the Indian Customs Tariff.	Facts
The petitioners felt aggrieved by this order, because the duty payable under item 45 (a) was 39 3/8 percent.	Facts
ad valorem while the duty payable under item 45 (4) was 2 annas for every length of 7 1/2 inches or part thereof, or 66 2/3 percent.	Facts
ad valorem, whichever was higher.	Facts
The petitioners then represented their case to two successive Collectors of Customs, and on 26th April 1955, the Assistant Collector of Customs wrote to the petitioners to the following effect I am directed to advise that the decision on the merits of the assessment of these Lyra brand halfsized coloured pencils having been taken by Collectors predecessor and duly communicated to you by an endorsement on the reverse of the bills of entry in question, Collector does not see his way to interfere in the matter and that in case you feel aggrieved with the said decision, the proper course is to follow the appeal procedure prescribed under section 188 of the Sea Customs Act.	Facts
The petitioners then appealed to the Central Board of Revenue by means of a communication dated May 14/17, 1955.	Facts
The Central Board of Revenue dismissed the appeal on 12th October 1955, by the following order The goods have been correctly assessed to duty under item 45 (4), Indian Customs Tariff.	Facts
The board, therefore, sees no. reason to interfere with the order passed by the Collector of Customs, Calcutta.	Facts
Thereafter, the petitioners field the present writ application by which they challenge the validity of the orders of the Assistant Collector of Customs, the Collector of Customs and the Central Board of Revenue on grounds which we shall presently state.	Facts
The petitioners pray for the issue of appropriate writs for quashing the said order and also for directing the Customs authorities to deliver the goods to the petitioners on payment of duty under item 45(a) of the Indian Customs Tariff.	Facts
4.	None
These petitions have been contested on behalf of the respondents who are the Customs authorities concerned and the Union of India.	Arguments of Respondent
The principal contention on their behalf is that these applications cannot be sustained under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 of the Constitution, because no. fundamental right conferred by Part III of the Constitution has been violated by the orders in question.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, it is contended that the orders in question were properly and correctly passed by authorities competent to pass them, after fully hearing the petitioners.	Arguments of Respondent
5.	None
We now proceed to state the grounds on which the orders in question have been impugned.	None
Mr. N.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
Chatterji appearing for the petitioners, has urged four main grounds in support of these petitions.	Arguments of Petitioner
His first ground is that the order made by the Assistant Collector of Customs on the Bill of Entry was passed on the strength of another order made by the Collector in File No. S. 6140/55A without hearing the petitioners the Collector also passed his order in the said file without hearing the petitioners and therefore the orders were passed in violation of the principles of natural justice.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is the first ground of attack.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, learned counsel has referred us to the affidavit filed on behalf of the respondents wherein it was stated that Lyra brand crayons were not crayons at all but were coloured pencils, and has argued that this assumption of the respondents is manifestly erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted by learned counsel that if Lyra brand crayons are not crayons at all, then the licence which was granted to the petitioners on 4th August 1954 for importing crayons was not a valid licence for importing the goods in question the Customs authorities however, accepted the licence as a good licence and yet proceeded on the erroneous assumption that Lyra brand crayons were not crayons at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, according to learned counsel for the petitioners, is a manifestly erroneous assumption.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, learned counsel has contended that the right of the petitioners under cls.	Arguments of Petitioner
(f) and (g) of Art. 19 (1) of the Constitution, namely to hold their property and to carry on a trade, has been violated by reason of the orders in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, learned counsel has pointed out that in certain other cases, the Customs authorities had assessed duty on similar goods under item 45 (a) of the Indian Customs Tariff, and therefore they have meted out unequal treatment to the petitioners.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
At first sight, the last two grounds stated above apparently seem to involves question of enforcement of fundamental rights, for which purpose the petitioners have the guaranteed right to move this court by appropriate proceedings under Art.	Reasoning
32 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
On a closer examination, however, it will appear that there is really no. question of the enforcement of a fundamental right in any of these twelve petitions.	Reasoning
What, after all, is the grievance of the petitioners?	Reasoning
They do not challenge any of the provisions of the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (XXXII of 1934) or any of the provisions of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878).	Reasoning
It is for the Customs authorities to determine under the provisions of the said Acts what duty is payable in respect of certain imported articles.	Reasoning
The Customs authorities came to a pursued decision, right or wrong, and the petitioners their remedy by way of an appeal to the Central Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
The Central Board of Revenue dismissed the appeal, Unless the provisions relating to the imposition of duty are challenged as unconstitutional or the orders in question are challenged as being in excess of the power given to the Customs authorities and therefore without jurisdiction, it is difficult to see how the question of any fundamental right under Art. 19 (1), cls.	Reasoning
(f) and (g), of the Constitution can at all arise.	Reasoning
If the provision of law under which the impugned orders have been passed are good provisions and the orders passed are with jurisdiction, whether they be right or wrong on facts, there is really no. question of the infraction of a fundamental right.	Reasoning
If a particular decision is erroneous on facts or merits, the proper remedy is by way of an appeal.	Reasoning
If the petitioners were aggrieved by the order of the Central Board of Revenue, they had a further remedy by way of an application for revision to the Central Government.	Reasoning
The petitioners did not choose to do so nor do they challenge any of the provisions of law under which the impugned orders were made nor is it contended that the orders were without jurisdiction.	Reasoning
All that is really contended is that the orders are erroneous on merits.	Reasoning
That surely does not give rise to the violation of any fundamental right under Art. 19 of the Constitution.	None
7.	None
With regard to the argument as to unequal treatment, it is sufficient to refer to one of the paragraphs of the affidavit filed on behalf of the respondents.	Facts
That paragraph states I say that the contention of the petitioner is untenable inasmuch as the levy of customs duly on the coloured pencils as crayons was done in some cases merely through oversight, and when that was found out, the mistake was corrected inasmuch as in subsequent, imports the duty was levied under item 45 (4) of the Customs Tariff, and this has been regularly followed in cases of merchants who have imported these kinds of goods I say that there are many other firms who have imported the coloured pencils and they have been assessed under item 45 (4) of the Customs Tariff, and therefore the petitioners are not entitled to make any grievance on that account.	Facts
This, in our opinion, completely dispose of the argument as to unequal treatment.	None
It may be stated here that, prior to 1st March 1951, coloured and copying pencils were included under the head stationery not otherwise specified in item 45 (4) of the Indian Customs Tariff.	Reasoning
By the Indian Tariff (Amendment) Act, 1951, (Act XIII of 1951) item 45 (a) was inserted and this specifically related to coloured and copying pencils.	Reasoning
The duty then imposed was protective duty of 37 1/3 per cent.	Reasoning
ad valorem.	Reasoning
By the Indian Finance Act XIV of 1953, the duty was enhanced to 66 2/3 per cent.	Reasoning
ad valorem.	Reasoning
Then, in October, 1954, came the Indian Tariff (Second Amendment) Act, 1954, by which the duty imposed under item 45 (4) with regard to coloured and copying pencils was a revenue duty of two annas for every length of 7 1/2 inches or part thereof or 66 2/3 per cent.	Reasoning
ad valorem, whichever is higher.	Reasoning
Whatever difficulty there might have been at an earlier stage, there was really no. difficulty in assessing duty on coloured pencils since the amendment of 1951, which inserted items 45 (4) in the First scheduled to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 (XXXII of 1934).	Reasoning
8.	None
The petitioners relied on the letter dated 3rd July 1954, in which the Assistant Collector of Customs said that Lyra brand crayons were classifiable under item 45 (a).	Reasoning
This letter, however, itself stated that the classification was provisional and liable to revision in the light of examination of the goods at the time of importation.	Reasoning
Moreover, the tentative classification made by the Assistant Collector, of Customs was not binding on the Collector and we do not think that the petitioners can found any claim on the ground of estoppel.	Reasoning
In fairness to learned counsel for the petitioners we must add that no.	Reasoning
such claim was made before us.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioners referred us to certain observations in Chapter 1 of a handbook of rules and procedure, 1952, entitled Import Trade Control.	Arguments of Petitioner
The observations are these The import policy in respect of different items is announced with reference to the serial numbers under each part of the Import Trade Control Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is therefore necessary for the intending importer to ascertain under what part and which serial number of the I.T.C. Schedule the article which he wishes to import falls.	Arguments of Petitioner
An alphabetical list of articles is included in Appendix X to enable importers to ascertain readily the I.T.C. classification of any particular item.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will be noticed that in the I.T.C. Schedule (except in Part VI) against each serial number the corresponding Customs classification under the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 has been quoted.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is intended to help importers in ascertaining the correct classification in doubtful cases by reference to the Customs classification with which as a rule they would already be familiar by virtue of their past imports.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is some what important for the importer to know the cornet I.T.C classification for any item because only then can he ascertain the appropriate authority to whom he should apply for an import licence and also judge for himself whether or not a licence licence is likely to be granted to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think that the aforesaid observations which relate to licensing policy have any bearing on the question at issue, namely, whether Lyra brand crayons should be assessed under item 45(a) as stationery not otherwise specified or item 45(4), as coloured pencils.	Reasoning
9.	None
For the reasons given above, we do not think that there is any substance in the contention urged on behalf of the petitioners that by the impugned orders there has been a violation of their fundamental right under Art.	Reasoning
19 or that there has been unequal treatment of the petitioners by the Customs authorities.	Reasoning
On this short ground only the applications are liable to be dismissed.	Reasoning
10.	None
With regard to the first two grounds urged on behalf of the petitioners it is abundantly clear that the petitioners have had a full hearing before two successive Collectors of Customs, Calcutta and their grievance as to the violation of the principles of natural justice is totally devoid of merit.	Reasoning
From the affidavit field on behalf of the respondents, it appears that between 19th January 1955, and 16th February 1955, the petitioners became aware of the decision of the Collector, through the Customs officers, that the assessment was made under item 45(4).	Reasoning
On 16th February 1955, the petitioners made a representation with regard to the distinction between crayons and coloured pencils.	Reasoning
The representation was considered by the Collector of Customs.	Reasoning
The petitioners were then given a personal hearing by the Collector on 26th February 1955, and the order of assessment was confirmed.	Reasoning
On 6th April 1953, the petitioners asked for an interview with the successor in office of the previous Collector, and again the petitioners were heard on 12th April 1955.	Reasoning
Thereafter, on 26th April 1955, the petitioners were told that the order of assessment could not be revised and their proper remedy was to prefer an appeal to the Central Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
The petitioners then preferred an appeal to the Central Board of Revenue.	Reasoning
That appeal was also dismissed.	Reasoning
In view of these facts and circumstances, it is idle to contend that there has been a violation of the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
11.	None
The contention that the impugned orders are manifestly erroneous, because crayons have been treated as coloured pencils is not a contention which can be gone into on an application under Art. 32 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It has no.	Reasoning
bearing on the question of the enforcement of a fundamental right, nor can the question be decided without first determining what constitutes the distinction between a coloured pencil and as crayon a distinction which must require an investigation into disputed facts and materials.	Reasoning
This was a matter for the Constitution authorities to decide, and it is obvious that this Court cannot, on an application under Art. 32 of the Constitution, embark on such an investigation.	Reasoning
12.	None
We are therefore of the view that there is no. merit in any of these twelve applications.	Decision
The applications are accordingly dismissed with costs.	Decision
As all the applications have been heard together there will be one set of hearing fee in favour of the respondents to be paid proportionately by the petitioners of each case.	Decision
13.	None
Applications dismissed.	Decision
