 S. VERMA, J. Leave granted.	None
By the impugned judgment the High Court allowed the appeal against the judgment of the Subordinate Judge, Bhubaneswar making an award dated 2631983 the rule of the court, by which a sum of Rs. 95, 003 was directed to be paid to the appellant by 2461983 failing which it was to carry interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum from 2731983 till the date of payment.	Facts
On behalf of the respondent, the award was challenged on the ground that the arbitrator was incompetent to make the award in view of Section 41A(7) of the Arbitration (Orissa Amendment) Act, 1982 (Orissa Act 3 of 1983) which came into force w.e.f. 2631983 and had the effect of amending the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940.	Facts
Since the date of the award and the date of the enforcement of the amending Act are the same, the question is of the applicability of the said amendment.	Facts
This is the only question involved for decision in this appeal by special leave3.	Facts
The Arbitration (Orissa Amendment) Act, 1982 was an Act to amend the Arbitration Act, 1940 in its application to the State of Orissa.	Facts
It received the assent of the President of India on 2131983 and came into force on publication in the Orissa Gazette, Extraordinary, No. 358 dated 2631983.	Facts
A new Section 41A was inserted in the principal Act relating to constitution of and references to the Arbitration Tribunal.	Facts
Subsection (1) of Section 41A provided that notwithstanding anything contained in the Act or any contract or any other instrument, in all cases where the State Government, a local or other authority controlled by the State Government, statutory corporation or a government company is a party to the dispute, all references to arbitration shall be made to the Arbitration Tribunal.	Facts
Subsection (2) provided for constitution of an Arbitration Tribunal by the State Government in the manner provided therein.	Facts
Subsections (3), (4), (5) and (6) relates to ancillary matters pertaining to constitution of the Arbitration Tribunal.	Facts
Subsection (7) relates to pending proceedings and it is the construction of this provision which is involved in this appeal.	Facts
Subsection (7) is as under All arbitration proceedings relating to a dispute of the nature specified in subsection (1) which are pending before any arbitrator on the date of commencement of the Arbitration (Orissa Amendment) Act, 1982 and in which no award has been made by the said date, shall stand transferred to and disposed of by Arbitration Tribunal.	Facts
The only question in the present case is Whether the arbitration proceeding in the present case was such a pending proceeding before the arbitrator to be governed by subsection (7) of Section 41A?	None
The controversy really relates to the meaning of the expression by the said date occurring in subsection (7) The contention of the learned counsel for the appellant is that the arbitration proceeding in the present case was not pending before the arbitrator on 2631983 which is the date of commencement of the Act as the award had been made on that day.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the date of commencement of the Act is to be included in the expression by the said date and, therefore, the arbitrator was not divested of jurisdiction to make the award on 2631983.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent contends that the Act having come into force on 2631983, an award made on that day was without jurisdiction in a pending arbitration proceeding which stood transferred to the Arbitration Tribunal by virtue of subsection (7) of Section 41A. Learned counsel for the respondent further submitted that the object of the enactment was to prevent the mischief for which the provision was enacted and, therefore, the contemplated legislation being widely publicised with the assent of the President being given on 2131983, the construction which he suggests would promote the object of the legislation.	None
It is well known that this amendment was made in the Arbitration Act because of the realisation on account of strong observations by the courts in several arbitration cases from Orissa suggesting the desirability of an Arbitration Tribunal to decide the arbitration disputes in which the State Government, its instrumentalities or other public bodies were parties Subsection (7) of Section 41A provides for automatic transfer to the Arbitration Tribunal of all arbitration proceedings of the kind specified in subsection (1) which were pending before any arbitrator on the date of commencement of the said Act and in which no award had been made by the said date.	Arguments of Respondent
Obviously, the expression by the said date here means by the date of commencement of the Arbitration (Orissa Amendment) Act, 1982.	None
The first expression clearly means an arbitration proceeding pending before any arbitrator on the date of commencement of the Act, namely, 2631983.	None
The meaning of the second expression should be consistent with that of the first expression since the two could not be used to create a conflict.	Reasoning
The purpose of subsection (7) is to divest the arbitrator of authority to make the award in all such arbitration proceedings which were pending before the arbitrator on the date of commencement of the said Act and to provide for their automatic transfer to the Arbitration Tribunal.	Reasoning
The General Clauses Act, 1897 provides that unless the contrary is expressed, an Act shall be construed as coming into operation immediately on the expiration of the day preceding its commencement.	Reasoning
There being no contrary indication in the Act, it must be held that the said Act came into force on the midnight on the expiration of the day preceding its commencement, i.e., the midnight between 2531983 and 2631983.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that if the second expression in which no award has been made by the said date was not also present in subsection (7), then the undoubted result of the first expression would be that an arbitration proceeding in which no award had been made up to the midnight between 2531983 and 2631983 would be a pending arbitration proceeding which automatically stood transferred to the Arbitration Tribunal.	Reasoning
The question, therefore, is whether the further words used in the second expression in subsection (7) must lead to a different conclusion.	None
The construction of the first expression being unambiguous, the second expression must be construed harmoniously unless that is not a permissible construction of the expression by the said date7.	None
It does appear to us that the second expression, namely, in which no award has been made by the said date was further used in subsection (7) ex abundant cautela to clarify the meaning of pending proceedings by indicating that only those arbitration proceedings in which the award also had been made by the said date were excluded from the operation of subsection (7) and that every other arbitration proceeding including those in which the award alone remained to be made by the said date stood transferred to the Arbitration Tribunal.	Reasoning
In other words, if the arbitration proceedings had been closed but the arbitrator had not made the award till the midnight between 2531983 and 2631983 when the Act came into force, it was a pending arbitration proceeding governed by subsection (7).	Reasoning
Acceptance of the appellants contention would amount to holding that even though the Act had come into force on the midnight between 2531983 and 2631983, an award made thereafter on 2631983 was not a pending arbitration proceeding on the date of commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
Unless meaning of the expression by the said date used in subsection (7) be only that suggested by learned counsel for the appellant, the construction which would harmonies with the meaning of the earlier expression, must be given to the provision We may now consider the meaning of the word by for ascertaining the meaning of the expression by the said date.	None
Meaning of the word by in some of the dictionaries is Blacks Law Dictionary (Sixth End.)Before a certain time not later than a certain time on or before a certain time The New Shorter Oxford English Dictionary On or before, not later than.	None
No doubt the word by means before a certain time as well as on or before a certain time.	None
The question is whether, the word by in the expression by the said date would mean in other words before or on 2631983 in the present context?	None
We have already indicated the meaning of the first expression pending before any arbitrator on the date of commencement to mean clearly and unambiguously pending up to the midnight between 2531983 and 2631983, i.e., before commencement of the date 2631983 or at the time of expire of the preceding day i.e. 2531983.	Reasoning
The other expression must, therefore, be construed in this context and since the word by means before also, in this context it must be held to mean before and not on the date of commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
So construed, the second expression would read as in which no award has been made before the said date i.e. in which no award has been made before the date of commencement of the Act, namely, 2631983.	Reasoning
This would be the harmonious construction of the two expressions in the provision10.	Reasoning
Obviously, an award made on 2631983 cannot be said to be an award made before 2631983 and, therefore, the award in the present case having been made on 2631983 and not before 2631983, the date of commencement of the Act, the arbitrator had no jurisdiction to make the award as it was a pending arbitration proceeding which automatically stood transferred to the Arbitration Tribunal Learned counsel for the appellant has referred to some decisions wherein the word by has been construed to mean that it includes the end or the expire of the date or period indicated.	Reasoning
As we have indicated, the meaning of the word by is both before as well as on or before and, therefore, the context in which it has been used becomes decisive.	None
Where the context does not exclude the date specified and permits its inclusion, the word by can be construed to mean on and not before and in that situation, specification of the limit of time by saying by that date would require including the specified date up to the expire of that date for computation of the permitted period.	Reasoning
P.C. Muthu Chettiar v. Narayanan Chettiar Sk.	Reasoning
Nuroo v. Seth Meghraj Ramkaran Marwadi T.A. Janakumara Nainar v. Periaswamy Goundan and Dharamraj Mahadeo v. Addl.	Reasoning
Dy.	Reasoning
Commr.	Reasoning
are all decisions in which the context required the word by to be read as on and not before to permit inclusion of the period up to the expiry of the date specified.	Reasoning
We have already indicated that the context in the present case excludes the date specified and, therefore, excludes the meaning on and requires the word by to be read as before12.	Reasoning
Eastaugh v. Macpherson supports the view we have taken that the meaning of the word by in the phrase by the date can mean on or before the date or before the date depending on the context in which the word by has been used and the meaning to be preferred should be that which it has in the given context.	Reasoning
We have indicated that in the context of the provision made in subsection (7) of Section 41A meaning of the word by must be before and not on in order to harmonise with the meaning of the earlier part of subsection (7) and to promote the object of its enactment.	Reasoning
The High Courts conclusion that the arbitrator in the present case had no jurisdiction on 2631983 to make the award does not suffer from any infirmity Consequently, the appeal fails and is dismissed.	Reasoning
