Dr. Arijit Pasayat, J. Leave granted.	None
Challenge in this appeal is to the order passed by a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court dismissing the Writ Petition filed by the appellant on the ground that it was highly belated.	Facts
It also noted that the appellant had received compensation in respect of the land which was acquired.3.	Facts
Background facts in a nutshell are as followsIn the year 1971 Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (in short MIDC) acquired about 1250 acres of agricultural land situated at four villages in Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra.	Facts
Thirty eight acres of land belonging to the appellant were acquired.	Facts
It is the stand of the appellant that out of the acquired area, about 50 was under paddy cultivation and 25 was under cultivation of mango crops.	Facts
In the appellants land about 175 mango trees were there.	Facts
In the year 1973, the Revenue and Forest Department of the Maharashtra Government passed a resolution interalia deciding to take steps in respect of surplus acquired land which remained unutilized for a period of three years from the date of taking over possession for resumption of such lands in accordance with the applicable rules and orders.	Facts
In 1974, a Writ Petition was filed by the appellant challenging the Notification for acquisition and an arrangement was worked out in which 20 acres of appellants land out of 38 acres were released.	Facts
The lands were acquired for a Govt.	Facts
companyBalco for setting up a manufacturing unit.	Facts
Since Balco did not set up any unit, license issued to it was cancelled.	Facts
In the year 1982, appellant claims to have made representations alongwith similarly situated land owners for restoration of the acquired land to the original owners.	Facts
In the year 1983, compensation was paid to 686 land owners.	Facts
In 1984, again the appellant made a representation to the Collector of Ratnagiri for release of the land.	Facts
On 20.7.1989 a Committee was appointed by the Legislative Assembly for consideration of the proposal for handing back the acquired land to the original owners.	Facts
Certain recommendations were made by the said Committee.	Facts
On 20.8.1992 the land acquired for Balco was allotted to another industrial group.	Facts
Subsequently, the State Government asked the industrial group not to continue the construction activities in view of pendency of cases.	Facts
On 12.11.2002, representations were again made to hand back the land not utilized.	Facts
It was the specific stand of the appellant that in view of Section 39(2a) of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Act, 1961 (in short the Act) the land should be restored.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the writ petition on the ground that it was highly belated.	Facts
In support of the appeal, learned counsel for the appellant stated that the appellant was all through representing to the authorities and because of the recommendations by the Committee, the appellant waited for some time and ultimately when no worthwhile action was taken, he filed the writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent on the other hand supported the judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that the recommendations made in terms of the resolution were not accepted by the Government.	None
It was decided that since definite policy has been formulated the land is to be utilized for the industrial development, the same cannot be surrendered to the original owners for cultivation purposes.	None
It is also pointed out that the so called representations do not in any way assist the appellant to explain the long delay in filing the writ petition.	None
It is also pointed out that Section 39(2a) is applicable only in respect of the undeveloped land, and in the instant case the land in question is developed land.	None
Delay or laches is one of the factors which is to be borne in mind by the High Courts when they exercise their discretionary powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, 1950 (in short the Constitution).	None
In an appropriate case the High Court may refuse to invoke its extraordinary powers if there is such negligence or omission on the part of the applicant to assert his right as taken in conjunction with the lapse of time and other circumstances, causes prejudice to the opposite party.	None
Even where fundamental right is involved the matter is still within the discretion of the Court as pointed out in Durga Prasad v. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (AIR 1970 SC 769 ).	None
Of course, the discretion has to be exercised judicially and reasonably.	None
What was stated in this regard by Sir Barnes Peacock in Lindsay Petroleum Company v. Prosper Armstrong Hurde etc.	None
(1874) 5 PC 221 at page 239 was approved by this Court in Moon Mills Ltd. v. Industrial Courts (AIR 1967 SC 1450 ) and Maharashtra State Transport Corporation v. Balwant Regular Motor Service (AIR 1969 SC 329 ), Sir Barnes had stated Now the doctrine of laches in Courts of Equity is not an arbitrary or technical doctrine.	None
Where it would be practically unjust to give a remedy either because the party has, by his conduct done that which might fairly be regarded as equivalent to a waiver of it, or where by his conduct and neglect he has though perhaps not waiving that remedy, yet put the other party in a situation in which it would not be reasonable to place him if the remedy were afterwards to be asserted, in either of these cases, lapse of time and delay are most material.	None
But in every case, if an argument against relief, which otherwise would be just, if founded upon mere delay, that delay of course not amounting to a bar by any statute of limitation, the validity of that defence must be tried upon principles substantially equitable.	None
Two circumstances always important in such cases are, the length of the delay and the nature of the acts done during the interval which might affect either party and cause a balance of justice or injustice in taking the one course or the other, so far as relates to the remedy.	None
It would be appropriate to note certain decisions of this Court in which this aspect has been dealt with in relation with Article 32 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is apparent that what has been stated as regards that Article would apply, a fortiori, to Article 226.	Reasoning
It was observed in R.N Bose v. Union of India (AIR 1970 SC 470 ) that no relief can be given to the petitioner who without any reasonable explanation approaches this Court under Article 32 after inordinate delay.	Reasoning
It was stated that though Article 32 is itself a guaranteed right, it does not follow from this that it was the intention of the Constitution makers that this Court should disregard all principles and grant relief in petitions filed after inordinate delay.11.	Reasoning
It was stated in State of M.P. v. Nandlal (AIR 1987 SC 251 ) that the High Court in exercise of its discretion does not ordinarily assist the tardy and the indolent or the acquiescent and the lethargic.	Reasoning
If there is inordinate delay on the part of the petitioner and such delay is not satisfactorily explained, the High Court may decline to intervene and grant relief in exercise of its writ jurisdiction.	Reasoning
It was stated that this rule is premised on a number of factors.	Reasoning
The High Court does not ordinarily permit a belated resort to the extraordinary remedy because it is likely to cause confusion and public inconvenience and bring in its trail new injustices, and if writ jurisdiction is exercised after unreasonable delay, it may have the effect of inflicting not only hardship and inconvenience but also injustice on third parties.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that when writ jurisdiction is invoked, unexplained delay coupled with the creation of third party rights in the meantime is an important factor which also weighs with the High Court in deciding whether or not to exercise such jurisdiction.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid position we are not inclined to interfere in this appeal which is dismissed accordingly.	Decision
