 Hegde, J.1.	None
All these appeals by certificate are filed by the legal representatives of Late Karam Chand Thapar who was the assessee in this case.	Facts
He died after the assessments were made.	Facts
The assessment years with which we are concerned in these appeals are 194950, 195051, 195152, 195253 and 195354.	None
The facts of the case lie within a narrow compass.	None
Late Karam Chand Thapar made certain cash gifts to his wife Smt.	Facts
Mohini Thapar.	Facts
From out of those gifts, she purchased certain shares and the balance amount she invested.	Facts
The shares earned dividends and the investments yielded interest.	Facts
The interest realised and the dividends earned were included in the income of Karam Chand Thapar for the purpose of assessment in the assessment years mentioned earlier.	Facts
The assessee objected to the inclusion of that amount in his income.	Facts
The question is whether the department was entitled to include the dividends and interest in question in computing the taxable income.	Facts
of the assessee.	Facts
The Incometax Officer held that they were liable to be included in the income of the assessee.	Facts
That decision was upheld by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
On a further appeal, taken by the assessee to the Tribunal the Tribunal upheld the order of the Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
Thereafter at the instance of the assessee, the question set out below was submitted to the High Court under section 66(1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, in respect of the assessment year 194950(1)	Issue
Whether on the facts and on the circumstances of the case, the income of Rs. 21, 225 derived from deposits and shares held by the assessees wife, Smt.	Issue
Mohini Devi Thapar was income from assets directly or indirectly transferred by the assessee to his wife within the meaning of Section 16(3) of the Incometax Act.	Facts
Similar questions were referred in respect of other assessment year.	Facts
The High Court answered these questions in favour of the revenue.	Facts
Hence these appeals.	Issue
Section 16(3)(a)(iii) of the Actthe provision relevant for the purpose of these appeals reads thus(2)	None
In computing the total income of any individual for the purpose of assessment, there shall be included(a) so much of the income of a wife or minor child of such individual as arises directly or indirectly(i)(ii)(iii)from assets transferred directly or indirectly to the wife by the husband otherwise than for adequate consideration or in connection with an agreement to live apart2.	None
The assets transferred in this case is the gift of cash amounts made by the assessee to his wife.	None
The transfers in question are direct transfers.	None
But those assets, as mentioned earlier, were invested either in shares or otherwise.	None
Hence it was urged on behalf of the revenue that the incomes realised either as dividends from shares or as interest from deposits are income indirectly received in respect of the transfer of cash directly made.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention of the revenue appears to be sound.	Reasoning
That position clearly emerges from the plain language of the section.3.	None
It was urged by Dr. Pal, learned counsel for the assessee that there is no nexus between the income earned and the transfer of the assets.	None
According to him before an income can come within section 16(3) (a) (iii) it must be an income directly arising from the assets transferred.	None
In other words, he urged that only such income which can be said to have directly sprung from the assets transferred Can come within the scope of section 16 (3) (a) (iii).	None
We are unable to accept this contention as sound.	None
Otherwise the expression as arises directly or indirectly in section 16(3)(a) would become redundant.	Reasoning
The net cast by section 16(3)(a) (iii) includes not merely the income that arises directly from the assets transferred but also that arises indirectly from the assets transferred.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with the contention of Dr. Pal that the income that can be brought to tax under section 16 (3) (a) (iii) must have a nexus with the assets transferred directly or indirectly.	Reasoning
But in this case the income with which we are concerned has a nexus with the assets transferred.	Reasoning
In support of his contention Dr. Pal relied on the decision of this Court in Commissioner of IncomeTax, West Bengal III v. Prem Bhai Parakh and others(1970 77 I.T.R. p. 27.).	None
The facts of that case are as follows The assessee, who was a partner in a firm having 7 annas share therein, retired from the firm on July 1, 1954.	None
Thereafter, he gifted Rs. 75, 000 to each of his four sons, three of whom were minors.	None
There was a reconstitution of the firm with effect from July 2, 1954, whereby the major son became a partner and the minor sons were admitted to the benefits of partnership in the firm.	None
The question was whether the income arising to the minors by virtue of their admission to the benefits of partnership in the firm could be included in the total income of the assessee under section 16 (3) (a) (iv) a provision similar to section 1 6 (3) (a) (iii) The Tribunal found that the capital invested by the minors in the firm came from the gift made in their favour by their father, the assessee.	None
This Court overruling the contention of the revenue came to the conclusion that the connection between the gifts made by the assessee and the income of the minors from the firm was a remote one and it could not be said that income arose directly or indirectly from the asses transferred.	None
Hence I income arising to the three minor sons of the assessee by virtue of their admission to the benefits of partnership in the firm could not be included in the total income of the assessee.	None
The ratio of the decision is found at page 30 of the report.	None
This is what the Court observed in that caseThe connection between the gifts mentioned earlier and the income in question is a remote one.	None
The income of the minors arose as a result of their admission to the benefits of the partnership.	None
It is true that they were admitted to the benefits of the partnership because of the contribution made by them.	None
But there is no nexus between the transfer of the assets and the income in question.	None
It cannot be said that that income, arose directly or indirectly from the transfer of the assets referred to earlier.	None
Section 16(3) of the Act created an artificial income.	None
That section must receive strict construction as observed by this court in Commissioner of Incometax v. Keshavlal Lallubhai Patel(1965) 55 I.T.R. p. 637.	None
In our judgment before an income can be held to come within the ambit of section 16(3), it must be proved to have arisen directly or indirectly from a transfer of assets made by the assessee in favour of his wife or minor children.	None
The connection between the transfer of assets and the income must be proximate.	None
The income in question must arise as a result of the transfer and not in some manner connected with it.	None
The ratio of that decision is inapplicable to the facts of the present case.4.	None
Here we are dealing with an income which has proximate connection with the transfer of the assets made by the assessee.5.	Reasoning
In the result, these appeals fail and they are dismissed with costs.	Decision
Costs one set.6.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
