 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Patna and raises mainly the question of the scope of the right of preemption under the Mohamedan law as applied by custom in Bihar.2.	Issue
The facts lie in a small compass.	None
On June 17, 1930, Chathilal Sah of Sahebganj, who was the owner of a house and two golas bearing holdings Nos. 184 and 185 situated in mahalla Sahebganj, executed a will bequeathing the said property to his daughter Parbati Kuer and nephew Ram Swarup in equal shares.	Facts
Under the said will Ram Swarup was to get the entire property in case Parbati Kuer died unmarried or issueless.	Facts
On July 18, 1940, Ram Swarup sold onehalf of the said property to the plaintiffrespondent 1.	Facts
On July 27, 1942, the plaintiffrespondent 1 acquired under a patta some lands adjoining the said property.	Facts
On October 10, 1949, defendant 3 (respondent 3 herein), alleging to be the husband of the said Parbati Kuer, sold the remaining half of the disputed property to defendants 1 and 2.	Facts
It may be mentioned at this stage that the land on which the said house and golas stand is DihBasgit Lagani (rentpaying) land.	Facts
On December 10, 1949, respondent 1 filed Title Suit No. 214 of 1949 in the First Court of the Munsif at Chapra for a declaration that he has a right to preempt the property purchased by appellants 1 and 2 and for directing them to transfer the said property to him.	Facts
To that suit, the first appellant and his two sons were made defendants 1, 2 and 2A and their vendor was made defendant 3.	Facts
The defendants contested the suit, inter alia, on the ground that the ceremonies of preemption were not performed and that under the Mohamedan, law the plaintiff was not entitled to preemption, as the land on which the said house and golas stood was rentpaying land.	Facts
The learned Munsif dismissed the suit.	Facts
But, on appeal the Subordinate Judge of Chapra allowed the appeal and granted a decree for preemption in favour of the plaintiffrespondent 1.	Facts
On appeal, the High Court agreed with the Subordinate Judge and dismissed the appeal.	Facts
Defendants 1, 2 and 2A have preferred the present appeal by special leave against the Judgment of the High Court.	Facts
Mr. Varma, learned counsel for the appellants, raised before us the following four points (1) the right of pre emption infringes the fundamental right of a citizen under Art. 19(1) (f) of the Constitution and it is not saved by cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) thereof (2) the first respondent failed to establish his title and, therefore, his suit should have been dismissed on that ground (3) the ceremonies of pre emption were performed only on October 11, 1949 whereas the sale deed in favour of the appellants was executed and registered on October 20, 1949 and, as the said performance of the ceremonies was premature, they having been performed before the sale was completed, the right of preemption could not be enforced and (4) there is no right of pre emption in respect of leasehold interest and, therefore, there cannot be a right of preemption in respect of a house standing on such land, as Mohamedan law does not recognize a right of preemption in mere superstructure.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sarjoo Prasad, learned counsel for the respondents controverts the correctness of the said propositions.	None
We shall deal with his arguments in the course of the judgment.4.	None
To appreciate the first contention, some dates may be recapitulated.	None
Respondent 1 purchased onehalf share of the property by a sale deed dated July 18, 1940.	None
Appellants 1 and 2 purchased the other half of the property on October 10, 1949.	None
The suit was filed on December 10, 1949.	None
The Munsif dismissed the suit on April 14, 1953.	None
The Constitution came into force on January 26, 1950.	None
The appellants had no fundamental right on the date when they purchased the property.	None
But it is said that under the law of preemption a person who seeks the assistance of a court with a view to enforce the right of preemption is bound to establish that the right existed on the date of the sale, on the date of the institution of the suit, and also on the date of the decree of the primary courtSee Nuri Mian v. Ambica Singh(1917 I.L.R. 44 Cal.	None
47.)	None
and, therefore, the restriction on the appellants fundamental right to acquire the property was not finally imposed before the Constitution, but became crystallized into an irrevocable restriction only at the time of the passing of the decree which was subsequent to the coming into force of the Constitution.	None
We need not express our opinion on this question, as it has been held by this Court in Bhau Ram v. Baij Nath(A.I.R. 1962 S.C. 1476.)	None
that a right of preemption visavis co sharers was not an unreasonable restriction on the fundamental right of a person to acquire, hold and dispose of property.	None
But learned counsel contends that decision should be confined to a case of cosharers who are related to each other, and should not be extended to cosharers who are not related to each other.	None
Reliance is placed upon the following observations in that judgment found at p. 1483	None
If an outsider is introduced as a co sharer in a property it will make common management extremely difficult and destroy the benefits of ownership in common.	None
This sentence does not, in our view, sustain the distinction sought to be made by the learned counsel between cosharers who are relatives and cosharers, who are not relatives.	None
The word outsider in the said passage can only mean a person who is not a cosharer.	None
The judgment of this Court finally settled the question as between cosharers.	Reasoning
Following the decision we hold that the law of preemption visavis cosharers does not infringe the fundamental right conferred under Art.	Reasoning
19	Reasoning
(1) (f) of the Constitution.5.	None
The second question, namely, that of the plaintiffs title does not call for consideration by us.	None
It was not raised in the courts below, and it being a pure question of fact, we cannot allow it to be raised for the first time before us.	None
We, therefore, disallow it.6.	None
The next point raised by the learned counsel is that the ceremonies of preemption performed in this case were premature, as the sale was completed only on October 20, 1949 whereas the ceremonies were performed on October 11, 1949.	None
This Court, by a majority, held in Ram Saran v. Domini Kuer(A.I.R. 1961 S.C. 1747.) that the registration under the Registration Act is not complete till the document to be registered has been copied out in the records of the Registration Office as provided in s. 61 of that Act.	None
Learned counsel contends that a perusal of the sale deed dated October 10, 1949, ex facie shows that it was copied only on October 20, 1949.	None
The question as to when a document was copied out in the concerned register is certainly a question of fact.	None
The argument was not raised either before the trial court or before the first appellate court.	None
No issue was framed on the point.	None
It was raised for the first time before the High Court.	None
The learned Judges of the High Court pointed out that if the appellants wanted to take advantage of the said point, it was their duty to have raised it either in the trial court or in the first appellate court and to have adduced evidence by calling for the register from the registration department to show on what date the actual copying of the record was made under s. 61 of the Registration Act.	None
In the circumstances, the learned Judges refused to allow the appellants to raise the point.	None
The High Court, in our opinion, was certainly right in disallowing the appellants from raising the question of fact for the first time in second appeal.	Reasoning
If the plea had been taken at the earliest point of time, the respondents might have had many defences and might have explained the various dates found on the documents.	Reasoning
We cannot allow the appellants to raise the said plea.	None
Now we come to the substantial point raised in the appeal.	None
The right of preemption is sought to be enforced in respect of a rentpaying land with a house thereon.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants contends that the right of preemption does not arise on the sale of a leasehold interest in land and that in the absence of such a right there cannot be a right of pre emption in respect of the superstructure alone.	None
Learned counsel for the respondents, on the other hand, contends that under Mohamedan law the right of preemption exists in the case of akar i.e., a house or mansion, to enable the cosharer to have peaceful enjoyment thereof and that the fact that there is no right of preemption in respect of a leasehold interest in land does not in any way detract from that right.	Arguments of Respondent
He further contends that whatever might have been the strict incidents of the right of preemption under Mohamedan law, this Court cannot ignore the modern evolution of law recognizing the transferability and heritability of leasehold interest in land.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we consider the problem thus presented for our decision, it would be convenient at the outset to notice certain general principles relevant to the present enquiry.	None
It has not been disputed that Hindus in the Province of Bihar came to adopt the Mohamedan law of preemption as a custom.	None
This was because under the Muslim rule the law of preemption under the Mohamedan law was administered as a rule of common law of the land in those parts of the country which came under their domination.	None
We must, therefore, .	None
look to Mohamedan law to ascertain the incidents of the right of preemption unless it is established in a particular case that by custom the said law has been modified to any extent.	None
Being a customary law, it is not permissible for courts to extend the custom beyond the limits within which upto now it has been recognized.	None
The concept of rationalization is out of place in the ascertainment of the customary incidents of the right of preemption.	None
This Court in Bishan Singh v. Khazan Singh(1959 S.C.R. 8 78.)	None
considered the law on the subject and laid down the propositions flowing from the discussion.	None
The following propositions are relevant to the present enquiry (1) The right of preemption is simply a right of sub situation, but not of repurchase i.e., the preemptor takes the entire bargain and steps into the shoes of the original vendee (2) it is a right to acquire the whole of the property sold and not a share of it and (3) the right being a very weak right, it can be defeated by all legitimate methods, such a.s the vendee allowing the claimant of a superior or equal right being substituted in his place.	None
It is, therefore, settled law that the preemptor must take the entire bargain he cannot split up the bargain and claim to be substituted in respect of a portion of it either on the ground that he does not require a part of it or for the reason that he is entitled to claim preemption only in respect of a part of it.	None
Further, the right being a weak one, a court need not be astute to rationalize the doctrine so as to make it fit into modern trends of property law.	None
Indeed, it should be reluctant to extend it beyond the incidents clearly recognized by Mohamedan law or by custom.	None
With this background let us now turn to the question that arises in this case.	None
The subject can conveniently be considered under three heads the preemptor (ii) the vendor and (iii) the property in respect of which the right is claimed.	None
In Baillies Digest of Moohummudan Law the following passage appears at p. 478 When it is said that akar (such as mansions, vineyards and other kinds of land) are proper objects of the right of pre emption, it is by virtue of a right of milk, or ownership, that they are so.8.	None
Mahmood 3.	None
in Gobind Dayal v. Inayatullah(1) observed at p. 779	None
thus preemption is a right which the owner of certain immovable property possesses, as such, for the quiet enjoyment of that immovable property, to obtain, in substitution for the buyer, proprietary possession of certain other immovable property, not his own, on such terms as these on which such latter immovable property is sold to another person.9.	None
The same learned Judge in Sakina Bibi v. Amiran((1888)I.L.R.10 All.	None
472, 477.)	None
states that in the preemptive tenement (the tenement by the ownership of which the preemptor wants to exercise his right of preemption ), the preemptor should have vested ownership and not a mere expectancy of inheritance or a reversionary right, or any other kind of contingent right, or any interest which falls short of full ownership.	None
Beaumont C.J. in Dashrathlal v. Bai Dhondubai (A.I.R. 1941 Bom.262.), after considering the law on the subject, accepted the view that the custom of preemption only exists as between free holders, that is to say neighbouring lands in respect whereof the custom is claimed to apply must be freehold and that the land sought to be preempted must also be free hold.	None
This Court, in Shri Audh Bihari Singh v. Gajadhar Jaipuria(1955 1 S.C.R. 70, 80.), has laid down the correct legal position thus the benefit as well as the burden of the right of preemption run with the land and can be enforced by or against the owner of the land for the time being although the right of the preemptor does not amount to an interest in the land itself.	None
This legal requirement of the full ownership of the preemptor may be traced either to the fact that in ancient times Mohamedan law did hot recognize leases although it recognized hire ofand for the purpose of user, or to the circumstance that the right was conferred to enable the preemptor to prevent an undesirable person from becoming his neighbour which would not be the case if he was only a temporary occupant of the property in respect whereof the right arose.	None
Whatever may be the reason, it may safely be held now that the preemptor must be the owner of the property in respect whereof he claims the right of preemption.	None
1 SCI/648	None
The next question, namely, the quantum of interest which the vender shall possess in the land sought to be preempted depends upon the doctrine of reciprocity.	None
Unless the land in respect of which the custom is claimed and the land sought to be pre empted are freeholds, the principle of reciprocity will be defeatedTo illustrate A has full ownership in a land in respect of which he claims the right of preemption the cosharer vendor has only a leasehold interest in respect of the land sought to be preempted if the preemptor had sold the land earlier, the vendor having only a leasehold interest in his land, could not have claimed the right of preemption in respect of his land, for he had no full ownership in the land.	None
The absence of this reciprocity gives an advantage to one of the sharers which the Mohamedan law does not permit.	None
This doctrine of reciprocity has been succinctly stated by Mahmood J. in Gobind Dayal v. Inavatullah(1885 I.L.R. 7 All.	None
775.)	None
in the passage we have extracted earlier.	None
In Mt. Bibi Saleha v. Amiruddin (1929 I.S.R. 8 pat 251.)	None
the said doctrine was restated.	None
It was held therein that a mukarraridar holding under a cosharer had no right to preempt as against another cosharer and as a mukarraridar could not claim preemption, the cosharer on the doctrine of reciprocity, which is well understood in the Mohamedan law, could not claim preemption against the mukarraridar.	None
A Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in Deshrathlal v. Bai Dhondubai (A.I.R. 1941 Bom. 262 .) has given its approval to the said principle.	None
This Court in Shri Audh Behari Singh v. Gajadhar Jaipuria(1955 1 S.C.R. 70, 80.) succinctly put the legal position in the following words The crux of the whole thing is that the benefit as well as the burden of the right of preemption run with the land and can be enforced by or against the owner of the land for the time being although the right of the preemptor does not amount to an interest in the land itself.	None
That leasehold interest is not subject to the law of preemption has been well settled see Baboo Ram Golam Singh v. Nursingh Sabey(1876 25 W.R. 43.)	None
, Mohammad Jamil v. Khub Lal Raut(1921 5 Pat. L.J. 740.)	None
Sakina Bibi v. Amiran(1888 I.L.R. 10 All.	None
472, 477.)	None
Phul Mohammad Khan v. Qazi Kutubuddin (A.I.R. 1937 Pat. 578 .)	None
Moorooly Ram v. Baboo Hari Ram (1867 8 W.R.106.)	None
Rameshwar Lal v. Ramdeo Jha(A.I.R. 1957 Pat. 695 .)	None
and Nathuni Ram v. Gopinath (A.I.R. 1962 Pat. 226 (F.B.)).	None
Indeed this legal position has not been controverted by learned counsel for the respondents.10.	None
Now let us address ourselves to the main contention of the respondents, namely, that the right of preemption exists in the Mohamedan law in respect of akar which includes a building, that the main purpose intended to be served by the said right is to prevent an undesirable person from becoming the sharer of the house and that, therefore, it would be unrealistic to negative that right in the case of a house on the ground that the land on which the house stands is a leasehold interest.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance is placed upon the following passage in Charles Hamiltons The Hedaya, 2nd Edn., at p. 558	None
It is observed, in the abridgment of Kadooree, that Shaffa does not affect even a house or trees when sold separately from the ground on which they stand.	None
This opinion (which is also mentioned in the Mabsoot) is approved for as buildings and trees are not of a permanent nature, they are therefore of the class of movables.11.	None
Relying upon this passage it is contended that, as in the present case the house was sold along with the ground, the doctrine of Shaffa applies to the house.	None
But this passage must be understood on the assumption that the right of pre emption exists in respect of the land on which the house stands.	None
In Baillies Digest of Moohummudan Law, the legal position is made clear.	None
Therein the author says at pp.	None
479 480	None
When a person has purchased a palm tree to cut it down, or when he has purchased it absolutely, there is no right of pre emption in it.	None
But if it be purchased with its roots and the ground on which it stands, it is liable to the right.	None
The rule is the same with regard to buildings purchased for removal, and the same buildings purchased with their foundations and there is no preemption in the former case, while there is in the latter.	None
This passage indicates that a building sold as a superstructure is not subject to the right of preemption, for it would be in effect a sale of a movable.	None
Unless the house is sold with its foundations, that is to say with the land on which it stands, there is no right of preemption in regard thereto.	None
Though it may be said that in the present case the house was sold with its foundations, the same principle will have to be applied, for the right of pre emption cannot be invoked in the case of a leasehold interest.	None
In effect and substance the right is sought to be invoked in the case of the building decors the foundations which the law does not permit.	None
Reliance is placed upon the proposition found in para.	None
370 of Wilsons AngloMuhammadan Law, which reads If a house is sold apart from the ground on which it stands with a view to being pulled down, so that it is in fact a sale of the materials, no right of preemption arises with respect to it.	None
If it is sold for occupation as a house, then preemption can be claimed on the ground of vicinage by the owner of any adjoining land or house (and perhaps by the owner of the site itself, supposing him to be a different person from the vendor of the house, even though he should happen to own no land except that covered by the house).12.	None
It is said that the words in the brackets conceding the right of the owner of a site to preempt the house sold as a house indicates that the real principle is whether the house is sold as a habitate or only as materials and that in the former case irrespective of the ownership of the land or the existence of the right of preemption in respect thereof, the sale of the house can be preempted.	None
The opening word of the passage, namely, perhaps, shows that the author himself is not sure of the legal position.	None
That apart, the illustration only deals with a land in respect of which there can be a right of preemption, i.e., the owner of the land has a freehold interest therein.	None
Strong reliance is placed upon the decision of a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in Zahur v. Nur Ali((1880)I.L.R. 2 All. 99.).	None
There, a dwelling house was sold as a house to be inhabited as it stood with the same right of occupation as the vendor had enjoyed, but without the ownership of the site.	None
It was held that the right of preemption under the Mohamedan law attached to such house.	None
The judgment is not a considered one.	None
The learned Judges observed at p. 100	None
thus The seller not only sold the materials of the house, but such interest as he possessed as an occupier of the soil.	None
The house was sold as a house to be inhabited on the spot with the same right of occupation as the seller had enjoyed.	None
The learned Judges distinguished the texts cited on the ground that they applied only to the sale of the materials of a house or a house capable of and intended to be removed from its site.	None
This judgment no doubt supports the contention of learned counsel for the respondents but the learned Judges have not considered the well settled principle that there cannot be a right of preemption in respect of a land over which the vendor has no full ownership.	None
The decision suffers from the infirmity that the said well settled principle has escaped the attention of the court.	None
Reliance is also placed on the decision of a Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Chariter Dusadh v. Bhagwati Pandey(A.I.R. 1934 Pat. 596 .).	None
There, the question was whether the preemptor had the milkiyat or ownership in the property on account of which he claimed the right of preemption.	None
The preemptor was birtdar though he was described as a tenant in the Record ofRights for a particular purpose.	None
The court held that he was a full owner.	None
This decision does not really support the respondents.	None
There is a direct decision of a Full Bench of the Patna High Court on the question now raised, in Nathuni Ram v. Gopinath(A.I.R. 1962 Pat. 226 (F.B.)).	None
There, as here, a right of preemption was claimed in respect of a house which stood on a leasehold land.	None
After a full discussion of the subject, Choudhary J., speaking for the Full Bench, came to the following decision, at p. 229	None
On a careful consideration of the authorities and the principle of law involved in the case, my concluded opinion is that, in case of a sale of different properties, the.	None
right of preemption cannot be exercised with respect to one or some of them only if the enjoyment thereof is dependent on the property over which that right is not and cannot be exercised in law and consequently, where the land is sold with a house thereon, preemption cannot be allowed.	Reasoning
with respect to the house only apart from the land over which the right could not be exercised on account of its being a leasehold property.	Reasoning
The sale of a house for inhabitation or occupation, without the sale of its foundations and the land over which the foundations stand, is inconceivable, except, as pointed out in Hedaya, in case of the sale of the upper story of a house.	Reasoning
We agree with the conclusion.	Reasoning
As this judgment has considered the earlier decisions on the subject, we need not again refer to them.13.	None
To summarize A right of preemption is annexed to full ownership of property of cosharers.	None
It is not attached to property held on subordinate tenure, such as leases etc.	Reasoning
It is an incident of the cosharers property operating both as a right and as a burden in different situations.	Reasoning
It is a right of substitution taking in the entire bargain.	Reasoning
It must take the whole or nothing.	Reasoning
It does not matter if the inability to take the whole arises out of a voluntary act or out of a legal limitation inherent in the nature of the property transferred.	Reasoning
It is reciprocal in operation, that is, if the situation was reversed and the vendor became the preemptor, he should be in a position to preempt the co sharers whole bargain.	Reasoning
The two doctrines which may, for convenience, be referred to as entire bargain and reciprocity cannot operate unless both the cosharers are full owners of their respective properties.	Reasoning
Akar or a house standing on a freehold land is subject to the right of preemption, but a house on a leasehold land stands on a different footing.	Reasoning
As there is no right of preemption in respect of a land held on a subordinate tenure, the right of preemption cannot be enforced against the house either, as the preemptor cannot be substituted for the entire bargain.	Reasoning
The right must fall also on the ground that the super structure disannexed from the land would be movable property and it is well settled that the right of preemption cannot be enforced in respect of movables.14.	Reasoning
We, therefore, hold that the first respondent has no right to preempt the sale executed in favour of the appellants.	Decision
In the result, the appeal is allowed, the decrees of the Subordinate Judges Court and the High Court are set aside and that of the trial Court is restored.	Decision
The appellants will have their costs throughout.	Decision
RAGHUBAR DAYAL J.I agree that the law of preemption regarding cosharers does not infringe the fundamental right conferred under Art.	None
19(1)(g), that the preemptor must be the owner of the property in respect whereof he claims the right of preemption, that the vendor must have proprietary right in the property sold and sought to be preempted, that the sale of leasehold interest is not subject to the law of preemption and that the sale of the superstructure of a house is not preemptible.	None
I also agree that the preemptor must preempt for the entire property sold if that be pre emptible.	None
I would, however, not like to express an opinion upon the point whether, in certain circumstances, the pre emptor can or cannot preempt part of the property sold.	None
There have been cases where partial preemption has been allowed.	None
Some of the exceptional cases have been referred to at p. 778 of Muslim Law as Administered in India Pakistan by K.P. Saksena, IV Edition.15.	None
In Zainab Bibi v. Umar Havat Khan(1936 A.L.J. 456.)	None
the preemptor was allowed to preempt that part of the property sold which was preemptible and in support of the decision it was stated at p. 457 So far as the Mohammedan Law is concerned, there is no doubt that where several properties are sold in portions of which a preemptor has the right of pre emption, he is entitled to preempt that portion only on payment of a proportionate price.	None
On this point there was a consensus of opinion among the three Imams as quoted in the Fatawa Alamgiri, referred to in Omur Khan v. Mooras Khan (1865 N.W.P. H.C.R. 173, 174)	None
This Court did express an opinion in Bishan Singh v. Khazan Singh(1959 S.C.R. 878, 884.)	None
The general law of preemption does not recognize any right to claim a share in the property sold when there are rival claimants.	None
It is well established that the right of pre emption is a right to acquire the whole of the property sold in preference to other persons (See Mool Chand v. Ganga Jal ILR 11 Lah. 258, 273)	None
In that case the dispute lay between two rival preemptors and arose in these circumstances.	None
One preemptor preempted the entire sale and obtained the decree on condition that he would deposit a certain amount within a certain time.	None
But, before he could deposit the amount, the rival preemptor instituted another suit for the preemption of the entire property sold and impleaded in that suit the first pre emptor.	None
The rights of the two preemptors were found to be equal.	None
The entire property sold was clearly preemptible.	None
It was, in this context, that the observation was made.	None
It would be a matter for consideration at the appropriate time whether there can be any exception to this general rule that the entire property sold must be pre emptor by the preemptor in his suit.	None
I would therefore rest my decision on the facts that the sale of the leasehold interest in land is not preemptible and that the superstructure of the house is also not pre emptible and that therefore the plaintiff preemptor cannot preempt the sale of the property sold.	None
I therefore agree that the appeal be allowed, the decrees of the Subordinate Judge and the High Court be set aside and that of the trial Court be restored and that the appellants would have their costs throughout.16.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
