 Banumathi, J. This appeal is preferred challenging the order of the High Court of Delhi in Crl.	Issue
M.C. No.2083 of 2006 dated 10.02.2009, in and by which, the High Court exercising its inherent power under Section 482 Cr.	Issue
P.C. quashed the criminal proceedings in RC No.3 of 1987 under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 IPC read with Section 120B IPC and all proceedings consequent thereto qua the respondent.	Issue
Brief facts which led to the filing of this criminal appeal are as under The complainantChief Vigilance Officer of the New Bank of India (presently Punjab National Bank for short PNB) lodged the complaint alleging that two persons namely Suresh Kumar Puri and Maninder Singh introduced themselves as proprietors of M s Fashion India and M s Ronney Exports respectively and opened their current accounts with their branch at Miller Ganj in Ludhiana on 08.11.1986.	Facts
One Manger namely A.K. Satija of IBD Cell of the New Bank of India at Ludhiana allowed advance amount worth Rs.5.31 lakhs each to these two firms on production of Bill of Lading, GR form and other bills and those foreign bills purchased by the Bank on 27.11.1986 returned unpaid.	Facts
During the enquiry made by the bank, Bill of Lading presented by the proprietors of the abovesaid two firms were found forged.	Facts
ManagerA.K. Satija helped Maninder Singh to avail advance upto Rs.10.62 lakhs by opening two different accounts just to ensure that the pecuniary limits allowed may fall under his power however according to prosecution nature of transactions reveal that parties were one and the same.	Facts
Respondent and other coaccused thus entered into a criminal conspiracy during the period NovemberDecember 1986, with intention to cheat New Bank of India (PNB) to the tune of Rs.10.62 lakhs.	Facts
On the basis of the above complaint, case was registered under Section 120B IPC read with Section 420 IPC and Section 5(2) read with Section 5(1)(d) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 and further substantive offences under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 IPC Section 5 (2) read with Section 5 (1) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947 in Crime No.RC.3/87SIU(X) CBI SPE dated 28.08.1987.	Facts
After completion of the investigation, a chargesheet was filed on 22.12.1990 in the Court of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi against the accused persons collectively for the offences under Section 120B IPC read with Section 420 IPC and substantive offences under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 471 IPC.3.	Facts
Noticeably, on 01.02.1995 i.e. after four years the accusedrespondent Maninder Singh was arrested by CBI from IGI Airport and the CMM vide order dated 16.09.1995 framed charges against accused respondent Maninder Singh and other accused.	Facts
In the trial, thirty nine prosecution witnesses were examined.	Facts
However on 29.01.2005, Maninder Singh arrived at a settlement with the New Bank of India, Ludhiana and on 29.11.2005, the respondentaccused filed an application before the CMM for pleading guilty for the offences alleged, but on the date of hearing i.e. 08.12.2005, the accused respondent Maninder Singh did not appear in the court and his advocate withdrew the aforesaid application.	Facts
Respondent herein moved a Crl.	Facts
Misc.	Facts
Petition bearing No.2083 of 2006 under Section 482 Cr.	Facts
P.C. for quashing of the FIR against him on the ground	Facts
that a settlement is arrived between the parties and amounts are repaid to bank.	Facts
The High Court placing reliance on Nikhil Merchant vs. CBI Anr., (2008) 9 SCC 677 , vide impugned order dated 10.02.2009 allowed the petition and thereby directed that criminal proceedings in RC No.3 of 1987 and all consequential proceedings thereto against the respondent shall stand quashed.	Facts
The appellantCBI herein assails the correctness of the order passed by the High Court.	Facts
Ms. Pinki Anand, learned Additional Solicitor General contended that Nikhi Marchant case is not an authority on the question involved and in Rumi Dhar (Smt.)	Arguments of Petitioner
vs. State of West Bengal Anr., (2009) 6 SCC 364 , this Court raised doubts as to the correctness of the judgment passed in Nikhil Merchants case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the facts of the present case are totally different and in this case thirty nine prosecution witnesses were already examined and substantial progress has been made in the criminal case and while so, High Court was not right in quashing the criminal proceedings qua the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Additional Solicitor General has drawn our attention to State of Maharashtra through CBI vs. Vikram Anantrai Doshi and Ors., 2014 (10) SCALE 690 and submitted that this Court has distinguished Nikhil Merchants case and held that availing loan from the bank by producing forged documents has immense societal impact and the High Court ignoring the facts and circumstances of the present case was not justified in quashing the criminal proceedings qua the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Senior Counsel for the respondent Mr. K.K. Menon submitted that availing facilities from the bank is purely of civil dispute which are personal in nature and therefore High Court was totally justified in quashing the proceedings in view of the judgment rendered in Nikhil Merchants case.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the judgment rendered in Nikhil Merchants case was upheld in Gian Singh vs. State of Punjab And Anr., (2012) 10 SCC 303 Shiji Pappu Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
vs. Radhika Anr., (2011) 10 SCC 705 and other judgments.	Arguments of Respondent
We have carefully considered the rival contentions advanced by the parties and perused the material on record.	None
In the case at hand, respondent and one Suresh Kumar Puri introducing themselves as proprietors of M s Ronney Exports and M s Fashion India opened current accounts Nos.4443 4441 on 08.11.1986 with New Bank of India (PNB) and by forged documents they had availed various facilities viz.	None
Anticipated case incentive advance Rs.50,000/ to each of the firms (ii) F.B.P. against order documents (the bills of ladings now turned out to be forged)	None
Rs.3,05,000/ each (iii) F.B.P. against order documents (the bills of ladings now turned out to be forged) additional funds released Rs.22,000/ each (iv) P.C.L. against orders (Packing Credit Loans) Rs.1,50,000/ each and interest Rs.4,000/ to each of the firms.	None
In the charges, it is further alleged that A.K. Satija, the then Manager, IBD Cell, New Bank of India, Ludhiana has sanctioned various credit facilities to respondent and Suresh Kumar Puri viz.	None
(i)	None
Packing Credit against confirmed orders (ii) Advance against anticipated cash incentive duty draw back (iii) Advance against cash incentive and duty draw back and (iv) Advance against foreign bill purchase.	None
Chargesheet refers to various transactions by which bank amounts were credited to the accounts of the said firms based on forged documents.	None
Accusedrespondent Maninder Singh and his brother Arvinder Singh did not cooperate with the investigating agency and were absconding and declared proclaimed offenders by CMM, Tis Hazari, Delhi vide order dated 03.10.1989.	None
In the trial, thirty nine witnesses were examined and thus substantial progress was made.	None
In fact, on 29.11.2005, respondentaccused filed an application before the trial court for pleading guilty but the accused did not appear in the court and his advocate withdrew the aforesaid application.	None
Placing reliance upon Nikhil Merchants case, the High Court quashed the criminal proceedings qua the respondent on the ground that the respondent has settled the matter with the bank.	None
In Nikhil Merchants case the dispute between the company and the bank which was set at rest on the basis of compromise arrived at by them and dues of the bank have been cleared.	None
In Nikhil Merchants case certain documents were alleged to have been forged by the respondent thereon in order to avail credit facilities beyond the limit to which the company was entitled.	None
The case at hand is clearly distinguishable on facts.	None
The chargesheet referred to number of transactions based on such forged documents bank money was credited to the accounts of firms of the respondent.	None
For instance, respondent Maninder Singh and Suresh Kumar Puri are said to have submitted the forged documents of shipment for bill purchased on 27.11.1986.	None
These documents included Bill of Lading and invoices which were found forged and according to the prosecution no consignment was sent by the respondent to foreign companies.	None
It is further alleged that the Bill of Lading and G.R. Form and Shipping Bill also contained forged signatures of customs officers.	None
The allegation against the respondent is forgery for the purpose of cheating and use of forged documents as genuine in order to embezzle the public money.	Reasoning
After facing such serious charges of forgery, the respondent wants the proceedings to be quashed on account of settlement with the bank.	Reasoning
The development in means of communication, science technology etc. have led to an enormous increase in economic crimes viz.	Reasoning
phishing, ATM frauds etc. which are being committed by intelligent but devious individuals involving huge sums of public or government money.	Reasoning
These are actually public wrongs or crimes committed against society and the gravity and magnitude attached to these offences is concentrated at public at large.11.	Reasoning
The inherent power of the High Court under Section 482 Cr.P.C. should be sparingly used.	Reasoning
Only when the Court comes to the conclusion that there would be manifest injustice or there would be abuse of the process of the Court if such power is not exercised, Court would quash the proceedings.	Reasoning
In economic offences Court must not only keep in view that money has been paid to the bank which has been defrauded but also the society at large.	Reasoning
It is not a case of simple assault or a theft of a trivial amount but the offence with which we are concerned is a well planned and was committed with a deliberate design with an eye of personal profit regardless of consequence to the society at large.	Reasoning
To quash the proceeding merely on the ground that the accused has settled the amount with the bank would be a misplaced sympathy.	Reasoning
If the prosecution against the economic offenders are not allowed to continue, the entire community is aggrieved.	Reasoning
In recent decision in Vikram Anantrai Doshi (supra), this Court distinguished Nikhil Merchants case and Narendra Lal Jains case where the compromise was a part of the decree of the court and by which the parties withdrew all allegations against each other.	None
After referring to various case laws under subject in Vikram Anantrai	None
Doshis case, this Court observed that cheating by bank exposits fiscal impurity and such financial fraud is an offence against society at large in para (23), this Court held as under Be it stated, that availing of money from a nationalized bank in the manner, as alleged by the investigating agency, vividly exposits fiscal impurity and, in a way, financial fraud.	None
The modus operandi as narrated in the chargesheet cannot be put in the compartment of an individual or personal wrong.	None
It is a social wrong and it has immense societal impact.	None
It is an accepted principle of handling of finance that whenever there is manipulation and cleverly conceived contrivance to avail of these kind of benefits it cannot be regarded as a case having overwhelmingly and predominantingly of civil character.	None
The ultimate victim is the collective.	None
It creates a hazard in the financial interest of the society.	None
The gravity of the offence creates a dent in the economic spine of the nation.	None
The cleverness which has been skillfully contrived, if the allegations are true, has a serious consequence.	None
A crime of this nature, in our view, would definitely fall in the category of offences which travel far ahead of personal or private wrong.	None
It has the potentiality to usher in economic crisis.	None
Its implications have its own seriousness, for it creates a concavity in the solemnity that is expected in financial transactions.	None
It is not such a case where one can pay the amount and obtain a no due certificate and enjoy the benefit of quashing of the criminal proceedings on the hypostasis that nothing more remains to be done.	None
The collective interest of which the Court is the guardian cannot be a silent or a mute spectator to allow the proceedings to be withdrawn, or for that matter yield to the ingenuous dexterity of the accused persons to invoke the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution or under Section 482 of the Code and quash the proceeding.	None
It is not legally permissible.	None
The Court is expected to be on guard to these kinds of adroit moves.	None
The High Court, we humbly remind, should have dealt with the matter keeping in mind that in these kind of litigations the accused when perceives a tiny gleam of success, readily invokes the inherent jurisdiction for quashing of the criminal proceeding.	None
The courts principal duty, at that juncture, should be to scan the entire facts to find out the thrust of allegations and the crux of the settlement.	None
It is the experience of the Judge comes to his aid and the said experience should be used with care, caution, circumspection and courageous prudence.	None
As we find in the case at hand the learned Single Judge has not taken pains to scrutinize the entire conspectus of facts in proper perspective and quashed the criminal proceeding.	None
The said quashment neither helps to secure the ends of justice nor does it prevent the abuse of the process of the Court nor can it be also said that as there is a settlement no evidence will come on record and there will be remote chance of conviction.	None
Such a finding in our view would be difficult to record.	None
Be that as it may, the fact remains that the social interest would be on peril and the prosecuting agency, in these circumstances, cannot be treated as an alien to the whole case.	None
Ergo, we have no other option but to hold that the order of the High Court is wholly indefensible.	None
In this case, the High Court while exercising its inherent power ignored all the facts viz.	Reasoning
the impact of the offence, the use of the State machinery to keep the matter pending for so many years coupled with the fraudulent conduct of the respondent.	Reasoning
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case at hand in the light of the decision in Vikram Anantrai Doshis case, the order of the High Court cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed and the order passed by the High Court is set aside and the trial court is directed to proceed with the matter expeditiously in accordance with law.	Decision
We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the matter.	Decision
