 Subba Rao, J. 1.	None
This appeal by certificate raises the question of the applicability of S. 9A (10) (ii) (b) of the Madras Agriculturists Relief Act (Madras Act IV of 1938), hereinafter called the Act, as amended by Act XV of 1943 and Act XXIII of 1943, to a mortgage in respect whereof a petition for scaling down the said mortgage debt under the provisions of the Act was filed.	Issue
2.	None
On August 18, 1930, the predecessorsininterest of the appellants executed a registered deed of usufructuary mortgage in favour of the family of Samu Pattar for Rs.	Facts
31,000/ No interest was stipulated in the document but the mortgagee was put in possession of the mortgage property.	Facts
The mortgagee had to enjoy the income from the said property, and after appropriating interest due on the mortgage and after paying the revenue and the jenmis purappad, he was to pay to the mortgagors one edangali of paddy every year within the 30th of Makarom.	Facts
The mortgage was redeemable after the expiry of 60 years from the date of the mortgage.	Facts
The 11th appellant and his deceased father, Narayana Iyer, filed O. P. No. 43 of 1949, on the file of the Court of Subordinate Judge, Palghat, under Ss. 9A and 19A of the Act for scaling down the mortgage debt thereunder.	Facts
To that petition appellants 1 to 10 and others mortgagors were impleaded as respondents 2 to 14, and the mortgage, as the first respondent.	Facts
As the said first respondentmortgagee raised the plea that the mortgage interest had been set apart by the members of his family to a charity, respondents 15 and 16, who were the seniormost male members of their respective branches of the mortgageefamily were also impleaded as respondents to the said petition.	Facts
3.	None
The contesting respondents, inter alia, raised two pleas, namely, (1) the mortgage property was transferred in trust to the charity for valuable consideration and, therefore, S. 9A (10) (ii) (b) of the Act was attracted and hence the mortgage was not liable to be scaled down under the Act and (2) the said mortgage right was the subjectmatter of a partition amongst the several members of the joint family consisting of respondents 1, 15, 16 and others and, therefore, the said mortgage was exempted under S. 9A (10) (ii) (c) of the Act from its operation.	Facts
4.	None
On the first question the learned Subordinate Judge held that The transferee, viz., the charity, not being a transferee for valuable consideration the proviso to S. 9A (10) (ii) (b) did not apply and on the second question he held that the partition of the family in the sense of division in status was effected before the relevant period and that apart, as the mortgage interest of the family was not allotted to some or one of the members of the family but a trust was created in respect thereof in favour of a charity, S. 9A (10) (ii) (c) had no application.	Facts
In the result he allowed the petition and granted a certificate to the petitioners and respondents 2 to 14 to the effect that the amount due under the mortgage on the date he made the order was Rs. 8,7881410.	Facts
5.	None
As the first respondent died pending the proceedings in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, the 17th respondent, his younger brother, was brought on record in his place.	Facts
6.	None
Against the order of the learned Subordinate Judge, the 17th respondent preferred an appeal to the High Court of Judicature at Madras, being A. A. O. No. 577 of 1952.	Facts
To that appeal, the petitioners and other respondents were made respondents.	Facts
On the first question, the High Court held that the family transferred the mortgage interest for valuable consideration in favour of the charity within the meaning of para.	Facts
(b) S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act and on the second question it held that the expression partition in S. 9A (10) (ii) (c) meant partition by metes and bounds and though it was effected during the relevant period the mortgage interest in the property was not the subject of partition and, therefore the said provision was not attracted to the mortgage in question.	Facts
In the result, the High Court, disagreeing with the view expressed by the learned Subordinate Judge, set aside the order made by him and dismissed the petition filed by the mortgagors for scaling down the debt.	Facts
Against the said order the mortgagors have preferred, on a certificate issued by the High Court, the present appeal to this Court.	Facts
7. Mr. Prasad, learned counsel for the appellants contended that (i) there was no transfer of the mortgage properly in trust for a charity but the said property continued to be the property of the joint family, though a charge was created on its income for some charitable purposes and (ii) there was no transfer of the mortgage interest for valuable consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
Mr. Rajagopala Sastri, learned counsel for the respondents, apart from attempting to sustain the finding of the High Court that there was a transfer of the mortgage property for valuable consideration, contended that the transfer of the mortgage property in trust was an integral step in the process of partition and, therefore, in law and in fact it must be held that the said property was also subject of partition within the meaning of para.	Arguments of Respondent
(c) of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
9.	None
At the outset it will be convenient to read the relevant provisions of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act.	None
Nothing contained in this section, except Subsections (1) and (2), shall apply to any mortgage  (ii) in respect of property situated in any other area in the cases mentioned below  (a) Where during the period after the 30th September 1937 and before the 30th January 1948 (b) Where during the period aforesaid, the mortgagee or any of his successorsininterest has transferred either wholly or in part the mortgagees rights in the property bona fide and for valuable consideration, then, to the whole or such part as the case may be x	None
x x x x x x (c) Where the mortgagees interest in the property subject to the mortgage or any part of such interest belonged to, or devolved on, two or more persons and during the period aforesaid, a partition has taken place among such persons, then, to the whole or such part of the interest, as the case may be.	None
It will be seen from the said provisions, so far relevant to the present enquiry, that the mortgagees rights under para (b) or mortgagees interest in the property shall have been bona fide transferred for valuable consideration or shall have been partitioned among the joint owners during the period between September 30, 1937, and January 30, 1948, in order to earn the exemption from the operation of the provisions of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act.	None
As we agree with the High Court that the mortgage interest was transferred for valuable consideration within the meaning of para (b) of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act, we are relieved of the necessity to consider either the scope or the applicability of para (c) of the said section to the mortgage in question.	None
10.	None
Under para (b) of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act two question arise, namely, (1) whether the mortgage rights in the property were legally transferred in trust in favour of the charity and (2) if so, whether the transfer was for valuable consideration.	None
If there was such a transfer, it is not disputed that it was effected during the relevant period mentioned in the section.	None
11.	None
Exhibit B1 is an agreement dated August 22, 1934, executed between the members of the mortgageefamily.	None
The relevant part of the document reads All of us have out of our free will and consent set apart on this day the sum of Rs. 36,98898 found entered against the date 30th Meenom 1109 M. E. (12th 1934) in the ledger book under the head kulathoorayyan in the accounts maintained in respect of our common family business, the interest accrued thereon from the aforesaid date the sum of Rs. 1490 found entered in the ledger under the head Patasala, (other properties are mentioned)	None
For charitable purposes for the welfare and prosperity of our family.	None
And it is stipulated that the undermentioned ceremonies shall be performed with the income derived from the aforesaid properties.	None
x x x x x x (specific amounts to be spent for different purposes are given)	None
x x x x x x It has been stipulated that the management of the aforesaid properties endowed for purposes of charity shall be conducted by the seniormost male members of the respective branches for each year by rotation, commencing from first Kanni 1110 M. E. (17th September 1934) and the accounts shall be rendered to the satisfaction of the members of the rest of the branches at the end of the year.	None
The recitals of this document are clear and unambiguous.	None
Under this document the members of the family set apart a specific amount and other properties for charitable purposes.	None
Under the scheme of administration the seniormost male members of the different branches of the family were constituted the managers and they were directed to pay specified amounts for specific religious purposes.	None
The members of the family were the authors of the trust.	None
The seniormost male members of the respective branches were the trustees.	None
The charity was the beneficiary.	None
The subjectmatter of the trust was the said amount and the properties.	None
All the necessary ingredients of a trust are present in the document.	None
It is, therefore clear that the document created a valid trust of the said amount.	None
12.	None
Exhibit B2 dated September 3, 1939, is a part of schedules of partition allotted to the members of the E. N. A. S. family.	None
It reads Particulars regarding the properties that have been set apart for charity from out joint family 1.	None
Properties situate in Kunisseri Amsom which belong to N. C. Sivarama Ayyar of Nellisseri Grammom and others which belong to our family in (usufructuary mortgage) right for a sum of Rs. 31,000 and which are held benami in the name of Appathura Pattar alias Seshan Pattar of Melakode Grammom.	None
The document contains other items of properties set apart for charity.	None
13.	None
Exhibit B3, the registration copy of the partition deed dated September 9, 1939, shows that the schedule was prepared in connection with the oral partition agreed upon on September 3, 1939.	None
After orally dividing the properties among the members of the family and setting aside the said mortgage interest and other properties for charity, on September 9, 1939, the said registered partition deed was executed embodying the terms of the oral partition.	None
It is common knowledge that before a regular registered partition deed is effected, there will necessarily be a stage when the terms embodied in the registered document are agreed upon orally between the parties.	None
It is a necessary prelude for executing the formal document.	None
Ex.	None
B3 appears to be such a document embodying the terms orally agreed upon between the parties at an earlier stage.	None
This document governs the rights of the parties.	None
The relevant recital in the document reads Out of the immovable properties which were set apart previously as mentioned in paragraph 2 above, which were reserved in common at that time and which were acquired subsequently, some immovable properties were set apart under schedule 1 for our common family private trust for the purpose of charity.	None
Under the oral partition effected on 3rd September 1939 all the immovable properties belonging to our common family excluding those set apart for charity as stated above were partitioned into 9 schedules from A to I in accordance with our proportionate shares But whereas we have all agreed that the management in respect of the properties in the aforesaid schedule I set apart for charitable purpose and the expenses, etc. to be met with the income shall be conducted and caused to be conducted without default as set out in the aforesaid agreement entered into between us on 22nd August 1934 and that we shall also conduct ourselves in future in accordance with the terms of the said agreement, no special stipulation has been made in this partition deed with regard to the above mentioned properties endowed for charitable purpose and the incomes derived therefrom.	None
This registered partition deed in terms affirmed the earlier creation of trust.	None
14.	None
From these documents it can be reasonably held as follows (1) On August 22, 1934, the family created a trust in respect of a sum of Rs. 36,98898 for charitable purposes (2) on September 3, 1939, the usufructuary mortgage right of the family in Ex. A1, was given to the charity in discharge of the obligation undertaken under Ex.	None
B1 and (3) the dedication of the said property was affirmed in the regular partition deed.	None
In short, under the said documents the family transferred to the charity their interest in the usufructuary mortgage, Ex. A1, in discharge of their obligation to pay the trust a sum of Rs. 36,98898.	None
Indeed, the High Court, on a consideration of the said documents, arrived at exactly the same finding.	None
The learned Judges of the High Court observedOn a comparison of the charity properties mentioned in Exhibits B1 and B2, we find that item No. 3 in Exhibit B1 is the same as item No. 2 in B2.	None
Similarly item No. 3 in Exhibit B1 corresponds to item No. 3 in Exhibit B2.	None
Item No. 5 in Exhibit B1 is admitted to be item No. 4 in Exhibit B2 and item No. 6 in Exhibit B1 is the same as item No. 5 in Exhibit B2.	None
Items Nos. 1 and 2 in Exhibit B1 are not mentioned in Exhibit B2, but they are replaced by item No. 1 in Exhibit B2 which is the mortgage.	None
It is seen that items 1 and 2 in Exhibit B1 are credit entries of the aggregate amounts in the family business accounts but what is done by Exhibit B2 is the replacement of those amounts by the mortgage in question.	None
No evidence has been let in as to what has become of those two amounts.	None
Evidently being credit entries they have been converted into tangible immovable assets for the purposes of conducting the charity.	None
It is more or less in the nature of substituting a credit entry by means of some property, i.e., the discharge of the liability of those credit entries by setting apart immovable property.	None
Exhibit B3, dated 9th September 1939 is a registered copy of the partition deed by the members of the family and paragraphs 2 and 4 of that document make provision with regard to the matters in question which run as follows x	None
x x x x x x Later on the learned Judges proceed to stateWe are unable to accept the arguments for the reasons stated already.	Reasoning
It is clear as were have referred to already that for the amounts entered as credit in the family business account which was a liability payable by the family from and out of the interest under Exhibit B1 the religious functions have to be performed and that there was a substitution of the mortgage amount under Exhibit B3.	Reasoning
Mr. Ramachandra Aiyar contends that there is no oral evidence about that substitutions nor is it possible to conclude from the meagre and scanty documentary evidence let in that there has been any such substitution.	Reasoning
The answer to this argument is that the credit amount in favour of Kolathu Iyen is only a ledger entry making the liability on the family with regard to a sum of money out of which certain charities have to be performed.	Reasoning
In Exhibit B3 we do not find any credit entry in the name of Kolathu Iyen as well as patasala account.	Reasoning
Those liabilities must be deemed to have been discharged by item 1 in Exhibit B2 namely, the mortgage amount.	Reasoning
The result is the discharge of one liability by another and we are unable to see that such a state of things would not amount to a transfer.	Reasoning
These observations also make it clear that the learned Judges clearly held that the mortgage interest in Ex.	Reasoning
A1 was transferred in discharge of the liability undertaken under Ex. B1.	Reasoning
But strong reliance was placed by the learned counsel for the appellants on the following concluding observation of the learned Judges In the present case the joint family has lost the mortgage interest and the trust has gained that interest.	Reasoning
Therefore the transfer under Ex.	Reasoning
B3 must be deemed to be for valuable consideration.	Reasoning
Relying upon this observation the learned counsel commented that the learned Judges held that a mere transfer of an interest in favour of another was in itself a transfer for valuable consideration.	Reasoning
To accept this argument is to ignore the elaborate discussion that preceded the said observation and the relevant extracts from the judgment we have extracted earlier.	Reasoning
In the context of the preceding discussion the said observation can only mean that the transfer in favour of a charity is discharge of the earlier obligation is a transfer for valuable consideration.	Reasoning
Agreeing with the High Court, we hold that there was a transfer of the mortgage interest under Ex.	Reasoning
A1 in trust to a charity in discharge of an earlier obligation undertaken by the family to set apart a sum of Rs. 36,98898 in favour of the charity.	Reasoning
Under para, (b) of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act, to attract that provision the transfer shall be for a valuable consideration.	Reasoning
The short question, therefore, is whether the transfer in trust of a property in discharge of an earlier obligation was for valuable consideration within the meaning of para (b) of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act.	Reasoning
So stated there can only be one answer.	Reasoning
The classic definition of valuable consideration is given in Currie v. Misa, (1875) 10 Ex. 153 at p. 162, thus A valuable consideration in the sense of the law may consist either in some right, interest, profit or benefit accruing to one party, or some forbearance, detriment, loss or responsibility, given suffered or undertaken by the other.	Reasoning
Section 2(d) of the Contract Act defines consideration thusWhen, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person has done or abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing something such act or abstinence or promise is called a consideration for the promise.	None
So far as is relevant to the present enquiry, the content of the two definitions is practically the same, though the expression valuable is implied under S. 2(d) of the Contract Act, for consideration shall be something which not only parties regard but the law can regard as having some value.	Reasoning
From the definitions it is apparent that consideration may be negative or positive.	Reasoning
In the present case the mortgage interest was transferred in trust to the charity.	Reasoning
What was the consideration that passed from the charity to the family?	Reasoning
The family was under an obligation to pay to the charity the amount set apart to it under Ex. B1.	Reasoning
The mortgage interest was transferred in discharge of that obligation.	Reasoning
That is to say, the charity agreed as a consideration for the transfer of the mortgage interest not to enforce its right to recover that amount from the family.	Reasoning
The charity gave up that right in consideration of the mortgage interest acquired by it.	Reasoning
We therefore, hold that the family transferred the mortgage interest in trust to the charity for valuable consideration within the meaning of S. 9A (10) (ii) (b) of the Act.	Reasoning
It follows that the mortgage, Ex. A1, was rightly held by the High Court not liable to be scaled down under the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
15.	None
In the reply the learned counsel for the appellants sought to raise another plea, namely, that there was no valid transfer of the mortgage deed in favour of the charity inasmuch as the said transfer was not effected by the registered document.	Reasoning
This plea was not raised at any stage of the litigation, presumably because Ex.	Reasoning
B3 was a registered document.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, permit the appellants to raise the plea for the first time before us.	Reasoning
16.	None
In this view it is not necessary to express our opinion on the question whether para.	None
(c) of S. 9A (10) (ii) of the Act was attracted to the mortgage in question.	None
17.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
18.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
