 KRISHNA IYER, J.1.	None
The moral of this case is that a short cut may often be a wrong cutin law, as in life.	Facts
The ratio of this appeal is that technicality will not triumph in courts of law and justice, where substantial public policy is involved and it is such public policy which humanistically protects provident fund and pensionary dues of government servants from claims of judgmentcreditors to attach in satisfaction of decrees.2.	Issue
The appellant, the Union of India, has come up in appeal, by special leave, challenging a laconic order of dismissal in Civil Revision made by the Delhi High Court, thus upholding the view of the executing court overruling the contention of the State, objecting to the attachment of certain provident fund and pension dues held by Union of India (on behalf of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat) in trust for the judgmentdebtor who had been employed in the Rajya Sabha Secretariat.	None
The first court had held that the Union of India had no locus standi to object to the attachment by the decreeholder on the score that an outsider to the suit without interest in the attached money has standing to intervene to dispute the attachability even if the sum was clearly immune to attachment in law.	Facts
The relevant reasoning is in these termsIt is not the case of the Union of India that Union of India has any interest in the attach ed property so as to entitle Union of India to make an application under Order 21, r. 58 CPC.	Facts
In my opinion, if the attachment has been wrongly made it is for the judgmentdebtor to make an application to the court for releasing the provident fund or the compulsory deposits from attachment.	Facts
The Court also expressed the view that it was premature to holdthat attached money will fall within the definition of provident fund or compulsory deposit.	None
In fairness to the Subordinate Judge it must be said he did feel inclined to agree that provident fund and compulsory deposits are not liable to any attachment under any decree or order of the civil court.3.	None
The ground which weigh ed with the trial court and has won the approval of the High Court is that the Government has no interest in the attached money and therefore no standing to come to court.	None
The judgmentdebtor may file objections for release of the attached money.	Facts
The objections, if made, will be decided afresh on merits.	Facts
It is apparent from this statement of facts that the courts below took the narrow view, with an escapist flavour which led to long litigation and large expense, that only the judgmentdebtor and not the Government could raise objections regarding nonattachability of provident fund and pension amounts, as if Government were an officious intruder, bereft of any concern in the insultion of the amounts against execution of decrees of court.4.	Facts
The amount involved is small, but Shri Sanghi, for the appellant, contends that the question is one of principle and affects a wide circle of government servants.	Arguments of Petitioner
We agree and indeed appreciate the States anxiety to fulfill the policy of the statute on behalf of the weakersections by taking up the burden on itself.	Reasoning
May be, it is like a test case ventilating a cause in which a large number of employees may be vitally involved.5.	None
We may make it clear here that the stand taken by Shri Rohatgi, counsel for the respondent, is twofold.	Arguments of Respondent
He argues firstly that this amount in the hands of Government is admittedly being held on behalf of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat servant who has jus t retired and, therefore, has lost the character of provident fund or pension.	Arguments of Respondent
The inhibition of attachment of provident fund and like amounts, even if valid, cannot apply to this class of sums which have suffered a metamorphesis.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, the Government has no right to move the court raising objection to the attachment since the judgmentdebtor is the only appropriate person who can do so.	Arguments of Respondent
We disagree.	None
Processual law is neither petrified nor purblind but has simple missionthe promotion of justice.	None
The court cannot content itself with playing umpire in a technical game of legal skills but must be activist in the cause of deciding the real issues between the parties.	None
And one guiding principle is not to exaggerate the efficacy of procedural defects where issues of public concern are involved and a public authority vitally interested in the correct principle alerts the attention of the court to the problem.	None
A broadened view of locus standi loads to the futility of technical flaws where larger issues are involved and that is the trend of modern processual jurisprudence.	None
These general considerations were trite, yet too often ignored, and so need reiteration.	None
Further, the consumers of justice can have scant respect for a procedural policy which is obsessed more with who sparks the plugs of the court system than with what the merits of the rights or wrongs of the relief are.	None
A shift on the emphasis, away from technical legalistics, is overdue if the Judicature is not to aid its grave diggers.	None
We express the view strongly so that hopefuls may be dissuaded from taking up court time by playing up technicalities.6.	None
We may now move on to a consideration of the basic contentions an d, before that, the basic facts may be briefly set down.	None
On March 31, 1967 a money decree for a little over Rs. 2, 000/ was passed in Suit No. 516 of 1966 in favour of respondent No. 1 and against respondents 2 to 4 (who are ex parte).	None
A warrant or attachment of the funds of respondent No. 4, in the hands of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, was sought and ordered.	None
It readsToThe Pay Accounts Officer,Rajya Sabha Secretariat,New Delhi.	None
Whereas judgmentdebtor No. 3, Shri S. Krishnaswamy, an exreporter has failed to satisfy a decree passed against him on the 31st day of March, 1967 in suit No. 516/66 in favour of M s Jyoti Chit Fund and Finance P. Ltd., for Rs. 219350.	None
It is order ed that the defendant judgmentdebtor is hereby prohibited and restrained until the further order of this Court from receiving from the Pay and Accounts Officer the following property in possession of the said Pay and Accounts Officer that is to say Rs. 219350 to which the defendant judgmentdebtor is entitled, subject to any claim of the said J. D. and the said Pay and Accounts Officer is hereby prohibited and restrained, until the further order of this court from delivering of the said property to any person.	None
Given under my hand and seal of the Court on 12th day of September 1968.Sd SubJudge 1st Class, Delhi.	None
On service of the attachment order, objection was raised by the appellant, Union of India, on January 30, 1969 on the score that provident fund amounts and pensionary benefits were not liable to attachment and therefore the order may be rescinded.	None
The decree holder (respondent 1) successfully contested in the trial court and on the objection being overruled, the appellant moved the High Court.	None
It may be stated, at this stage, that the trial Court did not actually investigate the claim of the appellant as to whether the whole, or part of the amount sought to be attached, represented provident fund or pensionary benefits nor did the High Court go into the question.	None
This means that even if we uphold the contention of the appellant, the case will have to go back for investigation on the merits7.	None
We may formulate what has been indicatedthe actual points urged before us by Shri Sanghi and vigorously controverted by Shri Rohtagi.	None
(1) Is it permissible in law for amounts representing provident fund contributions and pensionary benefits to be attached, having due regard to ss. 3 and 4 of the Provident Funds Act, s. 11 of the Pensions Act and s. 60(1), provisos (g) and ( k) of C.P.C.?	None
(2) Is the Union of India entitled to move the Court and request it to investigate the question that the whole or part of the sum in its hands on account of the judgmentdebtor as provident fund, compulsory deposits and pensionary benefits and, therefore, not liable to be attached, or is it out of bounds for a third party to the suit, like the Union of India, even if the step be taken pro bono publico by a relevant public authority, to invoke the jurisdiction of the Court in this behalf?	None
(3) Is the Rajya Sabha Secretariat staff so totally separated from the Union of India that the latter cannot urge, in these proceedings, the claims belonging to employees of the said Secretariat in the civil court even if the attachment of the sums involved is contrary to law ?	None
We are inclined to hold, , without hesitation that on all the points the appellant is bound to succeed.	None
A bare reading of ss. 3 and 4 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925, read with s. 2(a) of that Act, will convince anyone that attachment of amounts bearing their description are prohibited.	Reasoning
It will be a gross violation of legal mandates involving public interest if, in the teeth of such injunction, an attachment should still be ordered by a court.	Reasoning
The finer distinction sought to be made by Shri Rohatgi that because the appellant has already retired, therefore, the provident fund and allied amounts have already fallen due and have ceased to possess the complexion of sums by way of provident fund under ss. 3 and 4, is fallacious.	Reasoning
On first principles and on precedent, we are clear in our minds that these sums, if they are of the character set up by the Union of India, are beyond the reach of the courts power to attach.	Reasoning
Section 2 (a) of the Provident Funds Act has also to be read in this connection to remove possible doubts because this definitional clause is of wide amplitude.	Reasoning
Moreover, s60(1), provides (g) and (k), leave no doubt on the point of non attachability.	Reasoning
The matter is so plain that discussion is uncalled for.8.	None
We may state without fear of contradiction that provident fund amounts, pensions and other compulsory deposits covered by the provisions we have referred to, retain their character until they reach the hands of the employee.	None
The reality of the protection is reduced to illusory formality if we accept the interpretation sought.	None
We take a contrary view which means that attachment is possible and lawful only after such amounts are received by the employee.	None
If doubts may possible be entertained on this question, the decision in Union of India v. Radha Kissen Agarwala Anr.	None
erases them.	None
Indeed our case is an afortiori one, on the facts.	None
A bare reading of Radha Kissen makes the proposition foolproof that so long as the amounts are Provident Fund dues them, till they are actually paid to the government servant who is entitled to it on retirement or otherwise the nature of the dues is not altered.	None
What is more, that case is also authority for the benignant view that the government is a trustee for those sums and has an interest in maintaining the objection in court to attachment.	None
We follow that ruling and overrule t he contention.	None
It is possible to take a broad view that cases where public policy is involved and the court has a certain duty to observe statutory prohibitions, a wider concept of locus standi has to be taken.	Reasoning
Any public authority interested in the matter and not behaving partially as an officious busy body may bring to the notice of the court the illegality of the steps it proposes to take.	Reasoning
When the courts jurisdiction is so invoked, it may be exercised without insisting on some other directly affected party, like the judgmentdebtor in the instant case, appearing to defend himself.	Reasoning
The argument that the Rajya Sabha Secretariat is different from the Union of India is a new gloss which Shri Rohatgi has put upon his contention of locus standi.	Reasoning
He has pressed into service Articles 300 and 98(2) of the Constitution of India, neither of which is helpful or applicable.	Reasoning
This point has the merit of novelty, little else.	Reasoning
Consequentially, we set aside the decision o	Reasoning
f the High Court and of the executing court, but this is not the end of the matter.9.	Reasoning
We direct the court of the Subordinate Judge to go into the merits of the objection raised by the Union of India as to whether the entire amount or any portion there of held by it on behalf of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat staff, so far as the judgmentdebtor in this case is concerned, represents provident fund and compulsory deposits or pensionary benefits, excluded from attachability in execution of civil decrees under the provisions already adverted to.	Decision
If it is feasible to effect service of notice on the judgmentdebtor, well and good, but if it is not, the court cannot absolve itself of the duty to investigate into the merits of the claim or character of the amounts, so long as the Union of India is ready to make good its contention.	Decision
The appeal is allowed with costs in this Court.10.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
