 Dr. ARIJIT PASAYAT, J. Leave granted.	None
Challenge in this appeal is by the State of Andhra Pradesh questioning the judgment passed a Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court allowing the writ petition filed by the respondent No.1.	Issue
The proceedings initiated by the Director General of Police (in short the DGP)placing respondent No. 1 under suspension pending conclusion of disciplinary proceedings were quashed.	Issue
Cost of Rs.10,000/ was imposed to be paid by the DGP and the Commissioner of Police.	Issue
Background facts in a nutshell are as follows On 17.1.2005 the then Commissioner of Police, Hydrabad, respondent No.2 herein had relieved the respondent No.1 from the post of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad and directed him to report in the office of DGP.	Facts
On 26.1.2005 Respondent No. 1 filed O.A. bearing No. 413 of 2005 before the A.P. Administrative Tribunal, Hyderabad (in short the Tribunal) in which the Director General of Police, Commissioner of Police and Dy. Commissioner of Police, Hyderabad were pleaded as respondents.	Facts
The present respondent No.2 was not impleaded.	None
On 1.2.2005 the Director General Police placed the respondent No.1 under suspension pending departmental proceedings under Rule 8 (1)(a) of the A.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules 1991 (in short the Rules) basing on the report of Dy.	Facts
Commissioner of Police, West Zone, dated 24.1.2005 which was forwarded to the Director General of Police by the then Commissioner of Police.	Facts
On 03.02.1005 the Tribunal issued notice in the above O.A. No.413 of 2005, filed by the Respondent no.1 herein.	None
On 10.2.2005 the Respondent No.1 had also filed a separate O.A. No.589/ 2005 before the Tribunal to which the State of Andhra Pradesh, the respondent No.2 by name was impleaded as respondents besides the Director General of Police, Commissioner of Police and Dy.	Facts
Commissioner of Police, West Zone were also impleaded as respondents.	None
On 24.02.2005 Tribunal disposed of O.A. No. 589 of 2005 filed by the Respondent No.1 directing him to avail the alternative remedy of appeal against the order dated 1.2.2005 passed by the Director General of Police under Rule 33 of the Rules, before invoking the jurisdiction of the Tribunal under Section 14 of the Administrative Tribunals Act (in short the Act) as it is mandatory under Section 20 thereof.	Facts
On 02.03.2005 the Respondent No.1 herein had filed a writ of Mandamus in W.P. No. 4247 of 2005 in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh against the order dated 24.2.2005 in O.A. No. 589 of 2005 in which notice was issued only to the Director General of Police.	Facts
On 7.3.2005 in reply to the said show cause notice, the Director General of Police filed a detailed counter affidavit on 7.3.2005.	None
On 24.3.2005 High Court by its impugned judgment and order has allowed the Writ Petition No. 4247 of 2005 filed by the Ist respondent for a Writ of Mandamus by going into the merits of the case and setting aside the order of suspension dated 1.2.2005 passed by the Director General of Police and imposed Rs.10,000/ as costs on the Director General of Police and Commissioner of Police holding that it was malafide.	Facts
According to appellants the order was passed without even issuing notice and providing an opportunity of hearing to other respondents i.e. Commissioner of Police and Dy.	Facts
Commissioner of Police, West Zone, Hyderabad.	Facts
According to learned counsel for the appellantState the order passed by the High Court is clearly unsustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The suspension order was in order and without any foundation, malafide has been concluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent No.1 supported the judgment of the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is to be noted that no notice was issued to the DGP to have any say in the matter.	None
Only the Commissioner of Police was made respondent and the DGP was also not impleaded by name but by official designation.	None
The writ petition was allowed on the ground that the order of suspension was not bonafide and was tainted with inference of malafides.	None
It appears that a charge memo was issued for taking disciplinary action and the respondent No.1 has submitted a reply that a suspension order containing some allegation has been set aside by the High Court and therefore there is nothing further to be done.	None
It further appears that the respondent No.1 challenged the charge memo dated 6.2.2005 before the Andhra Pradesh Administrative Tribunal.	None
The same was dismissed for default on 13.9.2008.	None
On 31.3.2008 respondent no.1 has been allowed to retire without prejudice to the pendency of the disciplinary proceedings.	None
The High Court ought to have noticed that this was not a case where alternative remedy could be avoided.	Reasoning
It was necessary, as rightly observed by the Tribunal in the first occasion, for respondent No.1 to avail alternative remedy.	Reasoning
Further the High Court has considered the plea of malafides in writ petition.	Reasoning
The Tribunal had not considered the case on merit.	Reasoning
It had only directed the respondent No.1 to avail Statutory remedy.	Reasoning
That being so it was certainly not open to the High Court to go into a detail examination of the alleged malafide.	Reasoning
In Union of India v. Ashok Kumar Ors.	None
2005(8) SCC 760	None
it was inter alia noted as follows Doubtless, he who seeks to invalidate or nullify any act or order must establish the charge of bad faith, an abuse or a misuse by the authority of its powers.	None
While the indirect motive or purpose, or bad faith or personal illwill is not to be held established except on clear proof thereof, it is obviously difficult to establish the state of a mans mind, for that is what the employee has to establish in this case, though this may sometimes be done.	None
The difficulty is not lessened when one has to establish that a person apparently acting on the legitimate exercise of power has, in fact, been acting mala fide in the sense of pursuing an illegitimate aim.	None
It is not the law that mala fide in the sense of improper motive should be established only by direct evidence.	None
But it must be discernible from the order impugned or must be shown from the established surrounding factors which preceded the order.	None
If bad faith would vitiate the order, the same can, in our opinion, be deduced as a reasonable and inescapable inference from proved facts.	None
(S. Pratap Singh v. State of Punjab AIR 1964 SC 72 ).	None
It cannot be overlooked that burden of establishing mala fides is very heavy on the person who alleges it.	None
The allegations of mala fides are often more easily made than proved, and the very seriousness of such allegations demand proof of a high order of credibility.	None
As noted by this Court in E. P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu and Another (AIR 1974 SC 555 ), Courts would be slow to draw dubious inferences from incomplete facts placed before it by a party, particularly when the imputations are grave and they are made against the holder of an office which has a high responsibility in the administration.	None
(See Indian Railway Construction Co. Ltd. v. Ajay Kumar 2003 (4) SCC 579 ).	None
As observed by this Court in Gulam Mustafa and Ors.	None
v. The State of Maharashtra and Ors.	None
(1976 (1) SCC 800 )	None
mala fide is the last refuge of a losing litigant.	None
In Midley Minerals India Ltd. v. State of Orissa 2004(12) SCC 39 it was inter alia observed as follows We are unable to accept the contention of the learned counsel for the 4th respondent that the action of the State Government was vitiated by mala fides.	None
It is trite that plea of mala fides has to be specific and demonstrable.	None
Not only this, but the person against whom the mala fides are alleged must be made a party to the proceedings and given reasonable opportunity of hearing.	None
We find no such attempt made in the writ petition before the High Court.	None
At the highest even putting the most liberal construction on the writ petition, what was alleged was a contravention of the Rules and, consequently, legal mala fides and nothing beyond that.	None
The argument of mala fides must therefore fail.	None
Next, it is urged by the learned counsel for the respondent that it is an elementary principle of law that an individual shareholder of a company cannot be considered as equivalent to the company, for company has a distinct legal personality.	None
Consequently, he contends that the application made by Jitendra Kumar Lohia could not have enured to the benefit of the appellant company.	None
According to him, Jitendra Kumar Lohia and the appellant being two distinct legal entities, the assumption of the State Government, that the application for renewal of the quarry lease could be treated as a continuation of Jitendra Kumar Lohias application, was erroneous and unsustainable in law.	None
We are unable to accept this contention.	None
We have highlighted as to how the State Government and Jitendra Kumar Lohia treated the application for renewal of quarry lease made by Jitendra Kumar Lohia as enduring to the benefit of the appellant company.	None
If the State Government had treated them to be separate legal entities, there was no question of imposing a condition on the appellant that the transfer of the lease was granted on the specific condition that Jitendra Kumar Lohia and his family members hold the controlling interest in the company.	None
The facts and circumstances belie this contention of the learned counsel for the fourth respondent.	None
It cannot be accepted.	None
Added to that a writ petition was filed on 2.3.2005 and notice was issued only to the DGP (not by name but by official designation) but the allegations of malafides were made in his personal name.	None
The reply was filed on 7.3.2005 and the impugned order was passed on 24.3.2005.	None
It is trite that the power of punishment to an employee is within the discretion of the employer and ordinarily the courts do not interfere, unless it is found that either the enquiry, proceedings or punishment is vitiated because of nonobservance of the relevant rules and regulations or principles of natural justice or denial of reasonable opportunity to defend, etc. or that the punishment is totally disproportionate to the proved misconduct of an employee.	Reasoning
All these principles have been highlighted in Indian Oil Corpn.	Reasoning
Ltd. v. Ashok Kumar Arora(1997(3) SCC 72) and Lalit Popli v. Canara Bank (2003(3) SCC 583).	Reasoning
It is not a case where the High Court should have entertained the writ petition when the Tribunal had disposed of the OA only on the ground of availability of alternative remedy.	Reasoning
The impugned order is set aside.	Reasoning
We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed with no order as to costs.	Decision
