 K. Sarkar, J.1.	None
This appeal arises out of a suit for the redemption of a mortgage dated August 1, 1899.	Issue
The property mortgaged was a fourroomed shop with certain appurtenances, standing on a piece of land measuring 5 yards by 15 yards in Naya Bazar, Ajmere.	None
The mortgage was created by Purshottamdas who is now dead and was in favour of Dhanrupmal, a respondent in this appeal.	Facts
The mortgage instrument stated that the property had been usufructuarily mortgaged in lieu of Rs. 6,300 of which Rs. 5,750 had been left with the mortgagee to redeem a prior mortgage on the same and another property.	Facts
It also provided that on redemption of the prior mortgage, the possession of the shop would be taken over and retained by the mortgagee, Dhanrupmal, who would appropriate its rent in lieu of interest on the money advanced by him and the possession of the other property covered by the prior mortgage, being a share in a Kacheri, would be made over to the mortgagor, Purshottamdas.	Facts
The provisions in the mortgage instrument on which the present dispute turns were in these termsI or my heirs will not be entitled to redeem the property for a period of 85 years.	Facts
After the expiry of 85 years we shall redeem it within a period of six months.	Facts
In case we do not redeem within a period of six months, then after the expiry of the stipulated period, I, my heirs, and legal representatives shall have no claim over the mortgaged property, and the mortgagee shall have no claim to get and the mortgage money and the lagat (i.e. repairs) expenses that may be due at the time of default.	Facts
In such a case this very deed will be deemed to be a sale deed.	Facts
There will be no need of executing a fresh sale deed.	Facts
The expenses spent in repairs and new constructions will be paid along with the mortgage money at the time of redemption according to account produced by the mortgagee.2.	Facts
The mortgagee, Dhanrupmal, duly redeemed the earlier mortgage and, went into possession of the shop while possession of the Kacheri was delivered to the mortgagor.	Facts
On April 12, 1939, Dhanrupmal assigned his rights under the mortgage to Motilal who died later and whose estate is now represented by his sons, who are the other respondents in this appeal.	Facts
The estate of Purshottamdas, the original mortgagor, is now represented by his son the appellant.3.	Facts
On January 2, 1947, the appellant filed the suit in the Court of the SubJudge, Ajmere, against the respondents.	Facts
The suit was contested by the sons of Motilal, the assignee of the mortgage, who are the only respondents appearing in this appeal and whom we shall hence, hereafter refer to as the respondents.	Facts
They said that the suit was premature as under the mortgage contract there was no right of redemption for eightyfive years after the date of the mortgage, that is to say, till August 1, 1984.	Facts
The learned SubJudge, purporting to follow a decision of the Judicial Commissioner, Ajmere, to whom he was subordinate, held that the provision postponing redemption for eightyfive years was invalid as it amounted to a clog on the equity of redemption.	None
He, therefore, passed a preliminary decree for redemption.	Facts
On appeal, the learned Judicial Commissioner, Ajmere, held, that the decision which the SubJudge had purported to follow was distinguishable.	Facts
He examined a large number of cases on the subject and came to the conclusion that the provision in question did not amount to a clog on the equity of redemption.	Facts
He, therefore, allowed the appeal and dismissed the appellants suit.	Facts
From this decision the appeal to this Court arises.4.	Facts
It is admitted that the case is governed by the Transfer of Property Act.	None
Under S. 60 of that Act, at any time after the principal money has become due, the mortgagor has a right on payment or tender of the mortgage money to require the mortgagee to recovery the mortgage property to him.	None
The right conferred by this section has been called the right to redeem and the appellant sought to enforce this right by his suit.	None
Under this section, however, that right can be exercised only after the mortgage money has become due.	None
In Bakhtawar Begum v. Husaini Khanam, 41 Ind App 84 at p. 89 (AIR 1914 PC 36 at p. 37) (A), also the same view was expressed in these words Ordinarily, and in the absence of a special condition entitling the mortgagor to redeem during the term for which the mortgage is created, the right of redemption can only arise on the expiration of the specified period.	None
Now, in the present case the term of the mortgage is eightyfive years and there is no stipulation entitling the mortgagor to redeem during that term.	Arguments of Respondent
That term has not yet expired.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents, therefore, contend that the suit is premature and liable to be dismissed.5.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants answer to this contention is that the covenant creating the long terms of eighty five years for the mortgage, taken along with the provision that the mortgagor must redeem within a period of six months thereafter or not all and the other terms of the mortgage and also the circumstances of the case, is really a clog on the equity of redemption and is therefore invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that, in the result the mortgage money had been due all along and the suit was not premature.6.The rule against clogs on the equity of redemption is that, a mortgage shall always be redeemable and a mortgagors right to redeem shall neither be taken away nor be limited by any contract between the parties.	Reasoning
The principle behind the rule was expressed by Lindley M. R. in Santley v. Wilde, (1899) 2 Ch 474 (B), in these words The principle is this a mortgage is a conveyance of land or an assignment of chattels as a security for the payment of a debt or the discharge of some other obligation for which it is given.	None
This is the idea of a mortgage and the security is redeemable on the payment or discharge of such debt or obligation, any provision to the contrary notwithstanding.	Reasoning
That, in my opinion, is the law.	Reasoning
Any provision inserted to prevent redemption on payment or performance of the debt or obligation for which the security was given is what is meant by a clog or fetter on the equity of redemption and is therefore void.	Reasoning
It follows from this, that once a mortgage always a mortgage.7.	Reasoning
The right of redemption, therefore, cannot be taken away.	Reasoning
The Courts will ignore any contract the effect of which is to deprive the mortgagor of his right to redeem the mortgage.	Reasoning
One thing, therefore, is clear, namely, that the term in the mortgage contract, that on the failure of the mortgagor to redeem the mortgage within the specified period of six months the mortgagor will have no claim over the mortgaged property, and the mortgage deed will be deemed to be deed of sale in favour of the mortgagee, cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
It plainly takes away altogether, the mortgagors right to redeem the mortgage after the specified period.	Reasoning
This is not permissible, for once a mortgage always a mortgage and therefore always redeemable.	None
The same result also follows from S. 60 of the transfer of Property Act.	None
So it was said in Mohammad Sher Khan v. Seth Swami Dayal, 49 Ind App 60 at p. 65 (AIR 1922 PC 17 at p. 19) (C).	None
An anomalous mortgage enabling a mortgagee after a lapse of time and in the absence or redemption to enter and take the rents in satisfaction of the interest would be perfectly valid if it did not also hinder an existing right to redeem.	None
But it is this that the present mortgage undoubtedly purports to effect.	None
It is expressly stated to be for five years, and after that period the principal money became payable.	None
This, under S. 60 of the Transfer or Property Act, is the event on which the mortgagor had a right on payment of the mortgage money to redeem.	None
The section is unqualified in its terms, and contains no saving provision as other sections do in favour of contracts to the contrary.	None
Their Lordships therefore see on sufficient reason for withholding from the words of the section their full force and effect.8.	None
Under the section, once the right to redeem has arisen it cannot be taken away.	None
The mortgagors right to redeem must be deemed to continue even after the period of six months has expired and the attempt to confine that rights to that period must fail.	None
The term in the mortgage instrument providing that the mortgage can be redeemed only within the period of six months and not thereafter must be held to be invalid and ignored.	None
The learned Judicial Commissioner took the same view and this has not been challenged in this appeal on behalf of the respondents.9.	None
With this term however this case is not really concerned.	None
Learned advocate for the appellant directed his attack on the term in the instrument of mortgage that it will not be redeemable for eightyfive year.	None
He contended that this term amounts to a clog on the equity of redemption.	Arguments of Petitioner
We wish to observe here that the learned advocate did not contend that the invalidity, as we have earlier held, of the term taking away the right to redeem the mortgage after the period of six months makes the term fixing the period of the mortgage at eightyfive year invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
This latter term sands quite apart.	None
It only fixes the time when the principal sum is to become due, that is, when the right to redeem will accrue and has, therefore, nothing to do with a term which provides when that right will be lost.	None
The invalidity of one does not make the other also invalid.10.	None
The term providing that the right to redeem will arise after eightyfive year does not, of course, take away the mortgagors right to redeem and is not, therefore, in that sense, a clog on the equity of redemption.	None
It does, however prevent accrual of the right to redeem for the period mentioned.	None
Is it then, in so far as it prevents the right to redeem from accruing for a time, a clog?11.	None
As we have already said, the right to redeem does not arise till the principal money becomes due.	None
When the principal sum is to become due must of course depend on the contract between the parties.	None
In the present case the parties have agreed that the right to redeem will arise eightyfive years after the date of the mortgage, that is to say, the principal money will then become due.	None
The appellant says that he should be relived from this bargain that he has made.	None
This is the contention that has to be examined.12.	None
The rule against clogs on the equity of redemption no doubt involves that the Courts have the power to relive a party from his bargain.	None
If he has agreed to forfeit wholly his right to redeem in certain circumstances, that agreement will be avoided.	None
But the Courts have gone beyond this.	None
They have also relived mortgagors from bargains whereby the right to redeem has not been taken away but restricted.	None
The question is, is the term now under consideration such that a Court will exercise its power evolved in the early English Court of Equity for a special reason.	None
All through the ages the reason has remained constant and the Courts power is therefore limited by that reason.	None
The extent of this power has, therefore, to be ascertained by having regard to its origin.	None
It will be enough for this purpose to refer to two authorities on this question.13.	None
In a very early case, namely, Vernon v. Bethell, (1762) 2 Eden 110 at p. 113 28 ER 838 at p. 839 (D), Earl of Northingtion L. C. said,This court, as a court of conscience, is very jealous of persons taking securities for a loan, and converting such securities into purchase.	None
And therefore I take it to be an established rule, that a mortgagee can never provide at the time of making the loan for any event or condition on which the equity or redemption shall be discharged, and the conveyance absolute.	None
And there is great reason and justice in this rule, for necessitous men are not, truly speaking, free men, but, to answer a present exigency, will submit to any terms that the crafty may impose upon them.14.	None
In comparatively recent times Viscount Haldane L. C. repeated the same view when he said in G. and C. Kreglinger v. new Patagonia Meat and Cold Storage Company Ltd., (1914 AC 25 at pp. 35 and 36) (E)This jurisdiction was merely a special application of a more general power to relieve against penalties and to mould them into mere securities.	None
The case of the common law mortgage of land was indeed a gross one.	None
The land was conveyed to the creditor upon the condition that if the money he had advanced to the before was repaid on date and at a place named, the fee simple would rest in the latter, but that if the condition was not strictly and literally fulfilled he should lose the land for ever.	None
What made the hardship on the debtor a glaring one was that the debt still remained unpaid and could be recovered from the offer notwithstanding that he had actually forfeited the land to the mortgagee.	None
Equity, therefore, at an early date began to relieve against what was virtually a penalty by compelling the creditor to use his legal title as a mere security.	None
My Lords, this was the origin of the jurisdiction which we are now considering and it is important to bear that origin in mind.	None
For the end to accomplish which the jurisdiction has been evolved ought to govern and limit its exercise by equity judges.	None
That end has always been to ascertain, by parole evidence if need be, the real nature and substance of the transaction, and if it turned out to be in truth one of mortgage simply, to place it on that footing.	None
It was, in ordinary cases, only where there was conduct which the Court of Chancery regarded as unconscientiously that it interfered with freedom of contract.	None
The lending of money, on mortgage or otherwise, was looked on with suspicion, and the court was on the alert to discover want of conscience in the terms imposed by lenders.15.	None
The reason then justifying the Courts power to relieve a mortgagor from the effects of his bargain is its want of conscience.	None
Putting it in more familiar language the Courts jurisdiction to relieve a mortgagor from his bargain depends on whether it was obtained by taking advantage of any difficulty or embarrassment that he might have been in when he borrowed the moneys on the mortgage.	None
Was the mortgagor oppressed?	None
Was he imposed upon?	None
If he was, then he may be entitled to relief.16.	None
We then have to see if there was anything unconscionable in the agreement that the mortgage would not be redeemed for eightyfive years.	None
Is it oppressive?	None
Was he forced to agree to it because of his difficulties?	None
Now this question is essentially one of fact and has to be decided on the circumstances of each case.	None
It would be wholly unprofitable in enquiring into this question to examine the large number of reported cases on the subject, for each turns on its own facts.17.	None
First then, does the length of the term  and in this case it is long enough being eightyfive years  itself lead to the conclusion that it was an oppressive term?	None
In our view, it does not do so.	None
It is not necessary for us to go so far as to say that the length of the term of the mortgage can never by itself show that the bargain was oppressive.	Reasoning
We do not desire to say anything on that question in this case.	Reasoning
We think it enough to say that we have nothing here to show that the length of the term was in any way disadvantageous to the mortgagor.	Reasoning
It is quite conceivable that it was to his advantage.	Reasoning
The suit for redemption was brought over fortyseven years after the date of the mortgage.	Reasoning
It seems to us impossible that if the term was oppressive, that was not realized much earlier and the suit brought within a short time of the mortgage.	Reasoning
The learned Judicial Commissioner felt that the respondents contention that the suit had been brought as the price of landed property had gone up after the war, was justified.	Reasoning
We are not prepared to say that he was wrong in this view.	Reasoning
We cannot also ignore as appears from a large number of reported decisions, that it is not uncommon in various parts of India to have long term mortgages.	Reasoning
Then we find that the property was subject to a prior mortgage.	Reasoning
We are not aware what the term of that mortgage was.	Reasoning
But we find that that of that mortgage included another property which became freed from it as a result of the mortgage in suit.	Reasoning
This would show that the mortgagee under this mortgage was not putting any pressure on the mortgagor.	Reasoning
That conclusion also receives support from the fact that the mortgage money under the present mortgage was more than that under the earlier mortgage but the mortgagee in the present case was satisfied with a smaller security.	Reasoning
Again, no complaint is made that the interest charged, which was to be measured by the rent of the property, was in any manner high.	Reasoning
All these, to our mind, indicate that the mortgagee had not taken any unfair advantage of his position as the lender, nor that the mortgagor was under any financial embarrassment.18.	Reasoning
It is said that the mortgage instrument itself indicates that the bargain is hard, for while the mortgagor cannot redeem for eightyfive years, the mortgagee is free to demand payment of his dues at any time he likes.	None
This contention is plainly fallacious.	None
There is nothing in the mortgage instrument permitting the mortgagee to demand any money, and it is well settled that the mortgagees right to enforce the mortgage and the mortgagors right to redeem are coextensive.19.	None
Then it is said that under the deed the mortgagee can spend any amount on repairs to the mortgage property and in putting up new constructions there and the mortgagor could only redeem after paying the expenses for these.	None
We are unable to agree that such is the effect of the mortgage instrument.	None
We cannot lose sight of the fact that the mortgaged shop and the area of the land on which it stood were very small.	None
It was not possible to spend a large sum on repairs or construction there.	None
Furthermore, having agreed to 85 years as the term of the mortgage, the parties must have imagined that during this long period repairs and constructions would become necessary.	None
It is only such necessary repairs as are contemplated by the instrument and we do not consider that it is hard on the mortgagor to have to pay for such repairs and construction when he redeems the property and gets the benefit of the repairs and construction.	None
Neither do we think that there is anything in the contention that under the document the mortgagor was bound to accept whatever was shown in the mortgagees account as having been spent on the repairs and construction.	None
That is not, in our view, the effect of the relevant clause which reads, The expenses spent in repairs and new constructions will be paid according to the account produced by the mortgagee.	None
All that it means is that in claiming moneys on account of repairs and construction the mortgagee will have to show from his account that he spent these moneys.	None
It is really a safeguard for the mortgagor.	None
It was also said that all the terms in the deed were for the benefit of the mortgagee and that showed that bargain was a hard one.	None
We do not think that all the terms were for the benefit of the mortgagee, or that what there was in the instrument was for his benefit and indicated that the mortgagee had forced a hard bargain on the mortgagor.	None
We have earlier said how the bargain appears to us to have been fair and one as between parties dealing with each other on equal footing.20.	None
We have no evidence in this case of the circumstances existing at the date of the mortgage as to the pecuniary condition of the mortgagor or as to anything else from which we may come to the conclusion that the mortgagee had taken advantage of the difficulties of the mortgagor and imposed a hard bargain on him.	Reasoning
It was said that the fact that the property was subject to a prior mortgage at the date of the mortgage in suit indicates the impecunious position of the mortgagor.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with this contention.	Reasoning
Every debtor is not necessarily impecunious.	Reasoning
The mortgagor certainly derived this advantage from that mortgage that he was able to free from the earlier mortgage the kacheri and he has been in enjoyment of it ever since.	Reasoning
That to our mind, indicates that the bargain had been freely made.	Reasoning
There was nothing else to which our attention was directed as showing that the bargain was hard.	Reasoning
We, therefore, think that the bargain was a reasonable one and the eightyfive years term of the mortgage should be enforced.	Reasoning
We then come to the conclusion that the suit was premature and must fail.21.	Reasoning
In the result we dismiss this appeal with costs.22.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
