 Shah, J. 1.	None
On January 15, 1965, the South Bihar Regional Transport Authority, Patna, ordered that a permit to ply a stage carriage on Dehri Bhabua route be granted to Arbind Kumar Singh  hereinafter called the appellanton production of all valid documents of 1964 model bus along with clearance certificate of transport tax within one month from the date, of order, failing which the sanction of permit in his favour would stand automatically revoked, and permit will then be given to the next deserving candidate Nand Kishore Prasad On application submitted by Nand Kishore Prasad  who will hereinafter be referred to as the respondent  that the appellant had failed to carry out the condition relating to the grant of permit, the Chairman of the Regional Transport Authority by order dated February 20, 1965, cancelled the permit and directed that a permit be given to the respondent.	Facts
The order of the Chairman was reversed in appeal by the Appellate Board.	Facts
In the view of the Board the clearance certificate filed by the appellant showed that all the taxes due by him were paid.	Facts
2.	None
The respondent then moved the State Government of Bihar under S. 64A of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, as amended by the Bihar Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act 17 of 1950.	Facts
The Minister of Transport who heard the petition reversed the order of the Appellate Board, holding that the appellant had failed to carry out the conditions subject to which the Regional Transport Authority had ordered that the permit be given to him.	Facts
A petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution moved by the appellant in the High Court of Patna against the order of the Minister of Transport was dismissed.	Facts
The appellant has appealed to this Court with certificate granted by the High Court.	Facts
3.	None
The plea raised by counsel for the respondent that the appeal was liable to be dismissed because the High Court was incompetent to grant a certificate of fitness under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
133 (1) (a) or Art.	Arguments of Respondent
133 (1) (b) of the Constitution against the Judgment of the High Court exercising extraordinary original jurisdictions under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
226 of the Constitution is without substance.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court has held in S. A L. Narayan Row v. Ishwarlal Bhagwandas, (1966) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 190 (AIR 1965 SC 1818 ) that the words civil proceeding used in Art.	Arguments of Respondent
133 of the Constitution cover all proceedings which directly affect civil rights.	Arguments of Respondent
A proceeding under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
226 of the Constitution for a writ to bring up a proceeding for consideration concerning civil rights is therefore a civil proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court has further held in Ramesh v. Gendalal Motilal Patni, (1966) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 198 (AIR 1966 SC 1445 ) that the High Court is competent to certify on appeal against an order passed by a Division Bench of a High Court in exercise of extraordinary original jurisdiction under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
226 of the Constitution if the dispute decided thereby concerns civil rights of the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Hidayatullah, J., speaking for the Court observed at p. 203 (of SCR) (at p. 1448 of AIR)	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Guptas contention that under that article (Art.133) an appeal can only lie in respect of a judgment or decree or final order passed in the exercise of appellate or ordinary original civil jurisdiction but not of extraordinary original civil jurisdiction, is not right.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 133 not only discards the distinction between appellate and original jurisdiction but deliberately used words which are as wide as language can make them.	Arguments of Respondent
The intention is not only to include all judgments, decrees and orders passed in the exercise of appellate and ordinary original civil jurisdiction but also to make the language wide enough to cover other jurisdictions under which civil rights would come before the High Court for decision.	Arguments of Respondent
The plea raised by counsel for the respondent that the High Court was not competent to grant the certificate must therefore be rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
4.	None
The Bihar Legislature enacted Bihar Act 17 of 1950, imposing tax on passengers and goods carried by public service motor vehicles in Bihar.	None
Validity of this levy was upheld by the High Court of Patna.	None
But after the decision of this Court in Atiabari Tea Co. Ltd. v. State of Assam.	None
(1961) 1	None
SCR 809 (AIR 1961 SC 232 )	None
the appeals filed by the operators who challenged the levy were allowed by this Court.	None
The State of Bihar thereafter issued Bihar Ordinance II of 1961 which was replaced by Bihar Act 17 of 1961.	None
By that Act the tax was reimposed with effect from the 1st day of April, 1950.	None
That imposition of tax was again challenged in writ Petitions filed before the High Court of Patna, but without success, and the order of the High Court was confirmed by this Court in Ramkrishna v. State of Bihar, AIR 1963 SC 1667 .	None
Section 1 (3) of Act 17 of 1961 declares that the Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of April, 1950.	None
By S. 2 (i) tax means tax payable under the Act and includes the fixed amount determined under S. 8.	None
By S. 3 charge of tax is imposed.	None
It provides by subs.	None
(1) On and from the date on which this Act is deemed to have come into force under subsection (3) of Section 1, there shall be levied and paid to the State Government a tax on all passengers and goods carried by a public service motor vehicle such tax shall be levied and paid at the rate of twelve and a half per centum of the fares and freights payable to the owner of such vehicle Provided Section 6 requires the owner of the vehicle to make prescribed return to the prescribed authority within such period as may be prescribed.	None
Section 7 prescribes the machinery for assessment of tax Section 9 (1) provides that the amount of tax or penalty, if any, payable by an owner under the Act shall be paid in the manner hereinafter provided.	None
Subsection (2) of S. 9 provides that before any owner furnishes any return under the Act he shall, in the prescribed manner, pay into the Government Treasury the full amount of tax due from him under the Act according to such return and shall furnish along with the return a receipt from the treasury showing payment of the said amount.	None
By S. 22 power is conferred upon the State Government to make rules not inconsistent with the Act for all matters expressly required or allowed by the Act to be prescribed and generally for carrying out the purposes of the Act and regulating the procedure to be followed, forms to be adopted and fees to be paid in connection with proceedings under the Act and all other matters ancillary or incidental thereto.	None
In exercise of the power conferred by S. 22, the State of Bihar has framed the Bihar Taxation on Passengers and Goods (Carried by Public Service Motor Vehicles) Rules, 1966.	None
Rule l1 provided that every owner shall furnish to the authority prescribed in R. 16, a monthly return in Form V within a period of fifteen days of the close of the month to which such return relates.	None
Rule 18 provides that where any sum is payable by an owner under the Act or the rules or any amount due for which a notice is to be given under subsection (4) of S. 9, the authority prescribed in R. 16 shall serve notice in Form XI, and shall also fix a date by which the owner shall produce a receipted challan in proof of such payment.	None
It is clear from the scheme of the Act and the rules that by S. 3 a charge is imposed upon an owner of the vehicle to pay tax to the State Government on all passengers and goods carried by a public service motor vehicle at the rates fixed by the statute, and the owner must make monthly returns within fifteen days from the expiry of the month to which the return relates.	None
5.	None
The decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Raipur Transport Co.	None
Private Ltd., v. M. P. Singh, AIR 1968	None
Madh Pra 36 on which reliance was placed by counsel for the appellant has, in our judgment, no bearing on the question which falls to be determined in this appeal.	None
Section 10 of the Motor Vehicles (Taxation of Passengers) Act, 1959, passed by the State of Madhya Pradesh provided that in cases referred to in Ss. 7, 8 and 9, the Tax Officer shall serve on the operator a notice of demand for the sums payable to the State Government.	None
That in the view of the High Court presupposes that an order of assessment has been made under the earlier provisions of the Act, and therefore an order of assessment was necessary not only for the validity of the notice of demand, but also for enabling the appellate authority to see whether the tax had been correctly assessed or not and the demand made against the operator was or was not justified.	None
We are in the present case not concerned to determine the validity of a notice of demand.	None
The liability to pay tax under Bihar Act 17 of 1961 clearly arises by statutory injunction and not from the order of assessment.	None
In terms S. 3 says that there shall be levied and paid to the State Government a tax on all passengers and goods carried by a public service motor vehicle.	None
6.	None
The appellant plied his motor buses in 195051 and on the plea that the tax was invalid did not pay the tax levied under Act 17 of 1950.	None
After the reimposition of the tax by Act 17 of 1961, there survived no ground on which the liability to pay tax could be resisted.	None
On January 15, 1965, a condition had been imposed upon the appellant that a permit would be granted to him provided he produced a clearance certificate.	None
Liability to pay transport tax amounting to Rs. 1,675 was outstanding against the appellant for nearly fifteen years and that liability was discharged by payment on March 5, l965.It cannot, in the circumstances, be contended that there was no liability to pay transport tax outstanding against the appellant on the date of the order granting the permit.	None
Failure to produce the clearance certificate in respect of the transport tax clearly disentitled the appellant to the grant of a permit.	None
7. Counsel for the appellant, however contended that the imposition of a condition that the appellant shall produce a clearance certificate in respect of the transport tax was invalid and the condition was liable to be ignored by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 47 (l) of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, in so far as it is material providesA Regional Transport Authority shall, in considering an application for a stage carriage permit, have regard to the following matters, namely  (a) the interests of the public generally (b) the advantages to the public of the service to be provided, including the saving of time likely to be effected thereby and any convenience arising from journeys not being broken (c) the adequacy of other passenger transport services operating or likely to operate in the near future, whether by road or other means, between the places to be served (d) the benefit to any particular locality or localities likely to be afforded by the service (e) the operation by the applicant of other transport services, including those in respect of which applications from him for permits are pending (f) the condition of the roads included in the proposed route or area and shall also take into consideration any representation made by persons already providing passenger transport facilities by any means along or near the proposed route or area, or by any association representing persons interested in the provision of road transport facilities recognised in this behalf by the State Government, or by any local authority or police authority within whose jurisdiction any part of the proposed route or area lies Provided Subsection (2) of S. 47 sets out the conditions under which the Regional Transport Authority may refuse to grant a stage carriage permit and subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) provides for the conditions in which, having regard to the matters specified in subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1), the Regional Transport Authority may limit the number of stage carriages generally or of any specified type for which stage carriage permit may be granted in region or in any specified area or on any specified route within the region.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that under S. 47 the Regional Transport Authority is bound to consider only the matters which are specified in Cls.	Arguments of Petitioner
(a) to (f) of subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1) of S. 47, and if the applicant is found qualified for a permit no conditions may be imposed by the Regional Transport Authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
We need express no opinion on that argument.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the argument raised by counsel for the appellant has any substance, and if it be held that the grant of a permit is to be subject only to such of the conditions as may be prescribed under S. 48, the order made by the Regional Transport Authority must be deemed to be an order refusing the permit.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant could, if so advised have challenged the validity of the imposition of the condition relating to the payment of tax, but he could not ignore the conditions subject to which the permit was granted.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
Finally, it was urged that the Minister of Transport acted illegally in taking into account evidence which was not on the record of the Regional Transport, Authority, and alternatively, that the Minister violated the fundamental rules of natural justice in basing his judgment upon a document received from the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, intimating that the transport tax was due by the appellant without bringing it to the notice of the appellant and calling for an explanation.	Reasoning
Section 64A of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, as amended by Bihar Act 17 of 1950 authorises the State Government to call for, in the course of any proceedings taken under the Chapter, from any authority or officer subordinate to it, the records of such proceedings, and after examining such records pass such order as it thinks fit.	Reasoning
The expression pass such order as it thinks fit is not restricted to the passing of orders which are final in character.	Reasoning
If for the purposes of doing complete justice between the parties, the authority who hears the revision petition is satisfied that it is necessary to call for additional evidence, he may call for such evidence.	Reasoning
There is no bar in the Act or the rules against an appellate or the revising authority taking into consideration additional evidence brought on the record, if the authority requires additional evidence to be brought on the record or allows it to be brought on the record to do complete justice between the parties.	Reasoning
The evidence must undoubtedly be disclosed to the parties and they must be given an opportunity to meet an inference that may arise from such additional evidence.	Reasoning
We are unable to hold that the Minister of Transport in taking into consideration the report received from the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Intelligence Branch, that an amount of Rs. 1,675 was outstanding on February 16, 1965, against the appellant in respect of the two buses plied in the year 195051 acted in violation of the rules of natural justice.	Reasoning
The circumstances in which this document was brought on the file of the Minister are not clear on the record.	Reasoning
But as stated by the Minister, the document was disclosed to counsel for the appellant and counsel was asked to give a reply thereto.	Reasoning
The Minister also recorded in his judgment that counsel for the appellant explained that since there was no demand for payment of the dues, it was not correct to say that the amount of Rs. 1,675 was due against the appellant on February 16, 1965.	Reasoning
The Minister of Transport rejected that argument.	Reasoning
Before us it was contended that the document was never shown to the appellants counsel, and he was never asked to render his explanation in that behalf.	Reasoning
If this were true, the appellant would, we have no doubt, have approached the Minister who was exercising quasijudicial functions, and would have asked him to review his order.	Reasoning
This admittedly has not been done.	Reasoning
Again, if the grievance now raised were true, the averments made in Paragraph 19 of the petition before the High Court would not have taken the form which they have taken.	Reasoning
In paragraph 19 it is stated thatthe socalled report of the Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Intelligence Branch, Patna under Memo No. 8527 dated 24th July, 1965 was never shown to the petitioner and the petitioner had no opportunity to meet the said report.	Reasoning
Whereas the Minister of Transport had recorded that the report of the Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, was shown to counsel for the appellant and the counsel had given certain information, the petition before the High Court merely stated that the appellant was not shown the report of the Deputy Commissioner.	Reasoning
9.	None
The High Court on a consideration of the evidence has come to the conclusion that the claim made by the appellant that the document was not disclosed at the hearing before the Minister of Transport, and the Minister acted upon that document without informing the appellant, cannot be accepted, and we do not see any reason to disagree with the view expressed by the High Court.	Reasoning
10.	None
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
11.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
