 Banerjee, J. Leave granted.2.	None
This appeal against the judgment of the High Court at Calcutta is addressed on two counts The first involving the true purport of International Price Reimbursement Scheme (IPRS) as introduced by the Government of India and the second pertains to the doctrine of estoppel by conduct.	Issue
Background Facts 3.	Facts
By the Government Notification No. SC (A)24 (113)/63 dated 29.2.1964 issued by the Department of Iron Steel in the Ministry of Steel, Mines and Heavy Engineering, the Government of India to give effect to the proposal for fixation of steel prices for decontrolled categories, constituted the Joint Plant Committee consisting of representatives of all major producers of steel along with Government representative.	Facts
It is the Joint Plaint Committee (hereinafter referred to as JPC) with whose concurrence, the main producers, being its members control the price of similar categories of steel, though however, the same is restrictive in its application and is made applicable to supplies effected by the main steel producers only, viz.	Facts
Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd., Indian Iron Steel Co. Ltd. and Hindustan Steel Ltd.  	Facts
(presently Steel Authority of India Ltd.).4.	Facts
The records depict that consequent on the increase in excise duty in steel materials under Government of India Notification dated 17th March, 1972, the prices of steel materials were directed to be inclusive of JPC contribution to the reroler Freight Differential Fund, Equalised Freight Element and provision for JPC Engineering Goods Export Assistance Fund.	Facts
The inclusion of the above were made applicable to various categories of materials including Bar, Roads, Slabs Blooms, Coil, Billets etc.	Facts
as appears from JPC announcement No. 81 dated March 20, 1972.	Facts
It is, however, significant to note that by reason of the inclusion of the JPC price elements as above, the domestic price for iron and steel materials has always been higher than the international price of steel and resultantly demand for imported steel rather than the indigenous manufacture was on an ascending turned and it is to combat and curb such a trend and having regard to the higher domestic price structure, the Government of India introduced the International Price Reimbursement Scheme (hereinafter referred to as the Scheme) so as to provide some protection to exporters of engineering goods who would otherwise by reason of user of domestic steel, would be exposed to an addition expenditure and thus suffer a loss for the price difference as noticed above.	Facts
Incidentally, be it noted that the protection scheme came into force by reason of the price increase effected on 9.2.1981 by the Government of India, Ministry of Commerce Notification dated 23rd July, 1981.	Facts
One redeeming feature of the Scheme however, is reimbursement (emphasised) and it is in this context that Clauses 2.4, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.8 of the Scheme are relevant and thus ought to be noticed in extenso and relevant extracts of which are as below 2.4 Supplies of Steel made under release orders issued by Iron Steel Controller will be made at the prevailing plant stockyard price.	Facts
After the export are effected, price difference between its domestic price and the relevant international price will be reimbursed to the exporter.	Facts
Contracts eligible for reimbursement under this scheme (including fresh contracts) would have to be got registered with the concerned Regional Office of the EEPC within 45 days from the date of the contract.2.5	Facts
For reimbursement purposes, the domestic price for these categories would be the JPC plant price for those categories where JPC price control exists and SAIL price for other items prevailing on the date of exports.	Facts
The domestic price will be exclusive of taxes like sales tax, octroi, etc.2.7 Procedure for Reimbursement A)	Facts
The application for reimbursement will be made to the Regional Offices of the EEPC, with whom the exporter is registeredB)	Facts
The following documents will be submitted by the exporter for claiming the reimbursement of price difference between domestic and international prices of steel(i) Application in the prescribed form marked AnnexureVI in triplicatexxxxxxxxxxxxxx(vi)	Facts
A claim will indicating category wise consumption of steel and the price difference payable based on domestic price prevalent on the date of export and the international prices for the second proceeding month as explained in paragraphs(Emphasis supplied).(vii) Sale voucher for purchase of steel pig iron from Main Producers in original or the following documents 1.	Facts
Auditor chartered Accountants Certificate in the prescribed format to the effect that no imported steel pig iron has been utilised in the goods exported by the company.2.	Facts
An indemnity Bond in prescribed format indemnifying Government against any wrong payment on account of wrong calculation and or for use of imported steel materials.	Facts
C) the reimbursement benefit may be claimed by any one of the two parties provided the claimant is a registered exporter and otherwise eligible to get reimbursement benefit under this scheme (Emphasised)2.8 v)	Facts
The claim for reimbursement would be made only in respect of consumption of indigenous steel and pig iron procured from he main producer or other sources.	Facts
Claims for reimbursement would not be admitted against consumption of Steel pig iron imported against Advance License under the Duty Exemption Scheme and against impress REP licence or under OGL.	Facts
No claims will be admitted in case Customs duty refund has been claimed will be claimed under brand rate of duty drawback for such steel pig iron.(Emphasised)Further facts are as below (a) Application paper being Annexure VI to the Scheme itself provides for furnishing of an undertaking recording therein an obligation to refund the amount of Bill in full or part against application for reimbursement of price difference between domestic and international prices in case the declaration certificate furnished by the appellant against the claim are found to be incorrect at any time.	Facts
The undertaking further recorded that the refund would be effected within a period of 10 days from the date of receipt of notice asking for the refund failing	Facts
which the amount paid erroneously or in excess shall be recovered from the appellant or to be adjusted against any other claim.(a)	Facts
Incidentally Annexure VI also contained an Indemnity Bond as well which records as below Such payments are to be made on demand and without demur.	Facts
Our liability for payment under the bond being irrevocable and unconditional.(Emphasized).The Indemnity Bond further	Facts
providesNow the condition of this bond is such that if as a result of the details scrutiny of the above said application (s) the amount finally payable to obliger is determined to be (the decision of the government being final and binding) nil less because the obliger has been paid in excess on wrong calculations or has used imported steel pig iron in the manufacture of items thus exported and also received the price difference claim from the Disbursing Authority, the eligibility of receiving further amounts by way of difference in the price between the domestic and international prices for steel pig iron used in the manufacture of items exports, will be withdrawn and Government shall be at liberty to claim upon the obliger to return back the amount already paid by the disbursing authority within seven (7) days of the receipt of the notice from the disbursing authority failing which the government shall be free to take any action against the obliger without prejudice to the Government claim including security deposits and earnest money deposits lying with the other department of the Government or by attachment of our assets, shareholding and goodwill as also to stop all further payment assistance to the obliger as available to the exporters.	Facts
The facts in issue 5.	None
The factual score depicts that in terms of the Scheme as above, the appellant claimed benefits on the basis thereof and payment have also been made to the extent of differential element involved in the price structure.	Facts
The factual score however disclose that the appellant while exporting engineering goods did use its own manufactured steel items without involvement of any of the price element as declared by JPC and as noticed above.	Facts
It is on this score however, the Engineering Export Promotion Council subsequently by its letter dated 23rd November, 1992 refused to recognise the appellants entitlement to avail of the benefit of the Scheme.	Facts
The Council expressly communicated that a sum of Rs. 10,37,96,604/ was paid in excess under a bona fide mistake being discovered later.	Facts
The Council in addition to the claim abovesaid also claimed interest at the rate of 18 per annum.	Facts
The appellant however, in turn by its letter dated 19th January, 1993 while recording acceptance of the factum of user of own materials placed on record that the JPC guidelines exempt main producers from having levies on steel manufactured of down stream products and this proves that the JPC had accepted the unique position of an integrated steel producers who also manufactures other down stream products and by reason of such an acceptance, the appellant is not precluded from deriving the benefits under the scheme.6.	Facts
It has been the specific stand of the appellant that the Scheme for Price Reimbursement from the time of its introduction is applicable universally to all exporters since the export would not have been viable without the benefits under the Scheme.	Facts
Further the appellant contended that the EEP Council did not find any fault with the claims lodged for all these years, evidently because the Council was also satisfied about the eligibility of the company, nor there was any violation or circumvention of any of the provisions of the Scheme.7.	Facts
Subsequently, however, the Council by a letter dated 19th May, 1994 directed an adjustment of a sum of Rs. 10,37,96,604/ being the excess IPR  Scheme payment of the appellant herein and hence the writ petition before the High Court which was ordered in favour of the appellant herein by the learned Single Judge though however reversed in Letters Patient Appeal by the Appellate Bench of the High Court and hence the appeal before this Court.	Facts
Contention in support In support of the appeal, the learned senior counsel, Mr. Andhiyarujina contended that the scheme by itself it read in its entirety does not require actual payment of domestic price and in support thereof it has been contended The Scheme does not require the applicant to state the actual domestic price paid by it to make the claim, after the 1985 reimbursement.(2) After the 1985 reimbursement it was not necessary, nor a requirement in the matter of submission of sales voucher.(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
A claimant has only to state the price difference payable between the domestic price prevalent on the date of export and the international price of the proceeding month.(4)	Arguments of Petitioner
The JPC price is not applicable to the steel crashed from producers other than the main producers i.e. other sources.	Arguments of Petitioner
Exporters who obtain steel from other sources do not have to pay JPC price or JPC levies.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nevertheless the price difference is payable between the JPC prices and the international prices.(5)	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no provision in the Scheme for diminishing or altering the JPC prices to conform to a price actually paid by the manufacturers exporters for the steel.(6)	Arguments of Petitioner
For nonJPC categories of steel to be used in the manufacture, the domestic price would be the SAIL price.	Arguments of Petitioner
SAIL prices do not include JPC levies.(7)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Scheme disagreed the actual price paid by the manufacturer exporter for the domestic steel.	Arguments of Petitioner
He may have paid to the producer of steel a higher or lower price than the JPC price.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is ignored by the Scheme and the uniform JPC price is taken.(8)	Arguments of Petitioner
Though the scheme uses the word reimbursement, in the context of the Scheme, there is no repayment to the exporter.	Arguments of Petitioner
The word reimbursement here truly means the payment to the exporter of the price difference between the higher domestic price and the lower international price, i.e. to say a subsidy for exports.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Andhyarujina, learned senior counsel, very strongly commented that after the commencement of the Amendment on 17th of October, 1985 the exporters of the engineering steel product could procure the indigenous steel and pig iron from any source in the country since there was existing no obligation to procure materials from only the main producers but from other sources as well and it is in this context, strong reliance was placed on clause 2.8 (v) of the Scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Andhyarujina contended that the very use of the words other sources being an alternate to the main producer depicts the intent of the framers of the Scheme that though primarily reimbursement would be effected in respect of consumption of indigenous steel and pig iron procured from the main producer but this procurement may be had from other sources as well, such as Mukand Iron, Jindal, Orient etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
I has been contended rather strongly that other sources cannot but mean other manufacturers producing indigenous steel and	Arguments of Petitioner
contra view would run counter to the intent of the framers of the Scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been contended that the word procured from other sources, as a matter of fact, cannot but meant other sources that the main producer.	None
The word procure in common English parlance mean and imply to obtain or to get possession from someone else.	None
It is, as a mater of fact, obtaining the possession of someone which one has not already got.	None
This attribution however stands accepted by Lord Parker, C.J. in R v. Mills, 1963(1) All ER 202 204.	None
Old English however, referred to the word as a sinister move but having regard to the common acceptation of the word, the submission of Mr. Andhyaujina seem to be rather attractive.	None
Incidentally, prior to 17th October, 1985 the price protection was available to exporters who used indigenous raw material procured from the main producers.	None
On 17th October, 1985 the Scheme was amended so as to record that the production of sale vouchers, for the purchase of steel, pig iron from the main producers, ceased to be a requirement though, however, in lieu thereof an Audit Certificate has been demanded by the Union of India for certification that no foreign steel has been used in the concerned manufactured item.	None
During the course of submissions Mr. Andhyarujina in no uncertain terms contended that JPC prices are the prices which are announced by the JPC from time to time for supplies from member steel plaints, namely, the main producers (SAIL and TISCO) and the JPC prices applied for purchases from the main producers but not to purchases from other sources or other producers as noted above.	None
TISCO, admittedly, is a main producer of steel in the country and admittedly further TISCO was capitvely consuming steel manufactured by it in the export product being steel tubes and it is on this score that they claimed the benefits of the IPRS from 1985 onwards and allowed till 1992 when the respondents said to have illegally denied the appellant the full benefits on the ground that it has not paid the special levies in the JPC price structure.	None
Contentions raised on behalf of the respondents 12.	None
It is n this perspective that learned Attorney General contended that IPRS was evolved to avoid financial sufferance to the Indian manufacturer of iron and steel products from out of indigenous steel having the four basic price elements known in common English parlance as the JPC price namely, (i) Engineering Godos Export Assistant Fund (EFEAF) (ii) Steel Development Fund (SDF) (iii) Freight Equalisation Fund (FEF) and (iv) JPC Cess.	Arguments of Respondent
Admittedly, JPC pricing is higher than international pricing as is available in the steel market in the country but in order to make sure utilisation of the indigenous steel from the main producers, the quality of which stands tested, and to curb and combat the financial stress on the manufacturers, the IPRS was brought into existence as otherwise Indian manufacturers would be completely out of the trade by reason of availability of international steel at a lesser rate.13.	Arguments of Respondent
The IPRS leaves no manner of doubt stands attracted fro reimbursement only.	Arguments of Respondent
The issue therefore, arises having regard to the meaning attributed to the word reimbursement as to whether there is any entitlement for the appellant herein.	Arguments of Respondent
It needs to be adverted that the appellantpetitioner in fact have been receiving the money in the past and the entitlement thereof is challenged only since 1992 and this payment as stated by Mr. Attorney General has been effected by mistake and immediately on detection thereof and in order to rectify the mistake, a notice was sent as to the excess payment on account of price difference between the domestic and the international prices.	Arguments of Respondent
Observations Under the International Price Reimbursement Scheme (IPRS) supplies of steel raw materials required by the Engineering exporters were made available at the International prices by reimbursing the difference between the JPC prices and the relevant international prices.	None
The expression used in reimbursement to the extent of the difference between the domestic and international prices and in the event of nonpayment thereof question of thus claiming any price difference would not arise as otherwise it would amount to obtaining double benefit  This has been the contention of both Attorney General of India as also the AdditionalSolicitor General of India appearing for the respondents.	None
Admittedly, Tata Iron has not paid the JPC price which includes a number of levies rendering it more than the international prices but the factum of nonpayment of the levies, since the materials in question have been consumed at the factory itself without payment of any duty, the submission of the respondent seems to have been placed at a rather stronger footing.	None
In common exception the word reimburse mean and imply to pay back or refund As a matter of fact it denotes restoration of something paid in excess as regards the respondent Union of India	None
it cannot but mean to indemnify having regard to the common grammatical meaning of the word reimbursement.	None
Reimbursement has to mean and imply restoration of an equivalent for something paid or expended.	None
Reimbursement presupposes previous payment.	None
The contextual facts depict that the intention of the Government while framing the IPRS was to protect the interest of exporters of the engineering goods where the JPC or the domestic price (which includes a number of levies) was more than the international pricing.	None
The appellant TISCO admittedly has not paid the JPC price which includes various levies of the raw materials used for the product.	None
As matter of fact they cannot have any reimbursement fro expenses which they have never incurred.	None
As per the calculation made by the respondent an amount of Rs. 10,37,96,604/ is recoverable from TISCO on account of over payment of which a sum of Rs.	None
6,75,00,298/ stands adjusted by the Union of India against the payments respectively and a balance amount of Rs.	None
3,62,96,306/ is yet to be recovered as contended by the respondents.	None
On a true reading of the Scheme and various clauses thereunder together with the available meaning on the basis of the language used, the IPRS Scheme cannot possibly cover a situation as is in the present context.	None
We are afraid that in the event the appellant is permitted and allowed to enjoy the benefits in terms of the scheme, the situation would be rather not only of unjust enrichment but entertainment of a totally wrong claim.	None
Second Count In support of the appeal, the learned senior counsel Mr. Andhyarujina by way of an alternative submission contended that conferment of benefit in terms of IPRS and continuance thereof in the matter of payment of price difference in terms of the IPRS the conduct of the respondent is hit by the doctrine of estoppel by conduct.	None
Estoppel by conduct in modern times stands elucidated with the decisions of the English Courts in Pickard v. Sears, 1837	None
6Ad El. 469, and its gradual elaboration until placement of its true principles by the Privy Council in the case of Sarat Chunder Dey v. Gopal Chander Laha, 1898 L.R. 19 I.A. 203, whereas earlier Lord Esher in the case of Seton Laing Co. v. Lafone, 1887 19 Q.B.D. 68, evolved three basic elements of the doctrine of Estoppel to wit Firstly, where a man makes a fraudulentl misrepresnetation and another man acts upon it to its true detriment Secondly, another may be where a man makes a flase statement negligenlty though without fraud and another person acts upon it And thridly there may be circumstnaces under which, where a misrepresentation is made without fruad and without negligence, there may be an Estoppel Lord Shand, however, was pleased to add one furthers element to the effect that there may be statements made, which have indcued other party to do that from which otherwise he would have abstained and which cannot properly be characterised as misrepresenttion.	None
In this context, refrence may be made to the decisions of the High Court of Australai in the case of Craine v. Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co. Ltd., 1920(28) C.L.R. 305.	None
Dixon J. in his judgment in Grundt v. The Great Boulder Pty. Gold MInes Ltd., 1938(59) C.L.R. 641, stated that in measuring the detriment, or demonstrating its existence, one does not copare the position of theo representee, before and after acting upon the reprsentation, upon the assumption that the representation is to be regarded as true, the question of estoppel does not arise.	None
It is only when the representor wishes to disavow the assumption contained in his representation that an estoppel arises, and the qeustion of detriment is considered, accordingly, in the light of the position whicho the representee would be in if the representor were alloed to disavow the truth of the represnetation.	None
(In this context see Spencer Bower and Turner Estoppel by Representation 3rd Ed.).	None
Lord Denning also in the case of Central Newbury Car Auctions Ltd. v. Unity Finance Ltd., 1956(3)	None
All ER 905, apepars to have subscribed to the view of Lord Dixon, J. pertaining to the rest of detriment to the effect as to whether it appears unjust or unequitable that the representator should now be allowed to resile from his representation, having regard to what the representee has done or refrained from doing in reliance on the representtion, in short, the party asserting the Estoppel must have been induced to act to his detriment.	None
So long as the assumption is adhered to, the party who altered the situation upon the faith of it cannot complain.	None
His complaint is that when afterwards the other party makes a diffenet state of affaris, the basisof an ascertian of right against him then, if it is allowed, his own original change of position will operate as a detriment (vide Grundts High Court of Austriala (supra)).	None
Phipson on Evidence (Fourteenth Edn.) has the followng to state as regards estoppels by conduct.	None
Estoppels by conduct, or, as they are still sometiems called, estoppels by matter in pais, were anciently acts of notoriety not less solemn and formal than the execution of a deed, such as livery of seisin, entry, accepteance of an estate and the like, and whether a party had or had not concurred in an act of this sort was deemed a matter which there could be no difficulty in ascertainging, and then the legal consequences followed.	None
Lyon v. Reed, 1844(13) MW. 285, 309.	None
The doctrine has, however, in modern tiems, been extended so as to embrace practically any act or stateemnt by a party which it would be unconscionable to permit which it would be unconscionable to permit him to deny.	None
The rule has been auhtoritatively stated as follows Where one by his words of conduct willfully causes another to believe the existence of a certian state of things and induces him to act on that beleif so as to alter his own previous position, the former is concluded from averring against the latter a differnet state of things as existing at the same time.	None
Pickard v. Sears, 1837(6)	None
A.E. 469, 474	None
And whatever a mans real intention my be, he is deemed to act willfully if he so conducts himself that a reasonable man would take the representation to be true and beleive that it was meant that he should act upon it.	None
Freeman v. Cooke, 1848(2) Exch.	None
654, 663.Where the conduct is negligent or consits wholly of omission, there must be a duty to the person misled.	None
Mercantile Bank v. Central Bank, 1938 AC 287, 304 and National Westminster Bank v. Barclays Bank International, 1975 Q.B. 654.	None
This principle sits oddly with the rest of the law of estoppel, but it appears to have been reaffirmed, at least by implication, by the House of Lords comparately recently.	None
Moorgate Mercantile Co. Ltd. v. Twitchings, (1977)	None
AC 890 (H.L.).	None
The explanation is no doubt that this aspect of estoppel is properly to be considered a part of the law relating to negligent representations rather than estoppel properly socalled.	None
If two people with the same source of information assert the same truth or agree to assert the same falsehoold at the same time, neither can be estopped as against the other from asserting differently at another time.	None
Square v. Square, 1935 p. 120.	None
A bare perusal of the same would go to show that the issue of an estoppel by conduct can only be said to be available in the event of there being a precise and unambiguous representation and on that score a further question arises as to whether there was any unequivocal assurance prompting the assured to alter his position or status.	None
The contextual facts however, depict otherwise.	None
Annexure 2 to the application form for benefit of price protection contains and undertaking to the following effect  We hereby undertake to refund to EEPC Rs.  	None
the amount paid to us in full or part thereof against out application for price protection.	None
In terms of our application dated against exports made during.	None
In case any particular declaration certificate furnished by us against our above referred to claims are found to be incorrect or any excess payment is determine to have been made due to oversight wrong calculations etc.	None
at any time.	None
We also undertake to refund the amount within 10 days of receipt of the notice asking for the refund, failing which the amount erroneously paid or paid in excess shall be recovered from or adjusted against any other claim for export benefits by EEPC or by the licensing authorities at CCI C. and it is on this score it may be noted that in the event of there being a specific undertaking to refund for any amount erroneously paid or paid in excess (emphasis supplied), question of there being any estoppel in our view would not arise.	None
In this context correspondence exchanged between the parties are rather significant.	None
In particular letter dated 30th November, 1990 from the Assistant Development Commissioner fro Iron Steel and the reply thereto dated March 8, 1991 which unmistakably record the factum of nonpayment of JPC price.	None
Opinion of the Court 23.	None
The contextual facts therefore is no unambiguous language depict that the four JPC price elements have not been paid by the appellant herein.	Reasoning
Further factual score depicts recording of an undertaking to reply in the event of excess payments and on the wake of the findings as noticed hereinbefore, it would neither be fair nor reasonable or in consonance with the concept of justice, equity and good conscience directing entitlement of the appellant as is being claimed.	Reasoning
Doctrine of fairness and the duty to act fairly is a doctrine developed in the administrative law filed to ensure the rule of law and to prevent failure of justice.	Reasoning
It is a principle of good conscience and equity since the law courts are to act fairly and reasonably in accordance with the law.	Reasoning
The correspondence unmistakably divulge an obligation to pay certain compensation in the event there is a payment of certain levy by the appellant herein The appellant admittedly has not made the payment Doctrine of unreasonabless is opposed to doctrine of fairness and reasonableness will have its play, if allowed.	Reasoning
The happening of an event has not aken place, can it be said respective of such an event reimbursement is to be allowed ?	Reasoning
The answer, however, cannot but in the negative.d In that view of the matter, we record our concurrent with the judgment of the Calcutta High Court.	None
The appeal therefore, fails and is dismissed.	Decision
No order as to costs.	None
