 Ramaswami, J.1.	None
This appeal is brought, by certificate, from the judgment of the High Court of Punjab dated March 11 1964 dismissing the writ petition of the appellant  Civil Writ No.	Facts
189D of 1962.2.	Facts
In his petition under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution, the appellant, S. G. Jaisinghani.	Facts
challenged the constitutional validity of what has been described as the seniority rule in regard to Income Tax Service Class I Grade II along with the improper implementation of the quota recruitment to that Service as infringing the guarantee of Arts.	Facts
14 and 16 (1) of the Constitution.	Facts
The original respondents to the petition were the Union of India, Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance and the Central Board of Revenue respondents 1 to 3.	Facts
Subsequently.	Facts
respondents 4 to 126 were added and those are promotees in the Incometax Service who will be affected by the result of the petition.3.	Facts
In order to improve the Incometax administration the Government of India, on September 29, 1944, reconstituted and classified the existing Incometax Services as class I and II.	Facts
The reorganisational scheme provided for recruitment of Incometax Officers, Class I Grade II Service partly by promotion and partly by direct recruitment.	Facts
The reorganisational scheme was set out in Government of India, Finance Department (Central Revenues) letter dated September 29, 1944 (Ex. B).	Facts
It created two classes of Incometax Service, Class I with Grade I and Grade II and Class II Service with Grade III.	Facts
Recruitment to Class I Grade II Service was to be made (a) by direct recruitment through a competitive examination, and (b) by promotion from Class II Grade III, the ratio prescribed in paragraph 2 (d) of the letter being 80 per cent by direct recruitment and 20 per cent by promotion from Class II Grade III Service, and in case sufficient number of suitable candidates was not available for promotion surplus vacancies would be filled by direct recruitment.	Facts
In Government of India, Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division) letter dated January 24. 1950 (Ex. G to the writ petition), the rules of seniority were laid down.	Facts
These rules laid down the principle for determination of seniority (a) as between direct recruits recruited on the result of the combined competitive examination, (b) as between promotees selected from Class II and (c) as between the direct recruits who complete their probation in a given year and the promotees in the same.	Facts
year for appointment to Class I. These rules were revised on September 5, 1952 by the Government of India.	Facts
Ministry of Finance, Revenue Division letter No. F. No.58 (3)Ad. IT/50, dated September 5, 1952	Facts
The relevant rule, viz., rule 1(f) as framed in 1950 was as followsThe seniority of direct recruits recruited on the results of the examinations held by the Federal Public Service Commission in 1944, and subsequent years shall be reckoned as follows(i) Direct recruits of an earlier examination shall rank above those recruited from subsequent examination(ii) Direct recruits of any one examination shall rank inter se in accordance with the ranks obtained by them at that examination.(iii)	Facts
The promotees who have been certified by the Commission in any calendar year shall be senior to all direct recruits who complete their probation during that year or after and are confirmed with effect from a date in that year or after.	Facts
Provided that a person initially recruited as Class IT Incometax Officer, but subsequently appointed to Class I on the results of a competitive examination conducted by e Federal Public Service Commission shall, if he has passed the departmental examination held before his appointment to Class I Service, be deemed to be promotee for the purpose of seniority.	Facts
The rule, as revised in 1952 was to the following effectThe seniority of direct recruits recruited on the results of the examinations held by the Federal Public Service Commission in 1944, and subsequent years shall be reckoned as follows(i) Direct recruits of an earlier examination shall rank above those recruited from subsequent examination.(ii) Direct recruits of any one examination shall rank inter se in accordance with the ranks obtained by them at that examination(iii) Officers promoted in accordance with the recommendation of the Departmental Promotion Committee before the next meeting of the Departmental Promotion Committee shall be senior to all direct recruits appointed on the results of the examinations held by the Union Public Service Commission during the calendar year in which the Departmental Promotion Committee met and the three previous years.(iv)	Facts
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (iii) a Class II Incometax Officer subsequently appointed to Class 1 on the results of a Competitive Examination conducted by the Federal Public Service Commission shall, if he has passed the Departmental Examination held before his appointment to Class I Service be deemed to be a promotee for the purpose of seniority.4.	Facts
Clause (iv) of the 1952 Rule is almost a reproduction of the proviso to clause (iii ) of the rule framed in 1950 and clause (iii) has been recast in somewhat different language, though in substance it contains what the main body of clause (iii) of the Rule of 1950 stated.	Facts
The effect of clause (iii) of 1952 Rule is that the promotee becomes senior to the direct recruit who has completed a probationary period of two years in the very year in which the Departmental Promotion Committee meets recommending the officers in Class II for promotion to Class I.	Facts
The following illustrations clarify the application of the rule Illustration A Year of Competitive Exam Year of appointment by direct recruitment.	None
Year of completion of 2 years Probation Departmental Promotion Committee Position of direct recruitment Promotees seniority 1 2 3 4 5 6 (1947) 1948 1950 Has not completed Probation Senior the three previous years.	None
(1948) 1949 1951 Has not completed Probation do (1949) 1950 1952 Has not completed Probation (1950) 1951 1953 1950 do do Illustration B Year of Competitive Exam Year of appointment by direct recruitment.	None
Year of completion of 2 years Probation Departmental Promotion Committee Position of direct recruitment Promotees seniority 1 2 3 4 5 6 (1950) 1951 1953	None
Has completed Probation Senior years.	None
(1951) 1952 1954 Has not completed probation.	None
do (1952) 1953 1955 do do (1953) 1954 1956 in 1953 do do 5.	None
A Class 11 Officer when directly recruited had to be on probation for two years during which period he had to undergo a course of theoretical and practical training and, should pass a departmental examination for being confirmed After minimum period of three years of work as Incometax Officer (after his probation of two years)	None
he is considered by the Departmental Promotion Committee for promotion to Class I. That is to say that he has to have a minimum service of 5 years in all in Class II before he is qualified for being considered for promotion to Class 1.	Facts
Grade II Service.	Facts
Clause (iv) of rule I (f) deals with a special situation in which an officer initially appointed to Class II Service is given seniority in the same manner as a departmental promotee if subsequent to his passing the departmental examination in Class II he is appointed to Class I on the results of the combined competitive examination held by the Union Public Service Commission.6.	Facts
On October 18, 1951 the recruitment quotas of 80per cent and 20 per cent under the reorganisation scheme dated September 29, 1944 were revised.	Facts
Under the revised recruitment quota rule 662/3 percent of the vacancies in Grade II Class l would be filled by direct recruitment and the remaining 331/3 per cent by promotion from Grade III Glass II Service.	Facts
Any surplus vacancies which could not be filled by promotion for want of suitable candidates were to be added to the quota of vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment.7.	Facts
Rule 4 of the Rules of Promotions at page 251 of the Central Board of Revenue Office Procedure Manual has also been the subjectmatter of controversy in this appeal and is set out belowIncometax Officer, Class I (Grade I) Promotions to this grade are made from the grade of Incometax Officers Class I Grade II.	Facts
The promotions are made on the basis of seniority subject to fitness, and not by selection.	Facts
Normally promotions from Class II are made to Grade II of Class I only in the first instance However, in the initial stages of the reorganisation of the Incometax Services, several senior officers were promoted direct from Class II to Class i. Grade I, but such promotions will not ordinarily take place in future.	Facts
Note The Union Public Service Commission has ruled that the promotion to Class.	Facts
I, Grade I of officiating I. T. Os.	Facts
Class l Grade II whose retention in that grade has been approved by the Departmental Promotion Committee would also be in the nature of promotion from 1.	Facts
T. O. Class II, Grade III to I. T. O.,	Facts
Class I, Grade I and require consultation with the Commission, even though the promotion from I. T. O., Class I, Grade II to Class I,	Facts
Grade I is made on the basis of seniority cumfitness without reference to the Departmental Promotion Committee.	Facts
Appointments to Class	Facts
I, Grade I should therefore, be referred to the Commission for approval so long as the officers have not been confirmed in the Class l, Grade II post.	Facts
Basis of promotion is senioritycumfitness and prescribed minimum service is five years gazetted service including one year in Class I, Grade II.7.	Facts
The Full Bench of the Punjab High Court rejected the. writ petition of the appellant holding that the principles for determining seniority between direct recruits and prolilotees laid down in Rule I (f)(iii)and (iv).	Facts
1952 were not discriminatory and there was no infringement of Arts.	Facts
14 and 16 (1) of the Constitution.	Facts
It was also decided by the Full Bench that the quota rule announced by the Government of India was merely a policy statement and had no statutory force and departure from the quota did not give rise to any justiciable issue.	Facts
It was further observed that the promotion rule from Class I, Grade II to Class I, Grade I was not discriminatory and ultra vires of Arts.	Facts
14 and 16 of the Constitution.8.	Facts
The first question to he considered in this appeal is whether Rule 1 (f) (iii) of the seniority rules as framed in 1952 violates the guarantee under Arts.	Issue
14 and 16 of the Constitution	Facts
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that the impugned rule was based upon an unjustifiable classification between direct recruits and promotees after they had entered into Class I, Grade II Service and on the basis of that classification promotees are given seniority with weight age over direct recruits of the same year and three previous years.	None
It was contended that there was a discrimination between officers of Class I, Grade II Service, after their recruitment and the actual working of the rule kept on pushing down the direct recruits and postponing their chances of promotion to higher posts in Class Service.	None
It was submitted that all officers appointed to Class I, Grade II Service formed one class and after the officers have been once recruited there could be no distinction between direct recruits and promotees.	None
In other words, it was contended that the promotees and direct recruit became one class immediately on entry and thereafter there cannot be any class within that class.	None
We are unable to accept the contention of the appellant as correct.9.	None
In our opinion.	Reasoning
it is not right to approach this problem as if it is a case of classification of one service into two classes for the purpose of promotion and as the promotion rule operating to the disadvantage of one of the two classes.	Reasoning
It is really a case of recruitment to the Service from two different sources and then adjustment of seniority between the recruits coming form the two sources.	Reasoning
So far as Art. 16 (I) is concerned, it cannot be said that the rule of seniority proceeds on an unreasonable basis.	Reasoning
The reason for the classification is the objective of filling the higher echelons of the Income Tax Service by experienced officers possessing not only a high degree of ability but also first rate experience.	Reasoning
Having regard to the particular circumstances of this case, we are of opinion that the seniority rule is not unreasonable when read with the quota rule which provides for a special reservation of a small percentage of posts for the promotees who are selected by a special Committee, which determines the fitness of the candidates for promotion after they have put in at least three. years of service as Income Tax Officers.	Reasoning
A rule which gives seniority to outstanding officers with considerable experience, and selected on merit and limiting the promotion to a percentage not exceeding the prescribed limit cannot per se be regarded as unreasonable.	Reasoning
As we have already pointed out, the direct recruits joining Class I, Grade II Service have to undergo a period of two years training and thereafter they become qualified for confirmation.	Reasoning
A promotee having already undergone the very same training during the period of probation of Class II, Grade III, joins Class I, Grade with three years period of assessment and working experience of the Incometax Department.	Reasoning
It is necessary to add that the selection of a promotee to Class I is based on merit and great weight age is given by the Departmental Promotion Committee to outstanding qualifications, record of work and the ability of the candidate, so that those who come to Class I, Grade II are officers who have shown outstanding capability as Incometax Officers in Class IT Service.	Reasoning
The statement in Annexure 2 of the affidavit on behalf of respondents 1 to 4 in Writ Petition No. .5 of 1966 shows that the standards of selection are very stiff inasmuch as a very small proportion of officers considered for selection is actually promoted.	Reasoning
The net effect of Rule,1(f) (iii) therefore is that three years of outstanding work in Class II is equated to two years of probation in Class I Service and on consideration of this aspect of the matter the promotee is given seniority over a direct recruit completing the period of probation in the same year.10.	Reasoning
The relevant law on the subject is well settled.	Reasoning
Under Art.	Reasoning
16 of the Constitution, there shall be equality of opportunity for all citizens in matters relating to employment or appointment to any office under the State or to promotion from one office to a higher office thereunder.	Reasoning
Article 16 of the Constitution is only an incident of the application or the concept of equality enshrined in Art.	Reasoning
14 thereof.	Reasoning
It gives effect to the doctrine of equality in the matter of appointment and promotion It follows that there can be a reasonable classification of the employees for the purpose of appointment or promotion.	Reasoning
The concept of equality in the matter of promotion can be predicated only when the promotees are drawn from the same source.	Reasoning
If the preferential treatment of one source in relation to the other is based on the differences between the said two sources, and the said differences have a reasonable relation to the nature of the office or offices to which recruitment is made, the, said recruitment can legitimately be sustained on the basis of a valid classification.	Reasoning
Dealing with the extent of protection of Art. 16(1)) of the Constitution, this Court observed in General Manager, Southern Rly. v. Rangachari, (1962) 2	None
SCR 586 at pp. 596598 (AIR 1962 SC .36 at pp.	None
4041)It would be clear that matters relating to employment cannot be confined only to the initial matters prior to the act of employment.	None
The narrow construction would confine the application of Art. 16(1) to the initial employment and nothing else but that clearly is only one of the matters relating to employment.	None
The other matters relating to employment would inevitably be the provision as to the salary and periodical increments therein, terms as to leave, as to gratuity, as to pension and as to the age of superannuation.	None
These are all matters relating to employment and they are, and must be, deemed to be included in the expression matters relating to employment in Article 16 (1), what Article16(1) guarantees is equality of opportunity to all citizens in respect of all the matters relating to employment illustrated by us as well as to an appointment to any office as explained by us.	None
The three provision Article 16 (1), Art. 14 and Art. 15 (1) form part of the same con stitutiona1 code of guarantees and supplement each other.	None
If that be so, there would be no difficu1ty in holding that the matters relating to employment must include all matters in relation to employment both prior, and subsequent, to the employment which are incidental to the employment and form part of the terms and conditions of such employment.	None
This Court further observed in that caseArticle 16 (2) prohibits discrimination and thus assures the effective enforcement of the fundamental right of equality of opportunity guaranteed by Article 16 (1).	None
The words in respect of any employment used in Article 16 (2) must, therefore, include all matters relating to employment as specified in Article 16 (i).	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that promotion to selection posts is included both under Articles 16 (1) and (2).11.	None
We next proceed to consider the argument of the appellant that the rule of promotion from Incometax Officers Class I, Grade II to Class I,	None
Grade I is discriminatory in character.	None
It was contended that while a direct recruit has to put in 5 years as Income Tax Officer Class I, Grade II, a promotee officer gets into Grade I with a minimum of one years service in Class I, Grade II, the other four years being counted In Class II, Grade III.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was therefore submitted that the rule operated against the direct recruit in a discriminatory manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, there is no substance in the contention of the appellant.	None
Once it is held that the rule of seniority enacted in rule 1 (f) (iii) is legally valid, the rule of promotion i. e. rule 4 of Ch 1X of the Central Board of Revenue Office Procedure Manual cannot be held to lead to any discrimination as between direct recruits and promotees.	Reasoning
Rule 4 states that the prescribed minimum service for Class I, Grade II Officer in the matter of promotion to Grade I of that Service is five years gazetted service including one year in Class I, Grade II.	Reasoning
For a promotee therefore the minimum period of service for promotion to Class I, Grade I is actually 4 years service in Class II, Grade III and one year service in Class	Reasoning
I, Grade II.	Reasoning
The object of the rule is really to carry out the policy of rule 1 (f) (iii) of the Rules of Seniority, and not allow it to be defeated by the requirement of five years service in Class I, Grade II itself before consideration for promotion to Class I, Grade I.	Reasoning
The promotee is placed senior to a direct recruit who completes probation in the year in which the promotee is selected by the Departmental Promotion Committee.	Reasoning
If it should be laid down that the past service as Incometax Officer in Class II is not to be counted, then rule I (f) (iii) would be nullified, because directly recruited officers junior to the promotees would go to Grade I earlier than the promotee officers.	Reasoning
For example, a promotee certified fit by the Departmental Promotion Committee in 1952 will be senior to the direct recruits who complete their probation in that year.	Reasoning
And if it is to be laid down that the promotee officer shall not count his period of service in Class II for the purpose of promotion to Grade I, Class I he will have to wait till 1957 or 1958 to go to Grade I, Class I, While direct recruits who completed their probation in 1952 or 1953 would have gone to Grade I, Class l in 1955 or 1956.	Reasoning
counting the five years period from the date on which they were placed on probation.	Reasoning
To remove this anomaly the promotion rule has been framed and we are unable to accept the argument of the appellant that there is any discrimination in the working of this rule.	Reasoning
The rule of promotion is inextricably linked with the rule of weightage and seniority in Grade II.	Reasoning
If in the rule of promotion the service in Grade III is not to be taken into account, seniority in Grade II would be an empty formality.12.	Reasoning
In regard to rule 1 (I) (iv) of the Seniority Rules, there are only three respondents i. e., respondents 4, 5 and 6 who have been promoted as deemed promoters under this clause of the rule.	None
Each one of them Was appointed in Class II, Grade III Service in 1947 and was appointed in Class 1, Grade II Service in 1951 after having successfully competed in the competitive examination of the year 1950.	None
the same year in which the appellant was successful	None
The appellant also joined Class i. Grade II Service in 1951.	None
The three respondents have been shown as senior to the appellant in the seniority list.	None
The objection of the appellant is that while they qualified in the same competitive examination, the had become senior to him because of the operation of the artificial rule by which they are treated as deemed promotees, otherwise they would have remained junior to him.	None
On behalf of these respondents it was argued by Mr. Bindra that they had been appointed to Class II, Grade III Service in 1947 and completed 5 years service in that class by the year 1952 and if the Departmental Promotion Committee met in 1953, as it actually did meet, and if it recommended their promotion to Class 1, Grade II, each one of them would have become senior to the appellant by the operation of Cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(ii) to rule l (f).	Arguments of Respondent
There was also the further consideration that if rule I (f) (iv) did not exist there was no incentive to a promotee of this type to sit for the competitive examination.	Reasoning
It should also be taken into account that if the service of the promotees in Class II, Grade III is entirely ignored and if they join the Class 1, Grade II Service as direct recruits they might well find themselves becoming junior to those who were left behind in Class II Grade III.	Reasoning
Service by the operation of rule 1 (f) (iii).We are accordingly of the opinion that rule 1 (f) (iv) is based on a reasonable classification and does not offend the guarantee under Art. 14 or Art. 16 (1) of the Constitution.13.	None
We proceed to consider the next question arising for consideration in this appeal, viz., the allegation of the appellant that there was excessive recruitment of promotees in violation of the quota rule.	Issue
Rule 3 of the Incometax Officers (Class I, Grade II) Service Recruitment Rules is to the following effectThe Service shall be recruited by the following methods(i) By competitive examination held in India in accordance with Part II of these Rules.(ii) By promotion on the basis of selection from Grade IIII (Class II Service) in accordance with Part III of these Rules.14.	None
Rule 4 readsSubject to the provisions of Rule 3, Government shall determine the method or methods to be employed for the purpose of filling any particular vacancies, or such vacancies as may require to be filled during any particular period, and the number of candidates to be recruited by each method.15.	None
Rule 5 statesVacancies in the Service which are filled otherwise than by promotion shall be apportioned between the various communities in India in accordance with the provisions of the Government of India (Home Department)	None
Resolution No. F. 14/17B/33 Ests. dated the 4th July, 1934 (regarding communal representation in the services) and No. 23/5/42Ests.	None
(S) dated the 11th August l943 (regarding representation of Scheduled Castes in the Services) and the supplementary instructions connected therewith.16.	None
In the letter of the Government of India dated September 29, 1944 (Ex. B to the writ petition of the appellant) it is stated that the recruitment to Grade II of Class I will be made partly by promotion and partly by direct recruitment and that 80 per cent of the vacancies arising in the Grade will be filled by direct recruitment through the Indian Audit and Allied Services Examination and the remaining 20 per cent vacancies will be filled on the basis of promotion by selection provided suitable number of men are available for promotion.	Facts
It was also stated in the letter that if there are any vacancies which could not be filled by promotion for want of suitable candidates, these will be added to the quota of vacancies to be filled by direct recruitments The quota was altered by the Government of India subsequently in their letter dated October 16, 1951	None
(Ex. E to the writ petition).	None
In this letter the Government of India said that they had decided in consultation with the Union Public Service Commission that for a period of five years, in the first instance, 662/3 per cent vacancies in Class I Grade II will be filled by direct recruitments and the remaining 331/3 per cent vacancies on the basis of promotion and any surplus vacancies which cannot be filled for want of suitable candidates will be added to the quota of vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment.	None
There has been no argument, in this case, with regard to the operation of the rule between the years l945 and 1950.	None
though in the petition the appellant has alleged that in those years also there were excessive recruitments of promotees.	None
It appears from the affidavit of respondent No. 1 that these were formative years of the Incometax Service and reorganisation of the Department was being completed and the initial period of reorganisation lasted uptil 1950.	None
The argument was confirmed to the years 1951 to l956 According to the appellant, there was excessive recruitment of 71 promotees more than the figure permitted by the quota rule.	None
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has examined the matter and found that the excess number of promotees was 31 for the four years 1951 to 1954.	None
During the hearing of the appeal we had ordered the Secretary of the Finance Ministry to furnish the number of vacancies which had arisen from year to year from 1945 onwards, the nature of the vacancies  permanent or temporary and the chain of vacancies and such other details which are relevant to the matters pending before this Court.	None
In his affidavit dated January 31, 1967, Mr. R. C. Dutt said that he was not able to work out, in spite of his best endeavours, the number of vacancies arising in a particular year.	None
However, a statement, Ex. E, was furnished showing the number of officers recruited by the two methods of recruitment to Class I Service during the relevant years Year UPSC Exam.	None
Recruits War Service candidates Officers Selected from Class II.	None
1951 50 1952 2 49 1953 52 38 1954 44 30 1955 45 24 1956 25	None
It is not clear from the affidavit of Mr. R.C. Dutt whether the quota rule was strictly followed for the years in question.	None
In the counter affidavits of respondents 1 to 4 in Writ Petition No. 5 of 1966 there is however an assertion that the quota rule has been substantially complied with.17.	None
The SolicitorGeneral on behalf of respondents 1, 2, and 3 submitted that the quota rule was merely an administrative direction to determine recruitment from two different sources in the proportion stated in the rule and a breach of the quota rule was not a justiciable issue.	None
The SolicitorGeneral said that there was, however, substantial compliance with the quota rule.	None
But in the absence of figures of permanent vacancies in Class 1, Grade II for the relevant years the SolicitorGeneral was unable to say what extent there had been deviation from the rule.	None
We are unable to accept the argument of the SolicitorGeneral that the quota rule was not legally binding on the Government.	None
It is not disputed that rule 4 of the Incometax Officers (Class 1, Grade II) Service Recruitment Rules is a statutory rule and there is a statutory duty cast on the Government under this rule to determine the method or methods to be employed for the purpose of filling the vacancies and the number of candidates to be recruited by each method.	None
In the letter of the Government of India dated October 18, 1951 there is no specific reference to rule 4, but the quota fixed in their letter must be deemed to have been fixed by the Government of India in exercise of the statutory power given under rule 4.Having fixed the quota in that letter under rule 4, it is not now open to the Government of India to say that it is not incumbent upon it to follow the quota for each year and it is open to it to alter the quota on account of the particular situation (See Para 24 of the counter affidavit of respondents 1 to 3 in Writ Petition No. 5 of 1966).	None
We are of opinion that having fixed the quota in exercise of their power under rule 4 between the two sources of recruitment, there is no discretion left with the Government of India to alter that quota according to the exigencies of the situation or to deviate from the quota, in any particular year, at its own will and pleasure.	Reasoning
As we have already indicated, the quota rule is linked up with the seniority rule and unless the quota rule is strictly observed in practice , it will be difficult to hold that the seniority rule.	Reasoning
i.e., rule 1(f) (iii) and (iv), is not unreasonable and does not offend Art.	Reasoning
16 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We are accordingly of the opinion that promotees from Class II, Grade III to Class	Reasoning
I, Grade II Service in excess of the prescribed quotas for each of the years 1951 to 1956 and onwards have been illegally promoted and the appellant is entitled to a writ in the nature of mandamus commanding respondents 1 to 3 to adjust the seniority of the appellant and other officers similarly placed like him and to prepare a fresh seniority list in accordance with law after adjusting the recruitment for the period 1951 to1956 and onwards in accordance with the quota rule prescribed in the letter of the Government of India	Reasoning
No. F. 24 (2).	Reasoning
Admn I. T. .51 dated October 18, 1951.	Reasoning
We, however. wish to make it clear that this order will not affect such Class II Officers who have been appointed permanently as Assistant Commissioners of Income  tax.	Reasoning
But this order will apply to all other officers including those who have been appointed Assistant Commissioners of Incometax provisionally pursuant to the orders of the High Court.18.	Reasoning
In this context it is important to emphasize that the absence of arbitrary power is the first essential of the rule of law upon which our whole constitutional system is based.	Reasoning
In a system governed by rule of law, discretion, when conferred upon executive authorities, must be confined within clearly defined limits.	Reasoning
The rule of law from this point of view means that decisions should be made by the application of known principles and rules and in general, such decisions should be predictable and the citizen should know where he is.	Reasoning
If a decision is taken without any principle or without any rule it is unpredictable and such a decision is the antithesis of a decision taken in accordance with the rule of law.	Reasoning
(See Dicey Law of the Constitution Tenth Edn., Introduction cx).	Reasoning
Law has reached its finest moments, stated Douglas, J. in United States v. Wunderlich.	Reasoning
(1951) 342 US 98, when it has freed man from the unlimited discretion of some rulerWhere discretion is absolute man has always suffered.	Reasoning
It is in this sense that the rule of law may be said to be the sworn enemy of caprice .Discretion	Reasoning
as Lord Mansfield stated it in classic terms in the case of John Wilkes.	Reasoning
(1770) 4 Burr 2528 at p. 2539 means sound discretion guided by law.	Reasoning
It must be governed by rule not by humour it must not be arbitrary, vague and fanciful.19.	Reasoning
We should also like to suggest to the Government that for future years the roster system should be adopted by framing an appropriate rule for working out the quota between the direct recruits and the promotees and that a roster should be maintained indicating the order in which appointments are made by direct recruitment and by promotion in accordance with the percentages fixed under the statutory rule for each method of recruitment.20.	Reasoning
For these reasons we allow this appeal in part and order that a writ in the nature of mandamus should be granted to the appellant to the extent indicated above.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs in this appeal.	None
Writ Petition No. 5 of 196621.	None
The questions arising for determination in this case are similar in character to the questions which have been the subject matter of consideration in Civil Appeal No. 1038 of 1965.	None
For the reasons given in that case, we hold that this petition should be allowed and writ in the nature of mandamus under Art.	Reasoning
32 of the Constitution should be granted commanding respondents l to 3 to adjust the seniority of the petitioner and other officers similarly placed like him and to prepare a fresh seniority list in accordance with law after adjusting the recruitment for the period 1951 to 1956 and onwards in accordance with the quota rule prescribed in the letter No. F. 24 (2) Admn.	Reasoning
I.T./51 dated October 18, 1951 of the Government of India.	Reasoning
There will be no order as to costs.22.	None
Petition allowed.23.	None
Appeal allowed in part.	None
