 Wanchoo, J.1.	None
These are two appeals by special leave against the same award of the First Industrial Tribunal.	Issue
West Bengal and will be dealt with together, Appeal No. 425 of 1962 is by the employers and appeal No. 426 of 1962 is by the workmen.	Issue
The employers will be referred to as the appellant throughout this judgment while the workmen will be referred to as the respondents.	None
There was a dispute between the appellant and the respondents with respect to two matters, which were referred to the tribunal for adjudication by the Government of West Bengal in the following terms1.	None
To what relief the suspended workmen whose names are mentioned in list A are entitled?2.	None
Whether the termination of employment of the workmen whose names are mentioned in list B was justified?	Facts
Are they entitled to reinstatement and or	None
compensation?List A consisted of 29 workmen while list B consisted of 12 workmen.2.	None
The genesis of the dispute as to the suspended workmen was this according to the case of the appellant.	Facts
The workmen of the weaving department of the appellant commenced slow down from October 28, 1957, in spite of the warning given by the appellant.	Facts
On November 3, 1957, doffers of carding refused to work on new machines.	Facts
The workmen of loose godown and folding section started slow down from October 27, 1957 and November 4, 1957 respectively.	Facts
On November 23, 1957, the workmen of the spinning department adopted slow down tactics and indulged in other subversive activities and left their respective machines in groups rendering the work in backward and forward processes idle.	Facts
As a result of this conduct of the workmen for a period of about four weeks, the appellant had to layoff a large number of workmen without compensation.	Facts
Then on December 3, 1957, the workmen of dye house and printing department, went on an illegal stayinstrike.	None
In the first week of December, 1957, the workmen of blow room and carding went on strike.	None
On December 9, the strike was commenced in the engineering department, cotton godown, bale godown canteen, high speed winding and old stores department.	Facts
In the circumstances the appellant had to suspend 1600 workmen on charges of slowdown and various other charges.	Facts
Thereafter negotiations were started between the union of the workmen and the management and an agreement was arrived at on December 23, 1957.	Facts
The interpretation of some of the terms of the agreement is in dispute and we shall refer to them in due course.	Facts
Suffice it to say here that by this agreement the workmen resumed work and undertook not to take recourse to goslow activities either individually or jointly and not to take recourse to illegal methods and means for the achievement of their demands or for getting their grievances redressed.	Facts
It was also agreed that maintenance of discipline was of paramount importance and the workmen as also the union at all times would cooperate with management in taking appropriate disciplinary action against the workmen for the maintenance of discipline in the factory.	Facts
The agreement however provided that thirty workmen named in annexure A thereof would remain suspended pending inquiry and disciplinary action by the appellant.	Facts
The first term of reference with respect to suspended workmen is about the thirty workmen who were to remain suspended under the terms of the agreement of December 23, 1957.3.	Facts
The twelve workmen with which the second term of reference is concerned, were claimed by the appellant to have been guilty of various acts of misconduct for which they were liable to dismissal under the standing orders.	Facts
They were duly chargesheeted and inquiries were held against them and thereafter they were dismissed according to the provisions of law.	Facts
As however the dismissals had taken place during the pendency of a dispute before the first industrial tribunal in which the appellant was a party, applications were made under S. 33 (2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act.	Facts
No. 14 of 1947, (hereinafter referred to as the Act) for approval of the action taken by the appellant in regard to these twelve workmen.	Facts
It seems, however, that before these applications could be disposed of, the dispute before the tribunal was decided, with the result that no orders were passed by the tribunals on these applications.	Facts
The appellant, however, claimed that the dismissal of these workmen was justified and therefore no case for reinstatement or compensation arose.	Facts
This claim of the appellant was disputed by the respondents and therefore we find this dispute being referred for adjudication in the second term of reference.4.	Facts
We shall first deal with the matter relating to suspension of the twentynine workmen in list A to the order of reference.	Facts
It may be mentioned that though in annexure A to the agreement there were thirty workmen, the reference was made only with respect to twentynine, as it is said that one of the workmen out of 30 had died by the time the reference came to be made.	Facts
Further out of the 29 workmen with which the first term of reference was concerned, the respondents gave up the case of five of the workmen.	Facts
The tribunal therefore dealt with the case of the remaining 24.	Facts
These 24 workmen were divided by the tribunal into five groups.	Facts
The first group consisted of two workmen, the second group of five workmen the third group of 13 workmen, the fourth group of two workmen and the fifth group of two workmen.	Facts
Learned counsel for the appellant has not pressed the appeal with respect to six workmen in groups I, IV and V, and we need not therefore consider the order of the Tribunal with respect of these workmen, who are Govindo (No. 1).	Reasoning
Bholanath (No. 8), Khaseswar (No. 7), Ramjatan (No. 27),.	Reasoning
Rampujan (No. 26) and Khetrabasi (No. 28) of list A attached to the order of reference.5.	Facts
As to the five workmen in group II, namely, Gangadhar (No. 2), Ramchandra (No. 3), Babaji Nayak (No. 4), Pahraj (No. 5) and Shankdardas (No. 6) of list A attached to the order of reference, the tribunal ordered that they should be reinstated in their jobs with effect from the date the award came into force and should be paid compensation amounting to fifteen months wages in all for the period during which they remained suspended.	Facts
The appellant has challenged this order of the tribunal.6.	Facts
As to group III.	None
the tribunal decided that nine of the thirteen workmen should be dismissed.	None
As to the remaining four the tribunal held that they should be reinstated.	None
It may be mentioned that the reason why the tribunal proceeded to consider whether any of the workmen in list A to the order of reference should be dismissed was on account of the appellants filing an application under S. 33(1) (b) of the Act before the tribunal for permission to dismiss the twentynine workmen.	None
The order of the tribunal with respect to the reinstatement of four workmen, namely, Gulzarali (No. 18), Farid (No. 16), Din Mohd.	None
(No. 17) and Mohd.	None
Islam (No. 24) of list A attached to the order of reference is being challenged by the appellant on the ground that there was no reason for the tribunal to treat these four workmen out of this group of 13 differently from the other nine as the evidence was the same in all these cases.	None
Finally, the tribunal also ordered with respect to all the 24 workmen on an interpretation of the agreement of December 23, 1957, that they should be paid 12 months wages for the period of their suspension irrespective of whether it was permitting them to be dismissed or not.	None
This order of the tribunal is also being attacked by the appellant.7.	None
We shall first take the case of the five workmen in group II.	None
The contention of the appellant in that behalf is twofold.	None
In the first place it is urged that these workmen were charged with adopting goslow tactics by causing spindle stoppage unnecessarily and there was clear documentary evidence to support this charge and the tribunals decision that there was no proof of goslow tactics in the circumstances was perverse.	None
In the second place, it is urged that all these five workmen were charged with other misconduct also and the tribunal did not consider the evidence with respect to other misconduct at all and have no finding thereon and so the case of these five workmen at any rate should be remanded to the tribunal for considering the evidence on the other charges against them.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now the appellant relied on an extract from two registers, Exs. AA and AA1, which had been produced before the tribunal in this connection and this extract was set out in the special leave petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondents, however, contended that what was set out in the Special leave petition was not an extract at all from Exs. AA and AA1.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand it was said to be a spurious document prepared to mislead this Court at the time of the admission of the appeal and so it was urged that the leave should be revoked.	None
This extract related to four workmen, namely, Paharaj Shankdardas.	None
Gangadhar and Babaji, and was with respect to spindle stoppage from November 10 to 23, 1957.	None
In view of the charge made by the respondents, the original registers were sent for and have been examined by us and we have come to the conclusion that the extract given in the special leave petition was not a true copy of Exs. AA and AA1 as it should have been, if it was merely an extract from those registers.	None
The figures of spindle stoppage given in the extract certainly tally with the figures in the two registers but the registers do not show the names of the persons who were manning the four machines, the spindle stoppage of which was given in this extract.	Reasoning
It is however urged that the names of the four workmen were given in the extract though they were not to be found in the registers because these workmen actually manned the machines on the dates mentioned in the extract and reference was made to some evidence in that connection.	Arguments of Respondent
Even assuming that these workmen manned these machines we find another serious misrepresentation in this extract.	None
Paharaj was chargesheeted on November 17 and was suspended forthwith.	Reasoning
Therefore he could not have worked after November 17, but this extract shows as if he continued working even after November 17, upto November 23	Reasoning
It is remarkable that serious spindle stoppage occurred on the machinery which Paharaj was said to be manning mainly after November 17, when it must have been manned by somebody else.	Reasoning
Similarly Shankdardas was chargesheeted on November 17 and suspended forthwith and could not have worked thereafter.	Reasoning
But in his case also the extract shows as if he continued to work thereafter from 18th to 23rd November and the more serious spindle stoppage is during this period when he obviously could not have manned this machine.	Reasoning
Babaji was chargesheeted on November 18 and suspended forthwith.	Reasoning
He could not have therefore worked on the machine on which his name is shown in the extract between November 19and 23 and the more serious spindle stoppage occurred after November 18 when somebody else must have been manning this machine.	Reasoning
Gangadhar was chargesheeted on November, 22 and was suspended forthwith.	Reasoning
In his case also the extract shows as if he had worked on November, 23.	Reasoning
We strongly deprecate the manner in which the extract was used in the special leave petition to convey a wrong impression to this Court.	Reasoning
But we do not think that we should revoke the special leave granted in this case on this ground alone.	Reasoning
However our examination of the extract which we have set out above clearly shows that the contention of the appellant that the tribunal had patently misunderstood Exs.	Reasoning
AA and AA1 cannot be made out.	None
It seems to us that the reasons given by the tribunal for holding that goslow by these five workmen had not been proved cannot be said to be inadequate for the purpose of coming to the conclusion which it did.	Reasoning
We may only note one reason which is given by the tribunal and which shows that everything was not alright in the appellant company in this matter.	Reasoning
Though the chargesheets to these workmen of the spinning department were given on November 17, 18 and 22, it is remarkable that in the writtenstatement of the appellant before the tribunal the case made out was that the workmen of the spinning department adopted slow down tactics and indulged in other subversive activities from November 23, 1957.	Reasoning
This seems to be a surprising statement to make in the face of the charges given to these five workmen and can only show that the appellant did not really know what the correct facts were.	Reasoning
It is further remarkable that in the application under S. 33(1)(b) which was made four months after the writtenstatement of the appellant had been filed, the same thing was repeated and it was said that the workers of the spinning department adopted go slow tactics on November 23 and indulged in other subversive activities.	Reasoning
It is true that in the evidence the appellant tried to prove that slow down tactics had started earlier but if in the circumstances the tribunal refused to believe the evidence it cannot be said that it went wrong.	Reasoning
The contention of the appellant therefore that the view taken by the tribunal was perverse and clearly against the two registers to which we have referred above must fail.9.	None
This brings us to the other contention of the appellant with respect to this group of workmen, namely that the tribunal did not consider the evidence with respect to other charges.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that in the last paragraph of the award dealing with these five workmen, the tribunal said that the appellant had failed to prove that these five workmen had adopted goslow tactics and did not say anything about the other charges.	Reasoning
But a perusal of the entire discussion by the tribunal with respect to this group of workmen shows that it considered the oral evidence of all the witnesses with respect to other charges and held that their evidence was not worthy of acceptance, though it did not say so in so many words that evidence was insufficient to prove the other charges also.	Reasoning
On the whole however a reading of the discussion of the tribunal with respect to this group of workmen convinces us that the tribunal had considered the entire evidence including the evidence with respect to other charges and did not consider that evidence worthy of acceptance.	Reasoning
The mistake that the tribunal made was that when it recorded its conclusion in the final paragraph dealing with this group of workmen it confined itself only to say that goslow tactics had not been proved and did not say anything about other charges.	Reasoning
Even so we are of opinion that the consideration of the entire award of the tribunal with respect to this group of workmen leaves no doubt that the evidence on the other charges was also considered and was found unworthy of acceptance.	Reasoning
We may add that the reason why the tribunal seems to have confined itself only to goslow in the final paragraph is that everybody before the tribunal was concentrating on goslow and did not worry to see what the other charges were.	Reasoning
This will be clear when we consider the case of some other workmen in group III which will show that though there was no charge against those workmen of goslow, the evidence was given about goslow and the tribunal also came to the conclusion that those workmen were guilty of go slow.	Reasoning
It seems therefore that nobody worried about any other charges before the tribunal and that is how the tribunal seems to have confined its conclusion only to the charge of goslow, even where no such chargesheet was given to the workmen.	Reasoning
On the whole, however, we do not think that any case is made out for remand for consideration of other charges against these five workmen, for the tribunal seems to have considered all the evidence and did not think it worthy of acceptance.	Reasoning
In the circumstances the appeal with respect to these five workmen in group II must fail.10.	Reasoning
Then we come to the four workmen, in group III whose names we have already mentioned.	Reasoning
These workmen were charged with having incited on and from various dates in October 1957 their coworkers to slow down work.	Reasoning
The entire evidence against these workmen was considered by the tribunal and it did not place any reliance on it for one main reason.	Reasoning
In the case of Gulzarali the tribunal found that there was no written report against him as was the case with respect to others, and in the case of the other three the tribunal found that the written report which had been produced very late before it did not bear the endorsement of the weaving master as it should have done, as in the case of other such reports made by the Assistant weaving master.	Reasoning
In the circumstances when the evidence was considered by the tribunal and for reasons given by it no reliance was placed upon it, we cannot say that it went wrong in not relying on that evidence.	Reasoning
The appeal of the appellant with respect to these four workmen of group III must also fail.11.	Reasoning
We now come to the general attack on the order of the tribunal awarding 12 months wages to all the 24 suspended workmen whose cases were pressed before it by the respondents.	None
We have in this connection to consider four clauses of the agreement dated December 23, 1957, which are as below1 (b) It is agreed between the parties that the chargesheets against such workmen who are allowed to resume duty in terms of para (1) herein, however, shall not be withdrawn.	None
It is further agreed that the suspension of workmen whose names are contained in the annexure A herein, shall continue and their respective order of suspension shall remain operative pending enquiry as laid down hereinafter.7.	None
The suspended workmen shall not be entitled to any wages or compensation for the suspension period.	None
The workmen shall not raise any dispute or make any claim with regard to the suspension period or layoff period in any shape or form.8.	None
Without prejudice to the other provisions of this agreement or (sic) claims relating to the suspension order served on the workmen respectively and the lay off order by the company and or all claims or issues for the period connected with slowing down of production and disciplinary action taken thereon by the company are hereby finally settled and all workmen are bound by this agreement and no worker shall be entitled to make any demand or claim in this behalf.9.	None
The workers in annexure A shall remain suspended pending enquiry and disciplinary action by the management.	None
The management will try to reach an amicable settlement with the Union regarding disciplinary action taken or may be taken by them against the said workmen.	None
If the parties fail to reach settlement, the matter will be referred to the tribunal for settlement of the dispute in this behalf.12.	None
The tribunal has held that cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7) which lays down that the suspended workmen shall not be entitled to any wages or compensation for the suspension period does not apply to workmen who remained suspended under cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(9), and the reason given by the tribunal for this view is that cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7) only applied to those workmen who were allowed to resume duty in the first clause of the agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
This view of the tribunal has been challenged by the appellant and it is contended that the seventh clause applies even to workmen who remained suspended under cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(9) and therefore in view of cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7), such workmen were not entitled to any compensation whatsoever for the entire period of their suspension whether before December 23, 1957 or thereafter.	Arguments of Petitioner
We agree with the contention of the appellant that cl.	None
(7) applies to all suspended workmen whether they went back to work according to the first clause of the agreement or remained suspended according to cl.	Reasoning
(1) (b) set out above.	Reasoning
But as we read this agreement we are of opinion that cl,.	Reasoning
(7) read along with cl.	Reasoning
(8) refers only to suspension upto the date of the agreement and not to suspension thereafter.	Reasoning
Clause (7) says that the suspended workmen shall not raise any dispute or make any claim with regard to the suspension period or layoff period in any shape or form.	Reasoning
This provision could only refer to suspension or layoff in the past it could not be the intention of the agreement, for example, that if any layoff took place in future cl.(7) would apply to it.	Reasoning
Further though under cl.	Reasoning
(9) suspension of 30 workmen continued, that suspension was pending enquiry and disciplinary action.	Reasoning
We cannot read cl.	Reasoning
(7) and cl.	Reasoning
(9) together for the future also unless there are clear terms to that effect.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, the law is that a workmen may be suspended pending enquiry and disciplinary action.	Reasoning
If after the inquiry the misconduct is proved the workman is dismissed and is not entitled to any wages for the suspension period but if the inquiry results in the reinstatement of the workmen he is entitled to full wages, for the suspension period also along with reinstatement, unless the employer instead of dismissing the employee can give him a lesser punishment by way of withholding of part of the wages for the suspension period.	Reasoning
In Straw Board Mfg. Co., Saharanpur v. Govind, AIR 1962 SC.	None
1500 19621 Lab LJ 420,this Court was considering what would happened where approval was granted or withheld on, an application under S. 33(2) (b) of the Act, and it was pointed out that if the tribunal does not approve of the action taken by the employer, the result would be that the action taken by him would fall and thereupon the workmen would be deemed never to have been dismissed or discharged and would remain in the service of the employer.	None
It follows therefore that if a workmen is fully exonerated after the inquiry, he would remain in the service of the employer and would be entitled to his full wages during the period of his suspension also.	Reasoning
Therefore when cl.	Reasoning
(9) envisages suspension pending inquiry and disciplinary action it also envisaged the consequence, namely, that if the inquiry results in dismissal, the workmen would get no wages for the suspension period while if the inquiry results in the reinstatement of the workman he would be entitled to full wages for the suspension period, if he is fully exonerated or to such less wages as the employer may give in case the exoneration is not complete and some punishment less than dismissal can be inflicted.	Reasoning
We see nothing in cl.	Reasoning
(7) which clearly takes away this legal consequence following an inquiry and disciplinary action, and it seems to us that cl.	Reasoning
(7) must be confined to the period of suspension upto the date of agreement and there is nothing in it which would induce us to hold that it must apply to the future also.	Reasoning
So far as the future is concerned it is cl.	Reasoning
(9) which must wholly apply and that clause envisaged inquiry and disciplinary action and the consequence thereof depending upon the inquiry going one way or the other must also be envisaged by it in the absence of any provision about the future in this agreement.	Reasoning
If the intention was that the workmen who remained suspended under cl.	Reasoning
(9) would get no wages for the future, even if they were fully exonerated after an inquiry under that clause we should have found a specific provision to that effect in cl.	Reasoning
(9) itself.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that cl.	Reasoning
(7) refers to the period upto the date of the agreement including the period of grace given to the workmen in cl.	Reasoning
(1) in order to join their duties and not to the future.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter the tribunal was not unjustified in granting wages for the suspension period after the date of this agreement to those whom it reinstated.	Reasoning
The contention of the appellant in this behalf must fail with respect to those reinstated.	Reasoning
We shall consider the case of nine workmen permitted to be dismissed when considering the appeal of the workmen.13.	Reasoning
Coming now to the second term of reference, we find that inquiries were held in the case of the five workmen with whom we are concerned.	None
The respondents however contended that the inquiries were not in accordance with the principles of natural justice inasmuch as the witnesses were not examinedinchief before the inquiry officer.	None
What actually happened at the inquiries was that when the witnesses were produced, previously prepared signed statements of the witnesses were read over to them and they were asked whether the statements were correct, and they had signed them.	None
Statements were also read over and explained to the workmen charged and they were then asked to crossexamine the witnesses.	None
No copies of statements of witnesses were supplied to the workmen at any time.	None
The tribunal has held that this procedure followed by the inquiry officer was open to objection and was against the principles of natural justice and that the witnesses should have been examinedinchief in the presence of the workmen against whom the inquiries were going on.	None
The requirements of principles of natural justice were laid down by this court in Union of India v. T. R. Varma.	None
1958 SCR 499 ( (S) AIR 1957 SC 882 ) where it was observedRules of natural justice require that a party should have the opportunity of adducing all relevant evidence on which he relies, that the evidence of the opponent should be taken in his presence, and that he should be given the opportunity of crossexamining the witnesses examined by that party, and that no materials should be relied upon against him without his being given an opportunity of explaining them.	None
If these rules are satisfied, the enquiry is not open to attack on the ground that the procedure laid down in the Evidence Act was not strictly followed.14.	None
This matter was further considered in State of Mysore v. Shivbasappa Shivappa.	None
AIR 1963 SC 375 where the following observations were madeWhen the evidence is oral, normally the examination of the witness will in its entirety, take place before the party charged, who will have full opportunity of crossexamining him.	None
The position is the same when a witness is called, the statement given previously by him behind the back of the party is put of him and admitted in evidence, a copy thereof is given to the party, and he is given an opportunity to crossexamine him.	None
To require in that case that the contents of the previous statement should be repeated by the witness word by word, and sentence by sentence, is to insist on bare technicalities, and rules of natural justice are matters not of form but of substance.	None
In our opinion they are sufficiently complied with when previous statements given by witnesses are read over to them, marked on their admission, copies thereof given to the person charged, and he is given an opportunity to crossexamine them.15.	None
It is urged on behalf of the appellant that rules of natural justice are the same whether they apply to inquiries under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
311 or to domestic inquiries by managements relating to misconduct by workmen.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be accepted that rules of natural justice do not change from tribunal to tribunal.	None
Even so the purpose of rules of natural justice is to safeguard the position of the person against whom an inquiry is being conducted so that he is able to meet the charge laid against him properly.	Reasoning
Therefore the nature of the inquiry and status of the person against whom the inquiry is being held will have some bearing on what should be the minimum requirements of the rules of natural justice.	None
Where, for example, lawyers are permitted before a tribunal holding an inquiry and the party against whom the inquiry is being held is represented by a lawyer it may be possible to say that a mere reading of the material to be used in the inquiry may sometimes be sufficient (see New Prakash Transport Co. Ltd. v. New Suwarna Transport Co. Ltd.	None
1957	None
SCR 98 ( (S) AIR 1957 SC 232 ), but where in a domestic inquiry in an industrial matter lawyers are not permitted, something more than a mere reading to statements to be used will have to be required in order to safeguard the interest of the industrial worker.	None
Further we can take judicial notice of the fact that many of our industrial workers are illiterate and sometimes even the representatives of labour union may not be present to defend them.	None
In such a case to read over a prepared statement, in a few minutes and then ask the workmen to crossexamine would make a mockery of the opportunity that the rules of natural justice require that the workmen should have to defend themselves.	None
It seems to us therefore that when one is dealing with domestic inquiries in industrial matters, the proper course for the management is to examine the witnesses from the beginning to the end in the presence of the workman at the inquiry itself.	Reasoning
Oral examination always takes much longer than a mere reading of a prepared statement on the same length and brings home the evidence more clearly to the person against whom the inquiry is being held.	Reasoning
Generally speaking therefore we should expect a domestic inquiry by the management to be of this kind.	Reasoning
Even so, we recognise the force of the argument on behalf of the appellant that the main principles of natural justice cannot change from tribunal to tribunal and therefore it may be possible to have another method of conducting a domestic inquiry (though we again repeat that this should not be the rule but the exception) and that is in the manner laid down in Shivabasappas case, AIR 1963 SC 375 .	Reasoning
The minimum that we shall expect where witnesses are not examined from the very beginning at the inquiry in the presence of the person charged is that the person charged should be given a copy of the statements made by the witnesses which are to be used at the inquiry well in advance before the inquiry begins and when we say that the copy of the statements should be given well in advance we mean that it should be given at least two days before the inquiry is to begin.	Reasoning
If this is not done and yet the witnesses are not examinedinchief fully at the inquiry, we do not think that it can be said that principles of natural justice which provide that the person charged should have in adequate opportunity of defending himself are complied with in the case of a domestic inquiry in an industrial matter.	Reasoning
In the present case all that had happened was that the prepared statements were read over to the workmen charged and they were asked then and there to crossexamine the witnesses.	Reasoning
They were naturally unable to do so and in the circumstances we agree with the tribunalthough for different reasonsthat the inquiry did not comply with the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
The order of the tribunal therefore holding that the inquiries were vitiated by disregard of rules of natural justice is correct.	Reasoning
We may add however that in spite of the above finding the tribunal permitted termination of the service of four of these five workmen and reinstated only one.	Reasoning
We shall deal with this aspect of the matter further when considering the appeal of the workmen.16.	None
Turning now to the appeal by the workmenrespondents, the first contention raised on their behalf is that the tribunal went completely wrong in permitting the dismissal of nine workmen in list A to the order of reference namely, Hanif (No 10), Narayan (No. 11), Khalil (No. 12), Abdul Subhan (No. 13) Bhagwan Singh (No. 15), Ram Ekbal (No. 19).	Arguments of Respondent
Mangroo (No. 20), Satish (No. 21), and Raja Ram (No. 22).	Arguments of Respondent
The contention in this behalf is that these nine workmen in group III were charged with inciting other workers to slow down work and that was the only charge given to them there was no charge of goslow by these nine workmen themselves.	Arguments of Respondent
But the tribunal allowed evidence to be led to the effect that these nine workmen were actually guilty of goshow themselves and gave a finding to that effect and therefore permitted them to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also urged that there was no finding by the tribunal and no evidence to the effect that these workmen had incited other workmen to slow down work and therefore there was no proof of the charge given to these workmen.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently they could not be dismissed on a charge which was never made against them completely ignoring the charge which was in fact made against them and which had not been proved.	Arguments of Respondent
, We have therefore to see in the case of each workman whether this contention of the respondents is correct.17.	None
Hanif is the first workman in this group of nine.	Reasoning
It appears from discussion in the award with respect to Hanif that though in the finding part there is a suggestion as if this workman was guilty of goslow himself, it appears that the tribunal knew that the charge against Hanif was for incitingcoworkers to slow down work.	Reasoning
There was evidence before the tribunal to the effect that Hanif roamed about in the department and incited workers to slow down work and that evidence was considered by the tribunal.	Reasoning
It also appears that the tribunal accepted that evidence and the final conclusion at which the tribunal arrived was that Hanif was rightly chargesheeted by the appellant and the appellant should be permitted to dismiss him.	Reasoning
In the circumstances it cannot be said so far as this workman is concerned that there was no evidence to support the charge actually framed against him.	Reasoning
It would also be wrong to say that the tribunal did not find that the charge actually framed against him had been proved, though it may be admitted that there is an undercurrent in the discussion as if Hanif was guilty of goslow himself.	Reasoning
Even so the tribunal appears to have found him guilty of inciting other workers and this would clearly be misconduct understanding order No. 22(k), for which a workman could be dismissed.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we are of opinion that there is no reason for our interference with the order of the tribunal in the case of Hanif.18.	Reasoning
The next workman is Narayan.	Reasoning
He was also charged with having incited other workers to slow down work.	Reasoning
In his case also the tribunal apparently came to the conclusion that he took part in deliberate slowdown, but during the discussion in the award, the tribunal started by saying that he was charged with inciting other workers to slowdown work and referred to the evidence which showed that Narayan had gone round in the department and asked the workmen to work two looms instead of four and to give low production.	Reasoning
This evidence was apparently accepted by the tribunal, though at the end of the discussion the tribunal did say that Narayan took part in deliberate goslow tactics.	Reasoning
Though therefore the conclusion of the tribunal with respect to Narayan seems to suggest as if he was dismissed for taking part in goslow himself, the discussion in the award with respect to him shows that the tribunal was apparently satisfied that he had also incited other workers to slow down.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we do not think that a case has been made out for interference with the order of the tribunal in the case of Narayan.19.	Reasoning
Then we come to the case of Khalil.	Reasoning
He was also charged with having incited other workers to slow down.	Reasoning
In his case also there was evidence that he had incited other workers to slow down which was apparently accepted by the tribunal.	Reasoning
Though therefore the discussion in the award was with respect to incitement by this workman, at the end however the tribunal came to the conclusion that the appellant had succeeded in proving that Khalil was indulging in goslow tactics causing fall in production and therefore the tribunal permitted the dismissal of Khalil for the misconduct of slowingdown as shown in the charge sheet.	Reasoning
It seems that the tribunal has not expressed its conclusion in this and other cases in proper words and has perhaps taken the incitement of other workmen to slow down work as amounting to the misconduct of goslow by the workman himself.	Reasoning
But the entire discussion in the award shows that the tribunal had accepted the evidence to the effect that Khalil was inciting his coworkers to slow down.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter we are of opinion that there is no reason to interfere with the order passed by the tribunal simply because its conclusion was not expressed in appropriate words.20.	Reasoning
Next we come to the case of Abdul Subhan.	Reasoning
In his case also the charge was for inciting other workmen to slowdown work.	Reasoning
The evidence was that he incited other workers to work two looms instead of four.	Reasoning
This evidence was apparently accepted by the tribunal but in the end it said that the appellant had succeeded in proving that Abdul Subhan had indulged in goslow tactics and therefore permitted his dismissal.	Reasoning
Here again it seems to us that the conclusion of the tribunal has been expressed in inappropriate words, though the real finding is that Abdul Subhan had incited other workers and thus brought about goslow.	None
In his case also therefore we see no reason to interfere with the finding of the tribunal.21.	Reasoning
Next we come to Bhagwan Singh.	Reasoning
He was charged with incitement of other workers to slow down work and evidence was led before the tribunal that Bhagwan Singh went round instigating the weavers not to work more than two looms, though they were expected to work four looms.	Reasoning
This evidence was apparently accepted by the tribunal, though it expressed its conclusion by saying that Bhagwan Singh had committed the misconduct of deliberate goslow tactics.	Reasoning
Here again, we are of opinion that the conclusion of the tribunal has been expressed in inappropriate words, though in fact it did find that Bhagwan Singh was guilty of inciting other workers to slow down.	Reasoning
We therefore see no reason to interfere with the order of the tribunal with respect to Bhagwan Singh.22.	Reasoning
Next we come to Ram Ekbal.	Reasoning
His case is exactly similar to that of Bhagwan Singh and the evidence is also exactly the same.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we see no reason to interfere with the order of the tribunal in his case either.23.	Reasoning
Next we come to Mangroo, The charge against him was of incitement of other workers to slow down work.	Reasoning
In his case also the evidence was that he went round in the weavingshed asking the weavers to work two looms instead of four looms.	Reasoning
This evidence was apparently accepted by the tribunal, though it expressed its conclusion inappropriately to the effect that Mangroo had adopted goslow tactics as shown in the chargesheet and therefore his dismissal was permitted.	Reasoning
We are of opinion that the conclusion of the tribunal in this case also was expressed inappropriately but in fact that finding was that Mangroo had incited other workers to goslow.	Reasoning
As we have already said, the tribunal seems to think that this incitement of others workers to goslow amounts to adoption of deliberate goslow tactics by the person who is guilty of incitement and that is why the tribunal expressed its final conclusion in words which we consider inappropriate.	None
But in substance the finding is that Mangroo was guilty of inciting other workers to goslow.	None
We therefore see no reason to interfere with the finding of the tribunal with respect to Mangroo.24.	None
Next we come to Satish.	Reasoning
He was also charged with inciting other workmen to go slow.	Reasoning
There was evidence before the tribunal that Satish incited other weavers to slow down work and this evidence was apparently accepted by the tribunal.	Reasoning
In his case also the tribunal expressed its conclusion in inappropriate words by saying that it held that Satish had indulged in goslow tactics as charged in the charge sheet.	Reasoning
It therefore permitted his dismissal.	Reasoning
We are however of opinion that on a consideration of the discussion of the matter in the award the substance of the finding is that Satish was guilty of inciting other workers.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we see no reason to interfere with the finding of the tribunal.25.	Reasoning
Lastly we come to Raja Ram.	Reasoning
His case is exactly similar to that of Satish and the evidence was also to the same effect viz., that they were going round together and inciting other workers to slow down work.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we see no reason to interfere with the order of the tribunal.26.	Reasoning
The next contention on behalf of the respondents is that the tribunal should have allowed full wages to the workmen in list A in whose case it had ordered reinstatement, and not merely 15 months wages as it actually did.	Arguments of Respondent
It is well settled that under the ordinary law of master and servant the power to suspend the servant without pay could not be implied as a term in an ordinary contract of service between the master and servant but must arise either from an express term in the contract itself or a statutory provision governing such contract(see Management Hotel Imperial New Delhi v. Hotel Workers Union, 19601 SCR 476 (AIR 1959 SC 1342 )).	None
No provision in the standing orders has been brought to our notice which entitles the appellant in this case to suspend the workman without payment of wages.	None
But, as held in the Hotel Imperials case.	None
19601	None
SCR 476 (AIR 1959 SC 1342 ) where under S. 33 of the Act the right of the employer to dismiss an employee except with the permission of the industrial tribunal was taken away, it would be open to the employer to suspend the workmen pending inquiry and permission of the tribunal.	None
In such circumstances such a term in the contract of employment would be implied and the result would be that if the tribunal granted the permission, the suspended contract would come to an end and there would be no further obligation on the part of the employer to pay any wages after the date of suspension.	None
If on the other hand, the permission was refused, the workmen would be entitled to all their wages from the date of suspension.	None
It follows therefore that in the case of those workmen who have been ordered to be reinstated there can be no justification for depriving them of their wages from the date of the suspension which in the case of the workmen in list A to the reference, in view of the agreement of December 23, 1957, must start from December 24, 1957.Therefore, so far as these 15 workmen, out of the 29 workmen, of list A are concerned, who have been ordered to be reinstated, we see no reason for depriving them from their full wages for the entire period from December 24, 1957.	Reasoning
The appeal of the respondents therefore with reference to these fifteen workmen in list A must be allowed and the order of the tribunal is hereby varied to the effect that they will be paid full wages from December 24, 1957.27.	Reasoning
As to five workmen in list B to the reference, one workmen, namely.	Reasoning
Hiralal Bhomick, was ordered to be reinstated by the tribunal and he was allowed compensation equivalent to 15 months wages.	Reasoning
His case in our opinion is on a par with the case of the fifteen workmen in list A which we have considered above and he will therefore be entitled to his full wages from the date of his suspension and not only 15 months wages as ordered by the tribunal.28.	Reasoning
Then we come to the case of nine workmen from list A whose case we have already considered and who were permitted to be dismissed.	Reasoning
Further there are four workmen of list B namely, Misri (No. 1), Abdullah (No. 2).	Reasoning
Narain Tewari (No. 5).	Reasoning
And Din Mohd.	Reasoning
(No. 6), whose services were allowed to be terminated with effect from the date of the enforcement of the award.	Reasoning
The first nine workmen were allowed 12 months wages while the other four workmen were paid wages for a period of one month along with compensation equivalent to 15 days average pay for each completed year of service or any part thereof in excess of six months.	Reasoning
It is contended on behalf of the respondents that these workmen should have been allowed full wages upto the date the award became enforceable, even though the tribunal had eventually permitted their dismissal or allowed their services to be terminated.29.	Reasoning
So far as the nine workmen in list A are concerned their case in our opinion is fully covered by the decision of this Court in Sasa Musa Sugar Works (P) Ltd. v. Shobrati Khan, (1959) Supp (2) SCR 836 (AIR 1959 SC 923).	Reasoning
Clause (9) of the agreement which permitted the continuance of the suspension of these workmen, also provided that they shall remain suspended pending inquiry and disciplinary action by the management.	None
The clause went on to say that the management would try to reach an amicable settlement with the union regarding disciplinary action taken or to be taken by it against the workmen and that if the parties failed to reach a settlement, the matter would be referred for adjudication.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention on behalf of the respondents is that this clause clearly contemplated inquiry by the management followed by disciplinary action and as the appellant held no inquiry whatsoever and straightway applied when the dispute was referred for adjudication, for permission to dismiss these workmen they would be entitled to full wages till the date of the enforcement of the award.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand it is contended on behalf of the appellant that though cl.	None
(9) envisaged inquiry and disciplinary proceedings against the suspended workmen it also provided that the management would try to reach an amicable settlement with the union, failing which there would be a reference to adjudication.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is said that in view of this the appellant held no inquiry.	Arguments of Petitioner
Particularly, the factory manager stated that he had discussions with the secretary of the union over the matter of these workmen and no settlement could be reached.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also stated that the management wanted to hold inquiries but the Secretary of the union stated that no useful purpose would be served by holding inquiries because before final action was taken by the management, it had to consult the union.	Reasoning
This statement was made by the factory manager who appeared as the last witnesses in the case.	Reasoning
The secretary of the union appeared long before as the first witness in the case and he was not questioned on this matter at all.	Reasoning
No such case was made out even in the application for permission to dismiss which was filed on June 29, 1959, to the effect that the inquiries were not held because the secretary of the union suggested that it would be useless to do so nor was any such allegation made in the writtenstatement of the appellant.	Reasoning
In the circumstances it would be difficult to hold that the reason why no inquiry was held was that the respondents did not want the inquiry.	Reasoning
In the circumstances therefore this is a case where the management wanted to dismiss the workmen without having held an inquiry and the decision in Sasamusa case, (1959) Supp (2) SCR 836 (AIR 1959 SC 923 ) would be fully applicable to these nine workmen who have been permitted to be dismissed and they would be entitled to full wages from December 23, 1957 till the date the tribunals award permitting dismissal becomes enforceable.30.	Reasoning
Lastly we come to the case of the four workmen whose services have been allowed to be terminated.	Reasoning
Nothing was urged before us with respect to the order permitting termination of service.	Reasoning
Nor do we think that the order of the tribunal in this behalf is wrong.	Reasoning
In their case the tribunal has said that if the inquiry proceedings had not been defective these four persons would be liable to dismissal as ordered by the appellant.	Reasoning
It is only because there was defect in the inquiry proceedings as stated above that it was held that the dismissal was unjustified.	Reasoning
The tribunal therefore went on to permit the termination of service of these four workmen under one of the standing orders and finally ordered payment of wages for a period of one month along with compensation at the rate of 15 days average wages for every completed year of service or any part thereof in excess of six months.	Reasoning
The circumstances of this case are not exactly similar to those in the Sasamusa case, (1959) Supp (2) SCR 836 (AIR 19569 SC 923) and therefore the principle of that case would not necessarily apply.	Reasoning
In the circumstances we do not think that we should interfere with the order of the tribunal.31.	Reasoning
In the result, the award of the tribunal is affirmed in the light of and subject to the above modifications and consequently the appeal by the management is dismissed and by the workmen allowed only with respect to the grant of wages in the manner indicated above.	Decision
In the circumstances parties will bear their own costs in both appeals.32.	Decision
Order accordingly.	Decision
