 F. Nariman, J.1.	None
Leave granted.2.	None
The present appeals raise interesting questions relating to the applicability of Sections 12 and 14 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, in particular with respect to subsection (5) of Section 12 added by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (Act 3 of 2016) (hereinafter referred to as the 2016 Amendment Act).3.	None
Briefly stated, the relevant facts necessary to decide this case are as follows.	Facts
The respondent, GAIL (India), issued a notice inviting tenders for supply of wax generated at GAILs plant at Pata, Uttar Pradesh for a period of 20 years on an exclusive basis.	Facts
The appellant successfully tendered for the said contract and the parties entered into an agreement dated April 1, 1999.	Facts
Disputes arose between the parties, the appellant claiming that GAIL had wrongfully withheld supplies of wax, as a result of which the appellant invoked the arbitration clause included in the agreement.4.	Facts
Three earlier arbitrations have taken place between the parties.	Facts
The present dispute arises from the fourth such arbitration.	Facts
For the period 20042007, an Arbitral Tribunal consisting of Justice A.B. Rohatgi (presiding arbitrator), Justice J.K. Mehra and Justice N.N. Goswamy published an award on April 8, 2006 in which they directed specific performance of the agreement dated April 1, 1999.	Facts
This award was never challenged and has since become final.5.	Facts
For the period 20072010, a second arbitration was held consisting of the same panel as the first arbitration.6.	Facts
For the period 20102013, the same Arbitral Tribunal was constituted.	None
However, while the proceedings were pending, Justice Goswamy expired and Justice T.S. Doabia was appointed in his place.	Facts
Justice A.B. Rohatgi resigned on February 17, 2013 as the presiding arbitrator, as a result of which Justice S.S. Chadha was appointed to fill his vacancy.	Facts
This third arbitration proceeding culminated into two separate awards, both dated July 22, 2015.	Facts
The appellant has filed a petition under Section 34 of the Act assailing the said awards, which is pending before the Delhi High Court.7.	Facts
In respect of the period from 2016 to 2019, initially, the appellant nominated Justice K. Ramamoorthy as its arbitrator.	Facts
However, he withdrew from the case on December 14, 2016 and Justice Mukul Mudgal was nominated as arbitrator in his place.	Facts
The respondent appointed Justice Doabia, and Justice Doabia and Justice K. Ramamoorthy appointed Justice K.K. Lahoti to be the presiding arbitrator, before Justice K. Ramamoorthy withdrew from the case.	Facts
Two applications have been filed by the appellant under Section 12 of the Act, one seeking termination of the mandate of Justice Doabia and the other seeking termination of the mandate of Justice Lahoti.	Facts
These two applications were heard and disposed of by an order dated February 16, 2017.	Facts
Justice Lahoti, with whom Justice Doabia concurred, held that they were entitled to continue with the arbitration.	Facts
Justice Mukul Mudgal, on the other hand, concurred in the appointment of Justice Lahoti but held that Justice Doabias appointment was hit by certain clauses of the Fifth and Seventh Schedules to the Act and, therefore, that his mandate has terminated.	Facts
As against this order, OMP No.22/2017 was filed before a single Judge of the Delhi High Court who then dismissed both the petitions.8.	Facts
Shri Shyam Divan, learned senior advocate appearing in civil appeal arising out of SLP(C)	Arguments of Petitioner
No. 20679 of 2017 and Shri Gopal Jain, learned senior advocate, appearing in civil appeal arising of SLP(C)	Arguments of Petitioner
No. 20675 of 2017 have assailed the judgment of the single Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Shri Divan, the appointment of Justice Lahoti squarely attracted Items 1, 8 and 15 of the Seventh Schedule thereby making him ineligible to act as arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also argued that Items 20 and 22 contained in the Fifth Schedule are also attracted to the facts of this case, thereby giving rise to justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argued that if for any reason Justice Doabias appointment is held to be bad, Justice Lahotis appointment must follow as being bad as an ineligible arbitrator cannot appoint another arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has argued before us that the 2016 Amendment Act, which substituted Section 12(1), read with the Fifth and Seventh Schedules and introduced Section 12(5), has to be read in the context of the grounds for challenge to awards being made narrower than they were under Section 34 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
This being so, it is extremely important that the independence and impartiality of an arbitrator be squarely and unequivocally established, and for this purpose, the grounds contained in the Fifth and Seventh Schedules should be construed in a manner that heightens independence and impartiality.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, once a Seventh Schedule challenge is presented before the Court, the arbitrator becomes ineligible and consequently becomes de jure unable to perform his functions under Section 14 of the Act.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Gopal Jain, learned senior advocate appearing in civil appeal arising from SLP(C)	Arguments of Petitioner
No. 20679 of 2017, argued that the object of the 2016 Amendment Act is to appoint neutral arbitrators who are independent and fair in their decision making.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, Justice Doabia was ineligible as he squarely fell within Items 1, 15 and 16 of the Seventh Schedule, the last Item 16 being contrasted with Explanation 3 thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, Justice Doabia has not disclosed in writing circumstances which are likely to affect his ability to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and for this reason also, his appointment should be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to learned counsel, once Justice Doabias appointment falls, Justice Lahotis appointment also falls.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Vanita Bhargava, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent, has argued, referring to various provisions of the Seventh Schedule, that neither Justice Doabia nor Justice Lahoti are ineligible to act as arbitrators.	Arguments of Respondent
According to her, the list in the Fifth and Seventh Schedules is taken from the International Bar Association Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest in International Arbitration, 2014 (hereinafter referred to as IBA Guidelines) and must be read in consonance therewith.	Arguments of Respondent
Once that is done, it becomes plain that Item 16 would not apply to Justice Doabia for the simple reason that he should be an arbitrator who has had previous involvement in the very dispute at hand and not in an earlier arbitration.	Arguments of Respondent
For this purpose, she contrasted Item 16 with Items 22 and 24 of the Fifth Schedule.	Arguments of Respondent
She also argued that the point regarding non disclosure on grounds contained in Section 12(1)(b) is an afterthought and has never been argued before either the Arbitral Tribunal or the single Judge.	Arguments of Respondent
According to her, the single Judge is right in holding that Justice Lahotis appointment is not hit by Item 1 of the Seventh Schedule nor is Justice Doabias appointment hit by Item 16 of the same Schedule, and the reasoning contained in the judgment being correct need not be interfered with.11.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard learned counsel for both the sides, it is necessary to first set out the statutory scheme contained in Sections 12 to 14 of the Act.	None
These Sections read as underSec. 12 Grounds for challenge.(1) When a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment as an arbitrator, he shall disclose in writing any circumstances,(a)such as the existence either direct or indirect, of any past or present relationship with or interest in any of the parties or in relation to the subjectmatter in dispute, whether financial, business, professional or other kind, which is likely to give rise to justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality and(b)which are likely to affect his ability to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and in particular his ability to complete the entire arbitration within a period of twelve months.	None
Explanation 1.	None
The grounds stated in the Fifth Schedule shall guide in determining whether circumstances exist which give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of an arbitrator.	Reasoning
Explanation 2.  	None
The disclosure shall be made by such person in the form specified in the Sixth Schedule.(2) An arbitrator, from the time of his appointment and throughout the arbitral proceedings, shall, without delay, disclose to the parties in writing any circumstances referred to in subsection (1) unless they have already been informed of them by him.(3)	None
An arbitrator may be challenged only if(a) circumstances exist that give rise to justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality, or(b) he does not possess the qualifications agreed to by the parties.(4)	None
A party may challenge an arbitrator appointed by him, or in whose appointment he has participated, only for reasons of which he becomes aware after the appointment has been made.(5) Notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship, with the parties or counsel or the subjectmatter of the dispute, falls under any of the categories specified in the Seventh Schedule shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitratorProvided that parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of this subsection by an express agreement in writing.	None
Sec.	None
13 Challenge procedure.(1) Subject to subsection (4), the parties are free to agree on a procedure for challenging an arbitrator.(2) Failing any agreement referred to in subsection (1), a party who intends to challenge an arbitrator shall, within fifteen days after becoming aware of the constitution of the arbitral tribunal or after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in subsection (3) of section 12, send a written statement of the reasons for the challenge to the arbitral tribunal.(3)	None
Unless the arbitrator challenged under subsection (2) withdraws from his office or the other party agrees to the challenge, the arbitral tribunal shall decide on the challenge.(4) If a challenge under any procedure agreed upon by the parties or tinder the procedure under subsection (2) is not successful, the arbitral tribunal shall continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award.(5) Where an arbitral award is made under subsection (4), the party challenging the arbitrator may make an application for setting aside such an arbitral award in accordance with section 34.(6) Where an arbitral award is set aside on an application made under subsection (5), the Court may decide as to whether the arbitrator who is challenged is entitled to any fees.	None
Sec.	None
14.	None
Failure or impossibility to act.	None
(1) The mandate of an arbitrator shall terminate and he shall be substituted by another arbitrator, if(a) he becomes de jure or de facto unable to perform his functions or for other reasons fails to act without undue delay and(b) he withdraws from his office or the parties agree to the termination of his mandate.(2)	None
If a controversy remains concerning any of the grounds referred to in clause (a) of subsection (1), a party may, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, apply to the Court to decide on the termination of the mandate.(3) If, under this section or subsection (3) of section 13, an arbitrator withdraws from his office or a party agrees to the termination of the mandate of an arbitrator, it shall not imply acceptance of the validity of any ground referred to in this section or subsection (3) of section 12.12.	None
Under Section 12, it is clear that when a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment as an arbitrator, he has to make a disclosure in writing, in which he must state the existence of any direct or indirect present or past relationship or interest in any of the parties or in relation to the subject matter in dispute, which is likely to give justifiable doubts as to his independence or impartiality.	None
He is also to disclose whether he can devote sufficient time to the arbitration, in particular to be able to complete the entire arbitration within a period of 12 months.	None
Such disclosure is to be made in a form specified in the Sixth Schedule, grounds stated in the Fifth Schedule being a guide in determining whether such circumstances exist.	None
Unlike the scheme contained in the IBA Guidelines, where there is a nonwaivable Red List, parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of the items contained in the Seventh Schedule by an express agreement in writing.	None
The Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Schedules are important for determination of the present disputes, and are set out with the corresponding provisions of the IBA Guidelines hereunderTHE FIFTH SCHEDULESee section 12 (1)(b)The following grounds give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of arbitratorsFifth ScheduleCorresponding provision in the IBA Guidelines1.	None
The arbitrator is an employee, consultant, advisor or has any other past or present business relationship with a party.(NonWaivable Red List)1.1	None
There is an identity between a party and the arbitrator, or the arbitrator is a legal representative or employee of an entity that is a party in the arbitration.2.	None
The arbitrator currently represents or advises one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Waivable Red List)2.3.1	None
The arbitrator currently represents or advises one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties.3.	None
The arbitrator currently represents the lawyer or law firm acting as counsel for one of the parties.(Waivable Red List)2.3.2 The arbitrator currently represents or advises the lawyer or law firm acting as counsel for one of the parties.4.	None
The arbitrator is a lawyer in the same law firm which is representing one of the parties.(Waivable Red List)2.3.3 The arbitrator is a lawyer in the same law firm as the counsel to one of the parties.5.	None
The arbitrator is a manager, director or part of the management, or has a similar controlling influence, in an affiliate of one of the parties if the affiliate is directly involved in the matters in dispute in the arbitration.(Waivable Red List)2.3.4 The arbitrator is a manager, director or member of the supervisory board, or has a controlling influence in an affiliate of one of the parties, if the affiliate is directly involved in the matters in dispute in the arbitration.6.	None
The arbitrators law firm had a previous but terminated involvement in the case without the arbitrator being involved himself or herself.(Waivable Red List)2.3.5 The arbitrators law firm had a previous but terminated involvement in the case without the arbitrator being involved himself or herself.7.	None
The arbitrators law firm currently has a significant commercial relationship with one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Waivable Red List)2.3.6	None
The arbitrators law firm currently has a significant commercial relationship with one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties.8.	None
The arbitrator regularly advises the appointing party or an affiliate of the appointing party even though neither the arbitrator nor his or her firm derives a significant financial income therefrom.(Waivable	None
Red List)2.3.7	None
The arbitrator regularly advises one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties, but neither the arbitrator nor his or her firm derives a significant financial income therefrom.9.	None
The arbitrator has a close family relationship with one of the parties and in the case of companies with the persons in the management and controlling the company.(Waivable Red List)2.3.8 The arbitrator has a close family relationship with one of the parties, or with a manager, director or member of the supervisory board, or any person having a controlling influence in one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties, or with a counsel representing a party.10.	None
A close family member of the arbitrator has a significant financial interest in one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Waivable Red List)2.3.9	None
A close family member of the arbitrator has a significant financial or personal interest in one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties.11.	None
The arbitrator is a legal representative of an entity that is a party in the arbitration.(NonWaivable Red List)1.1	None
There is an identity between a party and the arbitrator, or the arbitrator is a legal representative or employee of an entity that is a party in the arbitration.12.	None
The arbitrator is a manager, director or part of the management, or has a similar controlling influence in one of	None
the parties.(NonWaivable Red List)1.2	None
The arbitrator is a manager, director or member of the supervisory board, or has a controlling influence on one of the parties or an entity that has a direct economic interest in the award to be rendered in the arbitration.13.	None
The arbitrator has a significant financial interest in one of the parties or the outcome of the case.(NonWaivable Red List)1.3	None
The arbitrator has a significant financial or personal interest in one of the parties, or the outcome of the case.14.	None
The arbitrator regularly advises the appointing party or an affiliate of the appointing party, and the arbitrator or his or her firm derives a significant financial income therefrom.(NonWaivable Red List)1.4	None
The arbitrator or his or her firm regularly advises the party, or an affiliate of the party, and the arbitrator or his or her firm derives significant financial income therefrom.15.	None
The arbitrator has given legal advice or provided an expert opinion on the dispute to a party or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Waivable Red List)2.1.1	None
The arbitrator has given legal advice, or provided an expert opinion, on the dispute to a party or an affiliate of one of the parties.16.	None
The arbitrator has previous involvement in the case.(Waivable Red List)2.1.2 The arbitrator had a prior involvement in the dispute.17.	None
The arbitrator holds shares, either directly or indirectly, in one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties that is privately held.(Waivable	None
Red List)2.2.1	None
The arbitrator holds shares, either directly or indirectly, in one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties, this party or an affiliate being privately held.18.	None
A close family member of the arbitrator has a significant financial interest in the outcome of the dispute.(Waivable Red List)2.2.2 A close family member of the arbitrator has a significant financial interest in the outcome of the dispute.19.	None
The arbitrator or a close family member of the arbitrator has a close relationship with a third party who may be liable to recourse on the part of the unsuccessful party in the dispute.(Waivable Red List)2.2.3 The arbitrator, or a close family member of the arbitrator, has a close relationship with a nonparty who may be liable to recourse on the part of the unsuccessful party in the dispute.20.	None
The arbitrator has within the past three years served as counsel for one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties or has previously advised or been consulted by the party or an affiliate of the party making the appointment in an unrelated matter, but the arbitrator and the party or the affiliate of the party have no ongoing relationship.(Orange List)3.1.1	None
The arbitrator has, within the past three years, served as counsel for one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties, or has previously advised or been consulted by the party, or an affiliate of the party, making the appointment in an unrelated matter, but the arbitrator and the party, or the affiliate of the party, have no ongoing relationship.21.	None
The arbitrator has within the past three years served as counsel against one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties in an unrelated matter.(Orange List)3.1.2 The arbitrator has, within the past three years, served as counsel against one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties, in an unrelated matter.22.	None
The arbitrator has within the past three years been appointed as arbitrator on two or more occasions by one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Orange List)3.1.3	None
The arbitrator has, within the past three years, been appointed as arbitrator on two or more occasions by one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties.23.	None
The arbitrators law firm has within the past three years acted for one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties in an unrelated matter without the involvement of the arbitrator.(Orange List)3.1.4	None
The arbitrators law firm has, within the past three years, acted for or against one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties, in an unrelated matter without the involvement of the arbitrator.24.	None
The arbitrator currently serves, or has served within the past three years, as arbitrator in another arbitration on a related issue involving one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Orange List)3.1.5 The arbitrator currently serves, or has served within the past three years, as arbitrator in another arbitration on a related issue involving one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties.25.	None
The arbitrator and another arbitrator are lawyers in the same law firm.(Orange List)3.3.1 The arbitrator and another arbitrator are lawyers in the same law firm.26.	None
The arbitrator was within the past three years a partner of, or otherwise affiliated with, another arbitrator or any of the counsel in the same arbitration.(Orange List)3.3.3 The arbitrator was, within the past three years, a partner of, or otherwise affiliated with, another arbitrator or any of the counsel in the arbitration.27.	None
A lawyer in the arbitrators law firm is an arbitrator in another dispute involving the same party or parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Orange List)3.3.4	None
A lawyer in the arbitrators law firm is an arbitrator in another dispute involving the same party or parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties.28.	None
A close family member of the arbitrator is a partner or employee of the law firm representing one of the parties, but is not assisting with the dispute.(Orange List)3.3.5	None
A close family member of the arbitrator is a partner or employee of the law firm representing one of the parties, but is not assisting with the dispute.29.	None
The arbitrator has within the past three years received more than three appointments by the same counsel or the same law firm.(Orange List)3.3.8	None
The arbitrator has, within the past three years, been appointed on more than three occasions by the same counsel, or the same law firm.30.	None
The arbitrators law firm is currently acting adverse to one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.(Orange List)3.4.1	None
The arbitrators law firm is currently acting adversely to one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties.31.	None
The arbitrator had been associated within the past three years with a party or an affiliate of one of the parties in a professional capacity, such as a former employee or partner.(Orange List)3.4.2	None
The arbitrator has been associated with a party, or an affiliate of one of the parties, in a professional capacity, such as a former employee or partner.32.	None
The arbitrator holds shares, either directly or indirectly, which by reason of number or denomination constitute a material holding in one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties that is publicly listed.(Orange List)3.5.1 The arbitrator holds shares, either directly or indirectly, that by reason of number or denomination constitute a material holding in one of the parties, or an affiliate of one of the parties, this party or affiliate being publicly listed.33.	None
The arbitrator holds a position in an arbitration institution with appointing authority over the dispute.(Orange List)3.5.3 The arbitrator holds a position with the appointing authority with respect to the dispute.34.	None
The arbitrator is a manager, director or part of the management, or has a similar controlling influence, in an affiliate of one of the parties, where the affiliate is not directly involved in the matters in dispute in the arbitration.(Orange List)3.5.4	None
The arbitrator is a manager, director or member of the supervisory board, or has a controlling influence on an affiliate of one of the parties, where the affiliate is not directly involved in the matters in dispute in the arbitration.	None
Explanation 1.The term close family member refers to a spouse, sibling, child, parent or life partner.	None
Footnote 3.	None
Throughout the Application Lists, the term close family member refers to a spouse, sibling, child, parent or life partner, in addition to any other family member with whom a close relationship exists.	None
Explanation 2.The term affiliate encompasses all companies in one group of companies including the parent company.	None
Footnote 4.	None
Throughout the Application Lists, the term affiliate encompasses all companies in a group of companies, including the parent company.	None
Explanation 3.For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that it may be the practice in certain specific kinds of arbitration, such as maritime or commodities arbitration, to draw arbitrators from a small, specialized pool.	None
If in such fields it is the custom and practice for parties frequently to appoint the same arbitrator in different cases, this is a relevant fact to be taken into account while applying the rules set out above.	None
Footnote 5.	None
It may be the practice in certain types of arbitration, such as maritime, sports or commodities arbitration, to draw arbitrators from a smaller or specialised pool of individuals.	None
If in such fields it is the custom and practice for parties to frequently appoint the same arbitrator in different cases, no disclosure of this fact is required, where all parties in the arbitration should be familiar with such custom and practice.	None
THE SIXTH SCHEDULESee section 12 (1)(b)NAMECONTACT DETAILSPRIOR EXPERIENCE (INCLUDING EXPERIENCE WITH ARBITRATIONS)NUMBER OF ONGOING ARBITRATIONSCIRCUMSTANCES DISCLOSING ANY PAST OR PRESENT RELATIONSHIP WITH OR INTEREST IN ANY OF THE PARTIES OR IN RELATION TO THE SUBJECTMATTER IN DISPUTE, WHETHER FINANCIAL, BUSINESS, PROFESSIONAL OR OTHER KIND, WHICH IS LIKELY TO GIVE RISE TO JUSTIFIABLE DOUBTS AS TO YOUR INDEPENDENCE OR IMPARTIALITY (LIST OUT)CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH ARE LIKELY TO AFFECT YOUR ABILITY TO DEVOTE SUFFICIENT TIME TO THE ARBITRATION AND IN PARTICULAR YOUR ABILITY TO FINISH THE ENTIRE ARBITRATION WITHIN TWELVE MONTHS (LIST OUT)THE SEVENTH SCHEDULESee section 12 (5)Arbitrators relationship with the parties or counsel1.	None
The arbitrator is an employee, consultant, advisor or has any other past or present business relationship with a party.2.	None
The arbitrator currently represents or advises one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.3.	None
The arbitrator currently represents the lawyer or law firm acting as counsel for one of the parties.4.	None
The arbitrator is a lawyer in the same law firm which is representing one of the parties.5.	None
The arbitrator is a manager, director or part of the management, or has a similar controlling influence, in an affiliate of one of the parties if the affiliate is directly involved in the matters in dispute in the arbitration.6.	None
The arbitrators law firm had a previous but terminated involvement in the case without the arbitrator being involved himself or herself.7.	None
The arbitrators law firm currently has a significant commercial relationship with one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.8.	None
The arbitrator regularly advises the appointing party or an affiliate of the appointing party even though neither the arbitrator nor his or her firm derives a significant financial income therefrom.9.	None
The arbitrator has a close family relationship with one of the parties and in the case of companies with the persons in the management and controlling the company.10.	None
A close family member of the arbitrator has a significant financial interest in one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties.11.	None
The arbitrator is a legal representative of an entity that is a party in the arbitration.12.	None
The arbitrator is a manager, director or part of the management, or has a similar controlling influence in one of the parties.13.	None
The arbitrator has a significant financial interest in one of the parties or the outcome of the case.14.	None
The arbitrator regularly advises the appointing party or an affiliate of the appointing party, and the arbitrator or his or her firm derives a significant financial income therefrom.	None
Relationship of the arbitrator to the dispute15.	None
The arbitrator has given legal advice or provided an expert opinion on the dispute to a party or an affiliate of one of the parties.16.	None
The arbitrator has previous involvement in the case.	None
Arbitrators direct or indirect interest in the dispute.17.	None
The arbitrator holds shares, either directly or indirectly, in one of the parties or an affiliate of one of the parties that is privately held.18.	None
A close family member of the arbitrator has a significant financial interest in the outcome of the dispute.19.	None
The arbitrator or a close family member of the arbitrator has a close relationship with a third party who may be liable to recourse on the part of the unsuccessful party in the dispute.	None
Explanation 1.The term close family member refers to a spouse, sibling, child, parent or life partner.	None
Explanation 2.The term affiliate encompasses all companies in one group of companies including the parent company.	None
Explanation 3.For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that it may be the practice in certain specific kinds of arbitration, such as maritime or commodities arbitration, to draw arbitrators from a small, specialized pool.	None
If in such fields it is the custom and practice for parties frequently to appoint the same arbitrator in different cases, this is a relevant fact to be taken into account while applying the rules set out above.13.	None
After the 2016 Amendment Act, a dichotomy is made by the Act between persons who become ineligible to be appointed as arbitrators, and persons about whom justifiable doubts exist as to their independence or impartiality.	None
Since ineligibility goes to the root of the appointment, Section 12(5) read with the Seventh Schedule makes it clear that if the arbitrator falls in any one of the categories specified in the Seventh Schedule, he becomes ineligible to act as arbitrator.	Reasoning
Once he becomes ineligible, it is clear that, under Section 14(1)(a), he then becomes de jure unable to perform his functions inasmuch as, in law, he is regarded as ineligible.	Reasoning
In order to determine whether an arbitrator is de jure unable to perform his functions, it is not necessary to go to the Arbitral Tribunal under Section 13.	Reasoning
Since such a person would lack inherent jurisdiction to proceed any further, an application may be filed under Section 14(2) to the Court to decide on the termination of his her mandate on this ground.	Reasoning
As opposed to this, in a challenge where grounds stated in the Fifth Schedule are disclosed, which give rise to justifiable doubts as to the arbitrators independence or impartiality, such doubts as to independence or impartiality have to be determined as a matter of fact in the facts of the particular challenge by the Arbitral Tribunal under Section 13.	Reasoning
If a challenge is not successful, and the Arbitral Tribunal decides that there are no justifiable doubts as to the independence or impartiality of the arbitrator arbitrators, the Tribunal must then continue the arbitral proceedings under Section 13(4) and make an award.	Reasoning
It is only after such award is made, that the party challenging the arbitrators appointment on grounds contained in the Fifth Schedule may make an application for setting aside the arbitral award in accordance with Section 34 on the aforesaid grounds.	Reasoning
It is clear, therefore, that any challenge contained in the Fifth Schedule against the appointment of Justice Doabia and Justice Lahoti cannot be gone into at this stage, but will be gone into only after the Arbitral Tribunal has given an award.	Reasoning
Therefore, we express no opinion on items contained in the Fifth Schedule under which the appellant may challenge the appointment of either arbitrator.	Reasoning
They will be free to do so only after an award is rendered by the Tribunal.14.	Reasoning
Confining ourselves to ineligibility, it is important to note that the Law Commission by its 246th Report of August, 2014 had this to say in relation to the amendments made to Section 12 and the insertion of the Fifth and Seventh Schedules59.	None
The Commission has proposed the requirement of having specific disclosures by the arbitrator, at the stage of his possible appointment, regarding existence of any relationship or interest of any kind which is likely to give rise to justifiable doubts.	None
The Commission has proposed the incorporation of the Fourth Schedule, which has drawn from the Red and Orange lists of the IBA Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest in International Arbitration, and which would be treated as a guide to determine whether circumstances exist which give rise to such justifiable doubts.	None
On the other hand, in terms of the proposed section 12 (5) of the Act and the Fifth Schedule which incorporates the categories from the Red list of the IBA Guidelines (as above), the person proposed to be appointed as an arbitrator shall be ineligible to be so appointed, notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary.	None
In the event such an ineligible person is purported to be appointed as an arbitrator, he shall be de jure deemed to be unable to perform his functions, in terms of the proposed explanation to section 14.	None
Therefore, while the disclosure is required with respect to a broader list of categories (as set out in the Fourth Schedule, and as based on the Red and Orange lists of the IBA Guidelines), the ineligibility to be appointed as an arbitrator (and the consequent de jure inability to so act) follows from a smaller and more serious subset of situations (as set out in the Fifth Schedule, and as based on the Red list of the IBA Guidelines).60.	None
The Commission, however, feels that real and genuine party autonomy must be respected, and, in certain situations, parties should be allowed to waive even the categories of ineligibility as set in the proposed Fifth Schedule.	None
This could be in situations of family arbitrations or other arbitrations where a person commands the blind faith and trust of the parties to the dispute, despite the existence of objective justifiable doubts regarding his independence and impartiality.	None
To deal with such situations, the Commission has proposed the proviso to section 12 (5), where parties may, subsequent to disputes having arisen between them, waive the applicability of the proposed Section 12 (5) by an express agreement in writing.	None
In all other cases, the general rule in the proposed section 12 (5) must be followed.	None
In the event the High Court is approached in connection with appointment of an arbitrator, the Commission has proposed seeking the disclosure in terms of section 12 (1) and in which context the High Court or the designate is to have due regard to the contents of such disclosure in appointing the arbitrator.15.	None
The enumeration of grounds given in the Fifth and Seventh Schedules have been taken from the IBA Guidelines, particularly from the Red and Orange Lists thereof.	None
The aforesaid guidelines consist of three lists.	None
The Red List, consisting of nonwaivable and waivable guidelines, covers situations which are more serious and serious, the more serious objections being nonwaivable.	None
The Orange List, on the other hand, is a list of situations that may give rise to doubts as to the arbitrators impartiality or independence, as a consequence of which the arbitrator has a duty to disclose such situations.	None
The Green List is a list of situations where no actual conflict of interest exists from an objective point of view, as a result of which the arbitrator has no duty of disclosure.	None
These guidelines were first introduced in the year 2004 and have thereafter been amended, after seeing the experience of arbitration worldwide.	None
In Part 1 thereof, general standards regarding impartiality, independence and disclosure are set out.	None
General principle 1 reads as followsIBA Guidelines on Conflicts of Interest in International Arbitration(1)	None
General PrincipleEvery arbitrator shall be impartial and independent of the parties at the time of accepting an appointment to serve and shall remain so until the final award has been rendered or the proceedings have otherwise finally terminated.	None
On conflicts of interest, guidelines laid down are as follows(2) Conflicts of Interest(a)	None
An arbitrator shall decline to accept an appointment or, if the arbitration has already been commenced, refuse to continue to act as an arbitrator, if he or she has any doubt as to his or her ability to be impartial or independent.(b)	None
The same principle applies if facts or circumstances exist, or have arisen since the appointment, which, from the point of view of a reasonable third person having knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, would give rise to justifiable doubts as to the arbitrators impartiality or independence, unless the parties have accepted the arbitrator in accordance with the requirements set out in General Standard 4.(c) Doubts are justifiable if a reasonable third person, having knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, would reach the conclusion that there is a likelihood that the arbitrator may be influenced by factors other than the merits of the case as presented by the parties in reaching his or her decision.(d)	None
Justifiable doubts necessarily exist as to the arbitrators impartiality or independence in any of the situations described in the NonWaivable Red List.16.	None
In Voestalpine Schienen GmbH v. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd., (2017) 4 SCC 665 at 687689, in the context of a Section 11 application made under the Act, this Court had occasion to delve into the independence and impartiality of arbitrators and the guidelines that are laid down in the Fifth and Seventh Schedule.	None
This Court stated20.	None
Independence and impartiality of the arbitrator are the hallmarks of any arbitration proceedings.	None
Rule against bias is one of the fundamental principles of natural justice which applied to all judicial and quasijudicial proceedings.	None
It is for this reason that notwithstanding the fact that relationship between the parties to the arbitration and the arbitrators themselves are contractual in nature and the source of an arbitrators appointment is deduced from the agreement entered into between the parties, notwithstanding the same nonindependence and nonimpartiality of such arbitrator (though contractually agreed upon) would render him ineligible to conduct the arbitration.	None
The genesis behind this rational is that even when an arbitrator is appointed in terms of contract and by the parties to the contract, he is independent of the parties.	None
Functions and duties require him to rise above the partisan interest of the parties and not to act in, or so as to further, the particular interest of either parties.	None
After all, the arbitrator has adjudicatory role to perform and, therefore, he must be independent of parties as well as impartial.	None
The United Kingdom Supreme Court has beautifully highlighted this aspect in Hashwani v. Jivraj Hashwani v. Jivraj, (2011) 1 WLR 1872 2011 UKSC 40 in the following words (WLR p. 1889, para 45)45.	None
the dominant purpose of appointing an arbitrator or arbitrators is the impartial resolution of the dispute between the parties in accordance with the terms of the agreement and, although the contract between the parties and the arbitrators would be a contract for the provision of personal services, they were not personal services under the direction of the parties.21.	None
Similarly, Cour de Cassation, France, in a judgment delivered in 1972 in Consorts Ury Fouchard, Gaillard, Goldman on International Commercial Arbitration 562 (Emmanuel Gaillard John Savage eds., 1999) quoting Cour de cassation Cass.	None
Supreme Court for judicial matters Consorts Ury v. S.A. des Galeries Lafayette, Cass. 2e civ., 1341972, JCP, Pt. II, No. 17189 (1972) (France), underlined thatan independent mind is indispensable in the exercise of judicial power, whatever the source of that power may be, and it is one of the essential qualities of an arbitrator.22.	None
Independence and impartiality are two different concepts.	None
An arbitrator may be independent and yet, lack impartiality, or vice versa.	None
Impartiality, as is well accepted, is a more subjective concept as compared to independence.	None
Independence, which is more an objective concept, may, thus, be more straightforwardly ascertained by the parties at the outset of the arbitration proceedings in light of the circumstances disclosed by the arbitrator, while partiality will more likely surface during the arbitration proceedings.23.	None
It also cannot be denied that the Seventh Schedule is based on IBA guidelines which are clearly regarded as a representation of international based practices and are based on statutes, case law and juristic opinion from a crosssection on jurisdiction.	None
It is so mentioned in the guidelines itself.24.	None
xxx xxx xxx25.	None
Section 12 has been amended with the objective to induce neutrality of arbitrators viz.	None
their independence and impartiality.	None
The amended provision is enacted to identify the circumstances which give rise to justifiable doubts about the independence or impartiality of the arbitrator.	None
If any of those circumstances as mentioned therein exists, it will give rise to justifiable apprehension of bias.	None
The Fifth Schedule to the Act enumerates the grounds which may give rise to justifiable doubts of this nature.	None
Likewise, the Seventh Schedule mentions those circumstances which would attract the provisions of subsection (5) of Section 12 and nullify any prior agreement to the contrary.	None
In the context of this case, it is relevant to mention that only if an arbitrator is an employee, a consultant, an advisor or has any past or present business relationship with a party, he is rendered ineligible to act as an arbitrator.	None
Likewise, that person is treated as incompetent to perform the role of arbitrator, who is a manager, director or part of the management or has a single controlling influence in an affiliate of one of the parties if the affiliate is directly involved in the matters in dispute in the arbitration.	None
Likewise, persons who regularly advised the appointing party or affiliate of the appointing party are incapacitated.	None
A comprehensive list is enumerated in Schedule 5 and Schedule 7 and admittedly the persons empanelled by the respondent are not covered by any of the items in the said list.17.	None
It will be noticed that Items 1 to 19 of the Fifth Schedule are identical with the aforesaid items in the Seventh Schedule.	None
The only reason that these items also appear in the Fifth Schedule is for purposes of disclosure by the arbitrator, as unless the proposed arbitrator discloses in writing his involvement in terms of Items 1 to 34 of the Fifth Schedule, such disclosure would be lacking, in which case the parties would be put at a disadvantage as such information is often within the personal knowledge of the arbitrator only.	None
It is for this reason that it appears that Items 1 to 19 also appear in the Fifth Schedule.18.	None
Shri Divan is right in drawing our attention to the fact that the 246th Law Commission Report brought in amendments to the Act narrowing the grounds of challenge coterminus with seeing that independent, impartial and neutral arbitrators are appointed and that, therefore, we must be careful in preserving such independence, impartiality and neutrality of arbitrators.	Reasoning
In fact, the same Law Commission Report has amended Sections 28 and 34 so as to narrow grounds of challenge available under the Act.	Reasoning
The judgment in ONGC v. Saw Pipes Ltd, (2003) 5 SCC 705 , has been expressly done away with.	Reasoning
So has the judgment in ONGC v. Western Geco International Ltd., (2014) 9 SCC 263.	Reasoning
Both Sections 34 and 48 have been brought back to the position of law contained in Renusagar Power Plant Co Ltd. v. General Electric Co., (1994)	Reasoning
Supp (1) SCC 644, where public policy will now include only two of the three things set out therein, viz., fundamental policy of Indian law and justice or morality.	Reasoning
The ground relating to the interest of India no longer obtains.	Reasoning
Fundamental policy of Indian law is now to be understood as laid down in Renusagar (supra).	Reasoning
Justice or morality has been tightened and is now to be understood as meaning only basic notions of justice and morality i.e. such notions as would shock the conscience of the Court as understood in Associate Builders v. Delhi Development Authority, (2015) 3 SCC 49.	Reasoning
Section 28(3) has also been amended to bring it in line with the judgment of this Court in Associate Builders (supra), making it clear that the construction of the terms of the contract is primarily for the arbitrator to decide unless it is found that such a construction is not a possible one.19.	Reasoning
Thus, an award rendered in an international commercial arbitration  whether in India or abroad  is subject to the same tests qua setting aside under Section 34 or enforcement under Section 48, as the case may be.	Reasoning
The only difference is that in an arbitral award governed by Part I, arising out of an arbitration other than an international commercial arbitration, one more ground of challenge is available viz.	Reasoning
patent illegality appearing on the face of the award.	Reasoning
The ground of patent illegality would not be established, if there is merely an erroneous application of the law or a reappreciation of evidence.20.	Reasoning
However, to accede to Shri Divans submission that because the grounds for challenge have been narrowed as aforesaid, we must construe the items in the Fifth and Seventh Schedules in the most expansive manner, so that the remotest likelihood of bias gets removed, is not an acceptable way of interpreting the Schedules.	Reasoning
As has been pointed out by us hereinabove, the items contained in the Schedules owe their origin to the IBA Guidelines, which are to be construed in the light of the general principles contained therein  that every arbitrator shall be impartial and independent of the parties at the time of accepting his her appointment.	Reasoning
Doubts as to the above are only justifiable if a reasonable third person having knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances would reach the conclusion that there is a likelihood that the arbitrator may be influenced by factors other than the merits of the case in reaching his or her decision.	Reasoning
This test requires taking a broad commonsensical approach to the items stated in the Fifth and Seventh Schedules.	Reasoning
This approach would, therefore, require a fair construction of the words used therein, neither tending to enlarge or restrict them unduly.	Reasoning
It is with these prefatory remarks that we proceed to deal with the arguments of both sides in construing the language of the Seventh Schedule.21.	Reasoning
Coming to the challenge in the present case, Justice Lahotis appointment is challenged on the ground that the arbitrator has been an advisor to GAIL in another unconnected matter and, therefore, Justice Lahoti should be removed.	None
In his disclosure statement made on 24.11.2016, Justice Lahoti had saidThat on a legal issue between GAIL and another Public Sector Undertaking, an opinion was given by me to GAIL, in the year 2014, but it has no concern with respect to the present matter.	None
I am an Arbitrator in a pending matter between M s. Pioneer Power Limited and GAIL (India) Limited.22.	None
Shri Divan has pressed before us that since on a legal issue between GAIL and another public sector undertaking an opinion had been given by Justice Lahoti to GAIL in the year 2014, which had no concern with respect to the present matter, he would stand disqualified under Item 1 of the Seventh Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
Items 8 and 15 were also faintly argued as interdicting Justice Lahotis appointment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Item 8 would have no application as it is nobodys case that Justice Lahoti regularly advises the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
And Item 15 cannot apply as no legal opinion qua the dispute at hand was ever given.	Arguments of Petitioner
On reading Item 1 of the Seventh Schedule, it is clear that the item deals with business relationships.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words any other show that the first part of Item 1 also confines advisor to a business relationship.	Arguments of Petitioner
The arbitrator must, therefore, be an advisor insofar as it concerns the business of a party.	Arguments of Petitioner
Howsoever widely construed, it is very difficult to state that a professional relationship is equal to a business relationship, as, in its widest sense, it would include commercial relationships of all kinds, but would not include legal advice given.	Arguments of Petitioner
This becomes clear if it is read along with Items 2, 8, 14 and 15, the last item specifically dealing with legal advice.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under Items 2, 8 and 14, advice given need not be advice relating to business but can be advice of any kind.	Arguments of Petitioner
The importance of contrasting Item 1 with Items 2, 8 and 14 is that the arbitrator should be a regular advisor under items 2, 8 and 14 to one of the parties or the appointing party or an affiliate thereof, as the case may be.	Arguments of Petitioner
Though the word regularly is missing from Items 1 and 2, it is clear that the arbitrator, if he is an advisor, in the sense of being a person who has a business relationship in Item 1, or is a person who currently advises a party or his affiliates in Item 2, connotes some degree of regularity in both items.	Arguments of Petitioner
The advice given under any of these items cannot possibly be one opinion given by a retired Judge on a professional basis at arms length.	Arguments of Petitioner
Something more is required, which is the element of being connected in an advisory capacity with a party.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since Justice Lahoti has only given a professional opinion to GAIL, which has no concern with the present dispute, he is clearly not disqualified under Item 1.23.	Arguments of Petitioner
Coming to Justice Doabias appointment, it has been vehemently argued that since Justice Doabia has previously rendered an award between the same parties in an earlier arbitration concerning the same disputes, but for an earlier period, he is hit by Item 16 of the Seventh Schedule, which states that the arbitrator should not have previous involvement in the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
From the italicized words, it was sought to be argued that the case is an ongoing one, and a previous arbitration award delivered by Justice Doabia between the same parties and arising out of the same agreement would incapacitate his appointment in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are afraid we are unable to agree with this contention.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this context, it is important to refer to the IBA Guidelines, which are the genesis of the items contained in the Seventh Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the waivable Red List of the IBA Guidelines, para 2.1.2 statesThe Arbitrator had a prior involvement in the dispute.24.	Arguments of Petitioner
On reading the aforesaid guideline and reading the heading which appears with Item 16, namely Relationship of the arbitrator to the dispute, it is obvious that the arbitrator has to have a previous involvement in the very dispute contained in the present arbitration.	Reasoning
Admittedly, Justice Doabia has no such involvement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, Item 16 must be read along with Items 22 and 24 of the Fifth Schedule.	Reasoning
The disqualification contained in Items 22 and 24 is not absolute, as an arbitrator who has, within the past three years, been appointed as arbitrator on two or more occasions by one of the parties or an affiliate, may yet not be disqualified on his showing that he was independent and impartial on the earlier two occasions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Also, if he currently serves or has served within the past three years as arbitrator in another arbitration on a related issue, he may be disqualified under Item 24, which must then be contrasted with Item 16.	Reasoning
Item 16 cannot be read as including previous involvements in another arbitration on a related issue involving one of the parties as otherwise Item 24 will be rendered largely ineffective.	Reasoning
It must not be forgotten that Item 16 also appears in the Fifth Schedule and has, therefore, to be harmoniously read with Item 24.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has also been argued by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent that the expression the arbitrator in Item 16 cannot possibly mean the arbitrator acting as an arbitrator, but must mean that the proposed arbitrator is a person who has had previous involvement in the case in some other avatar.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to us, this is a sound argument as the arbitrator refers to the proposed arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
This becomes clear, when contrasted with Items 22 and 24, where the arbitrator must have served as arbitrator before he can be disqualified.	Arguments of Petitioner
Obviously, Item 16 refers to previous involvement in an advisory or other capacity in the very dispute, but not as arbitrator.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also faintly argued that Justice Doabia was ineligible under Items 1 and 15.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appointment as an arbitrator is not a business relationship with the respondent under Item 1.	Arguments of Respondent
Nor is the delivery of an award providing an expert opinion i.e. advice to a party covered by Item 15.25.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact that Justice Doabia has already rendered an award in a previous arbitration between the parties would not, by itself, on the ground of reasonable likelihood of bias, render him ineligible to be an arbitrator in a subsequent arbitration.	None
As has been stated in H. v. L others, 2017 1 W.L.R. 2280 at 2288228926.	None
If authority were needed it is to be found in AMEC Capital Projects Ltd v. Whitefriars City Estates Ltd 2005 1	None
All ER 723.	None
An adjudicator had decided a case without jurisdiction as a result of defects in the procedural mechanism for his appointment.	None
His adjudication was set aside and he was then reappointed to decide the same dispute, between the same parties, and decided it in the same way.	None
At first instance it was held that his second adjudication should be set aside for apparent bias because, amongst other things, he had already decided the same issue.	None
The Court of Appeal reversed the decision.	None
Dyson LJ said20.	None
In my judgment, the mere fact that the tribunal has previously decided the issue is not of itself sufficient to justify a conclusion of apparent bias.	None
Something more is required.	None
Judges are assumed to be trustworthy and to understand that they should approach every case with an open mind.	None
The same applies to adjudicators, who are almost always professional persons.	None
That is not to say that, if it is asked to redetermine an issue and the evidence and arguments are merely a repeat of what went before, the tribunal will not be likely to reach the same conclusion as before.	None
It would be unrealistic, indeed absurd, to expect the tribunal in such circumstances to ignore its earlier decision and not to be inclined to come to the same conclusion as before, particularly if the previous decision was carefully reasoned.	None
The vice which the law must guard against is that the tribunal may approach the rehearing with a closed mind.	None
If a judge has considered an issue carefully before reaching a decision on the first occasion, it cannot sensibly be said that he has a closed mind if, the evidence and arguments being the same as before, he does not give as careful a consideration on the second occasion as on the first.	None
He will, however, be expected to give such reconsideration of the matter as is reasonably necessary for him to be satisfied that his first decision was correct.	None
As I have said, it will be a most unusual case where the second hearing is for practical purposes an exact rerun of the first.21.	None
The mere fact that the tribunal has decided the issue before is therefore not enough for apparent bias.	None
There needs to be something of substance to lead the fairminded and informed observer to conclude that there is a real possibility that the tribunal will not bring an open mind and objective judgment to bear.27.	None
Those comments apply with as much force to arbitrators in international reinsurance arbitration as they do to adjudicators in building disputes.	None
Just as an arbitrator or adjudicator can be expected to bring an open mind and objective judgment to bear when redetermining the same question on the same evidence between the same parties, it is all the more so where the evidence is different and heard in a reference between different parties.28.	None
The position in Bermuda Form arbitrations is accurately summarised in a leading textbook, Liability Insurance in International Arbitration, 2nd ed (2011), at para 14.32 in these terms14.32 Commencing a Bermuda Form ArbitrationThe decision in Locabail (UK) Ltd v. Bayfield Properties Ltd 2000 QB 451, and the foregoing discussion, is also relevant in the fairly common situation where a loss, whether from boom or batch, gives rise to a number of arbitrations against different insurers who have subscribed to the same programme.	None
A number of arbitrations may be commenced at around the same time, and the same arbitrator may be appointed at the outset in respect of all these arbitrations.	None
Another possibility is that there are successive arbitrations, for example because the policyholder wishes to see the outcome of an arbitration on the first layer before embarking on further proceedings.	None
A policyholder, who has been successful before one tribunal, may then be tempted to appoint one of its members (not necessarily its original appointee, but possibly the chairman or even the insurers original appointee) as arbitrator in a subsequent arbitration.	None
Similarly, if insurer A has been successful in the first arbitration, insurer B may in practice learn of this success and the identity of the arbitrators who have upheld insurer As arguments.	None
It follows from Locabail and AMEC Capital Projects Ltd v. Whitefriars City Estates Ltd 2005 1	None
All ER 723 that an objection to the appointment of a member of a previous panel would not be sustained simply on the basis that the arbitrator had previously decided a particular issue in favour of one or other party.	None
It equally follows that an arbitrator can properly be appointed at the outset in respect of a number of layers of coverage, even though he may then decide the dispute under one layer before hearing the case on another layer.26.	None
We were, however, referred to Russell on Arbitration (23rd edition), in which the learned author has referred to the ground of bias in the context of previous views expressed by an arbitrator.	None
In Chapter 4124, the learned author states as followsIn certain circumstances, previously expressed views of an arbitrator, which suggest a certain predisposition to a particular course of action, outcome or in favour of a party, can constitute grounds for removal.	None
One of the Locabail v. Bayfield applications (2000 1 All E.R. 65 at 9293) against a judge was successful on this basis.	None
The judge had written four strongly worded articles which led the Court to conclude that an objective apprehension of bias may arise on the part of one of the parties.	None
However, a challenge against a sole arbitrator in a trade arbitration which alleged apparent bias because the arbitrator had previously been involved in a dispute with one of the parties failed.	None
The judge found this on the facts to be no more than an ordinary incident of commercial life occurring in the relatively small field of trade arbitrations where it was thought the parties and arbitrators were quite likely to have had prior dealing with each other (Rustal Trading Ltd. v. Gill and Duffas SA 2000 1 Lloyds Rep. 14).	None
Similarly, the fact that an insurance arbitrator had previously given a statement in another arbitration (and may have been called to give evidence subsequently) about the meaning of a standard form clause which might have had a tentative bearing on the present arbitration would not give grounds for removal (Argonaut Insurance Co v. Republic Insurance Co 2003 EWHC 547).27.	None
The judgment referred to in Russell is reported in Locabail v. Bayfield, (2000)	None
1	None
All E.R. 65.	None
In paragraph 89 thereof, the Court of Appeal statedWe have found this a difficult and anxious application to resolve.	None
There is no suggestion of actual bias on the part of the recorder.	None
Nor, quite rightly, is any imputation made as to his good faith.	None
His voluntary disclosure of the matters already referred to show that he was conscious of his judicial duty.	None
The views he expressed in the articles relied on are no doubt shared by other experienced commentators.	None
We have, however, to ask, taking a broad commonsense approach, whether a person holding the pronounced proclaimant antiinsurer views expressed by the recorder in the articles might not unconsciously have leant in favour of the claimant and against the defendant in resolving the factual issues between them.	None
Not without misgiving, we conclude that there was on the facts here a real danger of such a result.	None
We do not think a lay observer with knowledge of the facts could have excluded that possibility, and nor can we.	None
We accordingly grant permission to appeal on this ground, allow the defendants appeal and order a retrial.	None
We should not be thought to hold any view at all on the likely or proper outcome of any retrial.28.	None
We have not been shown anything to indicate that Justice Doabia would be a person holding a pronounced anticlaimant view as in Locabail (supra).	Reasoning
Therefore, we are satisfied that there is no real possibility that Justice Doabia will not bring an open mind and objective judgment to bear on arguments made by the parties in the fourth arbitration, which may or may not differ from arguments made in the third arbitration.29.	Reasoning
The appointment of Justice Doabia was also attacked on the ground that he had not made a complete disclosure, in that his disclosure statement did not indicate as to whether he was likely to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and would be able to complete it within 12 months.	Reasoning
We are afraid that we cannot allow the appellant to raise this point at this stage as it was never raised earlier.	Reasoning
Obviously, if Justice Doabia did not indicate anything to the contrary, he would be able to devote sufficient time to the arbitration and complete the process within 12 months.30.	Reasoning
It was also faintly urged that the arbitrator must without delay make a disclosure to the parties in writing.	Reasoning
Justice Doabias disclosure was by a letter dated October 31, 2016 which was sent to the Secretary General of the International Centre for Alternative Dispute Resolution (ICADR).	Reasoning
It has come on record that for no fault of Justice Doabia, the ICADR, through oversight, did not handover the said letter or a copy thereof to the appellant until November 24, 2016, which is stated in its letter dated November 29, 2016.	Reasoning
This contention also, therefore, need not detain us.31.	Reasoning
It was then argued that under Explanation 3 to the Seventh Schedule, maritime or commodities arbitration may draw arbitrators from a small, specialized pool, in which case it is the custom and practice for parties to appoint the same arbitrator in different cases.	None
This is in contrast to an arbitrator in other cases where he should not be appointed more than once.	None
We are afraid that this argument again cannot be countenanced for the simple reason that Explanation 3 stands by itself and has to be applied as a relevant fact to be taken into account.	Reasoning
It has no indirect bearing on any of the other items mentioned in the Seventh Schedule.32.	Reasoning
This being the case, we are satisfied that the learned single Judges judgment requires no interference.	Decision
The appeals are, accordingly, dismissed.	Decision
