 RAMASWAMY, J. This appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution arises against the order dated July 5, 1971 made by the Calcutta High Court in Civil Order No. 1826 of 1971 dismissing the writ petition in limine.	None
The material facts are that the lands of Hal Plot Nos. 2202, 2204, 2206, 2209, 2210, 2212, 2214, 2219, 2220, 2225, 2226, 2228, 2229, 2232, 2233, 2234, 2236 of 2239 of Mouza Kishorimohanpore, J.L. No. 168, P.S. Jaynagar were recorded in the final Khatian Nos. 143 and 144 of J.L. No. 168 as Tank Fishery (being used for pisciculture) and by operation of Section 6(1)(e) of West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act 1 of 1954, for short the Act stand excluded from its purview.	Facts
The Assistant Settlement Officer initiated suo moto proceedings on May. 14, 1968 that they have not been properly classified and prima facie require correction of classifications of those lands.	Facts
Accordingly, he drew up the proceedings under Section 44(2a) of the Act, issued notice to the respondents who are brothers, intermediaries.	Facts
They filed their written objections and appeared through counsel.	Facts
They also filed the documents, examined three witnesses apart from themselves.	Facts
On behalf of the State one Mr. Ranjit Kumar Dutta, Revenue Officer, Yadavpur Settlement was examined.	Facts
The objections raised by the respondents are that the lands originally belong to Smt.	Facts
Banodamayee Dasi, Superior Landlady, who granted to them dakhilas Nos. 9 and 10 in the year 1359 B.S.	Facts
i.e. 1952 A.D.	Facts
Thereafter they have been cultivating pisciculture in the said lands.	Facts
They got embankment raised around the land.	Facts
They have been conducting fishery business.	Facts
In the fields survey the property was recorded in their name as the occupiers.	Facts
On account of the injunction issued by the High Court the attestation in the original settlement was not affected.	Facts
When they approached the Junior Land Revenue Officer for receipt of the rents, after due enquiry by endorsement dated April 30, 1958 A.D., the Tehsildar made an endorsement on the body of the receipt For Pisciculture.	Facts
They were conducting fishery in a large scale.	Facts
They had applied to the Chief Minister Dr. B.C. Roy for a loan of Rs. 25, 000.	Facts
An endorsement on the application was made by the concerned Secretary.	Facts
When the miscreants sought to disturb the embankments, they made a complaint to the police, who initiated action in this regard.	Facts
Agricultural Income Tax Department levyed on them income tax relying on pisciculture being done by the respondents.	None
The Assistant Settlement Officer considered the entire evidence on record in great detail like civil court and held that the three witnesses examined in proof of the respondents conducting pisciculture in the disputed plots of lands are interested and brought up witnesses for the detailed reasons given in support thereof the respondents did not produce the report of the Junior Revenue Officer who was directed to accept the rents from the respondents.	Facts
Admittedly, all the lands stood vested in year 195556 in the State by operation of the notification issued under Section 4(1) of the Act.	Facts
Though the settlement was stated to have been obtained from the Principal Landlady in the year 1952 (1359 B.S.), they did not produce any preor postsettlement records for the period up to 195556, the year of vesting, to establish that the disputed lands are recorded as tank fishery.	Facts
Mr. R.K. Dutta examined on behalf of the State stated that he made local inspection on April 11, 1968 A.D. and found recorded the class of land in 18 dags (plots), Serial Nos. 2202, 2204, 2206, 2209, 2210, 2212, 2214, 2219, 2220, 2225, 2226, 2228, 2229, 2232, 2233, 2234, 2236 and 2239 within that Mouza.	Facts
The present dags (plots) Nos. 2206, 2239, 2229, 2225, 2212, 2219, 2220 are small dobas i.e. ponds and he did not find any sign of pisciculture in those plots.	Facts
Plot Nos. 2210, 2209, 2233 and 2234 are blind canals.	Facts
There was no connection whatsoever of those plots with river or big canals.	Facts
He stated that there was water within those dags (plots), but he did not find any sign of pisciculture therein.	Facts
He did not find any water in Plot Nos. 2202, 2232, 2204, 2214.	Facts
2236, 2239, 2228 and 2226 either existing or drained in those plots.	Facts
Danga (elevated land) Layek Jangal Bheter (like jungle inside) Layek Jangal (jungle outside) and there was no water at all.	Facts
He also made local enquiries from other persons in the neighborhood and they testified to the same fact.	Facts
He admitted that adjacent to those plots there were two plots, namely, Plot Nos. 2201 and 2235, but outside the disputed lands where in pisciculture was being carried out in those plots at the time of inspection.	Facts
He also stated that the people examined by him have stated that till date the lands remained in the same condition.	Facts
In the settlement plan (map) the plots were not classified as pisciculture.	Facts
Only two plots i.e. 2201 and 2235 were classified as pisciculture.	None
It may be stated at this juncture that though Mr. Dutta was subjected to gruelling crossexamination at great length on the nature of pisciculture and characteristics etc.	Facts
as regards the existence of the condition of the lands at the time of his inspection and that he did not find any trace of carrying pisciculture, no crossexamination was directed nor was suggested to the contrary.	Facts
The Assistant Settlement Officer after consideration to the entire evidence found that the respondents claimed to have started fishery after obtaining settlement from landlady in the year 1952, they admitted that khasra enquiry was conducted in the year 1954 (1361 B.S.) in their presence and examined witnesses.	Facts
The Enquiry Officer did not enter in the khasra record that any pisciculture was being carried on in any disputed plots except Plot Nos. 2201 and 2235.	Facts
On the other hand he noted that there is no fishery in any on those plots except those two specified plots.	Facts
The vesting of plots under the Act took place in the year 195556.	Facts
Except the receipt issued by the Tehsildar, no documentary evidence of payment of rent has been produced.	Facts
The Tehsildar had no business to write on the receipt for pisciculture, nor record of enquiry made by Junior Land Revenue Officer in this regard was produced.	Facts
It is, therefore, clear that in the khasra enquiry it was not recorded that the suit plots are fishery and in none of the plots it was recorded that any pisciculture was being conducted.	Facts
The attestation took place in July 1959, i.e. after seven years from 1359 B.S. (1952) the year of settlement and three years from the date of starting the so called fishery.	Facts
No documentary evidence except the solitary receipt which was rejected by the Assistant Settlement Officer was produced to show that any pisciculture was being conducted.	Facts
The receipt given by the Tehsildar is obviously to accommodate the respondents.	Facts
There is no sufficient proof of laying any road to carry the fish from the said plots.	Facts
Sri Atul Kumar Sahoo, one of the respondents, when was examined as a witness admitted it.	Facts
Admittedly, fishery was carried out in Plot Nos. 2201 and 2235 which are linked up with river Alian Khal with tide	Facts
but they are not part of lands in dispute.	Facts
None of the plots which are subject matter of the suit is linked up with river or any high canal with tide.	None
With regard to making an application to the Chief Minister the copy has not been produced.	None
There is no evidence whether these plots of lands have been mentioned in that application.	Facts
Since, admittedly, the respondents are having fishery in Plot Nos. 2201 and 2235, it was likely that the loan application would relate to those plots.	Facts
The total extent of the disputed land is about 550 bighas.	Facts
Even account books showing income and expenditure of fishery were not produced, though time was allowed to produce the documents more than once.	Facts
Some lands are dry lands and some lands are with the shrubs inside river embankment and outside.	Facts
So the question of fishery over those plots does not arise.	Facts
Only to refute this factual situation the respondents tried to patch it up by saying that these plots were dried up for some months in every year.	Facts
But they have failed to prove the existence of any fishery over those plots by adducing sufficient and reliable evidence.	Facts
When there is no evidence to show the existence of fishery in any of the disputed plots, it is obvious that plots were wrongly recorded as fishery.	Facts
Primary authority considered the oral evidence and rejected it for valid reasons and ordered that the classification of Plot Nos. 2202, 2239, 2225, 2232, 2204, 2210, 2234, 2214, 2236, 2228 and 2226 in Hal Khatian Nos. 134 and 144 within Mouza Kishorimohanpore, J.L. No. 168, P.S. Jaynagar as recorded as Ghert and pisciculture in column No. 23 should be deleted and instead the classification of Plot No. 2202 and 2209 should be recorded as Layek Jungle Outside Plot Nos. 2202, 2204 2236 and 2228 should be recorded as Layek Jungle Outside.	Facts
Plot Nos. 2201, 2234 should be recorded as pond, 2214 and 2226 should be recorded as danga.	Facts
Recording in column No. 23 to the effect pisciculture in Plot Nos. 2209, 2229, 2206, 2212, 2219, 2233 and 2220 should be deleted.	None
Against this order an appeal was filed before the Tribunal (IXth Addl.	None
District Judge, Alipore) under Section 44(3) of the Act which by judgment dated March 4, 1971 in E.A. No. 49 of 1968 in one paragraph with cryptic order assuming the role of an administrator reversed the order of the ASO.	Facts
The conclusion, without discussing the evidence recorded by the Appellate Judge are that in the C.S. Khatian he found that these lands were recorded as layek jungle vitar and bahir, doba pukur and khal.	Facts
He had gone through the R.S. map and from the map he found no sing of jungle as against the disputed land.	Facts
One salt manufacturing company was in occupation of the disputed land before the respondents took settlement from the original landlady.	Facts
The existence of salt manufacturing company shows that there was salt water on the disputed lands.	Facts
With a view to develop the land they applied for the loan to the Chief Minister on May 25, 1955.	Facts
That shows that there exists fishery in the disputed land.	Facts
The Junior Land Revenue Officer found on May 11, 1958 after inspection the existence of fishery.	Facts
Therefore, it shows that on the date of vesting there exists fishery in the lands.	Facts
Local witnesses who were examined support the existence of fishery for a pretty long time.	Facts
Against this there is no rebutting evidence adduced by the State.	Facts
Accordingly he set aside the order of the Assistant Settlement Officer and confirmed the original classification.	Facts
The State filed the writ petition and the High Court, as stated earlier, dismissed the writ petition in limine.6.	Facts
Shri Roy, the learned senior counsel appearing for the State contended that the Assistant Settlement Officer has carefully assessed the evidence and recorded the findings.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Appellate Tribunal has reversed the findings without considering the validity of the reasons recorded by the Assistant Settlement Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has taken irrelevant factors or nonexisting factors into account and thereby the findings recorded by the Appellate District Judge is based on no evidence.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand it is beset with conjecture and surmises.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Chatterjee, the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents contended that the appellate authority has recorded the findings of fact that pisciculture was in existence as on the date of vesting.	Arguments of Respondent
This Court cannot interfere with the findings of fact recorded by the appellate court, in particular, when the High Court did not choose to interfere with the finding.	Arguments of Respondent
The record in the settlement refers that the lands are used for pisciculture.	Arguments of Respondent
It is open to the State to establish that the lands are not being used for pisciculture.	Arguments of Respondent
In its absence the findings recorded by the appellate court is one of fact and this Court cannot interfere with that finding.	Arguments of Respondent
Admittedly the High Court did not go into any of the questions raised by the appellant in the writ petition.	Reasoning
It summarily dismissed the writ petition.	Reasoning
Therefore, what we have to read is only the orders of the appellate tribunal and the Assistant Settlement Officer  the primary authority together with the record of evidence.	Reasoning
Counsel took us through the evidence to show that the findings recorded by the appellate Judge are based on either no evidence or surmises and conjectures.	Reasoning
We have given our anxious consideration to the respective contentions and considered the evidence on record once again.	Reasoning
It is indisputably true that it is a quasijudicial proceeding.	Reasoning
If the appellate authority had appreciated the evidence on record and recorded the findings of fact, those findings are binding on this Court or the High Court.	Reasoning
By process of judicial review we cannot appreciate the evidence and record our own findings of fact.	Reasoning
If the findings are based on no evidence or based on conjectures or surmises and no reasonable man would, on given facts and circumstances, come to the conclusion reached by the appellate authority on the basis of the evidence on record, certainly this Court would oversee whether the findings recorded by the appellate authority is based on no evidence or beset with surmises or conjectures.	Reasoning
Giving of reasons is an essential element of administration of justice.	Reasoning
A right to reason is, therefore, an indispensable part of sound system of judicial review.	Reasoning
Reasoned decision is not only for the purpose of showing that the citizen is receiving justice, but also a valid discipline for the Tribunal itself.	Reasoning
Therefore, statement of reasons is one of the essentials of justice.	None
The appellate authority in particular a trained and experienced District Judge is bound to consider the entire material evidence adduced and relied on by the parties and to consider whether the reasons assigned by the primary authority is cogent, relevant to the point in issue and based on material evidence on record.	None
The District Judge has forsaken this salutary duty which the legislature obviously entrusted to him.	None
The question, therefore, is whether the reasons assigned by the appellate tribunal are based on no evidence on record or vitiated by conjectures or surmises.	None
For appreciating this point it is necessary to look into the purpose of the Act and relevant provisions therein.	None
The Act has been made to acquire the estates, all rights of intermediaries therein and of certain rights of raiyats and under raiyats of nonagriculture tenants in occupation of the lands comprised in the State, Section 4(1) empowers the State Government to issue notification under the Act from time to time declaring that with effect from the date mentioned in the notification all estates and all rights of every intermediary in each such estate situated in the district or a part of the district specified in the notification shall vest in the State free from all incumbrances.	None
The procedure has been provided in this behalf in subsections (2) to (6) of Section 4 of the Act, the details of which are not relevant for the purpose of this case.	None
The effect of the notification as adumbrated in Section 5 thereof is that all grants of, and confirmation of titles to, estates and rights therein, to which the declaration applies and which were made in favour of the intermediaries shall determine.	None
Thereby, by statutory operation the preexisting rights and all grants of and confirmation of the titles to the estate and the rights therein statutorily have been determined by issuance and publication of the notification under Section 4(1) read with Section 5 of the Act.	None
Section 6 of the Act employing nonobstante clause carved out exceptions to the operation of Sections 4 and 5 and preserve the right of intermediary to retain possession and title of certain land in certain circumstances.	None
Subsection (1) postulates thus 6.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sections 4 and 5, an intermediary shall, except in the cases mentioned in the proviso to subsection (2) but subject to the other provisions of that subsection, be entitled to retain with effect from the date of vesting  (e) tank fisheries Explanation.  	None
tank fishery means a reservoir or place for the storage of water, whether formed naturally or by excavation or by construction of embankments, which is being used for pisciculture or for fishing, together with the subsoil and the banks of such reservoir or place, except such portion of the banks as are included in a homestead or in a garden or orchard and includes any right of pisciculture of fishing in such reservoir or place.	None
A reading of these provisions clearly indicates that notwithstanding the determination of preexisting rights, titles and interest of the holders of the estate in the notified estate, subject to proviso to subsection (2) and other provisions of the subsection, subsection (1)(e) retains the rights and possession of intermediary in respect of tank fisheries.	None
Tank fishery means the lands being used for pisciculture or any fishing in a reservoir or storage place whether formed naturally or by artificial contrivance as a permanent measure except such portion of embankment as are included in a homestead or in a garden or orchard to be tank fishery.	None
Such lands occupied by pisciculture of fishing stood preserved to the intermediary.	None
In Chambers 20th Century Dictionary at page 829, the word pisciculture is defined to mean the rearing of fish by artificial methods.	None
In Webster Comprehensive Dictionary, (vol. II) pisciculture means hatching and rearing of fish.	None
In Strouds Judicial Dictionary (vol.	None
II, 4th edn.)	None
at page 1051 the term several fishery is sometimes said to be a right of fishing in public waters, which may be exercisable by many people.	None
Therefore, when by means of reservoir or a place for storage of water whether formed naturally or by excavation or by construction of embankment, is being used for pisciculture or for fishing is obviously a continuous process as a source of livelihood, would be tank fisheries within the meaning of Section 6(1)(e).	None
Such tanks stand excluded from the operation of Sections 4 and 5.	None
The question, therefore, emerges whether the disputed plots are tank fisheries.	None
Undoubtedly, as rightly contended by Shri Chatterjee that if the findings recorded by the appellate tribunal that the disputed plots of land are tank fisheries, are based on evidence on record, after its due consideration in proper perspective certainly that finding is binding on this Court, as being a finding of fact.	Issue
The finding recorded by the appellate tribunal is based on five grounds, namely, nonexistence of the forestry in the map making application for loan revenue receipts produced by the respondent previous salt cultivation and the oral evidence adduced on behalf of the respondents.	None
Yet another ground is absence of rebuttal evidence by the State.	None
We have already noted the findings recorded by the Assistant Settlement Officer.	None
They need no reiteration.	None
Mr. Dutta examined on behalf of the State made personal inspection.	None
The contention of Shri Chatterjee is that he inspected the land in the year 1968, but the relevant date is of the year 1952 and there is no evidence contrary to the existence of land in 1952 being used for pisciculture.	None
It is true that the crucial date for establishing, as a fact that the pisciculture was being carried on in the disputed land is the period of vesting, namely, 195556.	None
The existence of fishery subsequent to that period is not of any relevance.	None
Admittedly, the respondents did not produce before the Assistant Settlement Officer either postor prerecord till date of vesting to establish that from 1952 to 195556 i.e. from the date of obtaining settlement till date of vesting, the lands were recorded in settlement records as pisciculture or fishery.	None
Admittedly, in 1954 the khasra enquiry was conducted in the presence of the respondents.	None
The findings recorded in the relevant columns are that no pisciculture or fishery was being carried on except in two plots i.e. 2201 and 2235 which are not subject matter of enquiry but are situated adjacent to these lands.	None
Those findings were not challenged at any time.	None
The report of the Tehsildar directing payment of the land revenue was not produced.	None
What was produced is only receipt, on the body of which an endorsement for pisciculture was made by the Tehsildar.	None
The reason given by the Assistant Settlement Officer in rejecting the receipts was that there was no need for the Tehsildar to write for pisciculture and that was not the practice.	None
This finding was not disputed by the appellate Judge.	None
Therefore, there is no documentary evidence to establish that the lands were being used, on the date of settlement or also on the date of vesting, for pisciculture or fishery.	None
The findings recorded by the Assistant Settlement Officer is based on the evidence given by Mr. Dutta, who on personal inspection, found that the lands remained in the same conditions from the date of vesting till date of his inspection in the year 1968.	None
This finding was also not contradicted in the crossexamination of Mr. Dutta, though he was subjected to gruelling crossexamination.	None
Therefore, the finding that the State has not produced any rebuttal evidence is palpably wrong on the face of the record.	None
The further findings that the map does not indicate that there exists any forestry, is also a conclusion reached by the appellate authority without discussing the evidence of Mr. Dutta who had stated in his evidence that there are shrubs outside and inside the lands in dispute.	None
It is the specific case of the respondents that they made embankment, but Mr. Dutta finds that there was no embankment to any of the plots.	None
That was also a finding recorded by the Assistant Settlement Officer.	None
There is no discussion by the appellate authority of the evidence given on that count.	None
Though written objections were filed and evidence was adduced by the respondents, neither in the objections nor in the oral evidence tendered by the two respondents or their witnesses it was shown that the lands were used earlier for salt cultivation by erstwhile landholder.	None
Therefore, this is an extraneous factor which the District Judge picked from his hat without any foundation.	None
The solitary revenue receipt produced by the respondents was rejected by the Assistant Settlement Officer for cogent reasons.	None
The appellant authority being final authority on facts, is enjoined and incumbent upon it to appreciate the evidence consider the reasoning of the primary authority and assign its own reasons as to why it disagrees with the reasons and findings of the primary authority.	None
Unless adequate reasons are given, merely because it is an appellate authority, it cannot brush aside the reasoning or findings recorded by the primary authority.	None
By mere recording that dakhilas (rent receipts) show that lands are used as pisciculture is a finding without consideration of the relevant material on record.	None
The other finding that respondents applied to the Chief Minister for loan and that it would establish that the loan amount was utilised for developing fishery is also a surmise drawn by the appellate authority.	None
It is already seen that admittedly the respondents have Plot Nos. 2201 and 2235 in which they have been carrying on fishery operations.	None
The application said to have been filed before the Chief Minister has not been produced.	None
The account books of the respondents have not been produced.	None
When the documentary evidence, which being the best evidence, is available but not produced an adverse inference has to be drawn by the Tribunal concerned against the respondents for nonproduction and had it been produced, it would have gone against the respondents.	None
A police complaint was said to have been made concerning disturbance in the enjoyment of the lands in question.	None
No documentary evidence was produced or summoned.	None
Even if it is done it might be selfserving one unless there is a record of finding of possession and enjoyment by the respondents for fishery.	None
Even then also it is not binding on the State nor relevant in civil proceedings.	None
The contention of Shri Chatterjee that it is the duty of the appellant to produce the record to repudiate the findings recorded by the appellate authority is without substance.	None
In a quasijudicial enquiry it is for the parties who rely upon certain state of facts in their favour to adduce evidence in proof thereof.	None
The proceedings under the Act is not like a trial in a civil court and the question of burden of proof does not arise.	None
In the absence of adduction of the available documentary evidence, the necessary conclusion drawn by the Assistant Settlement Officer that the loan application made might pertain to Plot Nos. 2201 and 2235 is well justified.	None
The appellate authority is not justified in law to brush aside that finding.	None
The other finding that the witnesses examined on behalf of the respondents support the existence of the fishery for a pretty long time is also without discussing the evidence and assigning reasons in that regard.	None
The Assistant Settlement Officer extensively considered the evidence and has given cogent reasons which were neither discussed nor found to be untenable by the appellate authority.	None
Thus, we have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that the appellate tribunal disregarded the material evidence on record, kept it aside, indulged in fishing expedition and crashed under the weight of conjectures and surmises.	None
The appellate order is, therefore, vitiated by manifest and patent error of law apparent on the face of the record.	None
When so much is to be said and judicial review done, the High Court in our considered view, committed error of law in dismissing the writ petition in limine.	None
In the facts and circumstances of this case, in particular, when the litigation has taken well over 28 years till now, we find it not a fir case to remit to the High Court or Tribunal for fresh consideration.	None
It is contended that the respondents are entitled to the computation of holding under the Act, since they are possessed of some other lands.	None
We direct that if any determination of total holding of the lands including Plot Nos. 2201 and 2235 any other lands are to be made under the Act or any other Land Reform law singly or conjointly it is open to the appropriate authorities to determine the holding of the respondents in accordance with law after giving reasonable opportunity to the respondents and the State after excluding the plots of lands in dispute.	None
Shri Roy, learned counsel for the State repeatedly asserted that the lands no longer remain to be fishery land and became part of urban area around the Calcutta city and building operations are going on.	Reasoning
On the other hand the counsel for the respondents asserted to the contrary.	Reasoning
We have no definite evidence on record.	Reasoning
Therefore, if the lands are still found to be capable of using for fishery purpose and in case the State intends to lease if out for fishing operations, to any third party, as per rules in vogue, first preference may be given to the respondents, subject to the usual terms, as per the procedure prevalent in the State of West Bengal in this regard.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we quash the order of appellate tribunal dated March 4, 1971 and restore the order of the Assistant Settlement Officer dated July 12, 1968.15.	None
The appeal is allowed accordingly and the parties are directed to bear their respective costs.	None
