 S. Sirpurkar, J. Background of Appeals This judgment will dispose of Civil Appeal Nos. 26502652 of 1998, 3162 of 1998, 3176 of 1998, 3415 of 1998, 3561 of 1998, 3597 of 1998, 3923 of 1998, 3939 of 1998, 3645 of 1998, 3691 of 1998, 5346 of 1998, 21162118 of 1999, 2139 of 1999, 2121 of 1999, 2113 of 1999, 49954996 of 1998 and SLP(C) No(CC) 1540 of 1999.	None
All these appeals and the Special Leave Petition challenge a common judgment passed by Allahabad High Court, disposing of several Writ Petitions.	Issue
The High Court has granted certificate granting leave to file appeal.	Issue
These Writ Petitions were filed covering various subjects.	Issue
Basically, in some of the Writ Petitions, constitutionality of provisions of Sections 17(1), 17(1)(A), 17(3)(A), 17(4) and proviso to Section 17(4) of the Land Acquisition Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act for short) alongwith Section 2 of the U.P. Act No. VIII of 1994 (hereinafter called the Validating Act for short) was challenged, so also constitutionality of Sections 3(A), 3(B), 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Act was also challenged.	Issue
In that set of Writ Petitions, basically, the notification issued under Section 4(1) of the Act and the award dated 25.2.1987 were in challenge.2.	Issue
In some other Writ Petitions, besides the challenge to the above mentioned provisions, some other notifications dated 30.12.1995, 25.1.1992, 4.1.1992 and 15.12.1992 under Section 4(1) of the Act, as well as, the declaration under Section 6 of the Act were in challenge.	None
In some Writ Petitions, the petitioners prayed for a Writ of mandamus, commanding the State of U.P. to frame necessary rules and regulations in respect of Sections 11, 11A and 17(3)(A) of the Act pertaining to the functioning of the Land Acquisition Officer and also sought for an injunction restraining the authorities from interfering with the possession of the Writ Petitioners land and to comply with the provisions under Sections 3(1A), 3(B), 4(2), 5 and 9(1) of the Act.	Facts
They have also prayed for a disciplinary action against the Station Officer, Police Station Gomti Nagar, Lucknow, U.P.4.	Facts
These are the three sets of Writ Petitions, which came to be disposed of by the High Court by a common judgment.5.	Facts
In one of the Writ Petitions, bearing No. 16(L A) of 1996 filed by one Ram Bharosey, award dated 25.2.1987 which was validated in pursuance of Section 2 of the Validating Act, was in challenge.6.	Facts
In still another set of Writ Petitions, Pratap Housing Cooperative Society and some industries prayed for exempting their land from the land acquisition proceedings.	Facts
In these Writ Petitions, the Writ Petitioners had contended that they had purchased their land from tenure holders for Cooperative Societies for providing land to their members and construction of the houses.	Facts
The Writ Petitioners contended that some being industries were manufacturing certain articles and their running business had come to the standstill because of the land acquisition activities.7.	Facts
In one set of Writ Petitions, it was found that notifications were issued under Section 4 and sub Section (4) of Section 17 of the Act, simultaneously with the declaration under Section 6 of the Act.	Facts
In these cases, the possession was taken by Lucknow Development Authority (hereinafter referred to as LDA for short), so also the award was passed on 25.2.1987.8.	Facts
In another set of Writ Petitions, wherein the leading Writ Petition was W.P. No. 2220 (L A) of 1996 filed by Tika Ram Anr., the notification was issued under Section 4(1) and 17 and declaration under Section 6 of the Act simultaneously.	Facts
However, they were treated to be lapsed and a fresh notification came to be issued on 30.12.1991 under Section 4(1) and 17 of the Act.	Facts
Even in these Writ Petitions, the awards were passed and the concerned persons were asked to receive payment of 80 compensation by a general notice.	Facts
In short, the challenge generally was to the land acquired at the instance of LDA.	Facts
Besides this challenge to the provisions of the Act, as also to the provisions of the Validating Act, the Writ Petitioners have claimed the noncompliance with the essential provisions of Section 4 and 6 of the Act.	Facts
They have also challenged the urgency clause made applicable to the various land acquisitions.	Facts
On merits, it has been suggested that there has been no proper publication in the newspapers or at the convenient places of the locality as required under Section 4(1) and Section 6 of the Act.	Facts
There has been no preliminary survey as envisaged under Section 3(A) of the Act and no damages were paid to any tenure holder as provided under Section 3(B) of the Act, either before or after passing of the Validating Act.	Facts
There are various such challenges on merit to the process of acquisition.	Facts
Short History of Validating Act9.	Facts
Earlier, the acquisitions were made by formulating a scheme known as Ujariyaon Housing Scheme (PartII and Part III).	Facts
In these, the notifications under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6(2) of the Act were issued simultaneously.	Facts
That was challenged before the High Court at the instance of one Kashmira Singh.	Facts
All the Writ Petitions came to be allowed on the ground that simultaneous notifications under Sections 4(1) and 6(2) could not be issued, particularly, after the amendment of Section 17(4) of the Act, which provision was amended by Amending Act No. 68 of 1984.	Facts
State of Uttar Pradesh filed Special Leave Petition before this Court, where the order passed by the High Court was upheld in a reported decision in State of Uttar Pradesh Vs.	Facts
Radhey Shyam Nigam reported in 1989 (1) SCC 591 .	Facts
In these petitions, schemes known as Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII and Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII were the subject matter of the dispute.	Facts
While disposing of the case of State of Uttar Pradesh Vs.	Facts
Radhey Shyam (cited supra), this Court observed It will, however, be open to the appellants to issue a fresh declaration under Section 6, if so advised, within a period contemplated in the proviso to Section 6(1) of the Act read with its first explanation.	None
However, instead of doing that, it seems that a Bill was brought before the State Legislature and was passed and the same also received assent of the President of India in February, 1991, which was published in the Gazette on 27.2.1991.	None
There was a prefatory note to the following effect The Supreme Court in case of its judgment dated January 11, 1989 held that after the commencement of the land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, 1984 (Act No. 68 of 1984), the declaration under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 cannot be made simultaneously with the publication in the Gazette Notification under Section 4(1) even though the application of Section 5A has been dispensed with under Section 17(4) of the said Act.	Facts
In a large number of proceedings of acquisition of land for the Development Authorities for the implementation of various housing schemes, the declaration under Section 6 were made simultaneously with publication in the Gazette of notification under Section 4(1).	Facts
The said proceedings were likely to be held void in view of the aforesaid judgment of the Supreme Court.	Facts
In order to save the said scheme from being adversely affected, it was decided to amend the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 in its application to Uttar Pradesh to provide for validating the proceedings of land acquisition in respect of which the notifications under sub Section (1) of Section 4 and sub Section (4) of Section 17 of the said Act had been published in the Gazette on after September 24, 1984 (the date of amendment) but before January 11, 1989 (the date of judgment of the Supreme Court) and the declaration under Section 6 had been issued either simultaneously or at any time after the application in the Gazette of the said notification under Section 4(1).	Facts
Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the said Validating Act were as under Amendment of Section 17 of Act No. 1 of 1894In Section 17 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 as amended in its application to Uttar Pradesh, hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act, in subSection (4), the following proviso shall be inserted at the end and shall be deemed to have been inserted on September 24, 1984, namelyProvided that where in the case of any land notification under Section 4, subSection (1) has been published in the official Gazette on or after September 24, 1984 but before January 11, 1989 and the appropriate Government has under this subSection directed that the provisions of Section 5A shall not apply, a declaration under Section 6 in respect of the land may be made either simultaneously with or at any time after the publication in the official Gazette of the notification under section 4, subSection (1).3.	Facts
Validation of certain acquisitionsNotwithstanding and judgment, decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or other authority, no acquisition of land made, or purporting to have been made under the Principal Act, before the commencement of this Act and no action taken or thing done (including any order or alteration made, agreement entered into or notification published in connection with such acquisition which is in conformity with the provisions of the Principal Act as amended by this Act shall be deemed to be invalid of ever to have been invalid merely on the ground that declaration under Section 6 of the Principal Act was published in the official Gazette on the same date on which notification under Section 4, sub Section (1) of the Principal Act was published in the official Gazette or on any other date prior to the date of publication of such notification as defined in Section 4, sub Section (1) of the Principal Act.4.	Facts
Repeal and saying(1)	None
The land Acquisition (Uttar Pradesh Amendment and Validation) ordinance 1990 (U.P. Ordinance No. 32 of 1990) is hereby repealed.(2)	Facts
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the provisions of the Principal Act, as amended by the Ordinance referred to in sub Section (1) shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the Principal Act, as amended by this Act, as it the provisions of this Act were in force at all material times.	Facts
It should be noted that this Act, which came on 27.2.1991, receiving assent of the President of India, was earlier challenged before the Allahabad High Court, where it was found to be valid.	Facts
The High Court held that the invalidity of the land acquisition in issuance of the Section 4 and Section 6 notification simultaneously, was cured by this Act, which was made applicable with retrospective effect.	Facts
It was not with an intention to wipe out the judgment of this Court in the case of Radhey Shyam (cited supra).	Facts
Validity of the Validating Act also came before this Court in Meerut Development Authority Vs.	Facts
Satvir Singh Ors. reported in 1996(11) SCC 462.	Facts
There, it was held that the exercise of the power under Section 4(1) and declaration under Section 6 were not vitiated and the Validating Act was not invalid.	Facts
This Court specifically observed in that case It is not in dispute that the State Amendment Act 5 of 1991 was enacted or reserved for consideration of the President and received the assent of the President on 26.2.1991 and the Act was published in the Gazette on 27.2.1991.	Facts
It is to be seen that as regards simultaneous publication of the notification and the declaration in respect of acquisition of the land for public purpose exercising the power of eminent domain in certain situation where possession was needed urgently, depending upon the local needs and the urgency, Government requires such power.	Facts
Consequently, the State Legislature thought it appropriate that despite the enactment of the Amendment Act, 68 of 1984 amending Section 17(4), the State needed further amendment.	Facts
Resultantly, the U.P. Amendment Act 5 of 1991 came to be made and it was given retrospective effect from the date of the Amendment Act 68 of 1984 has come into force, i.e., September 24, 1984.It is true that the proviso was not happily worded but a reading of it would clearly give us an indication that the proviso to sub Section (4) introduced by Section 2 of the Amendment Act 5 of 1991 would deal with both the situations, namely, the notifications published on or after September 24, 1984 but before January 11, 1989 but also the declaration to be simultaneously published subsequent thereto.	Facts
The literal interpretation sought to be put up by Shri Pradeep Misra would defeat the legislative object.	Facts
Therefore, ironing out the creases we are of the view that the proviso applies not only to the notifications and declarations simultaneously published after the date of coming into force of the Amendment Act 68 of 1984, but also to the future declarations as well.	Facts
Thus, it could be seen that the proviso would operate prospectively and retrospectively from April 24, 1984 applying to the previous notifications and declarations but also the notification and declaration to be published subsequently.	Facts
It is true that normally the Legislature has to give effect to the judgment of the Court only to cure the defects pointed out in the previous judgment so that the operation of the law would be but in view of the peculiarity namely the special needs of the State Article 254(2) itself gives such a power to the State Legislature to amend the law, to make applicable in relation to that State through Central Law may be inconsistent with the law operation in the other States.	Facts
In other words, when the topic is occupied in the Concurrent List, uniformity of the operation of the law is not the rule but simultaneous existence of the inconsistency would also operate in the same field.	Facts
But when the assent of the President to the extent of inconsistency is saved in relation to that State.	Facts
Therefore, the amendment by proviso to Section 17(4) is not invalid.	Facts
Any other construction would dry out the power of the State Legislature to enact the law on the subject of acquisition.	None
The effect of judgment in case of Radhey Shyam (cited supra), thus, was nullified.	None
This Court also took note of the fact that despite enactment of the Amendment Act 68 of 1984, amending Section 17(4), the State needed further amendments and for that reason, the U.P. Amendment Act V of 1991 was passed by giving the retrospective effect from the date of the Amendment Act, 1984, which came into force on 24.9.1984.11.	Facts
Relying on these two judgments, the High Court, by the impugned judgment, affirmed the validity again and the High Court further repealed the argument that these judgments were per incurium and hence required reconsideration.	Facts
The High Court came to the finding We have no reason to differ from the decisions of the Division Benches of this Court, which upheld the vires of Validation Act particularly after the decisions of Honble Supreme Court which binding upon this court under Article 141 of the Constitution.	Facts
As we have indicated in the foregoing paragraph, this Court in exercise of power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot open a chapter which had been closed by Honble Supreme Court by upholding the vires of the Validating Act.	Facts
This Court cannot declare the pronouncement of the Honble Supreme Court, as per incurium, even if the Honble Supreme Court has not dwelled into the The High Court held that the Legislature, by amending Act, has merely removed the defect pointed out by this Court in case of Radhey Shyam (cited supra) and removed the basis of the decision rendered by the Court.	Facts
The High Court also rejected the argument regarding the Section 17(4) and the proviso added to it by Validating Act.	Facts
Ultimately, the High Court, wholly relying on the judgments in Ghaziabad Development Authority Vs.	Facts
Jan Kalyan Samiti Sheopuri reported in 1996 (1) SCC 562 , Ghaziabad Development Authority Vs.	Facts
Jan Kalyan Samiti, Sheopuri reported in 1996(2) SCC 365 and Meerut Development Authority Vs.	Facts
Satvir Singh Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(cited supra), held that the High Court had no authority to hold these three cases as per incurium and since in these three cases the Validating Act was upheld, there was no question of finding fault with the Validating Act.	Facts
Similarly, the High Court also rejected the argument regarding the invalidity of Sections 17(1)(3A) and (4) of the Act.	Facts
The High Court also independently considered the principle of eminent domain.	Facts
The High Court also considered the Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII and found that the final award was made on 25.2.1987 while in Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII Scheme, proceedings for passing the award were completed and were sent to the appropriate authority for scrutiny, consideration and approval.	Facts
The High Court went on to approve of the application of the urgency clause in both the schemes.	Facts
It also took into account the argument of the LDA that the possession of the lands were already taken and a new city has already come up on the banks of river Gomti and a huge township has come up consisting of flats, houses and markets etc. which was constructed by LDA.	Facts
Not only this, those premises have been transferred to thousands of people, inhabited in the colonies and, therefore, it would not be worthwhile to interfere in the process of acquisition.	Facts
The High Court also approved the argument that once a possession was already taken, the Government would not withdraw from acquisition nor would the proceedings lapse.	Facts
The High Court also found, as a matter of fact, that the possession of the whole land was already taken over, contrary to the claim made by the Writ Petitioners that they were still in possession.	Facts
Ultimately, on all these grounds, the Writ Petitions came to be dismissed.	Facts
All the present appeals are against the aforementioned common judgment of the High Court, disposing of the Writ Petitions.	Facts
Before this Court also, prolonged arguments were submitted by the parties and more particularly, by Shri R.N. Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel and Shri Qamar Ahmad Shri Sudhir Kulshreshtha, Learned Counsel, all appearing on behalf of the appellants.	None
We will consider their contentions serially.	None
All these contentions raised were opposed by Shri Rakesh Kumar Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the LDA, Shri Dinesh Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of State of Uttar Pradesh, as also other Learned Counsel like Shri Manoj Swarup, Shri Anil Kumar Sangal, Shri C.D. Singh and Shri Arvind Varma etc., who addressed us extensively, supporting the order.	None
We have now to consider the various contentions raised.	None
Rival Contentions (Broadly) The Validating Act did not remove the defects Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel, who ably led arguments on behalf of the appellants, as also Shri Qamar Ahmad, first pointed out that the U.P. Legislature passed U.P. Ordinance No. 32 of 1990, being the Land Acquisition (Uttar Pradesh Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 1990 and enforced the same on 27.12.1990.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Ordinance later on got the status of an Act, being Land Acquisition (Uttar Pradesh Amendment and Validation) Act, 1991 (U.P. Act No. V of 1991).	Arguments of Petitioner
Amending Act was identical as the Ordinance.	Arguments of Petitioner
The thrust of the argument of Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel, as also other Learned Counsel was against the constitutional validity of this Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Act consisted of 4 Sections.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 1 is reproduced hereunder Short Title, extent and commencement(1)	None
This Act may be called the Land Acquisition (Uttar Pradesh Amendment and Validation) Act, 1991.(2) It extends to the whole of Uttar Pradesh.(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
It shall be deemed to have come into force on December 28, 1990.Sections 2, 3 4 have already been quoted hereinabove.	Arguments of Petitioner
The basic argument against this Act was that the only purpose of this Act was to set at naught or nullify the judgment of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Radhey Shyam reported in 1989(1) SCC 591, by which it was held that the declarations under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, which were made simultaneously with the publication of the notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, was an invalid exercise.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out by the Learned Senior Counsel further that it is clear from the Prefatory Note and Statement of Objects and Reasons that in a large number of cases, the declarations under Section 6 of the Act were made simultaneously with the publication of a notification under Section 4 of the Act and all those acquisitions had become invalid on account of the aforementioned judgment of this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, in order to save the scheme of the land acquisition, it was decided to amend the Act for validating the proceedings in respect of the notifications under Section 4 of the Act published on or after 24.9.1984 but before 11.1.1989.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was invited to subSection (4) of Section 17, which was introduced by the amendment, thereby amending Section 17 of the Act in its application to State of Uttar Pradesh.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Senior Counsel contended that while it was permissible for the State Legislature to pass any legislation, it was not permissible to pass such a legislation only to nullify the judgment of this Court, without providing for the displacement of the basis or foundation of that judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Number of reported decisions of this Court were relied upon for this purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
In short, the contention was that the State Legislature, by passing the Validating Act, could not knock down the judgment passed by this Court unless and until the said Act took care to remove the defects or mischiefs pointed out by this Court in its judgment, on which the said action was invalidated, and since the Validating Act of 1991 did not remove the basis or foundation of the aforementioned judgment of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Radhey Shyam (cited supra), the Act itself was constitutionally invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Learned Senior Counsel, this exercise of passing the Validating Act is nothing, but the invalid trenching upon the judicial powers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Senior Counsel, in support of his arguments, relied on the following decisions1.	Arguments of Petitioner
S.R. Bhagwat Vs.	None
State of Mysore reported in 1995 (6) SCC 16 .	Arguments of Petitioner
2. ITW Signode India Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Reasoning
Collector of Central Excise reported in 2004(3) SCC 48.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Bakhtawar Trust Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
M.D. Narayan Ors. reported in 2003 (5) SCC 298 4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Madan Mohan Pathak Vs. Union of India reported in 1978 (2) SCC 50 5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Indira Gandhi Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Raj Narayan reported in 1975 Supp.	Arguments of Petitioner
SCC 16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Virender Singh Hooda Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
State of Haryana reported in 2004(12) SCC 5887.	Arguments of Petitioner
I.N. Saxena Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
State of Madhya Pradesh reported in 1976(4) SCC 7508.	Arguments of Petitioner
Janpad Sabha Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
C.P. Syndicate reported in 1970 (1) SCC 509 .	Arguments of Petitioner
II.	Arguments of Petitioner
Act is ultra vires and constitutionally invalid The second submission was that the said Act is ultra vires the Article 300A of the Constitution of India, as its effect was to deprive the appellants of higher compensation which may be admissible, pursuant to the fresh acquisition proceedings after 1987.	Arguments of Petitioner
Three decisions of this Court were relied upon for this purpose, they being State of Gujarat Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ramanlal reported in 1983 (2) SCC 33 2. T.R.	Arguments of Petitioner
Kapur Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Haryana reported in 1986 Supp.	Arguments of Petitioner
SCC 584 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Union of India Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Tushar Ranjan Mohanty reported in 1994 (5) SCC 450 Apart from the challenge to the validity of the Act itself, or, as the case may be, to the legislative exercise, the amendment brought about by that Act vide subSection (4) of Section 17 of the Act was challenged as ultra vires, as it sought to validate the simultaneous notifications only between 24.9.1984 and 11.9.1989 and no others.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereby, the Learned Counsel contended that the other simultaneous notifications were not covered in the Act, therefore, the provision was discriminatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a sequel of this Act, it was contended that Section 3 of the Amending Act was ultra vires the Land Acquisition Act, as it permitted declaration being made even earlier than the publication of a notification under Section 4 of the Act, which was in clear breach of provisions of Sections 4 and 6 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Senior Counsel further urged that even as per the language of the amended Section 17(4), the said provision insisted that a declaration under Section 6 should come after Section 4 notification and did not permit the declaration under Section 6 of the Act and the notification under Section 4 of the Act being published simulateneously.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that main part of the Section 17(4) was not amended.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The further contention was that Section 3 of the Amending Act is ultra vires, inasmuch as the various steps in between Section 4 notification and Section 6 declaration were sought to be avoided by the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Senior Counsel also sought to highlight the basic difference in Section 4 and Section 6 by contending that while in the former, there is no declaration required, in the latter, first the declaration would come and thereafter, the notification thereof would come under Section 6(2) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, pointed out that what was sought to be seen is the date of declaration under Section 6 of the Act and not its publication and thereby, the Learned Senior Counsel pointed out that since the declaration under Section 6 of the Act was made on 4.12.1984, i.e., before the date of publication of the notification, therefore, the same is invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
The judgment in Khadim Hussain vs. State of U.P. Ors. reported in 1976(1) SCC 843 was relied upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
Number of other cases were relied upon to suggest that the law required in case of Khadim Hussain vs. State of U.P. Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(cited supra) was still good law and held the field.15A. The Learned Senior Counsel also contended that even otherwise, the language of the Validating Act and more particularly, of the proviso added to Section 17(4) of the principal Act could not remove or cure the defect.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Senior Counsel then suggested that there was discrimination in Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII and Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII and, therefore, there was invidious discrimination meted out to the Writ Petitioners (appellants herein).	Arguments of Petitioner
Finding that the challenge to the notification was held to be valid by this Court in Ghaziabad Development Authority Vs.	None
Jan Kalyan Samiti (cited supra) and in Meerut Development Authority Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Satvir Singh (cited supra), the Learned Senior Counsel assailed these cases on the ground that in these cases, the constitutional validity was not considered at all.	None
It was pointed out then that the High Court judgment was bad, as it did not consider the question of validity of the Act merely on the ground that in the aforementioned two decisions in Ghaziabad Development Authority Vs.	None
Jan Kalyan Samiti (cited supra) and in Meerut Development Authority Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Satvir Singh (cited supra), the said Act was held valid though extensive arguments were made before the High Court suggesting as to why the two cases did not apply to the matter.	None
It was also suggested that we should refer the matter to the larger Bench, as in the aforementioned two cases, the questions raised in the appeal were not decided.	None
The contentions raised by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants can be classified in two major parts, the first part being constitutional validity of the Amending Act and the constitutional validity of Section 17(4) proviso of the Act introduced thereby, as also the constitutionality of Section 3 of the Amending Act.	None
This would be the first part.	None
The other contentions of Shri Trivedi pertain to the merits of the land acquisition on the question of date of taking possession, non payment of 80 compensation and the policy of the State Government regarding Cooperative Societies.	None
Constitutional Validity of the Principal Act provisions Doctrine of per incuriam These contentions of Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel were adopted by Shri Qamar Ahmad, Learned Counsel who led the arguments in Tika Rams case on behalf of appellants.	None
According to him, the judgments referred to in the earlier para were per incuriam.	None
Learned Counsel further argued that Sections 17 (1), 17(1A), 17(3A) and 17(4) as also Section 2 are ultra vires of Constitution.	None
Learned Counsel further contends in reference to the explanation that power given to issue Section 4 notification is without any guidelines.	None
Learned Counsel further relied on the case of Anwar Ali Sarkar v. State of U.P. reported in AIR 1952 SC 75 and contended that the said decision which was given by a Larger Bench of this Court has remained undisturbed.	None
The stress of Learned Counsel is on Article 14 of the Constitution and he contended that the Validation Act allowed the State to discriminate and as a result, the State Government allowed the notification pertaining to Ujariyaon PartIII Scheme to lapse while the notifications pertaining to Ujariayon PartII Scheme were allowed to get protection of the Validation Act and, therefore, the Validation Act itself is hit by Article 14.	None
The Learned Counsel, as regards the Constitutional validity of Section 17 (1) to 17 (4), contends that the guidelines on urgency or emergency in Section 17 did not furnish a clear and definite guideline and consequently the State Government discriminated by arbitrarily invoking these provisions in some cases while doing so in other cases of similar nature.	None
It is for this purpose that Anwar Ali Sarkars case and State of Punjab v. Gurdial Singh reported in AIR 1980 SC 319 were relied on by Shri Qamar Ahmad besides the decisions which followed Anwar Ali Sarkars case (cited supra).	None
Defence As against this, Shri Rakesh Kumar Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the LDA and Shri Dinesh Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of State of Uttar Pradesh vehemently contended that the argument regarding the invalidity of the Amending Act could not be reconsidered.	Arguments of Respondent
The Learned Senior Counsel relied on Doctrine of stare decisis in support of their contentions.	Arguments of Respondent
They pointed out that this very Act was tested by this Court in the aforementioned two decisions in Ghaziabad Development Authority Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Jan Kalyan Samiti (cited supra) and in Meerut Development Authority Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Satvir Singh (cited supra) and found to be valid and, therefore, it was no more open to the appellants to reiterate the constitutional invalidity all over again on the spacious ground that this Court had not considered some particular arguments.	Arguments of Respondent
The Learned Senior Counsel were at pains to point out that such course is not permissible in law.20.	Arguments of Respondent
Even otherwise, according to the Learned Senior Counsel for the respondents, there was not dearth of power in the State Legislature in introducing Section 17(4) proviso to the Act for the State.	Arguments of Respondent
It was then contended that the very basis of the judgment in State of Uttar Pradesh Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Radhey Shyam (cited supra) was the invalidity of the State action in passing simultaneously the notification under Section 4 and the declaration under Section 6 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Considering the language of Sections 2 and 3 of the amending Act, as also considering the proviso provided to Section 17 of the Principal Act, this Court had come to the conclusion that even after applying the urgency clause under Section 17, such exercise of passing the Section 4 notification and Section 6 declaration simultaneously was valid.	Arguments of Respondent
All that the Amending Act had done was to provide a power to do so by introducing a proviso by the amendment with retrospective effect and, therefore, in reality, the State Government had removed the defect pointed out by this Court of there being no power on the part of the State Government to issue the notification under Section 4 of the Act and declaration under Section 6 of the Act simultaneously.	Arguments of Respondent
The Learned Senior Counsel further argued that such exercise has been approved of by this Court on number of occasions in number of reported decisions.	Arguments of Respondent
The Learned Senior Counsel for the State, therefore, submitted that the Amending Act, as passed, was perfectly valid, even apart from the argument that it was found to be valid by the two earlier decisions of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the argument of Shri Trivedi that by the newly added proviso the defect was not cured.	Arguments of Respondent
The Learned Senior Counsel for the State argued that the challenge was based on the phrase, a declaration may be made.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel further contended that the plain reading or the literal construction of those words was not correct for the reason that the Legislature which is the author of Section 6(1) is the Central Legislature while the proviso which was introduced was by the Legislature of the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel argued that both the Legislatures being different, their choice of words are guided by their own objectives and, therefore, the word made in Section 6(1) of the principal Act and Section 2 of the U.P. Amendment Act can have different meanings depending upon the objectives which either Legislature had in mind while legislating.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument went further and suggested that if by giving effect to the plain meaning, the very purpose of the law (the Amendment Act) is defeated or is rendered nugatory or redundant, it would raise the issue of ambiguity necessitating the purposive construction based not only on text but also the context.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the Learned Counsel argued that the plain meaning could not be attributed to the concerned words.	Arguments of Respondent
Leaned Counsel further argued that since the Objects and Reasons appended to the U.P. Amendment Act were clear so as to save the scheme which were affected by the declaration in Radhey Shyams case (cited supra) such context had to be kept in mind while interpreting the terms.	Arguments of Respondent
In Radhey Shyams case (cited supra) admittedly the notifications under Sections 4(1) and 6(2) were published simultaneously in the Gazette clearly implying that the declaration under Section 6(1) was made before Gazette publication of the notification under Section 4(1).	Arguments of Respondent
If the object of Amendment Act was to save the schemes affected by Radhey Shyams case (cited supra), which is clear also from the language of Section 3 of the Amendment Act, then by accepting the plain meaning, the UP Amendment Act would be rendered redundant and, therefore, such interpretation has to be avoided.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel, relying on various reported decisions like D. Saibaba v. Bar Council of India Anr. reported in 2003 (6) SCC 186 , Union of India v. Hansoli Devi Ors. reported in 2002 (7) SCC 273 , Prakash Kumar Prakash Bhutto v. State of Gujarat reported in 2005 (2) SCC 409 , High Court of Gujarat Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Gujarat Kisan Mazdoor Panchayat Ors. reported in 2003 (4) SCC 712 , Padmausundara Rao (Dead) Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. State of Tamil Nadu Ors. reported in 2002 (3) SCC 533 , Smt.	Arguments of Respondent
Meera Gupta v. State of West Bengal Ors. reported in 1992 (2) SCC 494 , M.V. Javali v.	Arguments of Respondent
Mahajan Borewell Co.	Arguments of Respondent
Ors. reported in 1997 (8) SCC 72 stressed upon the purposive interpretation or, as the case may be, contextual interpretation and to avoid the literal construction rule.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied on a few other cases like State of Tamil Nadu v. Kodai Kanal reported in 1986 (3) SCC 91 , Union of India Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. Filip Tiago De Gama of Vedem Vasco De Gama reported in 1990 (1) SCC 277 and Tirath Singh v. Bachittar Singh Ors. reported in AIR 1955 SC 830 .	Arguments of Respondent
The Learned Counsel contended that it was the duty of the Court to reshape the provisions, if need be, by adding or deleting words to make the provisions effective tools to achieve legislative objective and the Courts could not sit with folded hands blaming the draftsmen.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the concerned words appearing in the UP Amendment Act, the Learned Counsel suggested that while interpreting, the phrase may be made should be read as may be published in the Gazette.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the further arguments on merits, Learned Senior Counsel and, more particularly, the Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the LDA pointed out that the challenge to the land acquisitions on merits could not survive, particularly, in view of the fact that in all the land acquisitions, possessions were already taken and the awards were already passed.	Reasoning
Both the Learned Counsel pointed out that in case of Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII, the Government had shown its bona fides by allowing the notifications therein to lapse and thereby, the interests of the land holders covered in Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII were safeguarded, particularly, because that scheme had not been completed.	Reasoning
However, Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII was long back completed and could not be rejuvenated now, finding fault with the process of land acquisition covered between Section 4 and Section 18 thereof.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel further pointed out that the delay in filing the writ petitions is also liable to be taken into account since it is likely to cause prejudice to those for whom the schemes were framed.	Reasoning
As regards the urgency clause, Learned Counsel urged that the land was very urgently required for urban housing and after the acquisition there has been large scale development and utilization on the acquired land and thousands of constructions have been made and the schemes have been evolved leading to allotments to third parties.	Reasoning
Now at this stage, if the notifications were to be quashed it would seriously prejudice the interest of the large number of people and the High Court was right in dismissing the Writ Petitions on this ground.	Reasoning
The Learned Counsel further argued that in this case it must be noted that there are no allegations of mala fides or any evidence in support of it.	None
Relying on a judgment in State of U.P. V. Pista Devi reported in 1986 (4) SCC 251 the Senior Counsel pointed out that judicial notice has been taken by the High Court of the fact that the housing development and planned developments are matters of great urgency and obviate Section 5A enquiry.	None
In short, the argument was that the housing development was itself in urgency justifying the invocation of the urgency clause.	None
It was then pointed out by the Learned Senior Counsel that the High Court had looked into the record and found that there was sufficient material before the State Government so as to invoke the urgency clause.	None
It was also urged that there was no discrimination in between Ujariyaon PartII Scheme and Ujariyaon Part III Scheme as the factual situation was different.	None
It was further argued that the argument pressed on Section 17 (3A) i.e. nonpayment of compensation before taking possession cannot be held fatal to the acquisition as the Land Acquisition Act does not so provide, though it has so provided in case of Section 11 and Section 11A read with Section 23 (1A) of the Land Acquisition Act.	None
Besides, the use of word shall in Section 17 (3A) is directory and not mandatory as held in S.P. Jain v. State of U.P. reported in 1993 (4) SCC 369 , Nasiruddin Ors.	None
v. Sita Ram Agrawal reported in 2003 (2) SCC 577 , State of U.P. v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava reported in 1957 SCR 533.	None
It was also pointed out that the rulings relied on by the appellants covering this aspect, namely, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. v. Darius Shapur Chenai Ors. reported in 2005 (7) SCC 627 and Union of India Ors.	None
v. Mukesh Hans reported in 2004 (8) SCC 14 were not applicable and were distinct.	None
The appeals were also opposed by respondent No. 9 Avadh School who supported the arguments on behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh and LDA.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent No.9 Avadh School pointed out that the land was granted to it by LDA for 99 years dated 01.12.1995 whereas the Writ Petition challenging the same bearing No. 2220 (L A)/1996 from which the Civil Appeal No. 2650/1998 arose was filed only later on, in the year 1996.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that the respondentAvadh School had already paid the entire amount due to the LDA.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also pointed out that the total constructed area on the land is 26,000 square feet.	Reasoning
It was urged that considering the laudable objects of the scheme, the school was developed and further considering its progress in the matter of infrastructure and the standard of education, it would be too late to cancel the acquisition of land a portion of which was allegedly allotted by the LDA.23.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel on behalf of LDA referred to the history of case law and reiterated upon the validity of the UP Act No.5 of 1991.	Reasoning
The Learned Counsel also reiterated that the declaration under Section 6 (1) was different from a published declaration.	Reasoning
The contention, therefore, was that considering the scheme of the Act, the declaration referred to in Section 6 is public or notified declaration.	Reasoning
Taking that clue, it is argued that there will be no difficulty if Sections 2 and 3 of the Validating Act are properly understood.	Reasoning
It was argued that the Validating Act removes the defect pointed out in the case of Radhey Shyam (cited supra) and also the validating provisions and, therefore, it is not a case of simplicitor overruling of the judgment of the Supreme Court.24.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel for LDA also opposed reference to Larger Bench.	Reasoning
It was further pointed that since the schemes of Ghaziabad Development Authority(GDA) and Meerut Development Authority(MDA) were already upheld, the dispute in Ujariyaon PartII scheme of LDA involved only 150 bighas whereas the notification pursuant to Ujariyaon PartII Scheme involved 1776 acres of land and barring the appellants, everybody had accepted this scheme.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel seriously disputed the claim in Tika Rams case and contended that the landowners had already accepted the compensation.	Reasoning
In case of Pratap Sahakari Grih Nirman Samiti Ltd., it was pointed out that the sale agreement in that case was that there was no passing of consideration and even transfers were subsequent to Section 4 notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it was contended that the sale deed and the agreement of sale were created to take advantage of the policy decision of the State for giving back 25 per cent of the developed land to the Society for its members.	Reasoning
The bona fides of the Pratap Sahakari Grih Nirman Samiti Ltd. were, therefore, seriously questioned by the Counsel.	Reasoning
It was also pointed out that the land involved in this case was already taken over in the year 1985 and the same also stood utilized inasmuch as the whole township had come up thereupon.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel also relied on the principle of staire decisis insofar as the validity of the UP Amendment Act is concerned.25.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel further argued that there was no question of future operation of the proviso as it was not concerned in this case.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that only two appeals of Ujariyaon PartIII Scheme were concerned, with that question.	Reasoning
However, in that case the notification was published in the year 1991 and the Section 6 declaration was signed and published in the year 1992.	Reasoning
Therefore, there was no question of simultaneous publication and, therefore, the issue of reference to the Larger Bench was a nonissue and could not be gone into.	Reasoning
It is pointed out that the case of Meerut Development Authority (cited supra) was the complete answer to the validation aspect as that issue had arisen directly.	Reasoning
It was further argued that there was no question of discriminating between the Ujariyaon PartII Scheme and PartIII Scheme, and, therefore, there was no question of breach of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
It was argued that in Ujariyaon PartII Scheme, the award was made by the Collector within the time prescribed, so there was no question of discrimination between Ujariyaon PartII and PartIII Schemes where the award was not made within time.	Reasoning
Therefore, it was lapsed and hence, there was necessity of a fresh notification.	Reasoning
As regards the question of validity of Section 17 of the Act, it was mainly in Tika Rams appeal, it was pointed out by Shri Qamar Ahmad, Learned Counsel that the reference to the decision in Anwar Ali Sarkar v. State of U.P. reported in AIR 1952 SC 75 and State of Punjab v. Gurdial Singh (cited supra) was not called for.	Reasoning
In support of his argument Shri Dwivedi pointed out that Anwar Ali Sarkars case (cited supra) was distinguished in the later decisions of Kathi Ranning Rawat v. State of Saurashtra reported in 1952 SCR 435 and Kedar Nath Bajoria v. State of West Bengal reported in 1953 SCR 30.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that it was now crystallized law that if the Legislature indicates the policy which inspired it and the object which it seeks to attain then it can leave selective application of the law to be made by the Executive Authority.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel relied on R.K. Dalmia v. S.R.	Reasoning
Tendolkar reported in 1959 SCR 279 and In re Special Courts Bills, 1978 reported in 1979 (1) SCC 380.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that the criteria of urgency and emergency in the instant case have been prescribed in the context of the exercise of power of eminent domain and this power under the Constitution of India can be exercised only for public purpose.26.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel argued that the process of acquisition begins only when there is a public purpose and in such situation the effectuation of public purpose does not brook any delay and requires quick implementation, then alone the power under Section 17 (1) read with Section 17 (4) can be exercised.	Arguments of Respondent
The Learned Counsel firmly admits that the criterion of emergency is still narrower category and there is sufficient guideline in subSection (2) of Section 17.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the Counsel argues that the true criteria being clear guidelines, they are not arbitrary.	Reasoning
It was further argued that there is no discretion in the matter of applied urgency clause to these acquisitions in question.	Reasoning
Carrying the same argument further, Learned Counsel firmly admitted that Section 5A is a protection to the land acquisition and should not be lightly dispensed with.	Arguments of Respondent
He also admitted that there are cases where it was held that the mere existence of urgency is not enough and State Government must independently apply its mind to the need of dispensing with Section 5A enquiry.	Reasoning
Further it is pointed out that the High Court had considered this aspect in details and recorded the finding that the land was acquired for planning and development of housing accommodations.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that the High Court had also looked into the records and it found that there was sufficient material for forming opinion that the land was needed urgently for developing a new township known as Gomti Nagar.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel also pointed out to the finding of the High Court to the effect that the township had already come into the existence and the houses were allotted to thousands of people.27.	Reasoning
Relying on Keshav Das v. State of U.P. reported in 1995 (6) SCC 240 , Learned Counsel urged that it has been held in the above ruling that where the possession of the land was already taken during the acquisition process and construction had been made and completed, the question of urgency and exercise of duty under Section 17 (4) of the Act could not be raised at a belated stage.	Reasoning
Therefore, Learned Counsel insisted that the situation is no different in the present case.	Reasoning
Further relying on Aditya Bhagat v. State of Bihar reported in 1974 (2) SCC 501 and Om Prakash v. State of U.P. reported in 1998 (6) SCC 1 , Learned Counsel urged that as compared to the total acquisition, the appellants land holding is limited to only 150 bighas of land and in such circumstances the Court should not block the acquisition.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the question of nonpayment of compensation under Section 17 (3) and (3A) of the Act, Learned Counsel pointed out that the documents filed in support of their plea were never filed before the High Court whereas this Writ Petition was pending for as long as 13 years and even after filing the special leave petition, it was pending for about 10 years.	Reasoning
The documents came to be filed only after 8 years.	Reasoning
Since the document involved question of fact, applications made in this behalf, namely, I.A. Nos. 45 of 2006, were liable to be rejected.	Reasoning
It was pointed out that the documents filed along with the said I.As. were not authenticated and verified by the appellant.	Reasoning
The sources from which the documents emanated were also not indicated.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further pointed out that subSection (3) of Section 3(3A) of Section 17 are not attracted to a case where the power under Section 17 (4) has been exercised and Section 5A has been dispensed with.	Arguments of Respondent
It is again pointed out that Section 17 (3) and (3A) do not provide consequences of nontendering and nonpayment of estimated compensation in terms of the said provision and the Act does not say that the if possession and development have been taken and the development work has been done without compliance of the provisions then the taking of possession and the work done would become illegal.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel further pointed out that all that it provided for was the payment of interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum on the amount of compensation where compensation is not paid or deposited on or before taking possession.	Reasoning
In support of this argument the Counsel relied on S.P. Jain v. State of U.P. reported in 1993 (4) SCC 369 and State of Maharashtra v. Manubhai Pragaji Vashi Ors. reported in 1996 (3) SCC 1 .	Reasoning
On the basis of these rival claims we shall now proceed to decide the issues raised in this appeal, which are as follows.	None
Constitutional Validity of Amendment Act 5/1991	None
The basic issue raised is regarding the Constitutional validity of the Land Acquisition Act (Amendment Act No. 5 of 1991) (hereinafter called, the Amending Act).	None
In this case the notification under Section 4 read with Section 17 (4), as it stood then, was made on 04.12.1984.	None
This notification was published in the Gazette on 08.12.1984.	None
It is claimed that the declaration under Section 6 of the Act was made on 04.12.1984 and the said declaration was published in the Gazette on 08.12.1984.	None
It was found that simultaneous notification under Sections 4 and 6 of the Act could not be made and, therefore, the acquisitions were bad, as held in Kashmira Singh Vs.	None
State of U.P. reported in AIR 1987 Allahabad 113 (II/1).	None
Kashmira Singhs judgment was upheld by this Court.	None
It was, therefore, that an Ordinance came to be passed on 27.12.1989 by U.P. Act No. 32 of 1990 which ultimately became an Act on 27.02.1991 being UP Act No.5 of 1991.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons made reference to the aforementioned judgment in the Kashmira Singhs case (cited supra) and provided that in large number of cases, declarations under Sections 6 were made simultaneously with publication of notification under Section 4 and the said proceedings were likely to be held void and, therefore, in order to save the scheme, it was decided to amend the Act for validating the proceedings in respect of the notification under Section 4 publication on or after 24.09.1984 but before 11.01.1989.	None
The amendment of Section 17 was brought on the legal anvil by way of a proviso to subsection (4) thereof which ran as under provided that where in case of any land notification under Section 4(1) has been published in the official Gazette on or after 24.09.1984 but before 11.01.1989 and the appropriate Government has under this subSection direction that proviso of Section 5A was not applied, a declaration under Section 6 in respect of the land may be made either simultaneously at a time after the publication in the official Gazette of the notification under Section 4(1)	None
The first objection which was raised by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants, as well as, the other Learned Counsel was that it was merely to overrule the decision of this Court in the aforementioned case of Kashmira Singh (cited supra) or, as the case may be, State of U.P. v. Radhey Shyam Nigam (cited supra) which matter was also disposed of along with Kashmira Singhs case (cited supra) and, therefore, the State Legislature could not do so.	None
This argument is completely answered in Meerut Development Authority Vs.	None
Satbir Singh reported in 1996 (11) SCC 462 .	None
This Court was considering this very proviso of Section 17 (4) inserted by Land Acquisition U.P. Amendment and Validation Act, 1991 UP Act No. 5 of 1991 and relying upon the judgment reported as GDA Vs.	None
Jan Kalyan Samiti, Sheopuri reported in 1996 (2) SCC 365 , the Court took the view in paragraph 10 that when this Court had declared a particular statute to be invalid, the Legislature had no power to overrule the judgment.	None
However, it has the power to suitably amend the law by use of proper phraseology removing the defects pointed out by the Court and by amending the law inconsistent with the law declared by the Court so that the defects which were pointed out were never on statute for enforcement of law.	None
Such an exercise of power to amend a statute is not an incursion on the judicial power of the Court but as a statutory exercise on the constituent power to suitably amend the law and to validate the actions which have been declared to be invalid.	None
The Court had specifically referred to the aforementioned judgment of State of UP.	None
v. Radhey Shyam Nigam (cited supra) as also Somwanti	None
Ors.	None
v. State of Punjab reported in 1963 (2) SCR 775.	None
The Court also referred to the judgment reported as Indian Aluminium Co.	None
Ors.	None
v. State of Kerala Ors. reported in 1996 (7) SCC 637 and referred to the nine principles of legislation referred to in this case, where principle Nos. 8 and 9 ran thus 8 In exercising legislative power the Legislature by mere declaration, without anything more, cannot directly overrule, revise or override a judicial decision.	None
It can render judicial decision ineffective by enacting valid law on the topic within its legislative field fundamentally altering or changing its character retrospectively.	None
The changed or altered conditions are such that the previous decision would not have been rendered by the Court, if those conditions had existed at the time of declaring the law as invalid.	None
It is also empowered to give effect to retrospective legislation with a deeming date or with effect from a particular date.	None
The Legislature can change the character of the tax or duty form impermissible to permissible tax but the tax or levy should answer such character and the Legislature is competent to recover the invalid tax validating such a tax or removing the invalid base for recovery from the subject or render the recovery from the State ineffectual.	None
It is competent for the legislature to enact the law with retrospective effect and authorize its agencies to levy and collect the tax on that basis, make the imposition of levy collected and recovery of the tax made valid, notwithstanding the declaration by the Court or the direction given for recovery thereof.9	None
The consistent thread that runs through all the decisions of this Court is that the legislature cannot directly overrule the decision or make a direction as not binding on it but has power to make the decision ineffective by removing the base on which the decision was rendered, consistent with the law of the Constitution and the legislature must have competence to do the same.	None
As regards the proviso in question, the Court firstly observed in paragraph 13 and 14 as under It is not in dispute that the State Amendment Act 5 of 1991 was enacted and reserved for consideration of the President and received the assent of the President on 26.02.1991 and the Act was published in the Gazette on 27.02.1991.	Facts
It is to be seen that as regards simultaneous publication of the notification and the declaration in respect of acquisition of the land for public purpose exercising the power of eminent domain in certain situations where possession was needed urgently, depending upon the local needs and the urgency, Government requires such power.	Facts
Consequently, the State Legislature thought it appropriate that despite the enactment of the Amendment Act 68 of 1984 amending Section 17(4), the State needed further amendment.	Facts
Resultantly, the UP Amendment Act 5 of 1991 came to be made and it was given retrospective effect from the date the Amendment Act 68 of 1984 has come into force, i.e. 24.09.1984.14.	None
It is true that the proviso was not happily worded.	None
But a reading of it would clearly give us an indication that the proviso to subSection (4) introduced by Section 2 of the Amendment Act 5 of 1991 would deal with both the situations, namely, the notifications published on or after 24.09.1984 but before 11.01.1989 but also the declaration to be simultaneously published subsequent thereto.	Reasoning
The literal interpretation sought to be put up by Shri Pradeep Misra would defeat the legislative object.	Facts
Therefore, ironing out the creases we are of the view that the proviso applies not only to the notifications and declarations simultaneously published after the date of coming into force of the Amendment Act 68 of 1984 but also to the future declarations as well.	Facts
Thus, it could be seen that the proviso would operate prospectively and retrospectively from 24.04.1984 (sic 24.9.1984) applying to the previous notifications and declarations but also to the notification and declaration to be published subsequently.	Facts
Further in paragraph 16, the Court held It is seen that Section 3 of the Amending Act No.5 of 1991 seeks to validate the illegal declarations made simultaneously with the publication of Section 4 notification and in some cases even prior to the publication of Section 4 notification it also seeks to validate certain acquisitions envisaged therein.	None
This validation is not illegal.	None
In the same paragraph the Court found that the amendment was not illegal merely because it was brought during the pendency of matter before this Court.	None
The Court also did not find anything wrong with the retrospective operation of the Amendment Act.	None
The Court further in paragraph 19 observed It is seen that where large extent of land was acquired mere existence of some houses even if they were constructed may be according to the rules or may not be according to the rules the exercise of power under Section 17 (4) by the Government dispensing with the enquiry does not become invalid, when there was urgency to take possession of the acquired land.	None
It is now settled legal position that the acquisition for planned development of housing scheme is also an urgent purpose as laid down by this Court in Aflatoon v. Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, State of UP v. Pista Devi and in recent judgment of this Court .in	None
State of Tamil Nadu v. L. Krishnan.	None
In the light of settled legal position the acquisition for housing development is an urgent purpose and exercise of the power under Section 17(4) dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5A is not invalid.	None
In fact, this judgment is a complete answer to the questions raised by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants.	Reasoning
It holds Section 3 to be valid and also holds that it had cured the defect.	Reasoning
The judgment also takes care of the contention that there was no necessity to raise the urgency clause in these acquisitions and the exercise of raising the urgency clause was not bona fide.	Reasoning
Various other judgments were referred by Shri Trivedi which we have included in the earlier part of the judgment like S.R. Bhagwat v. State of Mysore (cited supra), ITW Signode India Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise (cited supra), Bakhtawar Trust v. M.D. Narayan Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra), Madan Mohan Pathak v. Union of India (cited supra), Indira Gandhi v. Raj Narayan (cited supra), Virender Singh Hooda v. State of Haryana (cited supra), I.N. Saxena v. State of Madhya Pradesh (cited supra) and Janpad Sabha v. C.P. Syndicate (cited supra).	Reasoning
In view of the specific questions of this very act having been considered in Meerut Development Authoritys case (cited supra) there would be no necessity to go into the principles laid down in aforementioned cases in details here.34.	Reasoning
The next argument of Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel was that the Amending Act did not remove the defect.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the contention is incorrect in view of the fact that this question was considered and concluded in Meerut Development Authoritys case (cited supra).	Reasoning
The same applies to the further question challenging Section 3 of the Amending Act wherein it is provided that the notification would not be invalid on the ground that declaration under Section 6 of the Act was published on the same day on which the notification under Section 4 of the Act was published or on any other date prior to the date of publication of notification under Section 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that this Section was also considered specifically in paragraph 7 where it is quoted.	Reasoning
Further in paragraph 16 which we have quoted, this question is specifically answered.	Reasoning
We, therefore, need not dilate on that issue here.35.	Reasoning
At this juncture, we must note the argument raised in the present case that the declaration under Section 6 of the Act was made on 04.12.1984 but was published on 08.12.1984.	Reasoning
Therefore, in reality, the proviso did not actually cure the defect.	Reasoning
It is because of the wording used to the effect a declaration under Section 6 in respect of the land may be made either simultaneously with or at any time after the publication in the official Gazette of the notification under Section 4.36.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel pointed out that in the present case, Section 6 declarations were made earlier to the publication of notification under Section 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
They further pointed out in proviso again the wording used is declaration may be made.	Reasoning
Learned Counsel, therefore, argued that even reading Sections 2 and 3 of the Amending Act, the defect is not cured as the proviso empowers to make a declaration and does not refer to notification of declaration under Section 6(2).	Reasoning
The Learned Counsel, therefore, intended that it is not permissible to supply words (casus omissus) to the proviso and, therefore, if the proviso is read as it is, then it conflicts with the language of Section 3 which speaks not of declaration, but publication of Section 6 notification.	Reasoning
We do not think that the contention is correct.	None
In paragraph 16 of Meerut Development Authoritys case (cited supra), this Court considered Section 3 and observed that it is seen that Section 3 of the Amending Act No.5 of 1991 seeks to validate the illegal declarations made simultaneously with the publication of Section 4 notification and in some cases even prior to the publication of Section 4 notification.	None
Thus, even a situation where Section 6 declaration was made prior to the publication of notification under Section 4, was held to be covered and cured under Section 3, the validity of which was confirmed by this Court.	None
It would, therefore, be futile to argue that the Act did not cure the defect and on that account, the provision is bad.	Reasoning
In our opinion, added proviso would have to be read along with and in the light of Section 3 of the amending Act which clearly envisages a situation of the declaration under Section 6 being published in the official Gazette on the same date on which notification under Section 4 subsection (1) of the principal Act was published in official Gazette or on any day prior to the date of publication of such notification as defined in Section 4 subsection (1) of the principal Act (emphasis supplied).	Reasoning
Therefore, what is contemplated in proviso is the publication of notification.	Reasoning
Since this position was not happily obtained in the proviso, the Court in MDAs case (cited supra), in paragraph 14, commented that proviso was not happily worded.	Reasoning
It must be noted here that in Somwantis case (cited supra), as also in Mohd.	None
Ali Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors. reported in 1998 (9) SCC 480 decided by 3 Judge Bench, identical situation was obtained on the facts where there was a simultaneous publication of the Section 4 notification along with the publishing of Section 6 declaration.	None
The Court observed in Mohd.	None
Alis case (cited supra)	None
And, therefore, in relation to the State of U.P., it is now settled law that when the State exercises power of imminent domain and in exercise of the power under Section 17 (4) dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5A to acquire the land under Section 4 (1)	None
, the State is entitled to have the notification under Section 4(1) and the declaration under Section 6 simultaneously published so as to take further steps as required under Section 9 of the Act In that case, the notification under Section 4(1) of the Act was published on 12.10.1974 whereas the declaration under Section 6 of the Act was dated 28.09.1974.	None
However, it was published along with Section 4 notification simultaneously.	None
This being the factual situation the argument regarding the prior declaration under Section 6 of the Act must fall to the ground.	None
We are also of the opinion that the word a declaration in proviso to Section 17 (4) as inserted by the Validating Act would mean published or a notified declaration under Section 6 (2) of the Act when it is read in the light of Section 3 which refers to and validates not merely a declaration, but the publication thereof in official Gazette.	Reasoning
As such we do not find anything wrong even if the declaration is prior in time and its notification is simultaneous with the notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act.	Reasoning
The two authorities cited above, namely, Ghaziabad Development Authoritys case and Meerut Development Authoritys case have taken the same view and we are in respectful agreement with the same.40.	Reasoning
It was then argued that Section 17 (4) of the Act as amended by the Amending Act is ultra vires of the Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution as it nearly overrules the decision of this Court in State of UP v. Radhey Shyam Nigam (cited supra).	Reasoning
We have already dealt with this issue and pointed out that this question was specifically dealt with in the two judgments of Lucknow Development Authority and Meerut Development Authority (cited supra).	Reasoning
A very strong reliance was placed on Madan Mohan Pathak v. Union of India reported in 1978 (2) SCC 50 by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants.	None
In Meerut Development Authoritys case (cited supra), the aforementioned decision in Madan Mohan Pathaks case (cited supra) has already been considered in paragraph 11 of that judgment.	None
Reliance was also placed on the judgment in Bakhtawar Trust v. M.D. Narayan Ors. reported in 2003 (5) SCC 298 .	None
Learned Counsel for the appellant relied on paragraphs 14 to 16.	None
In our opinion, paragraph 14 was completely against the appellants wherein the State Legislatures power to make retrospective legislation and thereby validating the prior executive and legislative acts retrospectively is recognized.	None
Of course, the same has to be done only after curing the defects that led to the invalidation.	None
We respectfully agree with the propositions laid down in paragraphs 14, 15 and 16 thereof.	None
In Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Broach Borough Municipality reported in 1969 (2) SCC 283, which is referred to in paragraph 16 of the decision, it is stated that the Legislature may follow any one method or all of them and while it does so, it may neutralize the effect of earlier decision of the Court which becomes ineffective after the change of law.	None
It is further stated therein that the validity of the validating law, therefore, depends upon whether the Legislature possesses the competence which it claims over the subject matter and whether in making the validation it removes the defect which the Courts had found in the existing law.	None
The Amending Act has clearly passed these tests.	None
All the relevant cases on this subject have been considered in this judgment.	None
Again in ITW Signode v. Collector of Central Excise reported in 2004 (3) SCC 48 (cited supra), our attention was invited by Shri Trivedi to paragraphs 44 to 46 of this decision which dealt with the question of validity of validating Act and reference is made to	None
Shri Prithvi Cotton Mills Ltd.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Broach Borough Municipality reported in 1969 (2) SCC 283 and M s. Ujagar Prints and Others (II) Vs. Union of India and Others reported in 1989 (3) SCC 488 .	None
There is nothing in these paragraphs which would go counter to the expressions made in MDAs case (cited supra) or the finding that the present Amending Act has removed the defects pointed out in Radhey Shyams case (cited supra).	None
Of course, this case pertains to the taxing statutes.	None
We do not find anything contrary in the other decisions, namely, S.R. Bhagwats and Indira Gandhis case (both cited supra) to which we have already made reference.	None
The other cases, namely, Virender Singh Hoodas case, I.M. Saxenas case, and Janpad Sabhas case (all cited supra) need not be considered in view of what we have held above and further there is nothing in those cases which would make us take another view of the matter.	None
We, therefore, do not agree with the contention raised by Shri Trivedi that amended Section 17 (4) is ultra vires as it does not remove the defects That question is closed by MDAs case (cited supra).	None
We also do not agree that it merely nullifies the judgment in Radhey Shyams case (cited supra).41.	None
It was further argued by Shri Trivedi that the Amending Act is ultra vires the Article 300	Reasoning
A of the Constitution inasmuch as it deprives the petitioner of higher compensation as may be admissible pursuant to the fresh acquisition proceedings after 1987.	Reasoning
Three cases have been relied upon, namely, State of Gujarat Anr.	Reasoning
v. Raman Lal Keshav Lal Soni Ors. reported in 1983 (2) SCC 33 , T.R.	Reasoning
Kapoor Ors.	Reasoning
v. State of Haryana Ors.	Reasoning
reported in 1986 Suppl.	Reasoning
SCC 584 and Union of India v. Tushar Rajan Mohanty reported in 1994 (5) SCC 450 , wherein it is held that the Legislature cannot create prospective or retrospective law so as to contravene the fundamental rights and that the law must satisfy the requirements of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We have absolutely no quarrel with that, however, we fail to understand as to how it applies here.	Reasoning
For establishing their rights, the appellants would have to establish that the State Government was required, in law, to make a fresh acquisition and could not continue with the old one.	Reasoning
We have already held that we are not convinced by the argument that there was anything wrong with the old proceedings which came to be validated by the Amending Act.	Reasoning
We have also found that the Amending Act was a perfectly valid legislation.	Reasoning
In that view, the challenge must fail.	Reasoning
The second decision relied upon is T.R. Kapoor Ors.	None
v. State of Haryana Ors.	Reasoning
reported in 1986 Suppl.	Reasoning
SCC 584.	Arguments of Petitioner
This case has been relied upon for the contents in paragraphs 5 and 16 wherein it has been held that benefits acquired under the existing rules cannot be taken away by an amendment with retrospective effect.	None
The present case is not such a case.	None
No benefits could be said to have been accrued in favour of the appellants herein which have been taken away.	None
To the same effect, is the third decision reported as Union of India v. Tushar Rajan Mohanty reported in 1994 (5) SCC 450 .	None
We do not think that the case is relevant to the present issue.	None
The further argument by the Shri R.N. Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants herein was about the validity of Section 3 of the Validating Act, providing that a notification would not be invalid on a ground that a declaration under Section 6 of the Act was published on the same date, on which the notification under Section 4 of the Act was published or any other day prior to the date of publication of the notification under Section 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
The contentions made in this behalf have already been considered by us in the earlier part of the judgment, where we held that the relevant date would be that of notification under Section 4 of the Act or the notification of declaration under Section 6 of the Act and not the mere declaration under Section 6 of the Act.	None
We have already held with reference to the earlier decisions in this behalf that this is not res integra and is partly covered in Mohd.	None
Alis case (cited supra).	None
In Mohd.	None
Alis case (cited supra), a reference was made to Khadim Hussains case (cited supra), where it has been held that a notification under Section 6(2) amounts to the evidence of declaration, which is in the form of an order.	None
The notification is the publication of such declaration and the proof of its existence.	None
Our attention was invited to another reported decision of this Court in Sriniwas Ramnath Khatod Vs. State of Maharashtra Ors. reported in 2002(1)	None
SCC 689 to the effect that publication under Section 6(2) is a ministerial act.	None
What is tried be impressed is that the relevant date should only be the declaration and not its publication.	None
We have already dealt with this subject earlier, particularly relying on Mohd.	None
Alis case (cited supra) and the MDAs case (cited supra).	None
In view of the subsequent decisions, we are not in a position to accept the argument that Section 3 itself, providing for the eventuality contained therein, is in any way invalid.	None
We, therefore, reject the argument.	None
The Learned Senior Counsel also referred to the decision in the case of Eugenio Misquita Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Goa Ors. reported in 1997(8) SCC 47, in which reference was made to the decision in the case of Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Vs.	None
Makrand Singh Ors. reported in 1995(2) SCC 497.	Facts
It must be immediately pointed out that both these decisions would not be relevant to the present controversy, as in these decisions, what was being considered was as to which would be the last date under Section 6(2) of the Act for the purposes of Section 11A.	None
The controversy involved in the case of Eugenio Misquita Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Goa Ors.	None
(cited supra), as well as in the case of Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Vs.	None
Makrand Singh Ors.	Facts
(cited supra) is entirely different than the one involved in this matter.	None
Those two cases in Eugenio Misquita Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Goa Ors.	None
(cited supra) and Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Vs.	None
Makrand Singh Ors.	Facts
(cited supra) would not be apposite.	None
A further reference was made by the Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants to the decision in the case of Mohan Singh Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
International Airport Authority of India Ors. reported in 1997(9) SCC 132 and S.H. Rangappa Vs.	None
State of Karnataka Anr. reported in 2002(1) SCC 538.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the second matter, a reference was made to the larger Bench, as the Court was of the opinion that the view taken in two decisions in Eugenio Misquita Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Goa Ors.	None
(cited supra) and Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Vs.	None
Makrand Singh Ors.	Facts
(cited supra) was contrary to the decision in Khadim Hussains case (cited supra).	None
As regards the case of Mohan Singh Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
International Airport Authority of India Ors.	None
(cited supra), the Learned Senior Counsel relied on the observations made in paragraphs 13 and 16.	None
In paragraph 13, it is stated there that What is needed is that there should be a gap of time of at least a day between the publication of the notification under Section 4(1) and of the declaration under Section 6(1).	None
Further in paragraph 16, it is observed that What is material is that the declaration under Section 6 should be published in the Gazette after the notification under Section 4(1) was published, i.e., after a gap of at least one day.	None
It will be seen that a reference is made to the decision in the case of Radhey Shyam Nigam (cited supra) in this paragraph, as also to the simultaneous publication of notification under Section 4 and the declaration under Section 6 of the Act.	None
A reference was also made to Section 17(4), as also Section 17(1) A.	None
It is significant to note that later on when the question of validity of the Validating Act came before this Court which validating provision and proviso to Section 17 (4) were not available in Mohan Singhs case (cited supra), this Court upheld the validity of the Validating Act, refuting the argument that the Validating Act was only for the purpose of invalidating the decision in Radhey Shyam Nigams case (cited supra).	None
In our opinion, once this Court upheld the validity and once we have also approved of the Constitutional validity of Validating Act, all these questions must lose their relevance.	None
We do not think that decision in the case of Mohan Singh Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
International Airport Authority of India Ors.	None
(cited supra) can be of any help to the appellants in the light of the facts of the present case.	None
Decision in S.H. Rangappa Vs.	None
State of Karnataka Anr. reported in 2002(1) SCC 538, which is a decision after the reference was made to the larger Bench was also referred before us by the Learned Senior Counsel.	None
The question, which fell for consideration in that decision was whether the notification under Section 6(2) of the Act should be published within the period prescribed by the proviso to Section 6(1) of the Act.	None
The Court ultimately upheld the decision in Khadim Hussains case (cited supra) and observed that in the decisions in Eugenio Misquita Ors.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Goa Ors.	None
(cited supra) and Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti Vs.	None
Makrand Singh Ors.	Facts
(cited supra), the binding decision of Khadim Hussains case (cited supra) was not referred.	None
It was also observed that even otherwise in both these cases, declaration under Section 6 of the Act had been published within one year of the notification under Section 4 of the Act and the question in form, in which it has arisen in S.H. Rangappas case (cited supra), did not arise there.	None
We would like to say the same thing in respect of the decision in the case of S.H. Rangappas case (cited supra) that the question which we have to consider in the present case, as also the facts, are entirely different than the ones in that case.	None
Once Section 3 of the Validating Act came validly on the statute book, there will be no question of any further consideration.	None
The decision in the case of S.H. Rangappas case (cited supra) turns essentially on the question of limitation.	None
In the decision in S.H. Rangappas case (cited supra), the law laid down in Khadim Hussains case (cited supra) has been approved.	None
Once we give the interpretation that we have given to Section 3 and the proviso supplied by Section 2, the things become clear.	None
We are, therefore, of the clear opinion that decision in S.H. Rangappas case (cited supra) also does not help the appellants herein in view of the different factual scenario, as also because the question of validity of the Validating Act is entirely different from the question of limitation.	None
The Learned Senior Counsel further argued that we should make a reference to the larger Bench and has formulated the questions as under Whether the proviso to Section 17(4) inserted by the Amending Act cures the defect pointed out in Radhey Shyam only for the period between 24.9.1984 and 11.1.1989?2.	None
Whether declaration mentioned in the aforesaid proviso refers to it as understood by Section 6(1) or Section 6(2)?3.	None
Whether the validation provision in Section 3 of the Amending Act goes beyond the newly inserted proviso inasmuch as(h) it cures the defect of publication of the declaration and not making of the declaration.(i) it validates publication of the declaration under Section 6 prior and subsequent to the date of the publication under Section 4(1) of the principal Act.4.	None
Whether the distinction between declaration simpliciter in Section 6(1) and a published declaration under Section 6(2), pointed out in Khadim Hussain (4 Judges decision) and followed by 3 Judges decision in Rangappas Case was ignored in Meerut Development Authoritys case?5.	None
It would appear that what is cured is not validated and what it validates is not cured.6.	None
Whether in view of the admitted incapacity to offer, tender and pay the compensation under subSection (3) and (3A) of Section 17, the notification under Section 17(4) becomes void?	None
We do not think that there is any need to refer any of the questions raised above in view of our observations in the earlier paragraphs, as the schemes of Ghaziabad Development Authority and Meerut Development Authority have already been upheld by this Court in the earlier decisions.	Reasoning
Secondly, the basic objective of the Validating Act was to protect the scheme during the period 198489 only and subsequently, there has been no such case of simultaneous notification in the State of Uttar Pradesh for the last two decades, as stated by the Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the LDA.	Reasoning
Even in respect of Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII, the declaration under Section 6 of the Act is published much after the publication of notification under Section 4 of the Act.	Reasoning
Thirdly, as has been done in MDAs case (cited supra) we have held that Section 17 (4) proviso has to be read together with and in the light of Section 3 of the amending Act and not de hors of each other in view of the statement of objects and reasons of that Act.	Reasoning
It must be realized that this Court ironed the creases in the proviso added to Section 17(4) in MDAs case (cited supra).	Reasoning
Fourthly, in one of the appeals before us in Civil Appeal Nos. 21162118 (Tika Ram Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
The State of U.P. Ors.) represented by Shri Qamar Ahmad, Learned Counsel, the land owners have already accepted the compensation, while in the matter of Civil Appeal No. 3415 of 1998 (Pratap Sahkari Grih Nirman Samiti Ltd.	Reasoning
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of Uttar Pradesh Ors.)	Reasoning
, the title of Society itself has been found to be infirm and not established as per the findings of the High Court.	Reasoning
It is obvious that registration of the Sale Deed in respect of the Society is subsequent to the notification under Section 4 of the Act and, therefore, inconsequential.	Reasoning
The agreements in favour of that Society do not show that there was any consideration passed.	Reasoning
Again, the possession of the land has already been taken, as claimed by the LDA, way back in the year 1985 for which there are documents like Panchanama and the whole township has now come up, persons have built their houses.	Reasoning
As far as the sixth point of reference is concerned, we would deal with the same separately in this judgment as we do not agree with the proposition made in that point.	Reasoning
Lastly, as held in the cases of Mishri Lal (Dead) by L.Rs.	Reasoning
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Dhirendra Nath (Dead) by L.Rs. reported in 1999 (4) SCC 11 and Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community Vs.	Reasoning
State of Maharashtra reported in 2005(2) SCC 673, the principle of Stare Decisis would apply.	Reasoning
In this case, their Lordships referred to observations by Lord Reid and quoted seven principles regarding the binding precedent.	None
They are The freedom granted by the 1966 Practice Statement ought to be exercised sparingly (the use sparingly criterion) (Jones Vs.	None
Secretary of State for Social Services, 1972 AC 944, 966).(2)	None
A decision ought not to be overruled if to do so would upset the legitimate expectations of people who have entered into contracts or settlements or otherwise regulated their affairs in reliance on the validity of that decision (the legitimate expectations criterion) (Ross Smith Vs. RossSmith, 1963 AC 280, 303 and Indyka	None
Vs. Indyka, (1969)	None
AC 33, 69).(3)	None
A decision concerning questions of construction of statutes or other documents ought not to be overruled except in rare and exceptional cases (the construction criterion) (Jones case (supra))(4) (a) A decision ought not to be overruled if it would be impracticable for the Lords to foresee the consequence of departing from it (the unforeseeable consequences criterion) (Steadman Vs.	None
Steadman, 1976 AC 536, 542C).(b) A decision ought not to be overruled if to do so would involve a change that ought to be part of a comprehensive reform of the law.	None
Such changes are best done by legislation following on a wide survey of the whole field (the need for comprehensive reform criterion) (Myers Vs. DPP, 1965 AC 1001, 1022	None
Cassell Co. Ltd.	None
Vs. Broome, 1972 AC 1027, 1086 Haughton Vs. Smith, 1975 AC 476, 500).(5)	None
In the interest of certainty, a decision ought not to be overruled merely because the Law Lords consider that it was wrongly decided.	None
There must be some additional reasons to justify such a step (the precedent merely wrong criterion) (Knuller Vs. DPP, 1973 AC 435, 455).(6)	None
A decision ought to be overruled if it causes such great uncertainty in practice that the parties advisers are unable to give any clear indication as to what the courts will hold the law to be (the rectification of uncertainty criterion), (Jones case (supra))	None
Oldendorff (E.L.) Co.	None
GamBH	None
Vs.	Reasoning
Tradax Export SA, 1974 AC 479, 533, 535 (1972) 3	None
All ER 420)(7)	None
A decision ought to be overruled if in relation to some broad issue or principle it is not considered just or in keeping with contemporary social conditions or modern conceptions of public policy (the unjust or outmoded criterion) (Jones case (supra))	None
Conway Vs. Rimmer, (1968) AC 910, 938).	None
We would immediately point out that principles at serial Nos. 2, 3, 4 (a) above as also principle No. 5 would apply to the present situation, where, by upsetting the whole acquisition tremendous upheaval is likely to follow.	None
In that view we do not see any reason for making the reference as argued by the Learned Counsel.	None
II Effect of alleged nonpayment of 80 compensation under Section 17 of the Principal Act As has been observed in Para 47, we would not take up the above topic.	None
It was urged by the Learned Counsel that the State Government, though it acquired the possession under Section 17 of the Act, did not pay the 80 of compensation, as required under Section 17 of the Act and on that account, the whole exercise was bad.	Reasoning
We do not think that the proposition is correct.	Reasoning
It was tried to be established that the sufficient funds were not available with the Government.	None
We would prefer not to go into the factual questions as the High Court has commented upon the same in great details.	None
The tenor of the argument is that Sections 17(3) and 17(3A) of the Act are mandatory and the compensation ought to have been offered, tendered and paid to the land owners before taking the possession.	None
Some documents were referred to in I.A. Nos. 4 and 5 of 2006 to show that LDA did not have the funds and it failed to provide sufficient funds even as late as upto 2004.	None
The further argument was that even if it was assumed that the possession was taken on 21.5.1985, yet the compensation was paid to the concerned persons much later and in some cases, it was never paid.	None
Heavy reliance was placed on the documents which were filed alongwith I.A. Nos. 4 and 5.	None
This question in the precise form, was not raised before the High Court.	None
These documents were not the part of the High Court record.	None
Shri Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for LDA further argued that these documents could not be accepted at this late stage and that the LDA did not have any opportunity to meet those documents, since on I.A. Nos. 4 and 5, no notice has been issued by this Court.	None
Since the source, authentication and verification of those documents was not clear, these documents were not liable to be considered.	None
The Learned Senior Counsel, however, submitted that the land acquisition proceedings on that account cannot be faulted with and cannot be set at naught.	None
50A. The Learned Senior Counsel argued that in case where the accelerated possession is required to be taken, Section 17(1) of the Act, as also Section 17(2) of the Act would be attracted and such possession can be taken immediately after the publication of Section 9(1).	Reasoning
Section 17(3) of the Act provides that in every case under Section 17(1) and Section 17(2) of the Act, the Collector shall offer compensation for standing crops and trees or other damage at the time of taking possession.	Reasoning
The Learned Senior Counsel pointed out that the expression  under either of the SubSections shows that SubSection (3) is attracted only when the possession is taken under SubSection (1) or (2) of Section 17 of the Act.	Reasoning
He, therefore, contended that where Section 5A is dispensed with under Section 17(4) of the Act, two SubSections, i.e., (3) and (3A) of Section 17 of the Act would not apply.	Reasoning
The argument is clearly incorrect.	Reasoning
By this, the attempt is to dissect SubSection (4) in two parts, firstly, where SubSection (1) and (2) are applicable and secondly, where the enquiry under Section 5A is dispensed with.	Reasoning
That is not the import of the language.	Reasoning
Section 17 has to be read in full.	Reasoning
It plainly reads that where the possession is taken with the aid of Section 17(2), the compensation must fall in advance as per the provisions of Section 3A. In fact, Section 3A has been brought on the legislature with the sole purpose of providing a compensation for the possession taken.	Reasoning
That is why 80 of the estimated compensation is to be paid because even thereafter, the award proceedings would go on and the total compensation would be decided upon.	Reasoning
The attempt on the part of the Learned Senior Counsel to read that the payment of compensation is not required where Section 5A enquiry is dispensed with, would be doing violence to the language, firstly, of Section 3A and secondly, of SubSection (4) itself.	Reasoning
The clear legal position is that the dispensation of Section 5A enquiry is only and only to enable the State Government to take possession under SubSection (1) and (2) of Section 17.	Reasoning
A third category cannot be created so as to avoid the payment of compensation.	Reasoning
The contention is, therefore, clearly wrong.	None
However, the question is as to what happens when such payment is not made and the possession is taken.	None
Can the whole acquisition be set at naught?	None
In our opinion, this contention on the part of the appellants is also incorrect.	None
If we find fault with the whole acquisition process on account of the nonpayment of the 80 of the compensation, then the further question would be as to whether the estimation of 80 of compensation is correct or not.	None
A further controversy can then be raised by the landlords that what was paid was not 80 and was short of 80 and, therefore, the acquisition should be set at naught.	None
Such extreme interpretation cannot be afforded because indeed under Section 17 itself, the basic idea of avoiding the enquiry under Section 5A is in view of the urgent need on the part of the State Government for the land to be acquired for any eventuality discovered by either SubSection (1) or SubSection (2) of Section 17 of the Act.	None
The only question that would remain is that of the estimation of the compensation.	None
In our considered view, even if the compensation is not paid or is short of 80, the acquisition would not suffer.	None
One could imagine the unreasonableness of the situation.	Reasoning
Now suppose, there is state of emergency as contemplated in Section 17(2) of the Act and the compensation is not given, could the whole acquisition come to a naught?	Reasoning
It would entail serious consequences.	None
This situation was considered, firstly, in Satendra Prasad Jain Ors.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
Reported in 1993 (4) SCC 369 .	None
It was held therein that once the possession is taken as a matter of fact, then the owner is divested of the title to the land.	None
The Court held that there was then no question of application of even Section 11A. Commenting upon Section 11A, it was held that that Section could not be so construed as to leave the Government holding title of the land without an obligation to determine the compensation, make an award and pay to the owner the difference between the amount of the award and the amount of the 80 of the estimated compensation.	None
The three Judges Bench of the Court took the view that even where 80 of the estimated compensation was not paid to the land owners, it did not mean that the possession was taken illegally or that the land did not vest in the Government.	None
In short, this Court held that the proceedings of acquisition are not affected by the nonpayment of compensation.	None
In that case, the Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samiti, for which the possession was made, sought to escape from the liability to make the payment.	None
That was not allowed.	None
The Court, in para 17, held as under In the instant case, even that 80 of the estimated compensation was not paid to the appellants although Section 17(3A) required that it should have been paid before possession of the said land was taken but that does not mean that the possession was taken illegally or that the said land did not thereupon vest in the first respondent.	None
It is, at any rate, not open to the third respondent, who, as the letter of the Special Land Acquisition Officer dated June 27, 1990 shows, failed to make the necessary monies available and who has been in occupation of the said land ever since its possession was taken, to urge that the possession was taken illegally and that, therefore, the said land has not vested in the first respondent and the first respondent is under no obligation to make an award.	None
Further, in a judgment of this Court in Pratap Anr.	None
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Rajasthan Ors. etc. etc. reported in 1996 (3) SCC 1 , similar view was reported.	None
That was a case under the Rajasthan Urban Improvement Act, 1987, under which the acquisition was made using Section 17 of the Act.	None
The Court took the view that once the possession was taken under Section 17 of the Act, the Government could not withdrew from that position under Section 18 and even the provisions of Section 11A were not attracted.	Reasoning
That was of course a case where the award was not passed under Section 11A after taking of the possession.	Reasoning
A clear cut observation came to be made in that behalf in Para 12, to the effect that the noncompliance with Section 17 of the Act, insofar as, payment of compensation is concerned, did not result in lapsing of the land acquisition proceedings.	None
The law laid down by this Court in Satendra Prasad Jain Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of U.P. Ors.	Reasoning
(cited supra) was approved.	Reasoning
The Court also relied on the decision in P. Chinnanna Vs.	Reasoning
State of A.P. reported in 1994 (5) SCC 486 and Awadh Bihari	Reasoning
Yadav Vs. State of Bihar reported in 1995 (6) SCC 31 , where similar view was taken regarding the land acquisition proceedings not getting lapsed.	Reasoning
The only result that may follow by the nonpayment would be the payment of interest, as contemplated in Section 34 and the proviso added thereto by 1984 Act.	Reasoning
In that view, we do not wish to further refer the matter, as suggested by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel and Shri Qamar Ahmad, Learned Counsel for the appellants.	Reasoning
Therefore, even on the sixth question, there is no necessity of any reference.	Reasoning
III.	Arguments of Petitioner
Challenge under Article 14 of the Constitution of India Learned Senior Counsel then urged that the provisions of the amending Act and also the provisions of Land Acquisition Act like Section 17 (4) are invalid on the test of Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is pointed out by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel that in GDAs case (cited supra) the impugned notification was held to be valid in view of the amendment made to Section 17 (4) of the Act.	Reasoning
However, there was no challenge to the validity of Section 17 (4) of the Act in the said case.	Reasoning
Similarly, it was argued that in MDA v. Satbir Singh 1996 (11) SCC 462 , the Court had made observation in paragraph 8 that the validity of Section 17 (4) was upheld in GDAs case (cited supra), whereas in fact it was not tested in GDAs case (cited supra) at all.	Reasoning
It was further urged that the validity of the Act was not tested with respect to its inconsistency with Article 14 and Article 300A of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
In this behalf it was argued by the Learned Counsel that there was an observation to the effect in paragraph 14 that the proviso was not happily worded.	Reasoning
But a reading of it would clearly give us an indication that the proviso to subsection (4) introduced by Section 2 of the Amendment Act 5 of 1991 would deal with both the situations ,namely, the notification published on or after September 24, 1984 but before January 11, 1989 as also the declaration to be simultaneously published subsequent thereto.	Reasoning
It was further argued that if we read the proviso in the manner that we have already done then it would be a case of casus omissus being supplied by the Court.	Reasoning
We have already taken all these arguments into consideration.	Reasoning
In view of the interpretation given by us to Section 3 and the proviso and the necessity of reading the two provisions in the light of each other, there would be no occasion of supplying casus omissus and the argument in that behalf must fail.55.	Reasoning
Insofar as the validity on the backdrop of Article 14 is concerned, it is true that in paragraph 8 there has been an observation that the validity of the proviso added by the State Legislature by way of an amendment to Section 17 (4) of the Act has been upheld by the two Judge Bench decision in GDAs case (cited supra).	Reasoning
However, when we see the rest of the judgment it can be said that no such question was considered.	Reasoning
However, the fact remains that in GDAs case (cited supra), the validity was not questioned or doubted and the challenged Section was interpreted and treated to be valid by the Court.	None
When we see the further judgment in MDAs case (cited supra) in the further paragraphs, this Court has approved of the whole amending Act reiterating on the decision in Indian Aluminium Co. (cited supra).	None
The Court has taken a full review of the then existing law by way of the decision of this Court in State of Orissa Vs.	None
Gopal Chandrarath reported in 1995 (6) SCC 243, Bhubaneswar Singh and Anr.	None
Vs. Union of India and Ors. reported in 1994 (6) SCC 77 and Comorin Match Industries P. Ltd, Vs. State of Tamil Nadu reported in 1996 (4) SCC 281 .	None
Thereafter, referring to Gouri Shankar Gauri and Ors.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
State of U.P. and Ors. reported in 1994 (1) SCC 92 , the Court also referred to the provisions of Article 254 (2) and (3) and approved of the whole Amending Act as such.	None
In our opinion, reading paragraph 14 of this judgment in its correct perspective would repel the argument of the appellants that the provision is arbitrary in any manner or has the effect of creating impermissible classification.	None
In our opinion, the language of paragraph 14 does not help the petitioners.	Reasoning
If the petitioners in MDAs case (cited supra) did not specifically address the Court on the question of Constitutional validity of the Amending Act (as is being claimed by the appellants), we do not think it will be permissible for the petitioners to raise this point which was admittedly not raised either in GDAs case (cited supra) or MDAs case (cited supra).	Reasoning
Petitioners would not be permitted to take such a course see Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
Shambhu Nath Mukherji Ors. reported in AIR 1978 SC 8 .	Reasoning
We need not go in that question since MDAs case (cited supra) is a Larger Bench decision.56.	Reasoning
However, this is apart from the fact that in our opinion there can be no question of Section 17 (4) proviso or the provisions of the Amending Act being invalid in any way.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not feel necessary to refer this case on this issue to a Larger Bench, particularly, in respect of the validity of the provisions visvis Article 14 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We do not find the provisions in any manner arbitrary or making impermissible classifications or suggesting invidious discrimination nor can the provisions in the amending Act can be termed as arbitrary providing no guiding principles.	None
The Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants had heavily relied on paragraph 14 of the judgment in Meerut Development Authority Vs.	None
Satvir Singh Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(cited supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
Basically we do not accept the contention raised that the contents in paragraph 14 holding that the provisions of the amending Act are not limited to the two dates mentioned and can be applicable even subsequently, results in creation of two classes and the possible discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our opinion, it will not be necessary to go into that question as the present appeals pertaining to Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII are relating only to the period between 24.9.1984 and 11.1.1989.	None
It is stated by the Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the LDA that only two appeals pertain to Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII and even in that case, the notifications were published in the year 1991 and the issue of simultaneous publication of notification does not arise, as Section 6 declaration was signed and published in 1992.	Reasoning
Therefore, there will be no need to go into the academic question whether Amending Act applies only to the period between 24.9.1984 and 11.1.1989 or even the subsequent period.	Reasoning
Further, even if, as held in MDAs Case (cited supra), it applied to the subsequent period, it does not infringe Article 14 for the reasons given by us earlier.	Reasoning
Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants further argued that there was invidious discrimination between the Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII and Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII, inasmuch as while the notification published on 8.12.1984 under Section 4 read with Section 17(4) of the Act was allowed to proceed with the help of the Validating Act, in case of Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII, however, a fresh notification was issued on 30.12.1991 and Section 6 declaration came to be issued on 30.12.1992.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, while the notification in respect of Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII was validated, the notification in respect of the Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII was allowed to lapse and a fresh notification was published, meaning thereby that persons coming under Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII, got the better deal (if they really did) and higher compensation.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument of Shri Trivedi was adopted by Shri Qamar Ahmad.	None
Though we have considered this argument in the earlier part of the judgment we again reiterate that the argument is clearly incorrect.	None
The Validation Act did not confer any discretion on the State Government to apply its provisions to a particular scheme and then issue notifications.	Reasoning
It was a one time exercise for validating a particular scheme by amending the Act which has already been found to be valid in MDAs case (cited supra).	Reasoning
Again Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartIII did not lapse because of the decision of the Government.	Reasoning
Since the award was not made within the time prescribed by the Section 11A of the Act, it had the effect of lapsing the notifications.	Reasoning
Therefore, the State Government was left with no other way and had to issue a fresh notification.	Reasoning
In Ujariyaon Housing Scheme PartII, the award was made by the Collector within the time and, therefore, those notifications were not affected.	Reasoning
Therefore, the argument that there was invidious discrimination in between the two schemes has to fail.	None
It was reiterated by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel, as also, Shri Qamar Ahmed, Learned Counsel that the question of constitutional validity of the Act was not considered by the High Court as the Act was held to be valid in GDAs case (cited supra) and in MDAs case (cited supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, however, urged that the question of Constitutional validity was never considered in these cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was placed on judgments reported as Arnit Das v. State of Bihar reported in 2000 (5) SCC 488 , State of UP Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Synthetics Chemicals Ltd. Anr. reported in 1991 (4) SCC 139 , Nirmal Jeet Kaur v. State of Madhya Pradesh Anr. reported in 2004 (7) SCC 558 , ICICI Bank Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay Ors. reported in 2005 (6) SCC 404 , A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Naik Ors. reported in 1988 (2) SCC 602 , Zee Telefilms Ltd. Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Union of India Ors. reported in 2005 (4) SCC 649 , P. Ramachandra Rao v. State of Karnataka reported in 2002 (4) SCC 578 , Nand Kishore v. State of Punjab reported in 1995 (6) SCC 614 , Isabella Johnson v. M.A. Susai reported in 1991 (1) SCC 494 .	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think that the law laid down in these cases would apply to the present situation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In all these cases, it has been basically held that a Supreme Court decision does not become a precedent unless a question is directly raised and considered therein, so also it does not become a law declared unless the question is actually decided upon.	Arguments of Petitioner
We need not take stock of all these cases and we indeed have no quarrel with the propositions settled therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, we may point out that, firstly, the question of validity is settled in MDAs case (cited supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
This is apart from the fact that we are of the opinion that there is nothing wrong with the Amending Act insofar as its Constitutional validity is concerned.	None
We have already rejected the argument that there was any discrimination between Ujariyaon Part II and Ujariyaon Part III schemes.	Reasoning
We are convinced with the explanation given by the State Government as to why Ujariyaon Part III scheme was left out of the consideration of validation.	Reasoning
Indeed the acquisition therein could not have been validated on account of the time having lapsed for doing so.	Reasoning
Once Sections 2 and 3 and the proviso are read in the manner indicated in MDAs case (cited supra) as also in the light of observations made by us, no question remains of any Constitutional invalidity.	Reasoning
We are not at all impressed by the contention raised that the Amending Act cannot pass the test of Article 14.	Reasoning
We hold accordingly.	None
Our attention was invited to R.K. Dalmia v. S.R. Tendolkar (cited supra).	None
In fact, according to us this judgment does not help the appellants for assailing the Constitutional validity of the statute.	None
In so far as the Executive action is concerned, we do not think that there is any scope to interfere in this matter.	None
Shri Qamar Ahmed in his written arguments has adopted the arguments of Shri Trivedi.	None
In his written submissions he has challenged the provisions of Sections 17 (1), 17 (1A), 17 (3A) and 17 (4A) and proviso to Section 17 (4) as ultra vires to the Constitution.	None
He has also challenged the provisions of Section 2 of the UP Act No. 8 of 1974 as violative and ultra vires to Section 3A, 3B, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 of Land Acquisition Act No.1 of 1894 as amended from time to time.	None
In support of his argument, Learned Counsel has relied on the law laid down in Anwar Ali Sarkars case (cited supra).	None
According to him, Sections 17(1), 17(1A), 17(3A) and 17(4) of the Act and Section 2 of the UP Act No. VIII of 1974, as also the UP Act No. 5 of 1991 are violative of Articles 14, 19, 21, 39, 48, 48A and 300A for invidious discrimination.	None
Learned Counsel also submits that there are no guidelines for the exercise of power under Sections 17(1), 17(1A) and Section 17 (4), as the word urgency is too vague, uncertain and elusive criteria to form the basis of a valid and reasonable classification.	None
Learned Counsel also referred to the case of Lachman Das v. State of Bombay reported in AIR 1952 SC 235 .	None
A reference was also made to Charanjit Lal Chowdhury v. Union of India Ors. reported in AIR 1951 SC 41 .	None
Learned Counsel has traced the whole case law following Anwar Ali Sarkars case (cited supra) and has quoted extensively from that case as also from Kathi Ranning Rawat v. State of Saurashtra reported in AIR 1952 SC 123 .	None
We have already pointed out that this group of cases would be of no help to the appellants, particularly, because the fact situation and the controversy involved in the present matter is entirely different.	Reasoning
We do not agree with the Learned Counsel that there is any classification, much less any impermissible classification and any group has been treated favourably as against another group or that the law has treated a group more favourably than the other, refusing equal protection to such group.	Reasoning
As regards the general principles from Anwar Ali Sarkars case (cited supra) as also from State of Punjab v. Gurdial Singh reported in AIR 1980 SC 319 , we must point out that ultimately this Court culled out the principle that if the Legislature indicates a policy which inspires it and the object which it seeks to attain, then the selective application of the law can be left to the discretion of the Executive authority see Kedar Nath Bajorias case reported in 1953 SCR 30.	Reasoning
Such law has been approved in R.K. Dalmias case (cited supra) as also in In Re Special Courts Bill (cited supra).	Reasoning
There can be no dispute that the law must indicate the policy and the object clearly while acquiring.	None
Discretion upon the application of law and the power under Section 17 of the Act of doing away with Section 5A inquiry has to be exercised in a proper manner.	None
There are cases where this Court has not brooked any breach of provision under Section 17 of the Act.	None
However, we must say that there are clear guidelines provided under Section 17(1) read with Section 4 for understanding the concepts of urgency and emergency.	None
In this behalf, we must hold that the criteria of emergency as provided under SubSection (2) of Section 17 is separate and distinct from the criteria of urgency.	None
In our opinion, these two criteria provide clear guidelines and cannot be held as arbitrary.	None
In Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samitis case and Pista Devis case (cited supra), this Court has laid down that mere existence of urgency is not enough and the Government must further consider the matters objectively as to the dispensation with Section 5A permissible under that particular situation.	Reasoning
Section 17 of the Act has existed on the statute book for a long time and on a number of occasions the applicable criteria of urgency and emergency have been tested by the Courts on account of the Government actions in that behalf being challenged.	Reasoning
Wherever the Courts have found that urgency did not exist in reality or the dispensation of Section 5A was not considered separately such notifications have been struck down on a number of occasions.	Reasoning
However, we do not see any reasonable argument having been made against the Constitutional validity.	None
The validity of this Section 17 of the Act has been upheld by the Allahabad High Court as also the Gujarat High Court in Sarju Prasad Sahu v. State of Uttar Pradesh Ors. reported in AIR 1962 ALL 221 and Ram Sevak v. State of UP Ors. reported in AIR 1963 All 24 .	None
The second judgment of Allahabad High Court has been approved by the court in Ishwarlal Girdharlal Joshi etc. v. State of Gujarat Anr.	None
reported in AIR 1968 SC 870 .	None
We, therefore, do not accept the contention raised by Shri Qamar Ahmad, Learned Counsel for the appellants that the power under Section 17(4) of the Act of dispensing with the enquiry under Section 5A is in the nature of unbridled and uncanalised power in the hands of Executive to take possession, invoking urgency clause.	None
As discussed in the earlier cases by this Court (cited above), it cannot be said that the Section suffers from any constitutional invalidity on account of being arbitrary in the nature.	None
In fact, the reliance was placed on the decision in Suraj Mall Mohta and Company Vs	None
. A.V.	None
Visvanatha Sastri and Anr. reported in AIR 1954 SC 545 .	None
That was a case under the tax jurisprudence, dealing with certain Sections of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947.	None
It was found to be invalid as it had provided different procedure for the tax abettors.	None
This Court had found that the procedure was more drastic for a certain group.	None
The provisions of SubSection (4) of Section 5 were found to be discriminatory.	None
The High Court has also dealt with this case.	None
Though there can be no dispute on the principles, we do not think that the principle are applicable to the present controversy.	None
We have already given a reference of the case of Ishwarlal Girdharlal Joshi etc.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Gujarat (cited supra).	Reasoning
The Learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents invited our attention to the findings recorded by the High Court, with which we are satisfied.	Reasoning
We must observe that merely because the decision of the Government on question of urgency is not justiciable, it does not mean that Section 17(4) of the Act is discriminatory.	None
The High Court has made a reference to the observation by this Court in Matajog Dubey Vs. H.C. Bhari reported in AIR 1956 SC 44 , holding that a discretionary power is not necessarily a discriminatory power and that abuse of such power is not to be easily assumed.	None
Even at the cost of repetition, we may mention the case of R.K. Dalmia v. S.R. Tendolkar (cited supra) as a complete answer to the argument of Shri Qamar Ahmad, Learned Counsel for the appellants.	None
Ishwarlals case (cited supra) is also a total answer to the argument that SubSection (1) and (4) of Section 17 of the Act are unconstitutional.	None
The High Court has correctly held that SubSections (1), (3A) and (4) of Section 17 of the Act do not suffer from any unconstitutionality on account of the alleged breach of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
Shri Qamar Ahmad, Learned Counsel for the appellants also argued that before deciding to take the possession under the various provisions of Section 17 of the Act, a person is entitled to a notice.	None
The High Court has correctly dealt with this question.	None
It firstly considered the law laid down in the cases of Kraipak Vs. Union of India reported in AIR 1970 SC 150 , Maneka Gandhi Vs. Union of India reported in AIR 1978 SC 597 and Olga Tellis Vs.	None
Bombay Municipal Corporation reported in AIR 1986 SC 180 as also in Union of India Vs.	None
Tulsi Ram reported in AIR 1985 SC 1416 which were relied upon by the High Court.	None
The High Court was, undoubtedly, correct in holding that there was no necessity of a notice since the satisfaction required on the part of the Executive is a subject of satisfaction, which can only be assailed on the ground that there was no sufficient material to dispense with the enquiry or the order suffers from malice.	None
We will deal with the question as to whether there was an urgency and what is the nature of urgency required.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not think that SubSections (1) (3A) and (4) of Section 17 of the Act suffer, as there is no notice provided in those SubSections before the possession is taken.	None
IV.	None
Issue of urgency and application of Section 17 of the Principal Act At this juncture itself, we must also consider the argument that there was no real urgency in this matter.	None
It can not be ignored that this land was urgently needed for housing.	None
Largescale development and utilization of acquired land after the acquisition is apparent on the face of the record.	None
A number of houses have been constructed, third party interests were created in whose favour the plots were allotted and the High Court has also commented while disposing of the writ petitions that the quashing of the notification at this stage will prejudice the interests of the people for whom the schemes were evolved.	None
While considering as to whether the Government was justified in doing away with the inquiry under Section 5A, it must be noted that there are no allegations of mala fides against the authority.	None
No evidence has been brought before the judgment and the High Court has also commented on this.	None
The housing development and the planned developments have been held to be the matters of great urgency by the court in Pista Devis case (cited supra).	None
In the present case we have seen the judgment of the High Court which has gone into the records and has recorded categorical finding that there was sufficient material before the State Government and the State Government has objectively considered the issue of urgency.	None
Even before this Court, there were no allegations of mala fides.	Reasoning
A notice can be taken of the fact that all the lands which were acquired ultimately came to be utilized for the scheme.	Reasoning
We, therefore, reject the argument that there was no urgency to justify dispensation of Section 5A inquiry by applying the urgency clause.	None
In a reported decision Kishan Das Ors.	None
v. State of UP Ors.	None
Reported in 1995 (6) SCC 240 , this Court has taken a view that where the acquisition has been completed by taking the possession of the land under acquisition and the constructions have been made and completed, the question of urgency and the exercise of power under Section 17(4) would not arise.	None
We must notice that acquisitions in this case are of 19841985 and two decades have passed thereafter.	None
The whole township has come up, the houses and the lands have been allotted, sold and resold, awards have been passed and overwhelming majority of land owners have also accepted the compensation, this includes even some of the appellants.	None
In such circumstances we do not think that the High Court was in any way wrong in not interfering with the exercise of power under Section 17 (4) of the Act.	None
At any rate, after the considered findings on the factual questions recorded by the High Court, we would not go into that question.	None
The High Court has taken a stock of the argument on behalf of the respondents herein that there was material available in support of the satisfaction on the part of the Executive to take possession under Section 17 of the Act.	None
The High Court has relied on the decisions in Raja Anand Braha Shah Vs.	None
State of U.P. reported in AIR 1967 SC 1081 , in Narayan Vs.	None
State of Maharashtra reported in AIR 1977 SC 183 , in Kailashwati Vs.	None
State of U.P. reported in AIR 1978 All.	None
181 , in Deepak Pahwa Vs.	None
Lt. Governor of Delhi reported in AIR 1984 SC 1721 , as also in Pista Devis case (cited supra) and Krishi Utpadan Mandi Samitis case (cited supra).	None
The High Court has correctly come to the conclusion that there was all the justification for invoking the urgency clause and taking the possession for the lands in question.	None
We endorse the said finding of the High Court.	Reasoning
Other contentions on merits65.	Reasoning
Apart from these contentions, both Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel, as also Shri Qamar Ahmed, Learned Counsel again raised the same questions of facts like the nonpublication of Sections 4 and 6 notifications.	Reasoning
Insofar as that is concerned, we have mentioned it only for rejecting the contention.	Reasoning
After the judgment of the High Court we will not go into that question again being a pure question of fact.	Reasoning
Similar is the question raised about the land belonging to the cooperative society and the release of the same.	Reasoning
We do not think that that question needs to be answered in the wake of the High Courts judgment.	Reasoning
The High Court judgment is absolutely correct in that behalf.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, even if the Government had taken a decision not to acquire the land belonging to the cooperative society as far as possible, there is nothing wrong if such lands were acquired.	Reasoning
What is to be seen is the bona fides of the Government behind the decision to acquire the lands.	Reasoning
On that account no fault can be found with the concerned notifications under Sections 4 and 6.66.	Reasoning
Similar contentions were raised regarding the possession.	Reasoning
We do not propose to go into the question of facts and questions relating to the individual claims.	Reasoning
We have noted that the respondents herein having specifically claimed that the possession of the lands has already been taken.	Reasoning
Therefore, accepting that claim, as has been done by the High Court, we would not go into those questions of fact.67.	Reasoning
To put the record straight, there is enough evidence in shape of the stand taken by the LDA in its counter affidavit before the High Court, where it was asserted that the possession was already taken.	Reasoning
Even in the present Civil Appeal, the same stand is reported with reference to a particular date, i.e., 21.5.1985 that the possession was taken and there is also a true copy of the Panchanama on record.	Reasoning
Insofar as the Civil Appeal Nos. 21162118 (Tika Ram Ors.	Reasoning
Vs.	Reasoning
The State of U.P. Ors.) are concerned, it was urged by the appellants that in the affidavit of State of U.P. before the High Court, the date of taking possession was mentioned as 30.3.1986 and, therefore, it was urged that the possession could not have been taken on 21.5.1985 as per record.	Reasoning
The Learned Senior Counsel for the LDA pointed out that this was incorrect and the correct date of taking possession was only 21.5.1985, while the possession of some plots was handed over to the LDA on 30.3.1986.	Reasoning
This is apart from the fact that in todays context, when the whole township is standing, this question goes to the backdrop.	Reasoning
In the face of Panchanama, which is on record, we would endorse the finding of the High Court that the possession was taken on 21.5.1985.	None
Shri Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the LDA also found fault with the Sale Deed in favour of Pratap Sahkari Grih Nirman Samiti Ltd., which is being represented by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that its claim was based on the Sale agreement, which was executed one day before the publication of Section 4 Notification in the Gazette, i.e., 8.12.1984.	Arguments of Respondent
It is admitted case that the Sale Deed was registered on 22.1.1986, which is clearly a date beyond the date of Section 4 notification.	Arguments of Respondent
It is already held by this Court in U.P. Jal Nigam Vs. Kalra Properties Ltd. reported in 1996	Arguments of Respondent
(3) SCC 124 and Star Wire (India) Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Vs.	Reasoning
State of Haryana Ors. reported in 1996 (11) SCC 698 that if any purchases of the land are made after the publication of Section 4(1) notification, landlords in this case would not get any right or entitlement to question the validity of the title of the State based on the acquisition.	Arguments of Respondent
Obviously, the claim of this society is on the basis of the Agreement of Sale dated 7.4.1983.	None
It was reported by the Learned Senior Counsel that Shri Hukum Chand Gupta also expired on 27.7.1983 and ultimately, the Sale Deed was executed on 7.12.1984.	Reasoning
We do not want to go into this question of fact, but we will certainly go with and endorse the finding of the High Court in this behalf that the society had purchased the land after the issuance of notification.69.	None
It was urged by Shri Trivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for the appellants that there was a policy to give back 25 of the acquired land to the cooperative societies.	Arguments of Respondent
This was suggested on the basis of various letters on record, suggesting that LDA was considering the revision.	Reasoning
Shri Dwivedi, Learned Senior Counsel for LDA pointed out that once the land was acquired and the possession had been taken, Section 48 did not apply.	Reasoning
Besides, according to the Learned Senior Counsel, the policy applied to the cooperative societies, who had land before the acquisition process begins.	Reasoning
This was obviously with the object to safeguard the interests of the members of the society.	Reasoning
The Learned Senior Counsel was at pains to point out that there is no such disclosure as to who were the members of the society.	Reasoning
According to the Learned Senior Counsel, the society was nothing, but a front piece set up for obtaining 25 of the land.	None
Therefore, the rent of the 25 of the land was not acceptable.	None
It was also pointed out that the Sale Agreement was also entered into a day before the publication of the notification in the Gazette and the registration of the Sale Deed was also done much after the notification was published and, therefore, this policy, even if there is one, would not be applicable to the society in question.	None
We would not, therefore, accept that claim that Pratap Sahkari Grih Nirman Samiti Ltd. should be given back 25 of the land acquired, which is again not possible in view of the township having come up in Gomti Nagar.	None
In view of what we have held above, we confirm the judgment of the High Court and dismiss all the appeals being Civil Appeal Nos. 26502652 of 1998, 3162 of 1998, 3176 of 1998, 3415 of 1998, 3561 of 1998, 3597 of 1998, 3923 of 1998, 3939 of 1998, 3645 of 1998, 3691 of 1998, 5346 of 1998, 21162118 of 1999, 2139 of 1999, 2121 of 1999, 2113 of 1999 and 49954996 of 1998.	Decision
SLP (CIVIL) No. 23551/2009 (CC 1540/1999)71.	Decision
Delay condoned in SLP (Civil) No. 23551/2009	Decision
(CC 1540/1999).	Decision
The Special Leave Petition is dismissed in view of the above order.72.	Decision
In the circumstances, there would be no orders as to the costs.	Decision
