 Khanna, J.1.	None
These three appeals by certificate are directed against the judgment of the Madras High Court whereby the High Court answered the following question referred to it under Section 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) in respect of assessment years 195556, 195657 and 195758 against the assesseeappellant and in favour of the revenueWhether the declaration filed by the assessee under Section 17 (1) in respect of the assessment year 195859 was operative in relation to the reassessments in respect of the previous years ending on 31121954, 31121955 and 31121956 corresponding to the assessment years 195556, 195657 and 195758?2.	None
The assessee during the relevant period was studying abroad.	Facts
He derived income during that period by way of dividend on shares and interest from deposits.	Facts
The original assessments for the relevant years were completed on January 31, 1956, December 27, 1956 and February 28, 1958.	Facts
The residential status adopted in those years was resident and ordinarily resident person.	Facts
Incometax and super tax were calculated at the rates applicable on the total income.	Facts
In the course of the assessment proceedings for the assessment year 195859, corresponding to the year ending on December 31, 1957, the assessee filed a declaration under Section 17 (1) of the Act on March 24, 1959 claiming to be assessed at rates appropriate to the total world income.	Facts
This assessment was completed on March 23, 1960 in the status of a nonresident.	Facts
The application under Section 17 (1) was rejected.	Facts
As the incometax officer found that the assessee was a nonresident in the three previous years ending on December 31, 1954 to December 31, 1956 and his total income has been assessed to incometax at the normal rates and further as he had failed to make the requisite declaration under Section 17 (1) within the requisite time, the incometax officer formed the view that the earlier assessments had been made at a lower rate.	Facts
Action under Section 34 of the Act was accordingly taken by the incometax officer and assessments for the abovementioned three years were reopened and completed under Section 23 (3) read with Section 34 of the Act.	Facts
The status of the assessee was treated as that of a nonresident.	Facts
The assessees declaration under Section 17 (1), which he had made in the course of assessment proceedings for the assessment year 195859, was rejected and ignored and his total income was brought to tax at the maximum rates.	Facts
The assessee in the course of the proceedings for reassessment requested that the income during the three years in question should be taxed at rates appropriate to his world income.	Facts
According to the assessee, the omission on his part to make the declaration earlier under Section 17 (1) was due to inadvertence and ignorance.	Facts
It was also contended that as the assessments were being reopened and were thus deemed to be pending for the earlier years, the assessees declaration made during the assessment proceedings for the year 195859 should be taken into account for the purpose of reassessments.	Facts
The incometax officer rejected all the submissions.	Facts
According to the incometax officer, option had been exercised by the assessee after the prescribed date and it could not have effect on the assessments for the three years in question.	Facts
The incometax officer also referred to the first proviso to Section 17 (1) of the Act and said that the declaration could be entertained only on the first occasion on which the assessee became assessable.	Facts
The second proviso, it was observed, would also not avail the assessee.3.	Facts
The assessee went up in appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
It was contended inter alia on his behalf that the incometax officer was wrong in holding that the declaration under Section 17 (1) could be entertained only on the first occasion when the person became assessable.	Facts
According to the assessee, the declaration could be accepted even later provided sufficient cause was shown for not filing the declaration earlier.	Facts
The assessee further submitted that the assessment as nonresident was made for the first time in respect of assessment year 195859 and as Section 34 proceedings were fresh proceedings the declaration made in 195859 ought to be accepted.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that the incometax officers reasoning for not accepting the declaration under Section 17 (1) was not correct.	Facts
In this connection the Appellate Assistant Commissioner referred to his order in the appeal by the assessee for the assessment year 195859 wherein he had held that the assessee had sufficient cause for not filing the declaration under Section 17 (1) when the assessee became first assessable.	Facts
It was also held that the failure to the file the declaration had not resulted in a reduction of tax liability.	Facts
The declaration filed on March 24, 1959 by the assessee, in the opinion of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, could be availed of for the assessments for the three years in question as the assessment orders consequent upon the reopening of assessment were being made subsequent to that date.4.	Facts
The department went up in appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal against the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
The Tribunal accepted the reasoning of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and dismissed the appeal.	Facts
On being moved by the Commissioner of Incometax the Tribunal referred the question reproduced above to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court in answering the question against the assessee referred to the expression all assessments thereafter in the two provisos to Section 17 (1) of the Act and observed that those words showed that the declaration could be availed of in respect of assessments for subsequent years and not in respect of assessments made by the revenue in exercise of its power under Section 34 of the Act.	Facts
The word assessments in the above expression, in the opinion of the High Court, referred to only original assessments and not to assessments made by the revenue in exercise of its power under under Section 34 of the Act.5.	Facts
In appeal before us Mr. Desai on behalf of the assesseeappellant has assailed the judgment of the High Court and has contended that correct view of law was taken by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against that Mr. Hardy on behalf of the revenue has supported the view taken by the High Court.6.	Arguments of Respondent
After hearing the learned counsel for the parties, we are of the opinion that the submission made by Mr. Desai is well founded.	Reasoning
The assessee, as mentioned earlier, filed the declaration in the course of assessment proceedings relating to the year 195859 on March 24, 1959.	Reasoning
Although the above declaration was rejected by the incometax officer, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner on appeal in respect of assessment for the assessment year 195859 held that there was sufficient cause for the assessee in not making the declaration on the first occasion on which he became assessable and that his failure to make much declaration had not resulted in reducing his liability to tax for any year.	Reasoning
The assessee was accordingly allowed to make the declaration after the expiry of the prescribed period.	Reasoning
According to the second proviso to Section 17 (1) of the Act, once the assessee is allowed to make the declaration after the expiry of the period specified such declaration shall have effect in relation to the assessment for the year in which the declaration is made (if such assessment had not been completed before such declaration) and all assessments thereafter.	Reasoning
The words of the second proviso to Section 17 (1) reproduced above make it clear that the declaration would be operative not only for the assessment for the year in which the declaration is made if such assessment had not been completed before such declaration, but also for all assessments to be made thereafter.	Reasoning
The words all assessments thereafter, in our opinion, signify not only assessments for the subsequent years but would also cover assessments for the earlier years in case the assessments for those earlier years are being made subsequent to the filing of the declaration.	Reasoning
The words all assessments thereafter have a wide amplitude and we see no cogent reason for not giving them their natural meaning or for restricting their scope.	Reasoning
Those words would include within their ambit all assessments made subsequent to the filing of the declaration and it would be wrong to so construe them as if the legislature had used the words all assessments for the subsequent years.7.	Reasoning
We are unable to subscribe to the view taken by the High Court that the assessments referred to in the words reproduced above mean only the original assessments and not the reassessments made under Section 34 of the reassessments made under Section 34 of the Act.	None
According to Section 2 (8) of the Incometax Act, 1961, the word assessment include reassessment.	None
Although such a definition was not there in the Act of 1922, the word assessment in the second proviso to Section 17 (1) of the Act must necessarily, in our opinion, cover reassessment under Section 34 of the Act.	None
In the case of A. N. Lakshman Shenoy v. Incometax Officer, Ernakulam, (1958) 34 ITR 275 (AIR 1958 SC 795 ) this Court held that the word assessment in the Finance Act, 1950 would include reassessment.	None
It was observed that the collection of the words levy, assessment and collection of Incometax showed that the word assessment had a comprehensive meaning so as to cover reassessment.	None
The case of Commr. of Incometax v. Khemchand Ramdas, (1938) 6 ITR 414 (AIR 1938 PC 175 ) upon which reliance had been placed by the revenue in Shenoys case, as had also been done in the present case, was distinguished.	None
This Court referred to the observations of the Judicial Committee in the case of Khemchand Ramdas and held that those observations lend no support to the view that the word assessment must always bear a particular meaning in the Incometax Act.	None
Reliance in this context was placed upon the following observations of the Judicial Committee These two questions are so closely related to one another that they can conveniently be considered together.	None
In order to answer them it is essential to bear in mind the method prescribed by the Act for making an assessment of tax, using the word assessment in its comprehensive sense as including the whole procedure for imposing liability upon the taxpayer.	None
The methodeonsists of the following steps.	None
In the first place, the taxable income of the taxpayer has to be computed.	None
In the next place, the sum payable by him on the basis of such computation has to be determined.	None
Finally, a notice of demand in the prescribed form, specifying the sum so payable, has to be served upon the taxpayer.	None
This Court further observed in Shenoys caseIf the word assessments is taken in its comprehensive sense, as we think it should be taken in the context of Section 13 (1) of the Finance Act, 1950, it would include reassessment made under the provisions of the Act.	None
Such reassessment will without doubt come within the expression levy, assessment and collection of incometax.	None
In this speech in Commr.	None
for General Purposes of Incometax for the City of London v. Gibbs, 1942 AC 402at p. 406	None
Lord Simon has pointed out that the word assessment is used in the English Incometax Code in more than one sense and sometimes within the bounds of the same section, two separate meanings of the word may be found.	None
One meaning is the fixing of the sum taken to represent the actual profit and the other the actual sum in tax which the taxpayer is liable to pay.	None
It has been contended before us that the Finance Act and the Incometax Act should be read together as forming one code, and so read the words assessment and reassessment acquire definite and distinct connotations.	None
We are unable to agree, for the reasons which we have already given, that even if we read the Finance Act along with the Incometax Act the word assessment can be given a restricted meaning.	None
To repeat those reasons the Incometax Code itself uses the word assessment in different senses, and in the context and collocation of the words of the Finance Act, the word assessment is capable of bearing a comprehensive meaning only.	None
In the context of Section 17 (1) of the Act the word assessment must necessarily include the reassessment under Section 34 of the Act.	None
To hold otherwise would result in an anemalous situation.	Reasoning
This can best be illustrated by taking a concrete case.	Reasoning
An assessee files a declaration under Section 17 (1) of the Act in respect of the assessment year 195556.	Reasoning
Supposing his assessment for the year 195657 is reopened and an order for reassessment is made.	Reasoning
In case the declaration made under Section 17 (1) can be availed of only for the original assessments and not for reassessments under Section 34 of the Act, the result would necessarily be that the declaration would have to be excluded from consideration in making the reassessment for the year 195657 even though the declaration had been filed much earlier.	Reasoning
This could hardly have been the intention of the legislature.	Reasoning
The entire scheme of Section 17 (1) as well as the context in our opinion clearly shows that the word assessment in Section 17 (1) has been used in a comprehensive sense so as to include reassessment.8.	Reasoning
It may also be observed that there are indications in the Act that whenever the legislature intended that the word assessment should not include reassessment, it used express words for the purpose.	Reasoning
Section 33B of the Act empowers the Commissioner of Incometax if he considers any order passed by the incometax officer to be erroneous and prejudicial in the interest of revenue to make inter alia in order after complying with the requirements of that section, cancelling the assessment and directing a fresh assessment.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of that section makes it clear that no order can be made under that section to revise an order of reassessment made under the provisions of Section 34.	Reasoning
If the order of assessment did not include an order of reassessment made under the provisions of Section 34, there would have been hardly any necessity of making a provision in subsection (2) of Section 33B that no order can be made under subsection (1) of that section to revise an order of reassessment made under the provisions of Section 34.9.	Reasoning
According to Section 67 of the Act, no suit shall be brought in any Civil Court to set aside or modify any assessment made under the Act.	Reasoning
It is obvious that the protection afforded by that section would be available not only for the original assessments but also for reassessments made under Section 34 of the Act even though the word used in the section is assessment and not reassessment.	Reasoning
Likewise, the fact that the legislature has used the word assessments and not reassessments in the second proviso to Section 17 (1) of the Act would not exclude the applicability of that proviso to cases of reassessments subsequent to the filing of the declaration.10.	Reasoning
The matter may also be looked at from another angle.	Reasoning
Proceedings under Section 34 of the Act can be initiated if the Incometax officer has reason to believe that income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for any year or have been underassessed or assessed at too low a rate or have been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act or excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed.	Reasoning
The first of the above five contingencies deals with income, profits and gains chargeable to incometax escaping assessment.	Reasoning
In such an event the incometax officer would after initiating proceedings under Section 34 make assessment of such income, profit or gain.	Reasoning
In the order four contingencies, the order made by the incometax officer would be for reassessing such income, profit or gain or recomputing the loss or depreciation allowance.	Reasoning
If the view propounded on behalf of the revenue were to be accepted that assessment does not include reassessment made under Section 34 of the Act, the result would be that the benefit of the declaration made under Section 17 (1) of the Act, in case other conditions are fulfilled, would be available only in the first contingency mentioned above relating to escapted assessment and not in the remaining contingencies because they pertain to reassessment.	Reasoning
This would certainly be anomalous for it would result in placing persons whose income has escapted assessment in a better position compared to persons whose income has been underassessed or assessed at too law a rate or has been the subject of excessive relief under the Act or in whose cases excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed.	Reasoning
This could hardly have been the intention of the legislature.11.	Reasoning
We, therefore, accept these appeals, set aside the judgment of the High Court and discharge the answer given by it to the question referred to it.	Decision
The question reproduced above is answered in the affirmative in favour of the assesseeappellant and against the revenue.	Decision
The assesseeappellant shall be entitled to his costs both in this Court as well as in the High Court.	Decision
One hearing fee.12.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
