 Jagannadhadas, J.1.	None
This appeal arises out of a suit for declaration that the property, details of which are given in the plaint, are jointly possessed and owned by the plaintiff and the defendant the plaintiff owning 3/4 the share and defendant 1/4th share.	Issue
The suit was decreed by the trial Court.	Issue
But on appeal, the High Court of Punjab reversed the decree.	Issue
Hence the appeal to this Court.	Issue
The facts out of which this litigation arises are as follows2.	Facts
The suit properties admittedly belonged to one Kahan Singh who is the common ancestor of both the parties.	Facts
The following pedigree shows the relationship CHARTThe plaintiff, Wali Singh, son of Shiv Singh was admittedly adopted by Kirpal Singh.	None
The dates of birth and adoption of Wali Singh were both matters in dispute in the suit.	Facts
But it was found by the trial Court that Wali Singh was born on 231904, during the lifetime of Kahan Singh and that he was adopted on 2481918, long after Kahan Singhs death which occurred on 12111906.	Facts
These findings have been accepted by the appellate Court and are no longer in dispute before us.	None
Kahan Singh left him surviving only one of his sons, Kirpal Singh and two greatgrandsons, Wali Singh and Pritam Singh, sons of Shiv Singh.	Facts
Both Mohar Singh and Shiv Singh predeceased him.	Facts
On Kahan Singhs death there was mutation regarding his properties in the Revenue Records.	Facts
Ex.	None
P.11 dated 2831907, shows that the mutation was made in favour of Kirpal Singh for one half share and Wali Singh and Pritam Singh together for the other half share.	Facts
The family appears to have properties in three villages Mahalpur, Bahuwal and Wasuwal.	Facts
Ex.	None
P11 relates only to mouza Mahalpur.	None
But it is not disputed that similar mutations were then made in respect of properties in the other two villages.3.	Facts
Pritam Singh died on 1951920, leaving the defendant, Sohan Singh, as his sole heir.	Facts
It is to be noticed that about two years prior thereto, Wali Singh, the plaintiff, had been adopted by Kirpal Singh.	Facts
In view of these two events, Kinpal Singh brought about mutations in the Revenue registers in respect of the properties in the three villages.	Facts
The mutations in respect of mouza Bahawal are to be gathered from Exs. D9 and D4, dated 161920 and Ex.	Facts
D8 dated 1561920.	None
By Ex. D9, Wali Singh was mutated for Kirpal Singh.	Facts
By Ex. D4 , Wali Singhs name was removed from the register as a cosharer with Pritam Singh in respect of Shiv Singhs half share.	Facts
Having thus brought about the entry showing Pritam Singh as the sole sharer of Shiv Singhs half share, Sohan Singhs name was thereafter substituted for that of Pritam Singh by Ex	Facts
. D8 dated 1561920.	None
The net result of these mutations was finally to show in respect of the lands in mouza Bahuwal the plaintiff, Wali Singh, as owning the half share of Kirpal Singh and the defendant, Sohan Singh, as the owner of the half share of Pritam Singh.	Facts
It will be seen that this result was brought about by means of three steps in the order specified above.	Facts
As regards the other two villages namely Mahalpur and Wasuwal, the entries in Exs. D3 and D7 both dated 1561920, which correspond only to the second step have been exhibited.	Facts
But it is not disputed that the mutations in respect of these two villages also went through the same course bringing about finally the entries in the Revenue Records in the name of Wali Singh and Sohan Singh as equal halfsharers.	None
The case of the plaintiff is that these mutations were made during his minority completely ignoring his rights and that they are ineffectual to alter his lawful share in the properties.	None
He points out that by the date of Kahan Singhs death he was born but not adopted and therefore he was rightly mutated in 1907 under Ex.	Facts
P11 as being entitled jointly with Pritam Singh to the half share of Shiv Singh and that his subsequent adoption by Kirpal Singh entitled him to get Kirpal Singhs half share in addition.	None
He says that adoption could not divest him of the other 1/4th share which he had become already entitled to as the son of Shiv Singh.	Facts
His case is that though the Revenue records show his interest in the landed properties only as half and not as 3/4ths, his legal rights have not in any way become altered thereby since both the parties have been in joint possession throughout until the date of suit.	Facts
The main defence is that the enjoyment of parties since 1920 was on the basis that, each was entitled to a half share and that the plaintiff not only did not take steps to get the Revenue records rectified but consciously acquiesced in it and admitted it and that the suit is barred by limitation.	Facts
The trial Court held that the suit was not barred under Art. 44, Limitation Act.	Facts
In the view of the High Court, the mutations effected in the year 1920 in respect of three villages amounted to a transfer of the preexisting 1/4th share of Wali Singh by Kirpal Singh as his guardian.	Facts
It was accordingly held that it was incumbent upon Wali Singh to get that transfer set aside within three years after attaining majority notwithstanding that the parties may have continued in joint possession.	Facts
In this view they dismissed the suit.4.	Facts
Learned counsel for the plaintiffappellant urges that the mutation proceedings did not purport to be based on any transfer by Kirpal Singh as guardian of Wali Singh and that there is no basis for invoking the application of Article 44 against the plaintiff.	Arguments of Petitioner
The inference of the High Court that the mutation proceedings in 1920 constitute a transfer is based on the narrations therein.	None
It is necessary, therefore, to examine them.	None
The first was the mutation entry No. 167 shown by Ex.	None
D9 dated 161920.	None
This entry shows that the mutation was made on certain statements made by Kirpal Singh and Wali Singh.	None
Kirpal Singhs statement is as followsI Kirpal Singh have adopted Wali Singh, the grandson of my real brother, as my son, under a registered deed.	None
Pritam Singh his other brother also died.	None
His (Pritam Singhs) son is alive.	None
I wish that during my lifetime my entire movable and immovable property might be entered in the name of Wali Singh and accordingly Wali Singh shall have so concern with the property of Shib Singh.	None
The son of Pritam Singh is a minor.	None
His rights are not affected thereby.	None
Wali Singhs statement is as followsMy name may be removed from the heritage, of Shib Singh.	None
It may be entered in the name of the son of Pritam Singh.	None
A separate mutation be entered in respect thereof.	None
Mutation No. 174 in Ex. D4 which was also made on the same date shows the following statement by Wali Singh.	None
My name may be removed from my parental heritage, because Kirpal Singh had adopted me as his son.	None
I now relinquish my right in the heritage of my father.	None
Mutation entry No. 175 shown by Ex. D8 dated 1561920, was merely the resultant of mutation entries Nos. 167 and 174.	None
These statements relate to Bahuwal.	None
It may be taken that similar statements were made in respect of the villages Mahalpur and Wasuwal.	None
The learned Judges were inclined to treat these statements as showing a transfer by Kirpal Singh of Wali Singhs preadoption 1/4th share.	None
It appears to us, however, that they cannot really bear any such interpretation.	None
It is true that the various mutations were brought about by Kirpal Singh and that Wali Singh was a minor at the time to the knowledge of everybody concerned.	Reasoning
It is also true that Kirpal Singh intended that Wali Singh should not have any share in his natural fathers property.	Reasoning
But in terms, what appears to have been done was to get Wali Singh to make a declaration of relinquishment of his share in Shiv Singhs heritage.	Reasoning
The recitals do not purport to be based on any transfer or relinquishment by Kirpal Singh as the guardian of Wali Singh.	Reasoning
The purported release by the minor Wali Singh was absolutely infructuous in law.	Reasoning
There being nothing by way of release by Kirpal Singh on behalf of Wali Singh, no case for the application of Article 44 of the Limitation Act arose.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the learned Judges of the High Court were in error in thinking that the plaintiffs suit was barred by virtue of Art. 44, Limitation Act.5.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the respondent, however, urges that in view of the course of events appearing on the record the plaintiff is not entitled to any declaratory relief and that the same is barred by limitation under Art. 120, Limitation Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He urges that even if knowledge of the wrong entries in the revenue records of the year 1920 did not furnish the plaintiff a cause of action since he was then a minor, there are a number of subsequent proceedings which indicate not only that he was perfectly well aware of his situation from at least the year 1928 but also that he throughout conducted himself in his relations with the respondent as an equal sharer and went so far as to become a party to a joint application for partition of the family properties in equal shares between himself and the defendant so late as in the year 1943.Exs.	Arguments of Respondent
D10 and D12 dated 7121928 Ex. D1 dated 1571937, Exs.	None
A and B dated 2621943, and Exs. D5, D6 and D11 of the year 1944 have been relied on in support of the above contention.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out that the averments made by the plaintiff in paras 5 and 6 of the plaint as to when the right to sue accrued and cause of action arose have not been substantiated in the evidence at the trial.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged, therefore, that whatever cause of action the plaintiff had or a declaratory relief, it was much more than six years prior to suit and that no fresh cause of action has been made out and that, therefore, the present suit is barred on this ground.6.	Arguments of Respondent
But we notice that the above aspect has not at all been raised in the Courts below.	Reasoning
There is no mention of it in the grounds of appeal to the High Court or in the case filed for the respondent in this court.	Reasoning
The above mentioned facts were relied on in the courts below only to make out pleas of acquiescee, estoppel or ratification which have been found against.	Reasoning
Besides, it appears from the record that when the issues were framed by the trial Court, it was expressly recorded as follows in a statement signed by counsel for both the parties.	Reasoning
There is no other point in dispute or any issue to be framed.	Reasoning
We give it up if a mention of it is made in the pleadings.	Reasoning
In these circumstances it is too late to allow this point to be raised at this state.	Reasoning
Besides, the plaintiff has a subsisting title and his legal right as threefourth sharer has been denied at least in these proceedings.	None
There is, therefore, no purpose served by dismissing this suit and by driving the parties to another litigation.7.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal is allowed and the declaration granted by the trial Court restored.	Decision
In the circumstances the parties will bear their own costs throughout.8.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
