 VAIDIALINGAM J. 1.	None
This appeal, by special leave, raises the question whether the deed dated March 20, 1959, and marked exhibit A is an instrument of partnership on the basis of which the appellant firm is eligible to be granted registration under section 26A of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (hereinafter to be referred as the Incometax Act)	Issue
The appellant is a firm consisting of six partners and the partnership was constituted under the document dated March 20, 1959.	Facts
The business of the partnership, as recited in the deed, is stated to have been carried on in partnership from October 1, 1958.	Facts
The partnership was registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (hereinafter to be referred as the Partnership Act), on or about August 11, 1959.	Facts
For the assessment year 195960, corresponding to the previous year ending March 31, 1959, the appellant filed an application to the Incometax Officer, A Ward, Dharwar, under section 26A for registration of the partnership in the name of M s. K. D. Kamath and Co.	Facts
The Incometax Officer, by his, order dated September 28, 1960 declined to grant registration on the ground that there was no genuine partnership brought into existence by the deed of March 20, 1959, and that the claim of the firm having been constituted is not genuine.	Facts
The said officer further held that the business should be held to be the sole concern of K. D. Kamath.	Facts
For coming to this conclusion, the Incometax Officer has mainly relied on clauses 8, 9, 12 and 16 of the partnership deed.	Facts
Though the Incometax Officer has used a loose expression that there is no genuine partnership, the sum and substance of his finding is that there is no relationship of partners inter se created under the said document.	Facts
2. Mr. S. K. Aiyar, learned counsel for the revenue, has also clarified the position before us by stating that the department is not challenging the genuineness of the document.	None
According to the learned counsel, the stand taken by the revenue is that no legal relationship of partners has been brought about as between the parties to the document.	None
In short, his contention is that the arrangement evidenced by exhibit A is not that of partnership as understood in lawOn appeal by the assessee, the Appellate Assistant Comissioner on May 5, 1961, confirmed the order of the Incometax Officer.	None
According to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, no partnership has been brought about by the deed dated March 20, 1959, and that the business continues to be the proprietary concern of K. D. Kamath.	None
In coming to this conclusion the appellate authority has laid special emphasis on clause 12 of the deed.	None
3.	None
The assessee carried the matter in further appeal I.T.A. No. 3220 of 196162 (assessment year 195960) before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay Bench B.	None
The Appellate Tribunal, after a reference to the relevant clauses in the partnership deed, came to the conclusion that the two essential requirements as laid down by the courts for determining whether there is a partnership, namely, an agreement between the parties to share profits and each of the parties acting as agent of all, are fully satisfied in this case.	Facts
In this connection the Tribunal placed reliance on the decision of the Bombay High Court in Balubhai Gulabdas Navlakhi v. Commissioner of Incometax and distinguished an earlier decision of the same court reported in Umarbhai Chandbhai v. Commissioner of Incometax.	Facts
Ultimately, the Appellate Tribunal held that the partnership deed makes it clear that profits and losses are to be shared between the parties and that, subject to the overriding authority of K. D. Kamath, the other partners could act for the firm.	Facts
In this view, the Appellate Tribunal held that the deed does create a relationship of partners inter se between the parties thereto and directed the Incometax Officer to register the firm under section 26A of the Incometax Act.	Facts
4. The Commissioner of Incometax, Bangalore, respondent herein made an application on October 4, 1962, under section 66(1) of the Incometax Act praying for a reference being made by the Appellate Tribunal to the High Court of the question of law mentioned in the application.	None
The said application was numbered as 66/RA978 of 196263.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal, accordingly, submitted an agreed statement of case and referred to the High Court for its opinion the following question of law Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, M s. K. D. Kamath Co. could be granted registration under section 26A of the Act for the assessment year 195960 ?	Facts
5.	None
The High Court by its judgment and order dated January 21, 1964, in I.T.R. C. No. 13 of 1963 answered the question referred to it against the assessee and held that the appellant firm could not be granted registration under section 26A for the assessment year 195960.	Facts
it is against this decision of the High Court that the assessee has filed the above appeal.	None
6.	None
The High Court has generally considered the effect of clauses 5 to 9, 12 and 16 of the partnership deed.	None
The High Court also considered the question whether the partnership deed satisfies the two essential requisites to constitute the partnership, namely (1) whether there is an agreement to share profits as well as the losses of the business, and (2) whether each of the partners under the deed can act as agent of all.	Facts
From the discussion in the judgment, the learned judges, so far as we could see, have not thought it necessary to consider elaborately the question whether there is an agreement in the partnership deed to share the profits and losses of the business.	None
Obviously the High Court must have been satisfied from the recitals in the partnership deed that this requirement is amply satisfied in this case.	None
That is why we find that the learned judges have focussed their attention, as they themselves say in the judgment, on the question whether it is possible to hold from the recitals in the partnership deed that each partner is entitled to act as agent of all.	None
In considering this aspect, the learned judges have referred particularly to clauses 8, 9 and 16 of the partnership deed and have held that it is clear from these clauses that the management, as well as the control of the business, is entirely left in the hands of the alleged first partner, K.D. Kamath, and that the other partners are only to work under his directions and share profits and losses in accordance with the proportions mentioned in clause 5.	None
It is the further view of the High Court that it is not within the power of the other five parties to act as agent of the other partners as they cannot accept any business except with the consent of K. D. Kamath nor can they raise any loan or pledge the firms interest.	None
On this reasoning the High Court has come to the conclusion that there is no relationship of partners created under the partnership deed and as this essential element of agency is lacking, the appellant was not eligible to be granted registration under section 26A.	None
The learned judges, In coming to this conclusion, have placed considerable reliance on the decision of the Bombay High Court in Umarbhai Chandbhai v. Commissioner of Incometax as well as the decision of this Court in M. P. Davis v. Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax.	None
At this stage we may mention that the judgment of the Mysore High Court, which is under appeal before us, is reported as Commissioner of Incometax v. K. D. Kamath CoMr.	None
S. K. Venkataranga Iyengar, learned counsel for the assesseeappellant, referred us to the various clauses in the partnership deed and urged that the view of the High Court that the essential element of agency is absent in this case, is erroneous.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counsel further urged that the partnership deed, read as a whole, leaves no room for doubt that there is an agreement to share the profits and losses of the business in the proportion mentioned in the deed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, one of the essential ingredients to constitute a partnership is satisfied in this case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further urged that, though a larger amount of control regarding the conduct of business may have been left in the hands of the first partner, K. D. Kamath, that circumstance, by itself, does not militate against the view of one partner acting as agent of the other partners.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred us in this connection to certain decisions of the High Courts as well as of this court where, under circumstances similar to the one existing before us, it has been held that the mere fact that more control is to be exercised only by one of the partners is not a circumstance which militates against the parties having entered into a partnership arrangement as understood in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
7. Mr. S. K. Iyer, learned counsel for the revenue, supported the reasoning of the High Court in its entirety.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, the question whether there is an agreement to share the profits and the losses of the business and the further question whether each of the partners is entitled to act as agent of all are to be determined by looking into all the facts as borne out by the deed of partnership.	Arguments of Respondent
He urged that, on aconsideration of all such facts, the High Court has held that one of the essential conditions, namely, the right of one partner to act as agent of all, does not exist in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
If so, the counsel urged, the opinion expressed by the High Court that the appellant is not eligible for registration under section 26A is correct.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of his contentions, the counsel also referred us to certain clauses in the partnership deed as well as to certain provisions of the Partnership ActFrom what is stated above, it is clear that the various authorities, as well as the High Court, have only considered some of the clauses of the partnership deed for coming to the conclusion one way or the other.	Arguments of Respondent
In considering the question whether the partnership deed creates the relationship of partners as between the parties thereto, as understood in law, it is desirable to have a complete picture of the entire document.	None
Exhibit A, the partnership deed, runs as follows INSTRUMENT OF PARTNERSHIP Articles of agreement made at Hubli, this 20th day of March, 1959, among (1) Shri Krishnarao Dadasaheb Kamat, hereinafter called the partyhereto of the 1st part, (2) Shri Narayan Ganesh Kamat hereinafter calledthe party hereto of the 2nd part, (3) Shri Shripadarao Damodara Kamat, hereinafter called the party hereto of the 3rd part, (4) Shri Dayanoba Jotiram Mohite, hereinafter called the party hereto of the 4th part, (5) Shri Shankar Govind Joshi, hereinafter called the party hereto of the 5th part, and (6) Shri Yashavant Bhawoo Kate, hereinafter called the party of the 6th part, all Hindu inhabitants, residing at Hubli, and whereas the parties from 2 to 6, who have been serving with party No. 1 since a very long time and in view of the appreciation of their honest and sincere services which the above parties have rendered in past and with the object that the above parties should also have their material and economical progress, party No. 1, i.e., Shri K. D. Kamat, has been pleased to convert his sole proprietary concern as a partnership concern, by admitting the above parties from 2 to 6 as working partners and the party No. 1 shall be the main financing and managing partner and the business of the partnership is agreed and is being carried on accordingly in partnership as from 1st day of October, 1958, as Contractors or any other business that the parties may think fit under the name and style of Messrs. K. D. Kamat Co., Engineers and Contractors, Hubli and it is hereby agreed by and among the parties to this Agreement as under 2.	None
That the business of the partnership is running under the name and style of Messrs. K. D. Kamat Co., Engineers Contractors, Hubli, as from the list day of October 1958, and this agreement shall take retrospective effect and shall be deemed to have come into operation as from the commencement of 1st October, 1958.	None
3.	None
That the duration of the partnership shall be at will.	None
4.	None
That the business of the partnership is running at Hubli and shall run at Hubli or at such other place or places, as the case may be, under the name and style of Messrs. K, D. Kamat Co., Engineers Contractors or in such other name or names that the parties may from time to time decide and agree upon.	None
5.	None
That the final accounts of the partnership firm shall be made up on the last day of each year of account, which shall generally be on 31st day of March every year of account and the accounts shall be taken up to that date of all the stockintrade and after providing for all the working expenses, the remaining net profits or losses, as the case may be, shall be shared by the parties hereto as under Names of Partners Extent of individual share 1.	None
Shri Krishnarao Dadasaheb Kamat 5 shares 2.	None
Shri Narayan Ganesh Kamat 2 shares 3.	None
Shri Shripadarao Damodara Kamat 2 shares 4.	None
Shri Dayanoba Jotiram Mohite 2 shares 5.	None
Shri Shankar Govind Joshi 2 shares 6.	None
Shri Yeshavant Bhawoo Kate 2 shares Total 15 shares 6.	None
That it is agreed among the partners that the party No. 1, i.e., Shri K. D. Kamat, shall be the principal and financing partner and the rest of the partners, i.e., from 2 to 6, are admitted only as working partners contributing labour.	None
7.	None
That the goodwill of the firm shall wholly and solely belong to party No. 1, i.e., Shri K. D. Kamat.	None
8.	None
That the party No. 1, i.e., Shri K. D. Kamat, who is the principal and financing partner and by virtue of his having the long standing experience in the line of business together with the technical knowledge of engineer, shall have full right of control and management of the firms business and in the best interest of the firm, it is thus decided and agreed upon among all the partners that all the working partners from 2 to 6 shall always work according to the instructions and directions given from time to time by Shri K. D. Kamat, in the actual execution of works and in any other matter connecting thereof, pertaining to this partnership business.	None
The decision of the principal partner an the aspect of taking any new business or giving tenders for new works, shall always vest with him, whose decision shall be final and binding upon all the working partners.	None
9.	None
That it is also agreed among the partners that no working partner or partners is are authorised to raise a loan for and on behalf of the firm or pledge the firms interest directly or indirectly and such an act shall not be binding on the firm, except under the written authority of the principal partner.	Reasoning
10.	None
That it is further expressly agreed that excepting the parties Nos. 1 and 2, i.e., Shri K. D. Kamat and Shri N. G. Kamat, the other parties from 3 to 6 shall not do contract business, so long as they are partners in this firm and this clause is inserted in the betterment of the firms business and with the object that the firms business should not suffer and the works if taken or standing in the name of the said parties from 3 to 6, the same shall be the business of the firm.	None
11.	None
That it is also further agreed that the managing partner, Shri K. D. Kamat, shall alone operate the bank accounts and in case of any need for convenience, the partner authorised by him in writing and so intimated to the bank or banks, shall operate the bank accounts.	None
12.	None
That in the course of the business or during the existence of the firms business, the principal partner has reason to believe that any working partner or partners is are not working and conducting to the best interest of the firm, the principal partner shall have a right to remove such a working partner or partners from the partnership concern and in such an eventuality the outgoing working partner or partners shall have only right of the profit or loss up to the date of his retirement, as may be decided by the principal partner in lump sum either by paying or receiving, regard being had to the progress of the business or otherwise up to the date of retirement, only on the completed works.	None
13.	None
That proper books of accounts shall be kept by the said parties and entries made therein of all such matters, transactions and things as are usually entered in the books of accounts kept by the persons engaged in business of a similar nature all books of accounts, documents, papers and things shall be kept at the principal place of business of the firm and each partner shall at all times have free and equal access to them.	None
14.	None
That each partner shall be just and faithful to the other or others in all matters relating to the business of the firm, shall attend diligently to the firms business and give a true account and shall give information relating to the same without fail.	None
15.	None
That each partner shall withdraw such sums as will be mutually determined by the partners from time to time, in anticipation of the profit falling to their individual share, and in case of loss, the same shall be made good by the partners.	None
16.	None
Thus subject to the provisions herein mentioned and laid down and made thoroughly known by each of the parties to this agreement with sound mind and body, the firms affairs be carried on for mutual gain and benefit and if any questions which may arise or occur touching to the conduct or management or liability of the firm, the same shall be amicably settled among the parties with the consent of principal partner, whose decision in the matter shall be final and binding on all partnersIn witness whereof the parties to this agreement have set their hands and seals to this agreement as under 1.	None
Signed and delivered by the within named Shri K. D. Kamat, himself (Sd.)	None
K. D. Kamat 2.	None
Signed and delivered by the within named Shri N. G. Kamat, himself (Sd.)	None
N. G. Kamat 3.	None
Signed and delivered by the within named Shri S. D. Kamat, himself (Sd.)	None
S. D. Kamat	None
In the presence of (Sd.)	None
V. R. Jituri 4.	None
Signed and delivered by the within named Shri D. J. Mohite, himself (Sd.)	None
D. J. Mohite 5.	None
Signed and delivered by the within named Shri S. G. Joshi, himself (Sd.)	None
S. G. Joshi 6.	None
Signed and delivered by the within named Shri Y. B. Kate, himself (Sd.)	None
Y. B. Kate (Sd.) Certified to be the true copy of the original For K. D. KAMAT CO. 8.	None
The High Court, so far as we could see, has rested its decision on five circumstances for holding that there is no relationship of partners as between the parties, inter se, created under the partnership deed.	None
They are based on consideration in particular of clauses 8, 9 and 16.	None
The following are the circumstances, which according to the learned judges militate against holding in favour of the assessee (1) The management as well as the control of the business is entirely left in the hands of the alleged first partner, K. D. Kamath (2) The other partners can merely work under his directions and share in the profits and losses in accordance with the proportion mentioned in clause 5 (3) It is not within the power of the parties Nos. 2 to 6 to act as agent of other partners (4) The said parties cannot accept any business except with the consent of K. D. Kamath and (5)Those parties cannot raise any loan or pledege the firms interest, directly or indirectly, except under the written authority of K. D. Kamath.	None
In view of all these circumstances, according to the High Court, one of the essential elements to constitute partnership, namely, agency, is lackingWe will now refer to some of the provisions of the Incometax Act as well as the Partnership Act.	None
9. Section 2(6B) of the Incometax Act provides that the expressions firm, partner and partnership have the same meaning respectively as in the Partnership Act.	None
There is no doubt a proviso with which we are not concerned.	None
Section 26A of the Incometax Act lays down the procedure regarding registration of firms.	None
Section 59 authorises the Central Board of Revenue, subject to the control of the Central Government, to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act.	None
The relevant Incometax Rules lay down the details of the procedure for making an application for registration of a firm as contemplated under section 26A.	None
As there is no controversy that the application has been made by the appellant in accordance with section 26A and the relevant rules, it is unnecessary for us to quote the section and the relevant rules.	None
10.	None
Coming to the Partnership Act, section 4 which defines partnership runs as follows Partnership is the relation between persons who have agreed to share the profits of a business carried on by all or any of them acting for all.	None
Section 6 deals with the mode of determining the existence of partnership.	None
As per that section, in determining whether a group of persons is or is not a firm or whether a person is or is not a partner in a firm, regard is to be had to the real relation between the parties as shown by all relevant facts taken together.	None
Section 11(1) provides that, subject to the provisions of the Act, the mutual rights and duties of the partners of a firm may be determined by contract between the partners and such contract may be expressed or may be implied by a course of dealing.	None
It further provides that such contract may be varied by consent of all the partners and such consent may be expressed or may be implied by a course of dealing.	None
Subsection (2) clearly provides that, notwithstanding anything contained in section 27 of the Indian Contract Act, the contract between the partners may provide that a partner shall not carry on any business other than that of the firm while he is a partner.	None
Section 12 in clauses (a) to (d) deals with the rights and duties of a partner, but that again is subject to contract between the partners.	None
Section 14, on which some reliance has been placed by the counsel for the revenue, is as follows 14.	None
The property of the firm.	None
Subject to contract between the partners, the property of the firm includes all property and rights and interests in property originally brought into the stock of the firm, or acquired, by purchase or otherwise, by or for the firm, or for the purposes and in the course of the business of the firm, and includes also the goodwill of the business.	None
Unless the contrary intention appears, property and rights and interests in property acquired with money belonging to the firm are deemed to have been acquired for the firm.	None
Section 18 provides that, subject to the provisions of the Act, a partner is, the agent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm.	Reasoning
Section 19(1) provides that, subject to the provisions of section 22, the act of a partner which is done to carry on, in the usual way, the business of the kind carried on by the firm binds the firm.	None
It further states that the authority of a partner to so bind the firm conferred by the said section is called his implied authority.	None
Subsection (2) enumerates the various matters, which a partner cannot do under the implied authority, in the absence of any usage or custom of trade to the contrary.	None
Section 20 dealing with the extension and restriction of partners implied authority runs as follows 20.	None
Extension and restriction of partners implied authority.	None
The partners in a firm may, by contract between the partners, extend or restrict the implied authority of any partner.	None
Notwithstanding any such restriction, any act done by a partner on behalf of the firm which falls within his implied authority binds the firm, unless the person with whom he is dealing, knows of the restriction or does not know or believe that partner to be a partner.	None
11.	None
From a perusal of the partnership deed one thing is clear, namely, under clause (1) what was originally the sole proprietary concern of K. D. Kamath has been converted as partnership concern by admitting parties Nos. 2 to 6 as working partners, along with party No. 1, and party No. 1, is the main financing and managing partner of the business.	Reasoning
That clause has to be read along with clause (6) whereunder the partners have agreed that K. D. Kamath shall be the principal and financing partner and the rest of the partners, namely, parties Nos. 2 to 6, are admitted only as working partners contributing labour.	None
Clause (4) deals with the running of the partnership business at Hubli as also other place or places or withsuch other name or names that the parties (which means parties Nos. 1 to 6) may from time to time decide and agree upon.	None
From clauses (1), (2) and (3), it is clear that the business of the partnership is that of engineers and contractors.	None
We are referring to this aspect because it will have a bearing regarding the control of the business agreed to be vested in K. D. Kamath.	None
There does not appear to be any controversy that party No. 1 has been carrying on such business as a proprietary concern for a long time before the partnership was formed and as such he is considerably experienced in the said technical type of business.	None
Clause (5) provides that final accounting is to be taken as on March 31, of every year and the net profits and losses are to be shared by the parties thereto in the proportion of the shares specified in the said clauseUnder clause (11), apart from the managing partner, K. D. Kamath, operating the bank accounts, any other partner authorised by him is also eligible to operate the bank accounts.	None
Clause (12) entitles a partner, when he ceases to be a partner, to be paid his share of profit or loss, up to the date of his so ceasing to be a partner.	None
Clause (13) provides that books of accounts are to be properly maintained and each partner has a right at all times to have free and equal access to them.	None
Clause (14) enjoins on each partner to be just and faithful to the other partners in all matters relating to the business of the firm and each of them has got a duty to diligently attend to the business of the firm.	None
Each of them has also an obligation to give a true account and information regarding the business of the firm.	None
Clause (15) enables the partners to withdraw the amounts in anticipation of profits falling to their individual share and in case of loss, each of them is also liable to make good the same in proportion to his share in the partnership.	None
Clause (16)enjoins on the partners to carry on the affairs of the firm for mutual gain and benefit.	Reasoning
All the above clauses clearly, in our opinion, establish that the sole proprietary concern of K. D. Kamath has vanished.	None
The above clauses also establish the right of each of the partners to share the profits and also to bear the losses in the proportion of their shares mentioned in clause (5).	Reasoning
Therefore, one of the essential ingredients to constitute partnership, namely, that there should be an agreement to share the profits and the losses of the business, is more than amply satisfied in this case.	None
12.	None
Then the question is whether the circumstances pointed out by the High Court and referred to by us earlier, necessarily lead to the conclusion that no relationship of partners, as understood in law, has been created as between the parties under the partnership deed.	None
For this purpose it is necessary to refer to certain decisions of this court as well as of the High Courts, which may have a bearing on this aspect.	None
In Steel Brothers Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, one of the questions this court had to consider was whether the fact that the control and management of a business was in the hands of one person when there were three partners is destructive of the element of partnership.	None
The facts were that A and B, two companies, were carrying on trade in Burma rice.	None
Later on, an agreement was entered into between A, B and C for the working of the Burma rice business.	None
It was provided that the entire management of the business and the conduct of its affairs was to be done by A in its absolute discretion.	None
The profit and loss was provided to be shared in the proportion mentioned under the agreement.	None
There was a restriction on B and C against hiring the properties of the firm without the consent of A. It was held by this court that, notwithstanding the fact that the management and conduct of the business in its own discretion was vested with A, that circumstance is not destructive of the partnership relationship that exists between the parties to the agreement.	None
In this decision two conditions have been laid down as essential to constitute a partnership in law (1) sharing of profit or loss of the business and (2) business being carried on by all the parties or any of them acting for all, in which is implicit the theory of agencyIn M. P. Davis v. Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax, this court had to consider whether the relationship as partners had been created by the agreement of partnership reliecl on by the parties.	None
From the relevant facts it is seen that it was an extreme case where two brothers ostensibly entered into a partnership arrangement.	None
But the recitals in the document, as pointed out by this court, clearly showed that the entire management was with one brother, A, and that B had no right to make any contribution towards capital.	None
There was no provision as to how losses are to be dealt with and there was a very complicated manner for ascertaining the socalled profits.	None
Having due regard to the tenor of the document and the clauses contained therein, this court held that there was no intention to bring about the relationship of partners between the two brothers.	None
On the other hand, it is the view of this court that the document had been executed to continue under the cloak of a partnership the preexisting and real relationship, namely, that of master and servant.	None
It is to be noted that this court did not hold that there was no relationship of partners created under the document only on the basis that the exclusive control and management was left in the hands of A. Such a conclusion was reached having due regard to the various other clauses in the deed.	None
In fact this court has already held in the earlier decision referred to above, that the mere circumstance that the control and management are vested in one partner is not destructive of the existence of partnership.	None
No doubt, the High Court in the case on hand has placed some reliance upon the decision in M. P. Davis v. Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax, in support of its conclusion that no partnership arrangement can be spelled out from the document before us.	None
In our opinion, there has not been a proper appreciation by the High Court of the reasons which led to this court for holding in the said decision that there was no relationship of partners between the brothers, A and B.	None
That was an extreme case where the clauses in the partnership deed were entirely differentIn Commissioner of Incometax v. A. Abdul Rahim and Co.	None
this court has held that it is settled law that if a partnership is a genuine and valid one, the Incometax Officer has no power to reject its registration, if the other provisions of section 26A and the rules made thereunder are complied with.	None
13.	None
In Agarwal and Co. v. Commissioner of Incometax this court dealing with the conditions of registration prescribed in section 26A and the relevant rules observed as follows The conditions of registration prescribed in this section and the relevant rules are (1) on behalf of the firm, an application should be made to the Incometax Officer by such person and at such times and containing such particulars, being in such form and verified in such manner as are prescribed by the Rules (2) the firm should be constituted under an instrument of partnership (3) the instrument must specify the individual shares of the partners, and (4) the partnership must be valid and genuine and must actually exist in the terms specified in the instrument.	None
If all the above conditions are fulfilled, the Incometax Officer is bound to register the firm unless the assessee has contravened section 23(4) of the Act.	None
14.	None
In certain decisions of the High Courts the two essential conditions necessary to form the relation of partnership have been stated to be (1) that there should be an agreement to share the profits and losses of the business, and (2) that each of the partners should be acting as agent for all.	Reasoning
Though those two conditions, by and large, have to be satisfied when the relationship of partners is created between the parties, we would emphasise that the legal requirements under section 4 of the Partnership Act to constitute a partnership in law are (1) there must be an agreement to share the profits or losses of the business and (2) the business must be carried on by all the partners or any of them acting for all.	Reasoning
There is implicit in the second requirement the principle of agencyThe tests laid down by the High Courts have again been applied by the Bombay High Court in Balubhai Gulabdas Navlakhi v. Commissioner of Incometax to consider whether the document before them created a relationship of partners between the parties thereto.	None
One of the main contentions that as urged, as militating against the theory of partnership, was that very wide powers of control and management were given to one of the partners so much so that he is to be considered to be the owner or proprietor of the concern.	None
This contention was rejected by the High Court.	None
After a reference to the various clauses in the document, the Bombay High Court came to the conclusion that the two essential conditions necessary to form a relation of partnership, referred to above, were present in the document constituting the partnership.	Reasoning
The High Court further held that the fact that some of the terms of the document gave enlarged powers of management and control to one of the partners, who has brought in all the finances, is not by itself sufficient to hold, having due regard to the other clauses, that the real agreement between the parties is not that of partners, but that of master and servant.	None
We may also observe that most of the clauses in the document before the Bombay High Court were more or less similar to the clauses in the partnership deed before us.	None
15.	None
In similar cases, where the control and management was vested in the hands of one partner and where it was also provided that only one partner can operate on the bank account and the others can do so, only if authorised by him, and that only one party can borrow on behalf of the firm for all have been held not to militate against holding a particular document as creating the relationship of master and servant.	Reasoning
Those decisions are of the Kerala High Court in Commissioner of Incometax v. Pathrose Rice Oil Mills, by the Madras High Court in P. A. C. Ratnaswamy Nadar Sons v. Commissioner of Incometax, by the Allahabad High Court in Commissioner of Incometax v. R. S. Shoe Factory, by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Marlidhar Kishangopal v. Commissioner of Incometax and by the Mysore High Court in City Tobacco Mart v. Commissioner of IncometaxWe have already referred to the fact that the Bombay High Court in Balubhai Gulabdas Navlakhi v. Commissioner of Incometax has also taken the same view.	Reasoning
In addition to the existence of clauses to the above affect in the partnership deed, we may mention that in the Allahabad decision, referred to above, in a partnership between A, B and C, there was a clause that C was not entitled to invest any capital and that the business is to be carried on only by A and B and that C has no power to interfere with the management of the business.	Reasoning
The Allahabad High Court, in spite of all these clauses, held that the document created a relationship of partners as the two essential conditions, referred to by us earlier, existed in that case.	Reasoning
16.	None
We have already referred to the decision of this court in Agarwal and Co. v. Commissioner of Incometax, laying down the conditions, which, if fulfilled, makes it obligatory on the Incometax Officer to register the firm, unless the assessee has contravened section 23(4) of the Act.	Reasoning
It is not the case of the revenue that the assessee before us has contravened section 23(4).	Reasoning
There is also no controversy that the application has been made in accordance with section 26A as well as the relevant rules.	Reasoning
The firm has been constituted under an instrument of partnership dated March 20, 1959.	Reasoning
From the clauses of the partnership deed, extracted above, particularly clause (5), the shares of the partners regarding the profit and loss have also been specified.	Reasoning
Therefore, it follows that conditions Nos. 1, 2 and 3 specified in the above decision are fully satisfied.	Reasoning
Regarding condition No. 4 also, there is no controversy that the partnership is genuine in the sense that it is not a fictitious document.	Reasoning
Then the only other requirement referred to in condition No. 4 to be satisfied is whether the partnership is valid in the sense that it creates relationship of partners between the parties thereto.	Reasoning
From our discussion in this judgment, according to us, the relationship of partners inter se has been created under the partnership deed and that such relationship had actually existed in accordance with the terms specified in the said documentFrom a review of the above decisions, it is clear that the mere nomenclature given to a document is by itself not sufficient to hold that the document in question is one of partnership.	Reasoning
Two essential conditions to be satisfied are (1) that there should be an agreement to share the profits as well as the losses of the business and (2) the business must be carried on by all or any of them acting for all, within the meaning of the definition of partnership under section 4 of the Partnership Act.	Reasoning
The fact that the exclusive power and control, by agreement of the parties, is vested in one partner or the further circumstance that only one partner can operate the bank accounts or borrow on behalf of the firm are not destructive of the theory of partnership provided the two essential conditions, mentioned earlier, are satisfied.	Reasoning
17.	None
In the light of the principles laid down by this court in Steel Brothers Co. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax and in the decisions of the High Courts, referred to above, the reasons given by the High Court for holding that the relationship of partners has not been created under the deed of partnership before us, cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
As the control and management of business can be left by agreement in the hands of one partner to be exercised on behalf of all the partners, the other consequence by way of restriction on the rights of the other partners loses all significance.	Reasoning
In fact the clauses providing that the working partners are to work under the directions of the managing partner and the further clause restricting their right to accept business or raise any loans or pledge the firms interest except with the consent of the managing partner, K. D. Kamath, have all to be related with the agreement entered into by the partners regarding the management and control by K. D. Kamath.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that under the partnership deed the relationship which has been brought into existence between the six parties is a relationship of partners who have agreed to share the profits and losses of business carried on by all or any of them acting for all and it satisfies the definition of partnership under section 4 of the Partnership Act.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that there is a sharing of the profits or losses of the business by the partners in the ratio of the proportion mentioned in clause (5).	Reasoning
That clause read with other clauses already discussed by us clearly shows that the first condition, namely, all persons agreeing to share profits or losses is satisfied.	Reasoning
Even on the basis that the entire control and management of the business is vested in K. D. Kamath, party No. 1, and that parties Nos. 2 to 6 as working partners have to work under his direction, from all the other circumstances it is clear that the conduct of business by party No. 1 is done by him acting for all the partners.	Reasoning
There is no indication to the contrary in the partnership deed.	Reasoning
Therefore, even without anything more, it is clear that as the partnership business is carried on by party No. 1, acting for all, the second condition of agency is also satisfied.	Reasoning
This idea is reinforced by clause (16) which provides that the firms affairs are to be carried on for mutual benefit.	Reasoning
That clause is to the effect that the firms affairs which are managed by party No. 1 are really for the mutual gain and benefit of all the partnersIt is, no doubt, true that the second essential test of the business being carried on by all or any of the partners acting for all must be satisfied.	Reasoning
The provisions in the partnership deed clearly establish that K.D. Kamath, the managing partner, carries on the business acting for all the partners.	Reasoning
18.	None
Much stress has been laid by the High Court on the fact that under clause (9) parties Nos. 2 to 6 have no right to raise loans for and on behalf of the firm or pledge the firms interest.	Reasoning
This circumstance, according to the High Court, is destructive of the element of partnership.	Reasoning
We have already held that the management and control of the business done by party No. 1 is the carrying on of the business on behalf of all the partners.	Reasoning
No doubt, under section 18 of the Partnership Act, a partner is the agent of the firm for the purpose of the business of the firm.	Reasoning
But, that section itself clearly says that it is subject to the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
It is open to the parties under section 11 to enter into an agreement regarding their mutual rights and duties as partners of the firm and that can be done by contract, which in this case is evidenced by the deed of partnership.	Reasoning
Further, section 18 will have to be read along with section 4.	Reasoning
If the relationship of partners is established as a partnership as defined in section 4, and if the necessary ingredients referred to in that section are found to exist, there is no escape from the conclusion that, in law, a partnership has come into existence.	Reasoning
It is in the light of these provisions that section 18 will have to be appreciated.	Reasoning
Section 18 only emphasises the principle of agency which is already incorporated in the definition of partnership under section 4. 19.	Reasoning
It should be remembered that, so far as the outside world is concerned, so long as the parties Nos. 2 to 6 are held out as partners of this firm, as has been done under the partnership deed, their acts would bind the whole partnership.	Reasoning
The provision in clause (9), in our opinion, is only an inter se arrangement entered into by the partners in and by which the working partners have agreed not to raise loans or pledge the firms interestMr.	Reasoning
S. K. Aiyar, learned counsel for the revenue, placed some reliance on section 14 of the Partnership Act.	Reasoning
According to the counsel, there is no contract to the contrary in the partnership deed that the assets brought in by party No. 1 do not belong to the partnership.	Reasoning
It is his further contention that under section 14, those assets will belong to the partnership, in which case, it will be open to any partner, as agent of the other partners to pledge the firms interest or raise loan for partnership purposes.	Reasoning
This right, according to the counsel, is restricted by clause (9) and that clause negatives the theory of agency.	Reasoning
In our opinion, this contention of the learned counsel cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
Section 14 of the Partnership Act itself clearly shows that the provisions contained therein are subject to the contract between the parties.	Reasoning
We have already held that the provisions regarding the control and management vesting in party No. 1 is not by itself destructive of the theory of partnership.	Reasoning
Clause (9), in our opinion, itself shows that the theory of agency is recognised.	Reasoning
But the parties, by mutual agreement, have placed a restriction on the working partners right to borrow on behalf of the firm or pledge the firms interest without the written authority of the principal partner.	Reasoning
20.	None
Mr. Aiyar placed considerable reliance as the High Court has also done on the earlier decision of the Bombay High Court in Umarbhai Chandbhai v. Commissioner of Incometax.	Reasoning
That again, in our opinion, was a case of an extreme nature where, under a partnership deed, between the father and his two sons, the former had a right to exclude either or both his sons from the management of the firm, wholly or in part.	Reasoning
There was also a provision to the effect that the father was entitled to entrust the management to any other person and also determine what quantum of profits should be distributed and what is to be done regarding the remaining profits.	Reasoning
There were further provisions to the effect that the father could terminate the partnership and, on such termination, the share of the partner was to revert to the father.	Reasoning
The Bombay High Court, having due regard to the clauses, referred to above, as well as other clauses of the partnership deed, held that the document offended against the two principles which were essential to constitute a partnership namely, agreement to share the profits and losses and the business being carried on by all or any of them for all of them.	Reasoning
The learned judges held that there was no agreement to share the profits and losses of the business and even the business carried on by the father was not on behalf of all the partners.	Reasoning
In such circumstances it was held that the arrangement evidenced by the deed cannot be considered in law to be a partnership.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the reliance placed upon this decision by the High Court as well as by Mr. Aiyar is misplaced.	Reasoning
In fact, from a perusal of the clauses in the document which the Bombay High Court had to consider, it is clear that the business continued to be the proprietary concern of one single individual, namely, the father.	Reasoning
Excepting that the two sons were styled as partners in the document, the essential requisites for constituting the relationship of partners inter se between the father and the two sons were totally absent.	Reasoning
The clauses in the case before us are totally different.	Reasoning
We have already indicated that there is an agreement for sharing the profits and losses and that even though vast powers of control and management have been given to K. D. Kamath, the managing partner, the business was being carried on by the said managing partner, on behalf of all the partners.	Reasoning
These conditions fully satisfy the requirements of the definition of partnership under section 4 of the Partnership ActTo conclude, we are of the opinion that all the ingredients of partnership are satisfied under the partnership deed dated March 20, 1959, and that the view of the High Court that the appellantfirm cannot be granted registration under section 26A of the Incometax Act for the assessment year 195960, cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
21.	None
In the result, we answer the question of law in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee.	Decision
This answer given by us to the question referred to the High Court by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal will be substituted in the place of that given by the High Court.	Decision
We accordingly reverse the judgment and order of the High Court and allow the appeal with costs here and in the High Court.	Decision
22.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
