 Krishna Iyer, J. 1.	None
These two appeals by the State of Haryana challenged the High Courts approach to an interpretation of two crucial provisions of a land reforms law, namely, Sections 10A and 18 of the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act (X of 1953) 1953 (for short called the Act).	Issue
Counsel for the appellants complains that if the view upheld by the High Court of subordinating Sections 10A to 18 were not upset by this Court, large landholders may extricate their surplus lands in excess of the ceiling set, through legal loopholes, such as have been practised in the present case.	Arguments of Petitioner
If makebelieve deals and collusive proceedings, he argues, may maneouvre through the legal net cast by sec.10A of the Act interdicting alienations and orders which diminish the surplus pool intended for resettlement by the State of ejected tenants, the agrarian reform measure would be reduced to a paper tiger or sicioeconomic eyewash.	None
Certainly, land reforms are no basic to the national reconstruction of the new order envisaged by the Constitution that the issue raised in this case deserves our anxious attention.	Reasoning
We have to bear in mind the activist, though inarticulate, major premise of statutory construction that the rule of law must run close to the rule of life and the court must read into an enactment, language permitting, that meaning which promotes the benignent intent of the legislation in preference to the one which perverts the scheme of the statute on imputed legislative presumptions and assumed social values valid in a prior era.	Reasoning
An aware court, informed of this adaptation in the rules of forensic interpretation, hesitates to nullify the plain object of a land reforms law unless compelled by its language, and the crux of this case is just that accent when double possibilities in the chemistry of construction crop up.	Reasoning
2.	None
A brief survey of the relevant facts leading up to the legal controversy seeking resolution in these appeals will help forcus forensic attention on the provisions of the Act which bear upon the issue.	Facts
A lady by name Lachhman had considerable agricultural property, far in excess of the relatively liberal ceiling set by the Act which came into force on April 15, 1953.She had a daughter Shanti Devi and soninlaw Amar Singh, respondent in Civil Appeal No. 1755 of 1967, whose brother Indraj is the respondent in the connected Appeal No. 1756 of 1967.	Facts
Annexure B to the writ petitions is an order dated May 11, 1962,passed under the Act and the Rules by the Collector, (Surplus Area)	Facts
Sirsa.	Facts
It is this order which has been successfully attacked in the writ petitions and is the subjectmatter of the present appeals.	Facts
The facts stated therein have not been reversed in the judgment of the High Court and we have to proceed on the assumption that those statements are correct.	Facts
We are concerned with three khasras Nos. 177, 265 and 343,in all over 131 acres of land.	Facts
At the commencement of the Act, khasra No. 177 was under Mst. Lachhmans selfcultivation but there were two tenants under her, Chandu and Sri Chand, on the other two plots.	None
Together, these three plots constitute a large slice out of her surplus area and are now claimed by the respondents Amar Singh and Indraj, as their own under a purchase ordered by the Assistant Collector who is the competent authority under Section 18 of the Act (Annexure A to the writ petitions).	Facts
Appellants counsel urges that the history of the derivation of title of these claimants needs to be sceptically studied, the relationship of the parties being that of mother and daughter, soninlaw and brother, and the heavy impact being slicing off a good chunk from the surplus area, otherwise available for resettlement of evicted tenants.	Facts
3.	None
At the outset it must be mentioned that the two tenants, Chandu and Sri Chand, who were on the land on the determinative date (April 15, 1953) presumably showed no interest in claiming rights granted to tenants under the Act, which were subject, of course, to their possessing lands less than the permissible area.	Facts
We have no information in this case what the total extent of lands in the possession of these two tenants was and whether they had chosen to keep other lands in preference to the ones under Mst.	Facts
Lachman We need not speculate on how or why they left the suit plots but may note that they were on the holding on the key date in 1953 and if later they did not keep their possession (abandoned or surrendered)	Facts
the tenancy terminated and on the facts of this case the lands came into the actual possession of the landholder, Mst. Lachhman, no other legal inference being possible than that the leases were extinguished and the lands reverted to the landlady on general principles of law.	Facts
In short, we have to proceed on the assumption that one plot, namely, Khasra No. 177, had always been in the selfcultivation of the landlady and that the two tenanted plots, namely, Khasra Nos. 265 and 343, came into the khas possession of the landlady to the crucial date.	Facts
Apprehending the statutory peril to these lands which were admittedly outside her reserved area, Mst. Lachman went through the exercise of making a gift of the three lands to her daughter, Smt.	Facts
Shanti (vide mutation No. 445 decided on December 24, 1953 and referred to in Annexure B).	Facts
Subsequently, it is seen that Amar Singh, husband of Shanti and Indraj, brother of Amar Singh, purported to apply for purchase of the landholders right in these three plots under Section 18 of the Act making Lachhman and Shanti corespondents and alleging that they were tenants qualified for the statutory benefit.	Facts
The Assistant Collector before whom the application was made for purchase under Section 18 has said in Annexure A to both the writ petitions that these two ladies are said to be big landowners but had not got this land reserved for their own purpose.	Facts
Curiously enough, in both the purchase petitions the parties avoided even an enquiry by the Assistant Collector as is evident from the following statement from Annexure A	Facts
Before the proceedings could state the parties have come to terms and they have actually put in court a compromise deed which they have backed up by their statements.	None
May be, because these dubious moves if exposed to the examination of an officer might prove a fiasco, the close relations who figured as petitioner and respondents lulled the Assistant Collector into mechanically acting on the compromise without enquiring into any of the eligibility factors before a purchase could be ordered.	None
4.	None
There is another set of facts which needs mention at this state.	Facts
Even before the purchase proceedings were initiated by the writ petitioners, the Collector had, as early as April, 1961, declared the surplus area of Lachhman ignoring alienations and including the three khasra numbers.	Facts
But on appeals carried both by the landholder and her soninlaw and his brother, the Commissioner ordered a further enquiry.	Facts
Meanwhile, purchase proceedings were started and, by a quick compromise, orders of purchase were obtained.	Facts
But all these proved exercises in futility because the Collector, Surplus Area, again ignored the leases to the writ petitioners as collusive and the orders of purchase as ineffective in the impugned order, Annexure B. However, the High Court set aside Annexure B so that the petitioners before it, the soninlaw and his brother, were restored to their purchases, and the State lost the lands from the surplus pool.	Facts
The aggrieved State canvasses the correctness of the supersession of Section 10A by Section 18 and of certain other legal reasoning approved by the Court, as its impact on the working of the land reform scheme would be disastrous.	None
Anyway, the law laid down in this case was affirmed by a Full Bench of that Court.	None
Having regard to all those circumstances a serious analysis and attemp at harmonisation of the various provisions of the Act is necessary now.	Reasoning
5.	None
A flashback to the genetic evolution of the Act and the legislative mutations by a mandatory effort to make the law effective, and to unmake judicial decisions which weakened the working of it, will help understand the current biochemistry of the Act.	None
Any interpretation unaware of the living aims, ideology and legal anatomy of an Act will miss its soul substance  a flaw which, we feel, must be avoided particularly in socioeconomic legislation with a dynamic will and mission.	None
Now to the legislation itself.	None
A brief introduction is found in the reference order of the Full Bench (Shamsher Bahadur, J.) in Mam Raj v. State of Punjab, ILR (1969) 2 Punj and Har 680, 682683 (AIR 1970 Punj 23) (FB)	None
The Act passed on 15h of April, 1953, was not the first legislation on the subject and the contours of many of the concepts had already taken shape in the two earlier enactments on the subject, namely, the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act, 1950 (Act No. 22 of 1950) and Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure)	None
Amendment Act, 1951 (Presidents Act 5 of 1951).	None
The Act, which at once consolidated and amended the existing law on the subject, was designed to provide for the security of land tenure and other incidental matters.	None
As is clear from the preamble, the primary object was the protection of tenants whose ejectments recently from holdings held by landowners owning vast tracts of lands, had taken place on a massive scale.	None
In restoring the rights of tenants ejected after 15th of August, 1947, care was taken that landlords with small holdings were not subjected to harassment by the tenants, For this reason, the concepts of small landowner, permissible area and reservation were introduced.	None
A small landowner was described as a person whose entire holding in the State of Punjab did not exceed the permissible area which though fixed at 100 standard acres in the Act of 1950 was reduced to 30 standard acres in the Act.	None
A landowner owning larger areas was entitled to reserve the permissible area, and many of the provisions of the Act dealt with the manner and exercise of this right of reservation.	None
The right of the landowner to eject tenants from the reserved or permissible areas was recognised in the Act though under Section 9A (introduced by Punjab Act 11 of 1955)	None
the tenants liable to ejectment on this score had to be accommodated in surplus areas, a minimum period of ten years tenancy was fixed under Section 7 in respect of tenants who were in occupation of land outside the reserved areas and the right of the tenants who had been ejected after the 15th August, 1947, for restoration of the tenancies was recognised.	None
Provisions were made for the exercise of the other rights of the tenants, the most important of these being the right to purchase the leased lands under Section 18 of the Act.	None
6.	None
The triple objects of the agrarian reform projected by the Act appear to be (a) to impart security of tenure (b) to make the tiller the owner, and (c) to trim large land holdings, setting sober ceilings.	Reasoning
To convert these political slogans into legal realities, to combat the evil of mass evictions, to create peasant proprietorships and to ensure even distribution of land ownerships a statutory scheme was fashioned, the cornerstone of which was the building up of a reservoir of land carved out of the large landholdings and made available for utilisation by the State for  resettling ejected tenants.	Reasoning
7.	None
The scheme of agrarian reorganistation contemplated by the statute is simple.	None
The legislature fixed a limit on ownership expressively described as permissible area.	None
Landowners who exceeded this area were allowed to reserve for themselves the best lands they desired to keep and this parcel or parcels of land was meaningfully designated as reserved area.	None
Of course, if he failed to intimate his selection within six months from the commencement of the Act to the Patwari concerned, the prescribed authority was empowered to select the parcel or parcels of land which such person was entitled to retain for himself.	None
The legislature found that many landowners had failed to make the reservation in time and so by the Amending Act 46 of 1957 a further period of six months from the commencement of the later Act was given for selecting the land lands they meant to keep, and further again gave the prescribed authority power to select the parcel or parcels of land on behalf of the defaulting landholders.	None
The intendment of the statute was that the reserved area was to be selfcultivated and so landowners were competent to eject tenants from the reserved area, although, generally speaking, evictions had been barred.	None
As a matter of fact, landholders were directed to start selfcultivation within six months from the date of reservation or the date on which they got possession by eviction.	None
Small holders, i.e., persons who owned less than the permissible area, were not only not disturbed by the statute in regard to their ownership but were also allowed to evict tenants from their parcels of lands so that they may also become self cultivators.	None
This process of making the proprietor cultivator naturally would result in the coexistence of possession and ownership at the cost of ejectment of tenants from their holdings.	None
Since agrarian reform must promote not eviction of lessees but security of tenure for them it became necessary for the State to create a considerable surplus pool of lands coughed up by large owners who held beyond the permissible areas.	None
All the tenant refugees from resumed lands were to be rehabilitated on surplus lands and such tenants, enjoying fixity of tenure, would continue to pay rents to the owners.	None
Another limb of the peasant proprietorship plan was the conferment of the right to purchase the landlords right on longstanding tenants with six years continuous occupancy.	None
If the scheme in the book had worked well on the ground the Act would have paved the way for a new rural map of economic relations even though the problem of the landless poor may perhaps have survived.	None
Such was the conspectus of the legislative scheme.	None
8.	None
It is obvious that this blueprint for a peaceful transformation of agrarian relations assumes the availability of a large surplus area on which the State can settle tenants form, the reserved areas and small landholders holdings.	Reasoning
Thus the key to the success of the scheme is the maximising of the surplus land reservoir and sealing off legal leakages through private alienations, collusive orders and decrees and the like, and so care was taken to interdict alienations and ignore dectrees and orders which diminished the surplus pool.	Reasoning
9.	None
At this stage it may be useful to sketch out the broad outlines of the statute with specific reference to its provisions and changes.	None
The Act of 1953 had been amended often, for the professed reason, at least once, that judicial pronouncements have had the effect of defeating the objectives with which the law was enacted.	None
Substantial amendments were made in 1955, 1957 and 1962.	None
The objects and reasons of Punjab Act 14 of 1962, which brought in certain significant restrictions on alienations and acquisitions of large landholders starts off in the statement of objects thus Some of the recent judicial pronouncements have the effect of defeating the objectives with which the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953,was enacted and amended from time to time.	None
It was intended that the surplus area of every landowner recorded as such in the revenue records should be made utilisable for the settlement of ejected tenants.	None
Certain specific decisions and their impact on the legislative operation were mentioned, and then the statement of objects proceeded In order to evade the provisions of Section 10A of the Parent Act interested persons, being relations, have obtained decrees of courts for diminishing the surplus area.	None
Clause (4) of the Bill seeks to provide that such decrees should be ignored in computing the surplus area.	None
We mention this only to emphasize that the legislature has been anxious to guard against erosion of the surplus pool by alienatory manoeuvers or even decrees and orders obtained through judicial or quasijudicial processes.	None
10.	None
The Act defines permissible area in relation to a landowner or a tenant as 30 standard acres and where such 30 standard acres on being converted into ordinary acres exceed 60 acres, such 60 acres.	None
(Section 2 (3).)	None
The landlord who has a vaster extent may utilise the specific lands he wants to keep for himself and this is called reserved area.	None
Section 2(4) defines reserved area as the area lawfully reserved under the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenures) Act 1950 (Act XXII of 1950), as amended by Presidents Act of 1951 The area other than the reserved area, i.e., the balance left over, is defined as surplus area.	None
Section 2 (5a) defines surplus area, a concept introduced by Act XI of 1955.	None
It is useful to extract the definition which runs thus Surplus Area means the area other than the reserved area, and, where no area has been reserved, the area in excess of the permissible area selected under Section 5B or the area which is deemed to be surplus area under subsection (1) of Section 5C and includes the area in excess of the permissible area selected under Section 19B, but it will not include a tenants permissible area Provided that it will include the reserved area, or part thereof, where such area or part has not been brought under selfcultivation within six months of reserving the same or getting possession thereof after ejecting a tenant from it, whichever is later, or if the landowner admits a new tenant, within three years of the expiry of the said six months.	None
11.	None
At this stage it may be mentioned that a landowner is not only entitled to selfcultivate his reserved area but if obliged to do so within the period stipulated in the proviso to section 2 (5A) lest such unselfcultivated land become surplus area.	None
But for that absentee landlords may pretend to be selfcultivating while really leasing out their lands to close relations, the statute defines self cultivation as cultivation by the landowner personally or through his wife or children or through prescribed relations.	None
It may be noted that a soninlaw is not one of those relations (vide Rule 5 of the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Rules, 1956.)	None
12.	None
Sections 5, 5A and 5B deal with the reservation of land by large landholders and the procedure in that behalf.	None
What is important to note is that in the present case the landholder has made her reservation and the suit properties in dispute fall outside it and are therefore included in the surplus area.	None
Immunity from eviction of tenants is conferred by Section 9 but a landlord is entitled to eject a tenant from the area reserved under this Act.	None
However, such ejectment shall not be given effect to by way of dispossession unless the displaced tenant is accommodated on a surplus area in accordance with the provisions of Section 10A or Of course, if the tenant is a close relation of the landlord within the prescribed category this protection does not ensure to him as per the second proviso to Section 9A.	None
It is noteworthy that a soninlaw is not one such relative.	None
It is obvious that a large number of tenants would be ejected by small landholders and large landholders from their reserved areas under Section 9 of the Act.	None
Naturally, legislative concern for their rehabilitation found expression in Section 10A (a) which runs thus 10A(a).	None
The State Government or any officer empowered by it n this behalf, shall be competent to utilise any surplus area for the resettlement of tenants ejected, or to be ejected, under clause (i) of subsection (1) of Section 9.	None
The success of the scheme, therefore, depends on the extent of the surplus pool for one thing, large landholders, when deprived of their excess area, as well as small landholders, in order to be viable, have to secure actual possession of what they are eligible to keep, this being the legislative justice shown to landowners by the Act.	None
Actual possession could follow only if the potential for resettlement of dispossessed tenants were sufficient.	None
That is why the legislature has jealously protected the surplus pool which plays a pivotal role in the whole programme.	None
For this purpose Section 10A(b) was brought in 1955 and it reads 10A (b).	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force and save in the case of land acquired by the State Government under any law for the time being in force or by an heir by inheritance no transfer or other deposition of land which is comprised in a surplus area at the commencement of this Act, shall affect the utilisation thereof in clause (a).	None
Plainly, there is a wide interdict against any transfer or other deposition of land comprised in the surplus area, if it still affect the utilization thereof for the resettlement of tenants ejected or to be ejected under clause (i) of subsection (1) of Section 9.	None
Such a strategic provision which takes care of the surplus reservoir of land must receive a benignantly spacious construction.	Reasoning
There can, therefore, be no doubt that the expression transfer or other disposition of land must definitely cover leases which, by very definition, are a species of transfer of land.	Reasoning
It looks as if other devices were resorted to by large landowners to defeat the surplus area scheme of section 10A. Courts and other authorities were approached and, through their processess, decrees and orders were secured whereby lands out of the surplus area could be salvaged by the landowner.	None
The legislature finding this anticeiling phenomenon clamped down a blanket ban on the adverse operation of any judgment, decree or order of a court or other authority, obtained after the commencement of this Act and having the effect of diminishing the area of a person which could have been declared as his surplus area.	Reasoning
Section 10A (c) may be usefully reproduced in this context 10A (c).	Reasoning
For the purposes of determining the surplus area of any person under this section, any judgment, decree or order of a court or other authority, obtained after the commencement of this Act and having the effect of diminishing the area of such person which could have been declared as his surplus area shall be ignored.	Reasoning
13.	None
It is extremely important to remember that while this provision was enacted in 1962 and while Section 19A (b) prohibiting alienation was passed in 1955, both these provisions were given retrospective effect as from the decisive date, namely, April 15, 1953.	Reasoning
The deep concern of the legislature is clear from all this.	None
14.	None
Right from the beginning one of the primary objects of the statute had been to enable tenants to purchase the landlords right and become full owners and in this behalf was enacted Section 18 which has figured very much in the controversy in these appeals.	None
It states 18 (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law, usage or contract, a tenant of a landowner other than a small landowner  (i) who has been in continuous occupation of the land comprised in his tenancy for a minimum period of six years, or (ii) (iii) shall be entitled to purchase from the landowner the land so held by him but not included in the reserved area of the landowner, in the case of a tenant falling within clause (i) or clause (ii) at any time, and in the case of a tenant falling within clause (iii) within a period of one year from the date of commencement of this Act Provided that Provided further that The further subsection of Section 18 deal with the process of purchase, the Assistant Collector being the authority empowered to order such purchase.	None
15.	None
In the appeals before us there is an apparent competition for primacy between Section 18 and Section 10A (b) and (c) and perhaps it may be relevant to refer to Section 23 also.	Issue
This last section reads No decree or order of any court or authority and no notice of ejectment shall be valid save to the extent to which it is consistent with the provisions of this Act.	None
As we will presently see we are called upon to reconcile the claims and contentions put forward by either side on the strength of the provisions we have just mentioned.	None
16.	None
Let us interpret and supply the law to the facts of this case.	Issue
The learned Judge, Narula, J., stated at the outset I have to take the fact as found by the Collector for the purposes of determining the surplus area of the landowner and consequently for determining the rights of the petitioners so far as they are sought to be interferred with by the impugned order.	Issue
We agree.	None
The same Judge formulated the legal questions falling for decision in these words (1) Whether the expressions transfer or other disposition of land in clause (b) of section 10A of the Act, include involuntary transfer of a part of the holding of a landowner by operation of an order forcing the landowner to sell a part of his holding to a tenant under Section 18 of the Act (2) Whether the order of any other authority referred to in clause (c) of Section 10A of the Act includes an order of the authorities under the Act itself passed under Section18 thereof in favour of a tenant, which order has become final either at its original stage or at the appellate or revisional stage and (3)	Issue
In case of conflict between section 10A and Section 18 of the Act, which of the two provisions has supervening effect or overrides the other.	Issue
We do not wholly agree with this itemisation but it is good enough to focus attention on the relevant area of legal controversy.	None
One further point pressed in both courts may be noticed.	None
viz., that the order of purchase of the concerned officer not having been set aside binds the other authority determining the surplus area and so the question is whether one officer under the Act could ignore an order by another officer under a different provision of the Act, having regard to comity of courts and jurisdictions.	Reasoning
As indicated already, the principal discussion in the judgment under appeal has turned on the claim to primacy of Section 18 as against Section 10A and so it is a well that we state right now what stand we propose to take in resolving apparent conflicts in the provisions of a sociallyoriented, projectimplementing legislation.	Reasoning
Every such statute has a soul and an intgrated personality  minor deformities may mar this unity, especially when piecemeal amendments and unskilled drafting occur.	Reasoning
The basic judicial approach must be to discover this soul of the law and strive to harmonise the many limbs to subserve the pervasive spirit and advance the social project of the enactment.	Reasoning
Seeming confrontations between provisions must be resolved into a cooperative coexistence.	None
This interpretative activism persuades us in this case to reconcile what the High Court has conceived to be a conflict between Section 10A and Section 18.	Reasoning
17.	None
Here, there are 3 khasra Nos.	None
two of which ( Nos. 265 and 343) were oustanding on tenancy with Chandu and Sri Chand at the relevant date, April 15, 1953 (which, admittedly, is the date with reference to which permissible area, reserved area and surplus area have to be fixed).	None
The third item, khasra No. 177, had on the relevant date been with the landowner directly.	None
The High Court treats them as two categories, no without reason, what was with tenants on the relevant date may well be part of their permissible area since landowner in Section 2(1) includes a lessee.	None
Moreover, a permissible area of a tenant is excluded by definition from surplus area, obviously because the tenant can stabilise himself on his permissible area and it is not intended to disclodge him therefrom for resetting other tenants under Section 10A.	None
Therefore, Narula, J., concludes A survey of the abovementioned provisions of the Act leaves no doubt that if Chandu and Shri Chand who were the tenants of the land now comprised in the tenancy of Amar Singh on April 15, 1953, had continued to be the tenants of that parcel of land, subsequently the land in their tenancy could not be included in the permissible area of the landowner.	None
On the other hand it would have been the right of Chandu and Shri Chand to either get the said land declared as their own permissible area or to exercise their right under Section 18(1) of the Act by making an application under subsec.	None
(2) thereof to purchase the said parcel of land.	None
The learned Judge proceeds to negative the argument that the legal result is different when the sitting tenants on the relevant date have quit and new tenants have been inducted subsequently Surplus area and permissible area of a landowner has to be determined in view of the situation as it existed on the 15th of April, 1953 and subsequent alienations have to be completely ignored.	None
Though subsequent acquisitions by the landowner may in certain circumstances be included in the surplus areas as accretions, no such thing can happen in respect of that parcel of land which could not be included in the surplus area of the landowner on 15th of April, 1953, which was again not with the landowner on the date when the Collector sought to determine his her surplus area.	None
In other words, once a piece of land is excluded from the surplus area of a landowner on account of its forming the subjectmatter of the holding of a tenant in occupation (who is not related to the landowner in the prohibited manner) on the 15th of April, 1953, the mere subsequent change of the holder of the tenancy will not make the tenancy premises revert to the surplus area of the landowner.	Issue
It is, therefore, clear that the land comprised in Khasras Nos. 265 and 343 (subjectmatter of the tenancy in favour of Amar Singh) could not fall within the definition of surplus area in the hands of the landowner and section 10A of the Act could not apply to it.	None
18.	None
We are afraid there is a fallacy in this reasoning.	Reasoning
It is true that a mere change in tenancy by transfer of the lease as such, as distinguished from a landlord inducting a new tenant on land the prior lease over which has been terminated and possession restored to the landlord, may not perhaps offend Section 10A although situation may arise even in such cases leading to a different conclusion.	Reasoning
We need not investigate this possibility further.	Reasoning
In the present case, the exclusion of the two khasras from the surplus area depends on their being part of the permissible area of Chandu and Sri Chand.	Reasoning
To salvage the lease in his favour, Amar Singh, the new tenant, must prima facie show that this alienation does not violate Section 10A(b) which prohibits all transfers and other dispositions which diminish the surplus area of the landowner concerned.	Reasoning
He has, therefore, to make out (a) that the demised lands do not form part of the landlords surplus area of (b) that, as was vehemently argued but may with little legal qualms be rejected, a lease is not a transfer or other disposition of property.	Reasoning
The High Court has disposed of this alter submission with the simple but impecable observation that the creation of a lease is a transfer or a demise referred to in Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act admits of no doubt.	Reasoning
The purpose of the prohibitive provision is to strike at every alienatory essay and the natural meaning of transfer or other disposition of land, apart from the contextual compulsion, embraces leases.	Reasoning
The contention that even wide words must oblige the landlords plea for a narrow meaning, viz., absolute transfer of ownership, is beyond us to accept.	Reasoning
19. Do the lands, Khasras Nos. 265 and 343, because of outstanding leases on April 15, 1953, swim out of the surplus area ipso facto?	Issue
We think not.	None
For that they must be comprised in the permissible area of the tenant.	Reasoning
Here we have no information placed by him who wants to prove it affirmatively that these plots lie within the permissible are of 30 standard acres, by definition, of Chandu and Sri Chand.	Reasoning
That they did not continue in possession after the Act is not disputed.	Reasoning
If they were in possession of other lands either as owners or tenants, and such holding was 30 acres or more, it was open to them to relinquish those lands being in excess of their permissible area, in which case, not being the permissible area of the tenant and being in excess of the reserved area of the landlord, those lands would be surplus area of the landlord within the definition under Section 2 (5a).	Reasoning
In the absence of proof that the lands in dispute were comprised in the permissible area of the prior tenants, it is not possible to hold that they do not come within the surplus area of the landlord, Mst. Lachhman.	Reasoning
On the contrary, the likely inference flowing from the disappearance from the scene of Chandu and Sri Chand and their failure to claim to remain as tenants or to purchase is that these were not their permissible area.	Reasoning
It is not as if every bit of land that is with a tenant on the relevant date is his permissible area.	Reasoning
It has to fulfil the requirement of Section 2(3).	Reasoning
No such test has been satisfied here.	Reasoning
Nor can it be argued that even if a tenant gives up his interest in the holding the statute will haunt him with rights.	Reasoning
Permissible area is not a concept in the abstract but, as Section 2(3) mentions, is in relation to a landowner or a tenant.	Reasoning
In relation to Chandu and Sri Chand no claim to permissible area or consequential rights has been set up and Amar Singh is not a transferee from them but a de novo tenant.	Reasoning
It follows that the two khasras should be computed as part of the surplus area of Mst. Lachhman and Section 10A (b) operates to invalidate the alleged lease to Amar Singh as its clear impact is to diminish the surplus area of the landowner.	Reasoning
He had, therefore, no right as a tenant to purchase under Section 18.	None
20.	None
The more serious question raised turns on the effect of the purchase orders, Annexure A, on Section 10A (c).	None
The High Court reasoned  and this was repeated before us as consels argument  that while it is true that for determining the surplus area of a person any judgment, decree or order of a court or other authority obtained after the commencement of the Act and having the effect of diminishing his surplus area shall be ignored, this mandate does not apply to orders of authorities under the Act, like the Assistant Collector exercising powers under Section 18.	None
The learned Judge quotes the object of Sec.	None
10A (c)	None
In order to evade the provisions of Section 10A of the parent.	None
Act interested person, being relation, have obtained decrees of Courts for diminishing the surplus area.	None
Clause 4 of the Bill seeks to provide that such decrees should be ignored in computing the surplus area.	None
From this the Court infers that other authorities in Section 10A (c) are arbitrators or such like agencies and not authorities under the Act.	None
It is useful to read the objects and reasons relating to the clause of a bill to illumine the idea of the law, not to control its amplitude.	None
Moreover, the purpose, as revealed in the statement of object is plain.	None
The legislature wanted to insure the involunerability of the surplus pool provision to attacks, by ignoring judicial and quasijudicial orders of every sort.	None
In this behalf two provisions were made, namely, Section 10A and Section 23, primarily the former.	None
In fact, we are concerned only with Section 10A (b) and (c).	None
21.	None
The High Court has taken the view that Section 10A (b) cannot affect involuntary transfers and since a purchase effected under Section 18 affects an involuntary transfer it is not hit by section 10A (b).	Reasoning
The further view taken us that the expression other authority in Section 10A (c) refers only to authorities other than those under the Act the Assistant Collector who has ordered the purchase under Section 18 being outside Section 10A (c) his order cannot be ignored by the Collector on the strength of Section 10A (c).	Reasoning
A third point converging to the same conclusion taken by the Court is that when an order under Section 18 has become final, the Collector acting under Section 10A (c) cannot but be bound by it until it is set aside in appeal or revision or other appropriate proceedings even though the Assistant Collectors order under Section 18 was passed on a compromise between the parties.	Reasoning
22.	None
We may now consider the soundness of these three grounds separately.	Reasoning
The object of Section 10A (c) cannot be fulfilled unless the widest meaning were given to the expression court or other authority.	Reasoning
Nor is there any basis for truncating the ambit of other authorities in the manner the High Court has done.	Reasoning
Other authority is every other authority within or without the Act.	Reasoning
The reason given by Narula, J., to exclude the officer passing orders under Section 18 from other authority is that the result would be that the benefit sought to be conferred by Section 18 on the tenants would be completely nullified and obliterated.	Reasoning
In this connection he further observed In every case, order under Section 18 of the Act, would be passed after the Act came into force.	Reasoning
If an order under Section 18 has to be ignored by the operation of clause (c) of Sec.	None
10A, every order under Section 18, must be ignored while declaring the permissible area of the landowner.	None
There is no discretion in the authorities to apply the provisions of clause (c) of Section 10A or not to apply them.	None
The provision is mandatory.	Reasoning
If, therefore, clause (c) of section 10A could be utilised for abrogating the effect of an order under Section 18 of the Act, the whole scheme of the Act for distribution of land to the tenants and for conferring a right on a tenant to purchase the land within the limits of permissible area would flouted.	Reasoning
23.	None
Having given serious consideration to the pros and cons we are not satisfied that this argument is valid on the contrary, if upheld it may stultify Section 10A and the scheme of the statute altogether.	Reasoning
Obviously, if every order of purchase sanctioned under Section 18 can successfully diminish surplus area of a landowner, a spate of such orders would be procured by previous arrangement between the landowner and his nominee tenants or even bona fide alienees.	Reasoning
The present case is a capital illustration of the fraud and collusion that may follow on such an interpretation.	Reasoning
Indeed, there is no provision in S. 18 to give notice to the Collector who is to declare the surplus area and so the State which is vitally concerned in the resettlement of ejected tenants utilising the surplus area has no opportunity to present its case against the fraudulent character of the proceedings under Section 18 before the Assistant Collector.	Reasoning
The state, not being a party to that order, in any case cannot be bound by it, whatever may be the effect as between the parties to those proceedings.	Reasoning
We are concerned here with a challenge by the State to the efficacy of the order.	Reasoning
Annexure A,	Reasoning
and so we cannot muzzle the plea of the State that the order under Section 18 is void if there are good grounds to hold with it.	Reasoning
24.	None
Nor is there force in the argument that the benefit under Section 18 would be completely nullified and obliterated if Section 10A. (c) were to apply to it.	Reasoning
It is wrong for the Court to have said that in every case orders under Section 18 would have to be ignored.	Reasoning
That is not the result of Section 10A. All the three subclauses of that section read together show that if the landlord by any act or omission of his suffered a diminution in the surplus area by a transfer, voluntary or otherwise, in favour of another, contrary to the right of the State Government to dispose of it, such a transfer only is liable to be set aside.	Reasoning
The tenants described in Section 18 in whose favour the authority sanctions the purchase of the land are not transferees whose transfers have to be set aside as being contrary to the right of the State Government.	Reasoning
Actually, the bulk of the cases under Section 18 would be by tenants who are eligible to purchase by virtue of six years continuous occupation under Section 18(1).	Reasoning
Their purchases would often be from land which is their permissible area.	Reasoning
Every tenant with six years standing, be it before or after the commencement of the Act, will be entitled to buy the ownership.	Reasoning
Of course, if he is within the reserved area he is liable to be evicted even before the purchase but if he is outside the landlords reserved area he can move for purchase.	Reasoning
Such a purchase being from the permissible area of the tenant is outside the surplus area of the landlord and does not diminish the area of such person which could have been declaredas his surplus area.	Reasoning
Ex hypothesis surplus area excludes a tenants permissible area.	Reasoning
Therefore, even if that land falls outside the reserved area of the landowner, if it is within the tenants permissible area, its purchase by the tenant cannot diminish the landowners surplus area (emphasis supplied).	Reasoning
25.	None
Another substantial category, who may buy under Section 18 without reducing the surplus area, is the resettled tenants.	None
When the State acting under Section 10A(c) accommodates an ejected tenant the utilization of the surplus land protanto is fulfilled.	Reasoning
Such a rehabilitated tenant of the landlord, after the six years term, can qualify to buy under Section 18.	Reasoning
Such a purchase only fulfils the second object of the statute of making the tiller the owner and does not in any way diminish the surplus area of the landlord.	Reasoning
For, with the resettlement of an ejected tenant that land, for all practical purposes, is no longer available for the only purpose for which the surplus pool is meant, viz., resettlement of ejected tenants.	Reasoning
Thus, it is clear that Section 18 is not rendered otiose by the view that orders thereunder which diminish the surplus area are lad for violation of Section 10A (c).	Reasoning
Indeed, the principal category adversely affected by our view would be poststatutory collusive tenants, who are in most cases likely to be brought in by landlords experimentally to rescue those lands from the surplus pool, and even in bona fide cases they do not deserve sympathy since they damage the prospects of displaced tenants from being resettled.	Reasoning
It may as well be noted here that the person who is entitled to purchase under Section 18 is a tenant, i.e., a person lawfully inducted on the land as a tenant.	Reasoning
Once a land is held to be part of the surplus land of the landlord, it rests with the State Government for being disposed of for resettlement of tenants and any disposition of the same by the landlord after April 15, 1953, would be invalid against the State Governments claim to dispose of it.	Reasoning
That is the effect of Section 10A(a) and (b).Therefore, in respect of any land to which the State Government makes a claim for resettlement, on the ground of its being surplus land, any person inducted by the landlord after April 15, 1953, would have no title to it as a tenant and, would not be able to avail of Section 18.	Reasoning
To sum up, the other authorities in Section 10A(c) include officers under Section 18.	Reasoning
Secondly, the plain meaning of Section 10A (c) is that any order by any authority which shrinks the surplus area of the landlord is invalid to the extent laid down in clause.	Reasoning
Thirdly, orders S. 18 if they diminish the surplus area suffer the same fate and Annexure B fails to shield Mst.	Reasoning
Lachhamans lands against orders resettling ejected tenants thereon.	None
26.	None
Shri Dhingra relied on Sahib Ram v. The Financial Commr., Punjab, (1970)3 SCR 796 (AIR 1971 SC 198 ) but that decision only rules that a tenant, who completes his 6 years qualifying occupation required by S. 18 after April 15, 1953 is not excluded.	Reasoning
Vaidilingam, J., took care to refer to the case under appeal now before us (Amar Singhs case) and said that it dealt with the scope of S. 10A and did not bear upon the point before them.	None
27.	None
The last point urged by Shri Dhingra for the respondent  and accepted by the High Court is that the order, Annexure A, having become final could not have been ignored in Annexure B. Here it serves the discussion to remember that the leases in question have been found by the Collector to have been collusively got up to dwindle the surplus area of the landowner.	None
The Collector in Annexure B finds and it is crystal clear that Amar Singh and Indraj had not been in continuous cultivating possession of this land for full six years, the other copy of Khasra Girdawari put in this case and which is to be found at page 27 of the file, shows the possession over this land of Indraj and Amar Singh only from the year 195758, and so their possession over it for full six years is not complete as yet.	None
He has also stated that he was convinced that the landowner has conspired with her soninlaw Amar Singh and his brother Indraj to retain this area in contravention of the law.	None
A third pregnant fact is that the proceedings under Section 18 were prima facie collusive, and to burke an enquiry into the eligibility of the alleged tenants to purchase under S. 18 an expedient was resorted to.	None
Before the proceedings could start says Annexure A, the parties have come to terms and they have actually put in court a compromise deed which they have backed up by their statements.	Reasoning
Thus, no finding on the basic facts of entitlement to purchase have been recorded by the authority under S. 18 because he has merely stated in Annexure A.	None
As per statements of the parties, I allow Amar Singh to purchase the land in suit.	None
28.	None
These facts have to be assumed since a controversy thereon in the writ court or in this Court cannot be permitted.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, concerned to see whether on such a factual basis any legal consequences completing the court to uphold Annexure A, and thus judicially condoning what is a fraud on the statutory scheme, follow.	Reasoning
29.	None
An order like Annexure A ordinarily binds the parties only and here the State which is the appellant is seriously prejudiced by that order but is not a party to it.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot bind the State proprio vigore.	Reasoning
It was argued by Shri Dhingra that the State could have moved by way of appeal or review and got the order set aside if there was ground and that not having done so it was bound by the order.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, the State, which is not a party to the proceedings, does not have a right of appeal.	Reasoning
The ordinary rule is that only a party to a suit adversely affected by the decree or any of his representativesininterest may file an appeal.	Reasoning
Under such circumstances a person who is not a party may prefer an appeal with the leave of the appellate court if he would be prejudically affected by the judgment and if it would be binding on him as res judicata under Explanation 6 to Section 11.	Reasoning
(see Mulla Civil Procedure Code 18th edn., vol.	Reasoning
1, p. 421).	Reasoning
Section 82 of the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887, which may perhaps be invoked by a party even under the Act, also speaks of applications by any party interested.	Reasoning
Thus, no right of review or of appeal under S. 18 can be availed of by the state as of right.	Reasoning
30.	None
If the State is not precluded from proving the invalidity of Annexure A, it is clear that the said order is unsustainable.	Reasoning
S. 18 applies only to tenants, i.e., not anyone who claims to be, but legally is one.	Reasoning
Here who has granted the lease?	Reasoning
Mst. Lacchman?	Reasoning
How could she after gifting away to her daughter?	Reasoning
And no lease from daughter Shanti is set up although obscurely both mother and daughter are made respondents.	Reasoning
Secondly, S. 18 qualifies for purchase only those tenants who had 6 years continuous occupation.	Reasoning
Here, on the Collectors finding.	Reasoning
Amar Singh and Indraj came by possession only in 195758 and, as he points out in Annexure B, the six year period is not complete at the time of application.	Reasoning
The reason why even before the proceedings began parties presented a compromise and avoided an enquiry is not far to seek.	Reasoning
In short, the State could and did make out the incompetence of the respondents to purchase under S. 18 and Annexure A being also stricken by the vice of Section 10A(b) and (c).	Reasoning
31.	None
Shri Dhingra urged that Section 18(i)(iii) did contemplate purchase rights for persons who had no possession when the Act came into force and their purchases must necessarily dinish the surplus area.	Arguments of Respondent
This seeming attractiveness vanishes when we notice that Section 18(i)(ii) and (iii) provide for two classes of hard cases where unjust evictions prior to the Act coming into force had deprived them of their rights.	None
For all practical purposes the Act clothes them with such rights as they would have enjoyed had they not suffered unjust evictions.	Reasoning
That is why specific provision was made inSection18 for them.	Reasoning
The exception proves the rule.	Reasoning
The paramountcy of Section 10A cannot be subverted by illegitimate use of the processes under Section 18.	None
32.	None
Purchases under Section 18 being involuntary, Section 10A(b) would not be hit, as it deals only with voluntary transfers, according to Shri Dhingra.	Arguments of Respondent
While we need not finally pronounce on this argument, it is worthy of note that the expression transfer is wide enough to cover transfers by operation of law unless expressly excluded as in Section 2(d) of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
Moreover, special exclusions to save transfers by way of inheritance and compulsory land acquisition by State have been made which would have been supererogatory had involuntary transfers automatically gone out of the pale of S. 10A(b).	None
33.	None
Another argument was suggested that the order even though passed on a compromise was as valid and binding as one passed on contest.	Arguments of Respondent
May be, that as a broad proposition one may assent to it.	None
But where a compromise goes against a public policy prescription of a statute or a mandatory direction to the Court to decide on its own certain foundational facts, a razi cannot operate to defeat the requirement so specified or absolve the court from the duty.	Reasoning
The resultant order will be ineffective.	Reasoning
After all, by consent or agreement, parties cannot achieve what is contrary to law and a decree merely based on such agreement, on such agreement on such agreement cannot furnish a judicial amulet against statutory violation.	Reasoning
For, by private agreement, converted into a decree, parties cannot empower themselves to do that which they could not have done by private agreement alone.	Reasoning
(See Mulla, C. P. C., Vol. II, p.1300).	Reasoning
The true rule is that the contract of the parties is not the less a contract, and subject to the incidents of a contract, because there is superadded the command of the Judge.	Reasoning
The learned author, Mulla, in his Commentary on Order XXIII, Rule 3 (Civil Procedure Code, Vol. II, pp. 12991300) cites many authorities for this proposition and observes If a decree is passed under this rule on a compromise which is not lawful, the Court should not enforce the decree in execution proceedings.	Reasoning
Thus, a sale of an office attached to a temple is against public policy.	Reasoning
Hence, if in a suit against the holder of such an office a compromise is arrived at whereby the holder of the office consents to the office being sold in satisfaction of the debt due to the plaintiff, and a decree is passed on the compromise, the Court should notwithstanding the consent decree refuse to sell the office in execution.	Reasoning
It is clear that if the matter had rested in contract only, the Court could not have enforced the sale in a suit brought for that purpose.	Reasoning
The mere fact that the contract is embodied in a decree does not alter the incidents of the contract.	Reasoning
It may be right to conclude that any authority, like the Collector here, enjoined to apply Section 10A(b) and (c) may decline to act on a compromise which has ripened into an order if the agreement between the parties disposes of property in violation of a statutory mandate.	Reasoning
He can and must fit the veil and look the agreement of the parties in the face.	Reasoning
The vice of contravention of Section 10A(b) is writ large in Annexure A. 34.	Reasoning
A few decisions of this Court bearing on the efficiency of consent decree were cited at the bar and they are exhaustively dealt with in Chari v. Seshadri, (1973) 1 SCC 761 (AIR 1973 SC 1311 ).	None
The other rulings of this Court  all rendered under the Rent Control Law  are Bahadur Singh v. Muni Subrat, (1969) 2	None
SCR 432 ,Kaushalya Devi v. K. L. Bansal, (1969) 2	None
SCR 1048 (AIR 1970 SC 838 ) and Ferozi Lal Jain v. Man Mal,(1970) 3 SCC 181 (AIR 1970 SC 794 ).	Arguments of Respondent
The core principle or ratio that is revealed in these cases is that in cases where a statute, embodies a public policy and consequentially prescribes the presence of some conditions for grant of reliefs, parties cannot bypass the law by the exercise of a consent decree or order, and mere judicial imprimatur may not validate such decree or order where the Court or tribunal is not seen to have applied its mind to the existence of these conditions and reached its affirmative conclusion thereon.	None
Such mindless orders are a nullity but where the stage of the proceedings, the materials on record and or the recitals in the razi disclose the application of the judicial mind, the order is beyond collateral attach merely on the score that it does not ritualistically write into the judgment what is needed by the statute.	None
The important facet of the law clarified in these decisions is that where high public policy finds expression in socioeconomic legislation contractual arrangements between interested individuals sanctified into consent or compromise decrees or orders cannot be binding on instrumentalities of the State called upon to enforce the statute, although the tribunals enjoined to enforce the law may take probative note of the recitals in such compromise or consent statements in proof of facts on which their jurisdictions may have to be exercised.	None
Further, if there is no evidence either by way of admissions in consent statements and razis or otherwise on the record, the relief sanctioned by the statute cannot be granted and orders or decrees which purport to grant them sans proof of the legal requirements will be a nullity.	None
35.	None
In (1969) 2 SCR 1048 (AIR 1970 SC 838 )	None
the Court was concerned with a suit for eviction under the Rent Control Law.	None
On being satisfied about the statutory grounds the Court could decree possession.	None
The plaintiff set out two grounds both of which were denied in the written statement.	None
When the pleadings of the landlord and the tenant were in this state, both parties filed a compromise memo in any by which they agreed to the passing of a decree of eviction against the tenant.	None
Representations to the same effect were also made by the counsel for both parties.	None
The Court passed the following order In view of the statement of the parties counsel and the written compromise, a decree is passed in favour of the plaintiff against the defendant.	None
The tenant did not vacate the premises within the time mentioned as per the compromise memo.	None
On the other hand, he filed an application under Section 47, Civil Procedure Code, pleading that the decree is void as being contravention of Section 13 of the Delhi statute.	None
The High Court held that the decree was a nullity, as the order was passed solely on the basis of the compromise without indicating that any of the statutory grounds mentioned in Section 13 existed.	None
Following the decision in (1969) 2	None
SCR 432 , this Court upheld the order of the High Court.	None
36.	None
In (1970) 3 SCC 181 (AIR 1970 SC 794 ), the landlords grounds for eviction were denied by the tenant but they reported compromise with prayer for a decree of eviction.	None
This Court ruled From the facts mentioned earlier, it is seen that at no state, the Court was called upon to apply its mind to the question whether the alleged subletting is true or not.	None
Order made by it does not show that it was satisfied that the subletting complained of has taken place, nor is there any other material on record to show that it was so satisfied.	None
It is clear from the record that the Court had proceeded solely on the basis of the compromise arrived at between the parties.	None
That being so there can be hardly any doubt that the Court was not competent to pas the impugned decree.	None
Hence the decree under execution must be held to be a nullity.	None
37.	None
In both these cases the decrees based solely on the razi, and without the Court applying their mind, were a nulllity.	Reasoning
The order of the Assistant Collector, Annexure A bears resemblance to the situation in these two cases.	Reasoning
On the other hand K. K. Charis case (1973) 1 SCC 761 (AIR 1973 SC 1311 ) is a study in contrast.	Reasoning
There was plethora of evidence to prove the ground of eviction and the Court directed eviction based on the terms of the compromise and after making a reference to the provisions for eviction.	Reasoning
Vaidialingam, J., has explained this aspect elaborately.	Reasoning
38.	None
The order, Annexure A, was passed before evidence was let in because even before the trial began parties reported compromise and gave statement accordingly.	None
Not a word is to be found in the order indicating the Courts mind adverting to the requirements of Section 18 of the Act, the contrary being the evidence.	None
Indeed, unlike in K. K. Charis case (1973) 1 SCC 761 (AIR 1973 SC 1311 )	None
no material existed on record to warrant a finding (a) regarding the tenancy, (b) continues occupation for ever 6 years, (c) the surplus are being unaffected.	None
Nor even recitals amounting to admissions on facts of entitlement to purchase were made.	None
The order was a nullity, denuded of evidence and absent judicial satisfaction.	None
Strictly speaking, collusive razis cannot affect the State which has the right to utilize surplus lands for resettling tenants.	None
Certain proceedings, e.g., election petitions and actions under Section 92, Civil Procedure Code, one set in motion, transcend private interests and public authorities cannot pass orders on collusive representations without regard to public interest or independent satisfaction.	None
Annexure A ex facie was a nullity.	None
It is unfortunate that the Assistant Collector has, with insipient insouciance, lent his authority to a compromise, where care and conscientiousness would have averted the error.	None
We are satisfied that Annexure A is unavailing against the State and its officers in accommodating ejected tenants on the lands in question.	None
The public policy of Section 10A cannot be outwitted by consent orders calculated to defeat the provision and without the statutory authority charged with the enquiry being satisfied about the bona fides of and eligibility for the purchase.	None
So viewed, the respondents in these appeals cannot on the strength of the purchase orders exclude those lands from the operation of Section 10A(a) of the Act.	None
39.	None
The legislature, charged with the constitutional mandate of Article 38 and Article 39 has passed the Act and amended it from time to time in furtherance of the major purpose of distributive justice.	None
The judicial wing of the State, viewing the law in the same wave length, interprets and applies it.	None
But the Executive instrumentality of the State has an activist role to play if the arm of the law were not to hang limp and social justice is not to be a cynical phrase.	None
Good laws and correct interpretations are not enough.	None
Quick, conscientious and publicminded enforcement of the provisions is the responsibility of Government and its officers.	None
In the present case the Assistant Collectors order, Annexure A, has fortified an attempted fraud on the statute.	None
It was stated at the Bar that a score of years not withstanding, the processes of fixing reserved areas and surplus areas on the strength of which alone conferment of proprietary right on tenants and resettlement of ejected tenants could proceed are still lingering.	None
If this is true Government has much to answer for and litigation abounds where delays in executive enforcement occur.	None
We expect that this land reform measure will not be a slow motion picture but a strict and swift procedure so that parties affected may know where they stand.	None
There is an executive dimension to laws delays which defeats the rule of law.	None
It must be remembered that the third reading of a bill and the last appeal in court are not the final scene in the drama of law and society.	None
A postaudit on the enforcement of social legislation, all social scientists will agree, is a material aspect of lawinaction, inter alia to avoid the administrative cutting edge of the law becoming blunt.	None
40.	None
With these hopeful observations we allow the State appeals but we direct that in the circumstances parties will bear their costs throughout.	None
41.Sarkaria, J. I have gone through the Judgment prepared by my learned brother, Krishna Iyer, J. Since I cannot fully subscribe to the reasoning and the view taken therein, I have thought it fit to record my own opinion separately.	None
42.	None
These two appeals (Nos. 1755 and 1756 of 1967) on certificate granted under Article 133(1)(c) of the Constitution by the Punjab High Court raise questions with regard to the interpretation and interrelationship of the provisions of Sections 2(5a), 10A and 18 of the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act (X of 1953) (for short, the Act).	None
The questions for determination, as formulated by the High Court, are (i) Whether the expression transfer or other disposition of land in clause (b) of Section 10A of the Act, include involuntary transfer of a part of the holding of a landowner by operation of an order forcing the landowner to sell a part of his holding to a tenant under Section 18 of the Act (ii) Whether the order of any other authority referred to in clause (c) of Section 10A of the Act includes an order of the authorities under the Act itself passed under Section 18 thereof in favour of a tenant, which order has become final either at its original stage or at the appellate or revisional stage and (iii)	Issue
In case of conflict between Section 10A and Section 18 of the Act, which of the two provisions has supervening effect or overrides the other.	Issue
43.	None
To the above, I may add a fourth question which arises in Amar Singhs case (C.A. 1755 of 1967) and has been dealt with by the High Court.	Issue
(iv) Whether any land held by tenants on April 15, 1958 within the permissible area of those tenants, can be included in the surplus area of the landowner, if at the time the Surplus Area Collector takes up the determination of the matter, that land is found to be comprised in the tenancy of persons other than the original tenants.	Issue
The material facts are these 44.	None
On April 15, 1953, when the Act came into force, Smt.	None
Lachhman (hereinafter referred to as the landowner) owned 101.6 standard acres, equivalent to 404.10 ordinary acres, of land in the revenue estates of two villages, namely, Darba Kalan and Nahran Wali.	None
Out of this holding of the landowner, we are concerned only with Field Nos. 177, 265 and 343, situate in the area of Darba Kalan.	None
On the determinative date (April 15, 1953), Field No. 177, measuring 64 bighas and 12 biswas which is the subjectmatter of C.A. 1756/67, was in the personal cultivation of the landowner, while Field Nos. 265 and 343 measuring 67 bighas and 19 biswas, were in the occupation of two tenants, namely, Sri Chand and Nathu.	None
45.	None
It is not clear from the record whether the landowner had made the reservation or selection of her permissible area in the prescribed manner, within time.	None
But the learned Counsel for the parties before us are agreed that Field Nos. 265, 343 and 177 in question do not form a part of her reserved or permissible area.	None
46.	None
It appears from the Surplus Area Collectors order that in 1955 (vide mutation No. 144), the landowner tried to gift this land in favour of her daughter, Shanti Devi, who, in turn, attempted to sell the same to her husband, Amar Singh, and the latters brother, Indraj.	None
These alienations were ignored by the Surplus Area Collector as per his order, dated April 24, 1961, while declaring the surplus area of the landowner.	None
Against that order, Amar Singh and Indraj carried an appeal to the Commissioner, the landowner also preferred a separate appeal.	None
47.	None
On May 2, 1961, Amar Singh made an application under Section 18 of the Act before the Assistant Collector, 1st Grade, for purchase of the land comprised in Field Nos. 265 and 343, on the ground that he has been in its continuous occupation as a tenant for the requisite period.	None
A similar application was made on the same date, by his brother, Indraj for the purchase of Field No. 177.	None
After serving notice on all concerned, Shri Hardyal Singh, Assistant Collector 1st	None
Grade allowed these applications on September 15, 1961, on the basis of a compromise between the applicants and the landowner.	None
In compliance with that order, Amar Singh, deposited in the Treasury, Rs. 13,590/ which had been determined as the purchase price by the said Collector.	None
Indraj also in his case deposited the price assessed by the Collector.	None
The effect of these proceedings and the orders of the Collector was that Amar Singh and Indraj, the tenants in the words of Section 18, itself, shall be deemed to have become the owners of the land.	None
48.	None
The Commissioner on December 21, 1961, taking notice of the statutory purchases of these fields by Amar Singh and Indraj under Section 18, allowed their appeal and remanded the case to the Collector for de novo enquiry regarding the area in occupation of Amar Singh and Indraj as tenants under the landowner.	None
49.	None
After the remand, in the course of de novo enquiry, the same Officer, Shri.	None
Hardyal Singh, as Collector, Surplus Area, passed the impugned order, dated May 11, 1962, whereby he declared 408.10 ordinary acres equal to 101.61 standard acres as the surplus area of Smt.	None
Lachman and included in that area the land in question (comprised in Field Nos. 265, 343 and 177) of which according to his earlier order, Amar Singh and Indraj were deemed to have become owners by purchase under Section 18.	None
He ignored his order, dated September 15, 1961 on the ground that Amar Singh and Indraj had not been in continuous occupation of these fields as tenants for the full term of six years and that in fact the landowner has conspired with her soninlaw, Amar Singh, and his brother Indraj, to retain this area in contravention of the law.	None
It was added that the said order was based on a compromise and was a collusive one.	None
50.	None
Amar Singh and Indraj filed two separate writ petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution for the grant of a writ of certiorari for bringing up and quashing the order, dated May 11, 1962, of the Surplus Area Collector and for a writ of Mandamus directing the respondent State not to dispossess them from the fields purchased by them under Section 18.	None
51.	None
The High Court by its common judgment, dated October 4, 1966, answered the three questions referred to above, as under (i) The expressions transfer and other disposition of land in clause (b) of Section 10A of the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act 10 of 1953, do not include completed sales effected under Section 18 of the Act (ii) In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of Section 10A of the Act the authorities under the Act cannot exclude from consideration an order of the Assistant Collector or Collector under Section 18 of the Act, whereby a part of the holding of the landowner has vested absolutely in the erstwhile tenant and (iii) If any conflict were detected between Section 10A and Section 18 of the Act, the special provision of law contained in the latter section would override the earlier and general provision.	None
52.	None
Regarding Question (iv) in Amar Singhs case, it was held that since Field Nos. 265 and 343 were, on April 15, 1953, comprised in the tenancy of Sri Chand and Nathu as part of their permissible area, they could not, in view of the definition given in Section 2(5a), be included in the surplus area of the landowner, and the subsequent change of the holder of the tenancy did not make the tenancy land revert to the Surplus Area.	None
That was, according to the High Court, an additional reason why Section 10A was not attracted in Amar Singhs case.	None
53.	None
In order that the questions raised in these appeals may be considered in the proper perspective, it is necessary to notice briefly the object, the scheme and the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
54.	None
Chronologically, the Act is not the first measure enacted by the State to give effect to its policy of abolishing intermediaries and regulation of agricultural tenancies with the object of securing tenure or procuring ownership of land to the tiller.	None
The first piece of legislation was the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act, 1950.	None
The contours of the concepts permissible area and reserved area first made their appearance in this statute.	None
Under that Act, a landowner was entitled to reserve 100 standard acres for his selfcultivation and the protection against eviction was not available to tenants on the reserved area.	None
The 1950 Act was amended by Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure)	None
Amendment Act, 1951 which reduced the permissible area of landowner to 50 standard acres, and extended the tenure of the tenants from 4 to 5 years.	None
55.	None
The Acts of 1950 and 1951, were repealed and replaced by Act 10 of 1953 with which we are concerned.	None
The Preamble says that the Act is a piece of legislation to provide for the security of land tenure and other incidental matters.	None
The Act classifies landowners into small landowners and other landowners.	None
A small landowner as defined in Section 2(2), means a landowner whose entire land does not exceed the permissible area.	None
Owners other than small landowners fall in the second category.	None
Landowner means a person defined as such in the Punjab Land Revenue Act, 1887 (Act XVII of 1887) and also includes an allottee and lessee as defined in clauses (b) and (c) respectively, of Section 2 of the East Punjab Displaced Persons (Land Resettlement) Act, 1949.	None
Under the Explanation added to the clause, a mortgagee, in respect of the land mortgaged with possession is also to be deemed a landowner.	None
Landowner is not comprehensively defined in the Land Revenue Act, clause (2) of Section 3 of that Act makes it clear that landowner does not include a tenant.	None
Thus, it is to be noted that lessees from the landowner (being other than those falling under Section 2(e) of the Land Resettlement Act, 1949) do not come within the definition of landowner given in the Act.	None
56.	None
The fivefold object of the Act, as endorsed by Subha Rao, J. (as he then was) speaking for this Court in Gurbax Singh v. State of Punjab, (1967) 1	None
SCR 926 (AIR 1967 SC 502 ) is to (i) provide a permissible area of 30 standard acres to a landowner tenant which he can retain for selfcultivation (ii) provide security of tenure to tenants by reducing their liability to ejectment as specified in Section 9 (iii) ascertain surplus areas and ensure resettlement of ejected tenants on those areas (iv) fix maximum rent payable by tenants and (v) confer rights on tenants to preempt and purchase their tenancies in certain circumstances.	None
57.	None
We are primarily concerned with the provisions relating to (i), (iii) and (v).	None
What is to be borne in mind is that while selfcontained and comprehensive provisions in Sections 17 and 18 for effective achievement of object (v) were made from the very inception of the Act, object (iii) did not assume shape and content till Punjab Act XI of 1955 was enacted.	None
58.	None
The concepts permissible area and reserved area were reshaped by the Act of 1953.	None
Permissible area in relation to a landowner or a tenant has been defined to mean 30 standard acres and where such 30 standard acres on being converted into ordinary acres exceed 60 acres, such 60 acres.	None
Reserved area as defined in Section 2(4) means area lawfully reserved under the Punjab Tenants (Security of Tenure) Act, 1950 (Act XXII of 1950), as amended by Presidents Act of 1951, hereinafter referred to as the 1950 Act or under this Act.	None
Reserved Area is dealt with in Sections 2, 5, 5B, 9 and 18 of the Act.	None
59.	None
Section 5 lays down that any landowner who owns land in excess of the permissible area may reserve out of the entire land held by him in the State of Punjab as landowner, any parcel or parcels not exceeding the permissible area by intimating his selection in the prescribed form and manner to the patwari of the estate in which the land reserved is situate or to such other authority as may be prescribed within six months from the date of the commencement of the Act.	None
Since, for one reason or the other, many landowners could not exercise their right of reservation within the period of six months originally fixed by the 1953 Act, Sections 5A, 5B and 5C were inserted by the Amending Act 46 of 1957 which came into force on December 20, 1957.	None
Section 5B enacts that a landowner who has not exercised his right of reservation under this Act, may select his permissible area and intimate the selection to the prescribed authority within the period specified in Section 5A and in such form and manner as may be prescribed.	None
The requisite form was prescribed by Punjab Government Notification No. 3223LRII57/1624 published in the Gazette Extraordinary of March 22, 1958, consequently, a landowner could make the selection of his permissible area within six months of the date.	None
60.	None
In (1967) 1	None
SCR 926 (AIR 1967 SC 502 ) (supra), this Court held that selection in Section 5B is similar to reservation in Section 5 and that, in terms, Section 5B gives the landowner another chance to make the reservation if he had not exercised his right of reservation earlier under Section 5.	None
It was clarified that reservation and selection involve the same process and indeed, to some extent, they are convertible, for, one can reserve land by selection and another select land by reservation.	None
61.	None
Thus if the right of selection is exercised under Section 5B, by the landowner, his permissible area would become his reserved area to that extent, the two concept would represent one and the same thing.	None
62.	None
The next provision to be noticed is in Section 9 which says inter alia that no landowner shall be competent to eject a tenant except when such tenant is a tenant on the area reserved under this Act or is a tenant of a small landowner.	None
Its subsection (2) provides that notwithstanding anything contained herein before a tenant shall also be liable to be ejected from any area which he holds in any capacity whatever in excess of the permissible area.	None
63.	None
Before proceeding to Section 18, it will be proper at this stage to advert to the concept surplus area.	None
This concept was born in 1955 when Act XI of that year inserted in the principal Act general provisions including Section 2(5a) which (as modified by a subsequent Act) runs thus Surplus area means the area other than the reserved area, and where, no area has been reserved, the area in excess of the permissible area selected (under Section 5B or the area which is deemed to be surplus area under (1) of Section 5C) (and included the area in excess of the permissible area selected under Section	None
19B)but	None
it will not include a tenants permissible area Provided that it will include the reserved area, or part thereof, where such area or part has not been brought under selfcultivation within six months of reserving the same or getting possession thereof after ejecting a tenant from it, whichever is later, or if the landowner admits a new tenant, within three years of the expiry of the said six months (Emphasis supplied.)	None
64.	None
This definition will be considered further while dealing with proposition (iv).	None
At this place it will be sufficient to have a general idea of the interrelationship of permissible area and surplus area, and the right of the landowner to deal with the surplus area.	None
A Full Bench of Punjab and Haryana High Court in Dhaunkal v. Man Kauri, 72 Pun LR 882 (AIR 1970 Punj 431) (FB) speaking through Mehar Singh, C.J. summed up the interconnection between these concepts thus According to these provisions (of Sections 5, 5A, 5B, 5C read with Rule 6 of the 1956 Rules framed under the Act) a landowner or a tenant who has more than 30 standard acres of land has to select or reserve his permissible area and the excess is available as surplus area.	None
The Collector attending to such cases has to determine, therefore, three things (a) the permissible area of a land owner, (b) the permissible area of a tenant, and (c) the surplus area.	None
The details for the determination of these matters are to be found in 1956 Rules Rule 6 is really material No doubt in the Act, there is no specific provision which says that a decision has to be given by any authority whether a permissible area has or has not been rightly reserved or selected by a landowner or tenant concerned, but when the provisions of the Act with the rules are considered, it becomes plain that while determining the surplus area with a landowner or a tenant the question of his permissible area comes to be determinedso that, if there is a question in regard to the validity of reservation or selection of permissible area, it must come for consideration before the Collector when he disposes of the surplus area of a particular landowner or tenant.	None
(Parenthesis added.)	None
65.	None
Declaration of surplus area does not have the effect of expropriating the landowner of that area.	None
The only effect of such declaration is that the Government gets a right to utilise the surplus area, if necessary, for settlement of ejected tenants.	None
The tenants, thus settled on the surplus land become by operation of law, the tenants of the landowner.	None
They are bound under the rules to attorn and pay rent to the landowner.	None
The latters rights of ownership remain intact, who is even entitled to evict the settled tenants in certain contingencies specified in the Act.	None
The landowners right to transfer the surplus area is also not taken away, but the transferee even if a small landowner, will not be rid of the liability to accommodate evicted tenants whom the Government may wish to resettle under Section 10A(a).	None
The Act does not take away the right of the landowner to induct tenants on such area, or the rights of the tenants so inducted, to purchase the land under Section 18 if it has continuously remained comprised in their tenancy for the requisite period.	None
66. Section 9(1)(i) provides for eviction of a tenant from the area of a landowner reserved under the Act.	None
Section 9A safeguards such a tenant against dispossession of his tenancy so long as he is not accommodated on a surplus area or other land by the State Government.	None
There is a positive indication in the 2nd Proviso to Section 9A that a landowner has a right to induct tenants on his land even after the commencement of the Act.	None
The Proviso says that if a tenancy commences after the commencement of this Act, and the tenant is also an owner and is related to his landlord in the manner prescribed, he shall not be entitled to the benefit of this section.	None
67.	None
Now let us have a close look at the provisions of Section 18, which, as amended by Punjab Act 11 of 1955 runs thus 18(1)	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law, usage or contract, a tenant of a landowner other than a small landowner (i) who has been in continuous occupation of the land comprised in his tenancy for a minimum period of six years, or (ii) who has been restored to his tenancy under the provisions of this Act and whose periods of continuous occupation of the land comprised in his tenancy immediately before ejectment and immediately after restoration of his tenancy together amount to six years or more, or (iii) who was ejected from his tenancy after the 14th day of August, 1947 and before the commencement of this Act, and who was in continuous occupation of the land comprised in his tenancy for a period of six years or more immediately before his ejectment.	None
shall be entitled to purchase from the landowner the land so held by him but not included in the reserved area of the landowner, in the case of tenant falling within Clause (i) or Clause (ii) at any time, and in the case of a tenant falling within Clause (iii) within a period of one year from the date of the commencement of this Act Provided Provided further (2) A tenant desirous of purchasing land under subsection (1) shall make an application in writing to an Assistant Collector of First Grade having jurisdiction over the land concerned, and the Assistant Collector, after giving notice to the landowner and to all other persons interested in the land and after making such inquiry as he thinks fit, shall determine (formerly the word was fix) the average of the prices obtaining for similar land in the locality during 10 years immediately preceding the date on which the application is made.	None
(3) x x x x x x (4) (a) x x x x x x (b) On the purchase price or the first installment thereof, as the case may be, being deposited, the tenant shall be deemed to have become the owner of the land and the Assistant Collector shall where the tenant is not already in possession, and subject to the provisions of the Punjab Tenancy Act (XVI of 1887) put him in possession thereof.	None
(c) x x x x x x (5) to (7) x x x x x x 68.	None
This section is the keystone of the arch of peasantproprietors complex which the Act seeks to build.	None
The non obstante clause with which the section starts, indicates the overriding operation of its provisions.	None
It provides a selfsufficing machinery enabling tenants to purchase lands comprised in their tenancies.	None
Broadly speaking, the existence of three conditions is necessary for the exercise of this right.	None
They are (a) the landowner whose area is sought to be purchased is not a small landowner i.e., one owning less than 30 standard acres (b) the land to be purchased does not form a part of the reserved area of the landlord which has become fixed by reservation under Section 5, or selection under Section 5B (c) the applicant has been in continuous occupation of the land, as a tenant, for a period of six years or more on the date of the application.	None
69.	None
For our purposes, condition (b) is the most important.	None
By excluding a landowners reserved permissible area from the operation of Section 18, it confines a tenants right of purchase to that land which either falls within the surplus area of the landowner, or, was on April 15, 1953, within the permissible area of that tenant.	None
70.	None
As observed by this Court in (1970) 3	None
SCR 796 at p. 805 (AIR 1971 SC 198 ).	None
Under Section 18(1) three categories of tenants have been given a right to purchase from the landowner the land so held by him.	None
They are (i) a tenant who has been in continuous occupation of the land for a minimum period of six years (ii) a tenant restored to his tenancy under the Act and whose period of continuous occupation of the land comprised in his tenancy immediately before ejectment and after restoration amounts to six years or more and (iii) a tenant who was ejected from his tenancy after August 14, 1947 and before April 15, 1953, and who was in continuous occupation of the land comprised in his tenancy for a period of six years or more immediately before his ejectment.	None
71.	None
Category (iii) has become extinct and Clause (iii) of Section 18(1) has become redundant because the exercise of the right of purchase by this category was limited to a period of one year, Only, after the commencement of the Act.	None
Only a small number of cases fall under category (ii).	None
Most of the tenantpurchasers belong to category (i) which may be further divided into these subcategories (a) Tenants who were on the land on April 15, 1953 and continued to be in occupation of their land for the requisite period up to the date of the application (b) Tenants who were inducted on the surplus area by the landowner sometime after the determinative date and who thereafter remained in continuous occupation of the land for the requisite term (c) Tenants who were resettled on the surplus area by the Government, and thereafter remained in continuous occupation of the land for the requisite period.	None
72.	None
Quite a number of tenants who invoke Section 18, come under subcategory (b).	None
In the instant case, Amar Singh and Indraj are tenants of this subcategory.	None
In Sabib Rams case (1970) 3 SCR 796 (AIR 1971 SC 198 ) (supra) also, this Court was dealing with a case of tenants of this subcategory.	None
Vaidialingam, J., speaking for the Court, enunciated the law on the point, thus So far as we could see there is no prohibition under the Act placing any restrictions against the right of the landowner creating new tenancies after the date of the Act.	None
In fact, the second proviso to Sec.	None
9A clearly indicates to the contrary.	None
It deals with contingency of tenancy coming into force after the commencement of the Act.	None
Section 18(1)(ii) gives a right to tenant to purchase the land and that right has to be examined when an application under Section 18 is made and cannot be deemed on the ground that he was not a tenant for more than six years on April 15, 1953.	None
There is no limitation placed under Clause (i) of Section 18(1) that the tenant who exercises his right should be a tenant on the date of the Act or that he should have completed the period of six years on April 15, 1953 and there is no warrant for reading in Section 18(1)(i) clauses which it does not contain.	None
It is enough if the continuous period of six years has been completed on the date when the tenant files the application for purchase of the land.	None
73.	None
The validity or otherwise of the orders of purchase made under Section 18 by the Collector in favour of Amar Singh and Indraj will be discussed a little later, at its appropriate place.	None
Suffice it to say here, that in view of the law settled in Sahib Rams case, (1970) 3	None
SCR 796 (AIR 1971 SC 198 ) (supra), Amar Singh and Indraj  provided the other conditions were satisfied  would be entitled to purchase the land comprised in their tenancies notwithstanding the fact that the said land was a part of the surplus area of the landowner and these tenancies were created by her after April 15, 1953.	None
74.	None
It will now be appropriate to examine Section 10A.	None
It is one of the important sections, the interpretation of the provisions of which is in question.	None
It reads 10A(a).	None
The State Government or any Officer empowered by it in this behalf, shall be competent to utilise any surplus area for the resettlement of tenants ejected, or to be ejected, under Clause (i) of subsection (1) of Section 9.	None
(b) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, and (save in the case of land acquired by the State Government under any law for the time being in force or by any heir by inheritance) no transfer or other disposition of land which is comprised in a surplus area at the commencement of this Act, shall affect the utilisation thereof in Clause (a).	None
Explanation  Such utilisation of any surplus area will not affects the right of the landowner to receive rent from the tenant so settled.	None
(c) For the purposes of determining surplus area of any person under this section, any judgment, decree or order of a Court or other authority, obtained after the commencement of this Act and having the effect of diminishing the area of such person which could have been declared as his surplus area shall be ignored.	Reasoning
75. Section 10A with its subcls.	None
(a) and (b) was added by Punjab Act XI of 1955, Punjab Act 4 of 1959 inserted the saving clause (within brackets) in Clause (b).	None
Latter Punjab Act 14 of 1962, inserted Clause (c) and gave retrospective effect to all the provisions of Section 10A from April 15, 1953.	None
76.	None
The Statement of Objects and Reasons published in the Punjab Gazette Extraordinary on April 16, 1955, lists among others, the main objects of Act XI of 1955 to prevent largescale ejectment of tenants, to introduce new concepts of surplus area and its utilization by the State Government for the resettlement of ejected tenants to coordinate the ejectment of tenants with their resettlement on surplus area to prevent sales and other dispositions of land adversely affecting the continuance of tenancies and the extent of available surplus area to reduce the period (from 12 to 6 years) entitling a tenant to purchase the land comprised in his tenancy and to provide for easier terms of purchase and other incidental matters.	None
77.	None
The professed object of the concept of surplus area and resettling ejected tenants on such area finds its manifestation in the insertion of Section 2(5A) and Section 10A(a) while the object of entitling tenants to purchase their tenancy lands on easier terms is reflected in the amendments made in Section 18.	None
78.	None
According to the Statement of Objects and Reasons published in Punjab Gazette Extraordinary, dated April 27, 1962, the main purpose of the Amendment Act 14 of 1962 was twofold The first was to neutralize the effect of certain decisions and to plug the loopholes revealed in the interpretation among others, of Sections 2(5a), 6, 10A(b), 18,	None
19B. Among those decisions was one of the Financial Commissioner holding that Section 6 did not protect the claim of tenants under Section 18 to purchase the proprietary rights in respect of the land held by them in tenancy.	None
These condwas to ignore in computing the surplus area decrees of Courts for diminishing the surplus area which interested persons, being relatives, have obtained, in order to evade the provisions of Section 10A of the parent Act.	None
That was why Clause (c) was inserted in Section 10A. 79.	None
I have referred in extenso to the Objects and Reasons which led to these Amendments to show that while the Legislature was anxious to preserve surplus area for settlement of evicted tenants and for that purpose enacted Section 10A, it did not in its wisdom, think it fit, to curtail the ambit of Section 18 so as to exclude tenants inducted by the landowner on the surplus area from purchasing their tenancy lands through the machinery of this section.	None
So far as the right to purchase their tenancies is concerned, tenants inducted by the landowner and tenants settled by the Government, on the surplus area, remain on an equal footing.	None
The Amendments did not in relation to the new Section 10A, relegate Section 18 to a position of subordinate alliance.	None
The non obstante clause of Section 18 has not been touched.	None
Indeed, the amendments of Section 18 inter alia, by providing for easier terms of purchase and reducing the qualifying period from 12 to 6 years made the machinery of the section more comprehensive, efficient and attractive for tenants desirous of purchasing their tenancies.	None
80.	None
The Amendments have not changed the basic scheme of the Act, according to which, the jurisdiction of the Prescribed Authority assessing the surplus area under Sections 5B and 5C read with Rule 6 of the 1956 Rules, and acting under Section 10A is distinct and separate from the jurisdiction of the Assistant Collector 1st	None
Grade dealing with an application under Section 18.	None
Collector has been defined by Rule 2(iiiA) of the 1956 Rules, to mean the Collector of the district or any other officer not below the rank of Assistant Collector 1st	None
Grade empowered in this behalf by Government.(emphasis supplied).	None
Rule 4B provides that the Prescribed Authority for the purposes of Section 5B(2) and Section 5C shall be(i) the Collector if the lands owned or held by the landowner or tenant are situate in one district and (ii) the Special Collector  as defined in Rule 2(iv)  if the lands so owned or held are situated in more than one district.	None
Section 18(2), however, confers the jurisdiction to try and determine applications for purchase made under that section specifically, on Assistant Collector of First Grade.	None
81.	None
An order of the Prescribed Authority made under the aforesaid provisions has been made appealable under subrule (8) of Rule 6 whereas the provision in regard to appeal, review and revision against an order of the Assistant Collector First Grade made under Section 18, by virtue of Section 24 of the Act, is the same as provided in Sections 80, 81, 83 and 84 of the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887.	None
82.	None
Section 80 of the Tenancy Act provides for Appeals, Section 82 for Review and Section 84 for Revisions.	None
Sections 81 and 83 of that Act relate to limitation and computation of limitation for Appeals and applications for review.	None
Under Section 82 of Tenancy Act, Revenue Officers have the powers of reversing their own orders and those of their predecessors, if no appeal against those orders has been filed.	None
In the case of Assistant Collectors of all Grades, the exercise of this power is always subject to the previous sanction of the Collector.	None
Though a period of 90 days for making an application for review is provided in subclause (b) of the proviso to Section 82(1), yet no limitation has been provided within which a Revenue Officer may suo motu review or move for sanction to review an order.	None
Under Section 84 the Commissioner and the Financial Commissioner have the concurrent revisional jurisdiction.	None
The revisional powers of the Financial Commissioner under Section 84 are in no way less extensive than those of the High Court under Section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
In a sense, his revisional powers are wider.	None
He has power to revise an order against which an appeal lies (see Amir Chand v. State of Haryana, 1971 Cur LJ 449) decided by a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.	None
No statutory limitation for making an application for revision has been provided, but as a matter of practice the revisionpetitions are ordinarily not entertained after a period of 90 days unless sufficient cause for the delay is shown.	None
The Financial Commissioner can interfere in revision suo motu at any time, if the circumstances of the case so warrant.	None
83.	None
There is nothing in the Act or the Rules framed thereunder or in the Tenancy Act saying as to who can file an appeal or revision against the decision or order of the Collector exercising jurisdiction under Section 18.	None
But in view of the long array of judicial decisions including that of the Financial Commissioner, there can be no doubt that the State Government or its Department can, if aggrieved, or prejudiced by such a decision, go in appeal or revision against it.	None
84.	None
Firstly there is a catena of authorities which, following the doctrine of Lindley, L. J., in re Securities Insurance Co.,(1894)	None
2 Ch 410 have laid down the rule that a person who is not a party to a decree or order may with the leave of the Court, prefer an appeal from such decree or order if he is either bound by the order or is aggrieved by it or is prejudicially affected by it.	None
As a rule, leave to appeal will not be refused to a person who might have been made ex nominee a party  see Province of Bombay v. W. I. Automobile Association, AIR 1949	None
Bom 141 Heera Singh v. Veerka, AIR 1958	None
Raj 181 and Shivaraya v. Siddamma, AIR 1963	None
Mys 127 Executive Officer v. Raghavan Pillai, AIR 1961 Ker 114 .	None
In re B, an Infant (1958) QB 12 Govinda Menon v. Madhavan Nair, AIR 1964	None
Ker 235 .	None
85.	None
Secondly, the ruling of the Financial Commissioner in Punjab State v. Dr. Iqbal Singh, 1965 Punj LJ 110 which is binding on all the authorities and Revenue Officers exercising jurisdiction under the Act clinches the matter.	None
There, the decision of the Special Collector declaring surplus area was reversed by the Additional Commissioner.	None
The State, filed against that decision of the Additional Commissioner, a revision petition before the Financial Commissioner.	None
Objection was taken with regard to the competency of the State to file that petition, on two grounds (i) that the order was appealable and the revision was incompetent, and (ii) that the State was not a party to the original proceeding.	None
86.	None
The Financial Commissioner treated the revision as an appeal, and overruled the objection in these terms The argument on behalf of the Respondents overlooks the fact that the Revenue Officers act in a quasijudicial capacity in deciding such cases and if the Punjab State is aggrieved by their orders it is as much entitled to contest them through a remedy provided under the law as private parties are.	None
In fact, there will be no justification for discrimination against the Punjab State in this regard and for holding that it suffers from any disability in the matter of agitating against decisions which are to its detriment.	None
87.	None
The above being in accord with the general principles settled by the long claim of authorities, noticed earlier, appears to be a correct exposition of the law on the point.	None
88.	None
In the present case, neither the landowner, nor the State made any attempt to get the decision, dated 1591961 of the Collector under Section 18 set aside or modified by way of appeal, review or revision or other appropriate proceedings.	None
In a sense, therefore, that decision had become final and conclusive.	None
89.	None
The stage is now set for examining the contentions canvassed at the bar with regard to the correctness or otherwise of the findings of the High Court.	None
90.	None
Mr. Mahajan, learned counsel for the appellantState contends that the Collector, Surplus Area had rightly ignored the sale orders dated September 15, 1961, of the Collector purportedly passed under Section 18, in favour of Amar Singh and Indiraj and that the view taken by the High Court is wrong, because (a) the lease made by the landowner in favour of these respondents, was itself a transfer of land affecting the utilisation of surplus area, and as such, was hit by Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) of Section 10A, and the orders obtained on the basis of that lease could not stand on a better footing (b) the expression transfer in Cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) of this section includes involuntary transfers, also, brought about by operation of law, with only two exceptions which are specifically mentioned in that clause (c) these orders were consent orders and were not based on any independent finding of the Collector as to the existence of the essential condition viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
, that the applicants were in continuous occupation of the lands, as tenants, for the requisite period, but were the result of compromise and collusion between the landlady and her relationtenants, and as such, were null and void (d) these orders had the effect of diminishing the surplus area and as such, were orders of other authority hit by Clause (c) of Section 10A (e) Section 18 has to be construed in a manner which does not defeat the object of Section 10A.	Arguments of Petitioner
These two sections can be reconciled only if the operation of Section 18 is confined to those purchases which do not adversely affect the extent or utilization of surplus area.	Arguments of Petitioner
91.	None
In reply, Mr. S. K. Dhingra, learned Counsel for the respondents, maintains that a lease cannot be regarded as a transfer or disposition of land within the meaning of Clause (b) of Section 10A, because according to its general scheme and object, the Act not only recognises the right of a landowner to create new tenancies on his surplus area after April 15, 1953, but further gives to such a tenant the right to purchase his tenancy under Section 18.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance has been placed on this Courts decision in Saheb Rams case (1970) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 796 (AIR 1971 SC 198 ) (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
Laying stress on the omission of the word lease from clause (b) of Section 10A, Counsel has referred to the use of the word lease in addition to the word transfer in somewhat similar provision relating to future acquisitions in Sections 19A and 19B, to show that whenever the Legislature intended to bring a lease within the sweep of such a provision, it expressly did so.	Arguments of Respondent
92.	None
Reiterating the reasoning of the High Court, Mr. Dhingra submits that a sale made in accordance with an order of the Collector under Section 18 cannot be ignored by the Prescribed Authority, Surplus Area, either as a transfer under clause (b) or as an order of other authority under clause (c) of Section 10A. Any other interpretation, according to the Counsel, will render nugatory Section 18 which is a selfcontained provision intended to achieve one of the primary objects of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of these arguments, reliance has been placed on a later Full Bench judgment of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Mam Raj v. State of Punjab, ILR (1969) 2 Punj and Har 680 (AIR 1970 Punj 23) (FB), which affirmed the propositions of law laid down in the judgment under appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
Shyamlal v. State of Gujarat, (1965) 2 SCR 457 (AIR 1965 SC 1251 1965 (2) Cri LJ 256) was also cited.	Arguments of Respondent
93.	None
Replying to Mr. Mahajans contention (c), Counsel submits that this was not a case where the orders of the Collector passed under Section 18 could be said to be a nullity.	Arguments of Respondent
The Khasra Girdawari before the Collector with the admission of the land owner, superadded, was sufficient material, on the basis of which the Collector making the orders of purchase in favour of the tenants could be satisfied about their being in continuous occupation of their tenancy lands for the requisite period.	Arguments of Respondent
Great emphasis has been placed on the fact that in reply to the writ petition of Amar Singh, the State in their written statement had admitted Amar Singhs averment as to his being a tenant of the land for the requisite period.	Arguments of Respondent
Even the Surplus Area Authority, it is pointed out, conceded in his impugned order that according to the copy of the Khasra Girdawari on the file, Amar Singh and Indiraj were in occupation of the land as tenants since 195758, though such occupation was held to be less than six years.	Arguments of Respondent
In these circumstances, proceeds the argument, the order dated September 15, 1961, passed by the Collector under Section 18, on the basis of compromise, could not be treated as totally void and non est at the most they were erroneous orders passed by the Collector in the exercise of the distinct jurisdiction particularly conferred on him by Section 18(2).	Arguments of Respondent
The only remedy  adds the Counsel  of the aggrieved person or the State was by way of appeal or revision as provided by the statute and since those orders were not so challenged, they had become final.	Arguments of Respondent
The Prescribed Authority, Surplus Area  it is emphasised, while assessing the surplus area, had no jurisdiction to sit in appeal or revision over the orders of the Collector, 1st	Arguments of Respondent
Grade passed under Section 18. 94.	None
Reference in this behalf has been made to Sections 24 and 25 of the Act, Sections 80 to 84 of the Punjab Tenancy Act and R. K. Chari v. Seshadri, (1968) 2	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 848 (AIR 1968 SC 1328 )	Arguments of Respondent
Mohanlal v. Goenka, 1953 SCR 377 (392) (AIR 1953 SC 65 ) Dhaunkal v. Man Kauri, 72 Pun LR 882 (AIR 1970 Punj 431) (FB) and ILR (1969) 2 Punj and Har 680 (AIR 1970 Punj 23) (FB) (supra).	Arguments of Respondent
95.	None
It will be appropriate to take contention (c), first canvassed by Mr. Mahajan because it is the linchpin of the entire case.	None
96.	None
The question is, whether the compromise orders, were wholly void or merely voidable.	Issue
If they were of the former kind, they would be a nullity which does not from its very nature need setting aside, and consequently, they could be treated as nonexistent whenever and wherever their legality comes in question.	Issue
And, the Prescribed Authority, Surplus Area would be entitled to ignore such orders as nonest, independently of the provisions of Section 10A.	None
In that view of the matter, the necessity of determining as to whether those orders are hit by clauses (b) and (c) of that section would not arise.	None
97.If	None
the orders were of the latter type, i.e., voidable or erroneous, passed by the Assistant Collector acting within his jurisdiction under Section 18, they could be avoided or questioned only by way of appeal, review or revision as provided by the statute or in other appropriate proceedings known to law, and the Prescribed Authority or Collector, Surplus Area would not be entitled to go behind them and question their validity or propriety.	None
He shall have to accept them as they are.	None
In that view of the matter, the question will still remain whether such an order of the Assistant Collector passed by him in the exercise of his jurisdiction in favour of a tenant under Section 18, can be ignored as a transfer under clause (b) or as an order of other authority under clause (c) of Section 10A on the ground that it adversely affects the utilization or extent of surplus area?	None
98.	None
An order is null and void if the quasijudicial tribunal passing it lacks inherent jurisdiction over the parties and the subjectmatter.	None
Such was not the case here.	None
The Assistant Collector who made the orders dated September 15, 1961, was duly invested with the quasijudicial jurisdiction under Sec. 18 (2).	None
All the jurisdictional facts for making the orders under that section existed.	None
There is no dispute that Smt.	None
Lachhman was not a small landowner.	None
It is common ground that Field Nos. 263, 343 and 177 did not fall within her reserved area.	None
It was not controverted that in May 1961, when the purchase applications were made, Field Nos. 263 and 343 were comprised in the tenancy of Amar Singh and Field No. 177 in that of Indiraj.	None
According to the observation of the Surplus Area Collector, the copy of the Khasra Girdawari on the file, showed that their possession as tenants was from 195758 i.e. for about 4 1/2 years only, preceding the applications and thus according to him they had failed to show their continuous possession for the requisite period of six years.	None
It is important to note further that Amar Singh in para 2 of his writ petition pleaded That on the 2nd of May, 1961, the petitioner having been in continuous occupation of land comprised in his tenancy for a period of six years applied under Section 18 of the Act for purchase of the above land, and by his order dated 15th September, 1961, Shri Hardial Singh, Assistant Collector 1st Grade, Sirsa, District Hissar, allowed the petitioner to purchase the above land at a price of Rupees 13,590/ 99.	None
This averment of Amar Singh was admitted in the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the State in these terms Para 2 of the petition is admitted.	None
100.	None
In the written statement filed by the State  apart from a general statement that in view of the facts explained by the Collector in his order dated 1151962, the surplus area has been rightly declared  it was not specifically pleaded that the purchase order dated September 15, 1961, made by the Collector under Section 18 was collusive, void or without jurisdiction on the ground that Amar Singh and Indiraj had not been in occupation of these fields for the full statutory period.	None
Nor could Amar Singh and Indiraj be denied the status of tenants and the rights and privileges attaching thereto, merely because they were related to the landowner, the soninlaw and soninlaws brother not being among the relatives prescribed in Rule 5 of the 1956 Rules, whose cultivation (in view of Section 2(9) of the Act) may be deemed to be the selfcultivation of the landowner.	None
101.	None
To sum up, the allegation in the purchase applications about the applicants being in continuous occupation of these fields comprised in their tenancies for the requisite period, coupled with the Khasra Girdawari on file and the admissions made by the landlady in the compromise, furnished sufficient material on the basis of which the Assistant Collector, at the time of making the orders of purchase on September 15, 1961, could have been satisfied about the existence of all the facts essential for the exercise of his jurisdiction under Section 18.It is not correct to say that on the facts of the instant case, the Assistant Collector passed those orders solely on the basis of the compromise, without applying his mind to the case.	None
Application of mind is evident from the circumstance that the Assistant Collector further assessed the price to be paid by each of the applicants who thereafter, deposited the same in the Government Treasury on September 29, 1961.	None
And, it was on the making of such deposits that the appellants were deemed to be the owners of those fields.	None
The mere fact that the Assistant Collector did not record a finding in so many words that he was satisfied from such and such material in regard to the existence of the basic conditions necessary for making the order under Section 18,did not render his order a nullity when such material was otherwise evident on the record.	None
102.	None
In the view I take I am fortified by the decision of this Court in (1973) 1 SCC 761 (AIR 1973 SC 1311 ).	None
That was a case of a compromise order of eviction passed by the Rent Control Court under Section 10 of the Madras Building (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960.	None
But by analogy, the ratio of that decision is an apposite guide for the present case.	None
There, the landlord brought an action under the said Rent Act, for eviction of his tenant, Seshadri from a house on the ground that he required it for his bona fide use and occupation.	None
The tenant at first controverted the landlords claim, but subsequently, both the parties filed a compromise in terms of which the court passed a decree of eviction.	None
The tenant resisted the execution of that decree, on ground that the decree was based on compromise or consent without the court having satisfied itself by an independent consideration regarding the bona fide requirement of the property by the landlord for his own occupation and as such the decree contravened S. 10 of that Act, and was a nullity.	None
The Bench unanimously rejected this objection of the judgmentdebtor tenant.	None
Vaidialingam, J. (Dua, J., concurring) laid down the law thus The true position appears to be that an order of eviction based on consent of the parties is not necessarily void if the jurisdictional fact viz., the existence of one or more of the conditions mentioned in Section 10 were shown to have existed when the Court made the order.	None
Satisfaction of the Court, which is no doubt a prerequisite for the order of eviction, need not be by the manifestation borne out by a judicial finding.	None
If at some stage the Court was called upon to apply its mind to the question and there was sufficient material before it, before the parties invited it to pass an order in terms of their agreement, it is possible to postulate that the Court was satisfied about the grounds on which the order of eviction was passed.	None
103.	None
The above principle was reiterated and applied by this Court in Nagindas Ramdas v. Dalpatram Ichchram, Civil Appeal No. 2479 of 1972, D  30111973 (reported in AIR 1974 SC 471 ).	None
104.	None
Judged by the basic principle enunciated in the above decisions, the order dated September 15, 1961 passed by the Assistant Collector under Section 18, was not a nullity which could be ignored as non est by the Prescribed Authority.	None
Even if those orders were erroneous, they could be impeached only by way of appeal etc., as provided in the Act because the error was committed by the Collector within the exercise of his jurisdiction.	None
A court or any quasijudicial tribunal acting within its jurisdiction can decide rightly as well as wrongly.	None
To use the felicitous words of S. K. Das, J., vide Smt.	None
Ujjam Bai v. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1962 SC 1621 ((1963) 1	None
SCR 778 ), such administrative bodies or officers acting in a judicial capacity are deemed to have been invested with the power to err within the limits of their jurisdiction, and their decisions must be accepted as valid unless set aside in appeal.	None
This general principle was reiterated by this Court in Ittyavira Mathai v. Varkey, AIR 1964 SC 907 (910) ((1964) 1	None
SCR 495 ) as under It is well settled that a court having jurisdiction over the subjectmatter of the suit and over the parties thereto, though bound to decide right may decide wrong, and that even though it decided wrong it would not be doing something which it had no jurisdiction to do.	None
It had the jurisdiction over the subjectmatter of the suit and over the party and, therefore, merely because it made an error in deciding a vital issue in the suit, it cannot be said that it has acted beyond its jurisdiction.	None
As has often been said courts have jurisdiction to decide right or to decide wrong and even though they decide wrong the decrees rendered by them cannot be treated as nullities It merely makes an error of law (which) can be corrected only (on appeal) in the manner laid down in the Civil Procedure Code.	None
(Parenthesis added) 105.	None
The above principles are applicable with greater force to the present case.	None
The Prescribed Authority, Surplus Area, and the Collector competent to make an order under Section 18 are both Assistant Collectors of the 1st Grade, that is coordinate authorities exercising separate and distinct jurisdictions.	None
One cannot sit in appeal or revision over the orders of the other.	None
If one feels that a certain order passed by the other in the exercise of distinct jurisdiction is erroneous it is open to it to get it rectified in the appropriate manner provided by the Act i.e., by way of appeal, review or revision As has already been observed earlier, the State or the Department, if aggrieved or prejudiced by a decision of an authority under this Act can avail of the remedy of appeal available under the Act.	None
In any case, it can move the Financial Commissioner to set right the illegality or impropriety in revision.	None
The Financial Commissioner, it may be recalled, has wide powers in revision to correct such errors committed by the inferior authorities in the exercise of their jurisdiction and there is no timelimit to the exercise of this revisional power by the Financial Commissioner.	None
106. Section 25 of the Act provides Except in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the validity of any proceedings or order taken or made under this Act shall not be called in question in any Court or before any other authority.	None
107.	None
On analysis of the section, it is clear that it gives a twofold mandate.	None
On one hand it debars the jurisdiction of courts or other authorities to question the validity of any proceeding or order taken or made under the Act, and on the other it prohibits the impeachment of such orders or proceedings in a manner which is not in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	None
It indicates that decisions of the authorities under the Act can be challenged only by way of appeal, review or revision as provided in Sections 80, 81, 82, 83 and 84 of the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1887, made applicable by Section 24 of the Act, or in the Rules made under the Act.	None
108.	None
The Punjab and Haryana High Court has consistently taken this view.	None
The Full Bench in 72 Pun LR 882 (AIR 1970 Punj 431) (FB) (supra) also held that the Assistant Collector while dealing with the purchase application under Section 18 has no jurisdiction to sit in appeal or revision over the order of the Surplus Area Collector passed in surplus area proceeding and he has no jurisdiction to ignore that order.	None
109.	None
The rule equally holds good in the converse.	None
In the Full Bench decision in ILR (1969) 2 Punj and Har 680 (AIR 1970 Punj 23 (FB) (supra), it was held that once an application of the tenant under Section 18 has been allowed and order is not set aside in appeal or revision, the same becomes final and remains immune to an attack against its validity on any ground including that of collusion, before the coordinate authorities under the Act dealing with the question of determination of surplus area.	None
If I may say so with respect, this proposition laid down by the Full Bench is unexceptionable.	None
110.	None
The above being the law on the point, it is clear that the orders dated September 15, 1961, not having been impeached by way of appeal, review or revision as provided by the statute, or in other proceedings recognised by law, had become final and conclusive, and the Prescribed Authority, Surplus Area was bound to accept them as valid.	None
He could not go behind them, or himself sit in appeal over them.	None
It was all the more disconcerting in this case because the Collector who passed the orders under Section 18 and the Collector who ignored those orders as Prescribed Authority, Surplus Area, happened to be the same Officer. 111.	None
This takes me to the next question viz.	Issue
, if the orders dated September 15, 1961, were not a nullity, could they be ignored under Section 10A on the ground that they amounted to transfer or orders of other authority affecting the utilization or causing the diminution of surplus area?	Issue
112.	None
Before embarking upon a consideration of this question, it is necessary to remember two fundamental canons of interpretation applicable to such statutes.	None
The first is that if choice lies between two alternative constructions, that alternative is to be chosen which will be consistent with the smooth working of the system which the statute purports to be regulating and that alternative is to be rejected which will introduce uncertainty, friction or confusion into the working of the system (see Maxwell 12th	None
Edn. page 45).	None
The second is that if there is an apparent conflict between different provisions of the same enactment, they should be so interpreted that if possible, effect may be given to both (see King Emperor v. Benoari Lal Sarma, 49 Cal WN 178 (72 Ind App 57 AIR 1945 PC 48 46 Cri LJ 589).	None
113.	None
Let us now apply the above principles to the construction of Sections 10A and 18.	None
It has already been noticed that Section 18 is designed to promote one of the primary objects of the Act viz., of procuring ownership of land to the tiller, on easy terms.	None
It has also been seen that the selfsufficing machinery of this section is available for purchase of their tenancies to the tenants inducted before or after April 15, 1953, by landowner on land not being a part of his permissible area, equally with tenants settled on such area by the Government.	None
In a way, every sale made by the operation of Section 18 in favour of a tenant admitted by the landowner on his surplus area, causes diminution of the surplus area or affects the utilization thereof by the Government.	None
If such sales were to be ignored under Section 10A, then it will reduce the working of the system of the Act to a mockery.	None
It will mean war between Sections 18 and 10A. Such a construction of the Act will present a spectacle of manifest contradiction and absurdity of an Act giving a right by one hand and taking away the same by another.	None
The adoption of such an interpretation may not completely obliterate Section 18, as the High Court has said but it will certainly truncate it.	None
A potent and substantial limb of Section 18, which according to the ruling of this Court in Sahib Rams case (1970) 3 SCR 796 (AIR 1971 SC 198 ) (supra) entitled the category of tenants inducted by the landowner after April 15, 1953 to purchase their tenancies, would stand  as it were  amputated by judicial operation such an interpretation will run counter to the fundamental principles of construction.	None
The conflict between the two provisions can be avoided only if we read the general words other authority in clause (c) of Section 10A, ejusdem generis with the specific words judgment, decree or order of a court, which immediately precede them.	None
Thus construed, these general words or other authority will not take in an authority exercising jurisdiction under Section 18(2) of the Act.	None
114.Nor can the words transfer or other disposition of land in clause (b) of Section 10A, be construed to include a transfer which results by the process of Section 18.	None
The meaning of these words must be restricted to volitional dispositions of land made by the landowner, and cannot be extended to cover involuntary transfers brought about by operation of law or circumstance beyond the control of the landowner.	None
The two types of involuntary transfers namely, acquisition of land by Government under legal compulsion, or by an heir by inheritance which were inserted by the Amending Act 4 of 1959 in the saving clause of this provision and were later given a retrospective effect from April 15, 1953, are only clarificatory or illustrative of the original intent of the Legislature These two instances are not exhaustive of the involuntary transfers which are outside the sweep of clause (b).	None
115.	None
This interpretation of transfer has been consistently adopted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in several cases.	None
Some of them in which involuntary transfers of a kind other than those specifically mentioned in the saving clause of clause (b) came up for consideration are reported in Bhajan Lal v. State of Punjab, (1968) 70	None
Pun LR 664 and Bishen Singh v. State of Punjab, (1968) 47 LLT 284.	None
This case decided by Mahajan, J., proceeds on an interpretation of the same words used in Section 32FF of the Pepsu Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1953, which is in pari materia with Section 10A of the Punjab Act Lakshmi Bai v. State of Haryana, (1971) 73 Pun LR 815.	None
116.	None
The above is the only reasonable interpretation of the words transfer or other disposition of land in Section 10A (b) which is consistent with the content and object of Section 18, and can reconcile and keep effective both the sections.	None
117.	None
Though the contention of Mr. Dhingra that the words transfer or other disposition in the said clause (b) do not embrace within their scope tenancies or leases created by the landowner  because such a right of the landowner is recognised by the Act vide Sahib Rams case, (1970)	None
3 SCR 796 (AIR 1971 SC 198 ) (supra)  is not altogether without force, yet I do not think it necessary to decide that point.	None
The lease created by Smt.	None
Lachhman ceased to subsist as soon as the Collector made the orders of purchase under S. 18 in favour of the erstwhile tenants.	None
The question, whether the extinct lease which preceded the purchase orders was a transfer or not, does not, therefore, survive for decision.	None
118.	None
In the light of what has been said above, I am firmly of the opinion that the view taken by the High Court with regard to the interpretation and interrelationship of Sections 10A and 18 is sound and the answers given by it to the first three questions of law set out at the commencement of this judgment, are correct.	None
I would, therefore, uphold the same.	None
119.	None
Now I turn to question No. 4, which arises in Amar Singhs case only.	Issue
120.	None
It is common ground that Field Nos. 265 and 343 on April 15, 1953, were comprised in the tenancy of Sri Chand and Nathu.	None
The total area of these two fields is 67 bighas and 19 biswas equivalent to 42 ordinary acres, approximately.	None
It is apparent from the record that the land in these two fields is entirely Barani and has no irrigation facilities, whatever.	None
According to the scale adopted by the Collector, Surplus Area, for such land, these 42 ordinary acres will make 10.5 standard acres.	None
The total area of Smt.	None
Lachhman which has been found surplus is about 80 standard acres.	None
The land comprised in these two fields is thus only oneeighth of her surplus area.	None
121.	None
At no stage before the High Court, was it contended that Sri Chand and Nathu held or owned in the State any other land apart from the said fields.	None
In this Court, also, either in the grounds of appeal or otherwise, no such allegation or contention has been made.	None
The permissible area which can be held or retained by a tenant under the Act is 30 standard acres.	None
That is to say, the permissible limit of the area which could be held in common by Sri Chand and Nathu, was 60 standard acres.	None
Since it has been nobodys case that Sri Chand and Nathu held any other area, and the land comprised in these two fields being 10.5 standard acres, was far less than their permissible limit, the High Court presumed  and I think, not wrongly that Field Nos. 265 and 343 were held by the tenants Sri Chand and Nathu within their permissible area.	None
122.	None
It is well settled that surplus area has to be determined, with reference to the situation as it obtained on April 15, 1953, when the Act came into force.	None
This proposition is clear from Section 19F, also, which says that the Prescribed Authority shall be competent to determine the surplus area, referred to in Section 10A, of a landowner out of the lands owned by such landowner immediately before the commencement of the Act.	None
If there still remained any doubt on this point, the same must be deemed to have been authoritatively dispelled by the decision of this Court in Bhagwan Das v. State of Punjab (1966)	None
2 SCR 511 (AIR 1966 SC 1869 ).	None
A plain reading of the definition of surplus area in Section 2(5a) which has been quoted in a foregoing part of this judgment, shows that land held by a tenant within his permissible area, cannot be included in the surplus area of the landowner.	None
Since on the determinative date i.e., 15453, Field Nos. 265 and 343, measuring 10.5 standard acres only, were held by the tenants, Sri Chand and Nathu, within their permissible area, these fields could not, in view of the mandate of Section 2(5a), be included in the surplus area of Smt.	None
Lachhman.	None
At the time, when the Surplus Area Collector took up determination of the surplus area (which as pointed out in Dhaunkals case 72 Pun LR 882 (AIR 1970 Punj 431) (FB) (supra) implies incidental verification of the permissible areas of the landowner and the tenants, also) these fields were still comprised in a tenancy, though the holder of the tenancy was a different tenant.	None
In these circumstances, the change of the tenants will not make these Fields accrete to the surplus area of the landowner.	None
Such change of the tenant does not amount to a future acquisition of land comprised in that tenancy by the landowner within the contemplation of Sections 19A or 19B of the Act such a situation came up for consideration before a Division Bench (consisting of Sharma and Khosla, JJ.) of the Punjab High Court in Harchand Singh v. Punjab State, (1964) 66	None
Pun LR 285 1963 Pun LJ 144, Sharma J., who spoke for the Bench, made these observations There can be no doubt that in the instant case the surplus area was to be determined on the date the Act came into force i.e. 15th April 1953, and further that the area in the cultivating possession of a tenant if within the prescribed limit was also to be excluded from consideration.	None
Section 10A governs the disposition of land which was comprised in a surplus area of the commencement of the Act and not the land which was not surplus on that date or had become surplus after the coming into force of the Act.	None
The latter case was evidently covered by Sections 19A and 19B of the Act the mere change in tenancies will not attract the provisions of these sections provided the area which the tenant comes to occupy thereby does not exceed the permissible area.	None
By changing a tenancy a landlord also cannot be said to have acquired the land comprising the tenancy because the land (which) belonged to him beforehand continued to belong to him after the change in tenancy.	None
The term acquire has not been defined in the Act and so we have to accept its dictionary meaning as, To make property ones own.	None
To gain permanently, it is regularly applied to permanent acquisition (Bourviers Law Dictionary and Concise Encyclopedia, Eighth Edition, Vol.	None
I, page 114).	None
123.	None
These observations, in my opinion, contain a correct statement of law on the point.	None
124.	None
For the foregoing reasons, I would hold that these two fields could not be included in the surplus area of the landowner, Smt.	None
Lachhman and Section 10A was not attracted to a disposition of these fields either by an order made under Section 18 or otherwise.	None
125.	None
In the result, I would dismiss both these appeals, leaving the parties to bear their own costs in this Court.	None
ORDER 126.	None
In accordance with the judgment of the majority, the appeals are allowed, but in the circumstances, the parties will bear their costs throughout.	Decision
127.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
