 Dr. AR.	None
Lakshmanan, J. The present case raises an important issue of vital public importance, namely, whether the Industrial Tribunal was justified in adjudicating upon the service conditions of employees, who are not workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and are hence clearly outside its jurisdiction.	Issue
2. Civil Appeal No. 5601 of 2001 was filed by the appellantCompany against the common final judgment and order of the Division Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Appeal No. 194 of 2000.	Facts
The said appeal was filed by the Company against the judgment dated 01.12.1999 of the learned single Judge in Writ Petition No. 1705 of 1998 which was filed by the Company against the award of the Industrial Tribunal in Reference being Reference (IT) No. 3 of 1993 which arose out of the demands of the respondentUnion.	Facts
3. Civil Appeal Nos. 7340 and 7341 of 2001 were filed by the Union against the judgment and order in Appeal No. 441 of 2000 which was filed by the Union impugning the judgment dated 01.12.1999 of the learned single Judge in Writ Petition No. 1705 of 1998 by which the single Judge had reduced the extent of dearness allowance granted under the award of the Industrial Tribunal.	Facts
4.	Facts
We shall take Civil Appeal No. 5601 of 2001 filed by the Company against the judgment and order of the Division Bench for consideration and the decision taken on this appeal will also govern the other two appeals filed by the Staff and Officers Association in Civil Appeal Nos. 7340 and 7341 of 2001.	Facts
5.	Facts
The appellantCompany concluded a Settlement with the respondentAssociation on 14.08.1974 whereby welfare scheme for the staff and officers, jointly funded and managed by the Company and the Association did not create any condition of service.	Facts
The Company concluded a settlement on 09.06.1982 covering service conditions of all staff and officers including those in Grades 01 and 00.	Facts
According to the Management, this was a unique settlement in that at the instance the Chairman and Managing Director of the Company, the Association determined for itself and recommended the quantum of increase in emoluments for the staff and officers which the Company accepted and implemented through the said settlement.	Facts
On 24.02.1989, the appellantCompany concluded a Settlement with the respondentAssociation which stated, inter alia, that It is the Companys contention that a substantial number of the staff, not being workmen under Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) are not covered by the provisions of the Act.	Facts
Without prejudice to the rights and contentions of both the parties with regard to the applicability of the provision of the Act, the parties have reached a comprehensive Settlement covering in addition to the demands made in the said Charter of Demands, the issue of annual bonus as well, under Section 12(3) and 18(3) of the Act read with Rule 62 of the Industrial Disputes (Bombay) Rules, 1957 in conciliation proceedings on the following terms.	Facts
This Settlement did not cover employees in Grade 01 and 00 who are General Foremen or Senior Officers and Asstt.	Facts
General Foremen or Officers.	Facts
6.	Facts
On 04.11.1991, the respondentAssociation served a Charter of Demands on the Company.	Facts
Failure report was submitted by Conciliation Officer on 31.10.1992.	Facts
The Government of Maharashtra, by its Order dated 17.02.1993, referred the dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal.	Facts
The text of the Order issued by the Government of Maharashtra is reproduced below ORDER Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 No. ADM 3092/21867/CR 2001/Lab3.	Facts
Whereas the Government of Maharashtra has considered the report submitted by the conciliation Officer under subsection (4) of section 12 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947), in respect of the dispute between M s. Mukand Ltd., L.B.S. Marg, Kurla, Bombay 400 070 and the workmen employed under them, over the demands mentioned in the schedule appended hereto.	Facts
And whereas the Government of Maharashtra after considering the aforesaid report is satisfied that there is a case for reference to the dispute to an Industrial Tribunal.	Facts
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of subsection (1) of section 10 read with subsection (5) of section 12 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Government of Maharashtra hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to an Industrial Tribunal, Bombay consisting of Shri G.S. Baj, Member constituted under Government Notification, Industries, Energy and Labour Department, No. IDA 0392/CR 69/Lab3, dated the 31st March, 1992.	Facts
7.	Facts
The respondentAssociation filed its Statement of Claims.	Facts
The appellantCompany filed its written statement setting out in detail how the demands raised by the respondentAssociation, which according to them, were unreasonable and pointing out that the financial position of the Company was not sound.	None
It was also pointed out that barring a few categories of employees, the bulk of employees were not workmen as defined under the Act and that the Industrial Tribunal had no jurisdiction to grant any relief to the employees who are not workmen under the Act.	None
8.	None
The Tribunal, by its PartI Award, directed an ad hoc payment of Rs. 500/ per month to all employees in grades 1200.	Facts
The appellantCompany on its own effected an additional ad hoc payment in varying amounts gradewise to employees in grades 0009.	Facts
The Tribunal, by its interim Award PartII, directed payment of employees on the basis of basic pay slab ad hoc amount ranging from Rs. 375/ to Rs. 1050/ per month to employees who had not been granted additional ad hoc payment by the appellantCompany.	Facts
The High Court, by its judgment and order dated 27.01.1996 in Writ Petition No. 342 of 1996 filed by the company against the said Awards, directed the Company to deposit the amounts payable under the interim Award PartII in the Provident Fund Accounts of the concerned employees instead of disbursing the same to them, and directed the Tribunal to dispose of the Reference on or before 30.04.1996. 9.	Facts
On 11.12.1995, the appellantCompany and the respondentAssociation concluded a Settlement on annual bonus for four years, without prejudice to their respective rights and contentions as stated in Clause 1 of the said settlement which stated as under It is the Companys contention that a majority of the staff, on the one hand and the officers on the other are not Workmen under Section 2(s) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and are also not covered by the provisions of The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965.	Facts
These contentions of the Company are not, however, accepted by the Association.	Facts
In the circumstances, it is agreed that this Settlement shall not be cited by either party as evidence of waiver of the contentions of the other and that both the parties shall continue to be at liberty to raise their respective contentions on these issues on all fora. 10.	Facts
An affidavit by the VicePresident of the Company  Mr. Krishnan Nair was also filed before the Tribunal affirming the designations and categories of employees of the appellantCompany who are not workmen under the Act.	Facts
The Tribunal passed an award on 26.03.1998 and held that the appellant was purportedly estopped from contending that the employees were not workmen under the Act and granted all the major demands, including revision in basic salaries, clearness allowance, etc. in toto and rejected certain demands like computer allowance, shift allowance also in toto.	Facts
According to the appellant, the Award was far in excess of the appellants financial capacity and the same ignored the wellsettled industrycumregion principle and the status of the employees before him.	None
11.	None
Being aggrieved by the Award of the Industrial Tribunal, the appellant filed Writ Petition No. 1705 of 1998 before the High Court at Bombay.	None
The High Court issued rule and granted conditional stay subject to the condition, inter alia, that the petitionerCompany pays to the employees 50 of the increased salary and allowances awarded by the Tribunal, in addition to the existing salary and allowances with effect from the date of publication of the Award, and that in case it is held ultimately that the said employees were not entitled to the payments so made, the amount shall be adjusted by the appellant in future wages.	None
12.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned single Judge passed another Order on the same date in the Companys Writ Petition No. 1704 of 1998 against another Award passed by another Tribunal in Reference (IT) No. 70 of 1998 relating to the Companys dailyrated workmen at its factory at Kurla while admitting the said writ petition, directing the Company to pay to the said dailyrated workmen 50 of the increase in the allowances granted by the said Award except certain allowances specified therein.	Facts
The appellant filed an appeal before the Division Bench against the said interim order dated 05.10.1998.	Facts
The appeal was disposed of stating that the said order was a discretionary order and did not warrant any interference at the interim stage.	Facts
The Association filed contempt petition in the High Court on the ground that the Company was deducting from retrial benefits of the employees the amount that were paid to them under the interim order dated 05.10.1998.	Arguments of Respondent
By its order dated 19.02.2000 in the said petition, the Company was directed to deposit in the High Court a sum of Rs. 9,52,205/ recovered thus from the employees.	Arguments of Respondent
13.	Arguments of Respondent
The Vice President of the Company filed an affidavit before the learned single Judge on 24.06.1999 whereby he placed on record the facts on the financial position of the Company.	Facts
The affidavit affirmed, inter alia, the fact that CRISIL progressively downgraded the Companys financial standing and that by its letter dated 01.04.1999, the said credit rating agency further downgraded followed the downgrading done earlier as under 14.	Facts
The said letter from CRISIL showed that the rating AA indicated high safety, while BB indicated Inadequate Safety.	Facts
The rating as above showed that the Company had been downgraded by as many as 9 notches between 1995 and 1999.	Facts
15.	Facts
On 01.12.1999, the learned single Judge passed judgment and order modifying the impugned Award and held that there was community of interest between the workmen and nonworkmen as they worked and functioned in the same grades and that the Company had concluded Settlements covering both categories of employees in the past, and further that in the facts of the case, the workmen could espouse the cause of the nonworkman.	Facts
The learned single Judge disallowed the granting of one component of D.A. viz., basic linked variable	Facts
D.A.	Facts
He conformed all other increases in emoluments granted by the Tribunal.	Facts
The Review Petition filed by the Association against the judgment of the learned single Judge was also rejected by Order dated 15.02.2000.	Facts
Both the appellant and the respondent preferred separate appeals challenging the judgment of the learned single Judge.	Facts
In the appeal, the Company filed its Annual Report for the year 19992000 which reported a profit of Rs. 5.85 crores but showed that when capital profits i.e. profits from sale of land and of shares owned by the Company in the companies are excluded, there was, in fact, a loss amounting to Rs. 9.45 crores.	Facts
The Company also submitted statements relating to basic pay etc. to the Division Bench during the course of hearing.	Facts
According to the appellantCompany, they suffered a loss of Rs. 40 crores during the financial year 200001 as per the audited financial results and a chart showing the financial position of the Company from 199192 to 200001 was also filed.	Facts
16.	Facts
The Division Bench passed its judgment partially modifying the learned single Judges Order by reducing (i) one of the 3 components of Dearness Allowance granted by the Tribunal viz.	Facts
the D.A. fixed in terms of percentages of basic pay, gradewise (ii) the number of service increments (iii) the gratuity from 21 days to 15 days and (iv) by changing the effective date for increase in emoluments from 17.02.1993 to 01.01.1996.	Facts
The Division Bench affirmed the decision of the learned single Judge on all other points.	Facts
The Order casts as retrospective burden of approximately Rs. 35 crores	Facts
upto	Facts
March, 2001 and prospective gross burden of Rs. 7 crores per annum.	Facts
17.	Facts
As already stated, the special appeals were filed against the common judgment by the respective parties.	Facts
According to counsel for the appellant, the High Court has failed to correct the jurisdictional error in granting revision of the service conditions of employees who are admittedly not workmen under the Act on the ground, inter alia, of community of interest and also the error in granting revision of service conditions of employees in breach of established principles of wage adjudication.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court granted leave to appeal to both parties and directed the appellantCompany not to make any recovery from the employees of the amounts paid on the basis of the interim Awards passed by the Tribunal or by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have heard Mr. Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantCompany and Mr. K.K. Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondentStaff Officers Association.	None
Both the learned counsel advanced lengthy arguments.	None
In support of their contentions, they invited our attention to the various documents and records filed before the Industrial Tribunal, before the High Court and before this Court and also relied on many rulings of this Court.	None
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
In assailing the award and of the judgment of the High Court, Shri Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel appearing for the Company, made the following submissions (i)	None
The Reference is limited to the dispute between the appellantCompany and the workmen employed by them.	Reasoning
(ii) The Tribunal, being a creature of the Reference, cannot adjudicate matters not within the purview of the dispute actually referred to it by the order of Reference.	Reasoning
(iii) There are no pleadings by the respondentStaff Officers Association regarding community of interest or estopped.	None
(iv) The High Court and this Court have the jurisdiction and the power to interfere with the award of the Tribunal.	None
(v) The phrase any person in Section 2(k) and Section 18 of the Act does not include nonworkmen.	None
(vi)	None
The finding of the Court below that there is community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen is based on misconstruing of evidence and disregarding of vital facts.	None
(vii)	None
The nonworkmen cannot be given the status and protection available to the workmen under the Act.	Reasoning
(viii) Estimation computation of the total wave packet, which is a vital task in wage adjudication, has not been done by any of the Courts below.	None
(ix) Financial burden of the award passed by the Tribunal is wrongly assessed by the Tribunal, as observed by the learned single Judge, however, neither the learned single Judge nor the Division Bench assessed the burden of their own judgment and order.	None
The omission is fatal to the legality of the impugned order.	Reasoning
(x) The industrycumregion principle has not been followed nor have the comparisons be made in accordance with the wellsettled law.	Reasoning
(xi) Assessment of the appellantCompanys financial capacity by the Courts below is riddled with serious errors.	Reasoning
(xii)	None
The subsequent developments relating to the financial position of the appellantCompany need to be kept in mind.	None
(xiii)	None
The award, after its infirmities are cured, should be made applicable only to the workmen and not to the nonworkmen.	None
(xiv)	None
The appellantCompany, however, undertakes to ensure that the total wage packets of the nonworkmen, to whom the award further modified as above will not be applicable, are not lower than the total wage packets available to the workmen under the said award.	None
20.	None
The above submissions were sought to be countered on behalf of the respondentStaff Officers Association.	None
Mr. K.K. Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing for the Staff Officers Association submitted that essentially there was no revision of basic wages from 1972 and only adhoc increases had been granted from time to time of the special pay and allowances.	None
There was thus an urgent and pressing need for wage revision.	None
He made the following submissions (i) It is submitted by the respondentStaff Officers Association that the decision of the Tribunal, on a question of fact, which it has jurisdiction to determine, is not liable to be questioned in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution of India unless at the least it is shown to be fully unsupported by the evidence.	None
He cited the judgments of this Court in the following cases (a) Ebrahim Aboobakar Anr.	None
vs. Custodian General of Evacuee Property, 1952	None
SCR 696 at 702 (Five Judges) (b) Dharangadhara Chemical Works Ltd. vs. State of Saurashtra 1957	None
SCR 152 (Four Judges) (c) Syed Yakoob vs. K.S. Radhakrishnan Ors., (1964 5 SCR 64 (Five Judges) (d) Parry Co. Ltd. vs. P.C.	None
Pal Ors.	None
1969 2	None
SCR 976 (Three Judges) (e) Ouseph Mathal Ors.	None
vs. M. Abdul Khadir, (2002)	None
1 SCC 319 (Two Judges) (ii) This Court while exercising its power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India in an appeal from the judgment of the High Court rendered in exercise of its power under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India will exercise the same power which the High Court could exercise and will not interfere with the finding of fact recorded by a Tribunal.	None
The following decisions were cited in the cases of Parry Co. Ltd. vs. P.C.	None
Pal Ors.	None
(supra) and Fuel Injection Ltd. vs. Kamgar Sabha Anr., (1978) 1 SCC 156 for this proposition.	None
(ii) While exercising powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, for issuance of a writ of certiorari or any other writ against an award of Industrial Tribunal, the High Court will normally not take into consideration facts arising subsequent to the date of the award.	None
(iii) The Industrial Tribunal by its award raised the necessary issues in regard to the financial soundness of the Company to bear the burden and recorded the finding in favour of the Staff Officers Association.	None
(iv) The Industrial Tribunal also recorded the finding that the charts regarding the financial position of various comparable companies, which were prepared on the basis of the information submitted by the witnesses of the Company, will have to be believed and considered.	None
(v) The findings of the Industrial Tribunal were based on the evidence on record and the High Court ought not to have interfered with those findings.	None
It was submitted that the learned single Judge has erred in interfering with the DA Scheme framed by the Industrial Tribunal and that the learned single Judge did not compare the total wage packet of Mukund with the comparable concerns.	None
The Division Bench had exceeded its jurisdiction and take into account event subsequent to the passing of the award and secondly, in confirming the reduction in DA made by the learned single Judge.	None
The Industrial Tribunal having exercised its discretion and having deprived the workmen of the benefit of the award from 1.1.1992 to 17.2.1993, there was no reason whatsoever for the High Court to interfere with the discretion of the Tribunal.	None
Though the learned single Judge confirmed that finding, but the Division Bench without any reason whatsoever interfered with the said discretion and deprived the workmen the benefit of the revision in service conditions for four years.	None
The Division Bench completely lost sight of the fact and effect that the employees who had retired or had ceased to be in service of the company between 1.1.1992 to 1.1.1996 would not only not get any benefit under the award but such of them who had retired or had ceased to be in service after 19.1.1994 will have to refund the benefit they got under the interim awards granted on 19.1.1994 and 18.9.1995.	None
(vi) The Division Bench also erred in interfering with the Gratuity Scheme granted by the Industrial Tribunal and confirmed by the learned single Judge of the High Court.	None
Arguing further, the learned senior counsel would submit that the Industrial Tribunal took into consideration the fact that the dailyrated workers of the Company at the Kalwe Plant, as per agreement dated 15.2.1994, were entitled to Gratuity of 21 days and, therefore, had granted Gratuity of 21 days basic DA to the staff concerned in the reference.	None
The learned single Judge confirmed the said finding.	None
However, the Division Bench interfered with the finding on the ground that the Gratuity Scheme at Kalwe Plant was on the basis of minimum attendance whereas the award gave a flat rate of Gratuity of 21 days to all the employees.	None
(vii) The Division Bench erred in interfering with the service increments given by the Industrial Tribunal.	None
In interfered with the service increments only on the ground that they thought it appropriate to restructure the increments.	None
(viii) The Company should not be allowed to rely on documents which are not part of the Record.	None
It is to be noted that the Company has filed an application for bringing additional documents on record to show that the financial condition of the Company had deteriorated after passing of the award.	None
It was submitted by the learned counsel that subsequent events are not at all relevant for the purpose of assailing the award, but may be relevant if and when demands are made either by the workmen or the Company and when demands are made either by the workmen or the Company for subsequent period and a Reference in that regard is given by appropriate Government.	None
It was, therefore, submitted that the application for bringing on record the additional documents be rejected.	None
According to him, there are no operating losses, but the losses are mainly on account of the interest on borrowing for huge investments made in associate subsidiary group companies and for the expansion of the steel making capacity by setting up a new project at Hospet.	None
21.	Reasoning
Learned senior counsel appearing for the respondentStaff Officers Association made additional submissions on behalf of the workmen.	None
Regarding the financial clause contained the Statute, he has made further submissions reiterating the submissions made earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
22.	Reasoning
We shall now analyse the submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing on either side with reference to the pleadings, documents, records and also with reference to the judgments cited.	None
It was further submitted that apart from the fact that admittedly there are workmen in all the grades and that the workmen from one graThe Reference is limited to the dispute between the AppellantCompany and the workmen employed by them.	None
23.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the order of Reference dated 17.2.1993 in paragraph supra.	Reasoning
The dispute referred to by the order of Reference is only in respect of workmen employed by the appellantCompany.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that the Tribunal being a creature of the Reference, cannot adjudicate matters not within the purview of the dispute actually referred to it by the order of Reference.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances of the present case, the Tribunal could not have adjudicated the issues of the salaries of the employees who are not workmen under the Act nor could it have covered such employees by its award.	Reasoning
Even assuming, without admitting, that the Reference covered the nonworkmen, the Tribunal, acting within its jurisdiction under the Act, could not have adjudicated the dispute insofar as it related to the nonworkmen.	Reasoning
24.	Reasoning
It was submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the respondent that under the Act, the dispute can be raised only by the workmen with the employer and that the workmen, however, can, in appropriate case, espouse the cause of nonworkmen because under the definition of industrial disputes under clause (k) of Section 2 of the said Act, the dispute may not only be related to workmen but to any person including nonworkmen, provided, however, that there is community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen.	Reasoning
de look forward to promotion in the next grade comprising workmen as well as nonworkmen, the provisions of clause (d) of subsection (3) of Section 18 of the Act make the award not only binding on the workmen but also on the nonworkmen who may be in employment on the date of the dispute or may have subsequently become employed in the establishment.	None
It was further submitted that clause (d) of subsection (3) of Section 18 purposely uses both the expressions, namely, workmen and persons and, therefore, both the expressions will have to be given their proper meaning.	None
Workmen has been defined under clause (s) of Section 2 of the Act.	None
The expression person has not been defined and, therefore, that expression will have to be given its normal meaning.	None
In this regard, learned counsel invited our attention to clause (42) of Section 3 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 which states that person shall include any Company or Association or body of individuals whether incorporated or not.	None
This is an inclusive definition giving extended meaning to the word person.	None
He also drew our attention to the Black Law Dictionary, 4th Edition, on page No. 1299, it is stated that the word person in its natural and usual signification includes woman as well as man.	None
Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Workmen of Dimakuchi Tea Estate vs. The Management of Dimakuchi Tea Estate, (1958)	None
SCR 1156 (Three Judges).	None
While dealing with the definition of industrial dispute contained in Section 2(k) of the Act, this Court observed as under Therefore, when Section 2(k) speaks of the employment or nonemployment or the terms of employment or the conditions of labour of any person, it can only mean the employment or nonemployment or the terms of employment or the conditions of labour of only those persons in the employment or nonemployment or the terms of employment or with the conditions of labour of whom the workmen themselves are directly and substantially interested.	None
Section 18 of the Act supports the aforesaid observations, in so far as it makes the award binding not merely on the parties to the dispute, but where the party is an employer, on his heirs, successors or assigns and where they party is composed of workmen, on all persons employed in the establishment and all persons who subsequently become employed therein.	None
If, therefore, the dispute is a collective dispute, the party raising the dispute must have either a direct interest in the subject matter of dispute or a substantial interest therein in the sense that the class to which the aggrieved party belongs is substantially affected thereby.	None
It is the community of interest of the class as a whole  class of employers or class of workmen  which furnishes the real nexus between the dispute and the party to the dispute.	None
We see no insuperable difficulty in the practical application of this test.	None
In a case where the party to the dispute is composed of aggrieved workmen themselves and the subject matter of dispute relates to them or any of them, they clearly have a direct interest in the dispute.	None
Where, however, the party to the dispute also composed of workmen, espouse the cause of another person whose employment, or nonemployment, etc., may prejudicially affect their interest, the workmen have a substantial interest in the subject matte of dispute.	None
In both such cases, the dispute is an industrial dispute.	None
25.	None
Learned counsel also cited the decision in the case of Anil Kumar Upadhyaya vs. Sarkar (P.K. Ors.), 1961 2 LLJ 459 and, in particular, conclusion No. 4 arrived at page 467 which reads as under No. 4 From the provisions of clause (b), subsection (3) of Section 18 of the Act, it is to be implied that the Tribunal has power to summon parties other than parties to the order or reference, to appear in the proceedings as parties to the dispute.	None
This has a reference to proper and necessary parties, as such parties need not necessarily belong to the category of employer or workman.	None
26.	Reasoning
Reliance placed on conclusion No.4 by the learned counsel appearing for the respondent is misplaced.	None
In our view, conclusion No.4 needs to be read in the context of the preceding and succeeding conclusions in the said judgment.	None
The text of conclusion Nos. 1 to 7 is as under (1) An industrial dispute under the Act arises between an employer and his workmen, where the employer (sic) is concerned.	None
(2) Such a dispute can only be referred for adjudication by an order made by the appropriate Government under the Act.	None
There is no express provision in the Act or the Rules framed thereunder, for adding in party to the adjudicating proceedings other than parties to the reference, by the adjudicating Court or Tribunal.	None
(3) Such a power may be granted by prescribing rules and or making the relevant provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, but so far it has not been done.	None
(4) From the provisions of Clause (b), Subsection (3) of Section 18 of the Act, it is to be implied that the Tribunal has power to summon parties other than parties to the order of Reference, to appear in the proceedings as parties to the dispute.	None
This has a reference to proper and necessary parties, as such parties need not necessarily belong to the category of employer or workmen.	None
(5) The power to be implied from the provisions of clause (b) is to summon such a party.	None
The form of summons has not yet been prescribed, but under subsection (1) of Section 11, the Tribunal may issue summons in its own form and follow such proceedings with regard to it as it may think fit, until rules framed under the Act deal with such matter.	None
(6) The Form D 1 is not an appropriate form of summons for that purpose.	None
(7) Clause (b) of subsection (3) of Section 18 clearly contemplates that not only there should be such a summon but that the party summoned should have an opportunity to show that he has been summoned without proper cause.	None
Such an opportunity is not given when the party is added as a party without any notice to him, and is compelled to join in the whole reference proceedings.	None
27.	Reasoning
In the said case, following its conclusions as above, the High Court held as under That being the law on the subject, it is clear that the order made by the Tribunal on 24th December, 1959 is not in accordance with law.	None
the Tribunal has not issued any summons as contemplated by clause (b) of subsection (3) of Section 18 and has not given any opportunity to the petitioner to contest the service of such a summons.	None
28.	None
In the present appeal, it is not the contention of the respondentStaff Officers Association that the Tribunal, after considering the material before it, arrived at a finding that the nonworkmen are a necessary party to the reference or that it complied with the requirement of issuing summons to the nonworkmen under Section 18 of the Act, in accordance with law.	None
29.	None
Learned counsel appearing for the respondent cited the judgment of this Court in the case of Hochtief Gammon vs. Industrial Tribunal, Orissa, 1964 (2) LLJ 460.	None
Gajendragadkar P.B., CJ.	None
While speaking for the Bench in considering the implied power of the Industrial Tribunal to add parties observed as under This question has been considered by the Madras High Court in two reported decisions.	None
In P.G. Brookes vs. Industrial Tribunal, Madras and Ors., 1953 (II) LLJ 1, the Division Bench of the said High Court has held that Section 18(b) by necessary implications gives power to the Tribunal to add parties.	None
It can add necessary or proper party.	None
He need not be the employer or the employee.	None
In that particular case, the party added was the receiver and it was found that unless the receiver was added as a party to the reference proceedings, the adjudication itself would become ineffective.	None
In the words used by the judgment, the party added was not a rank outsider or a disinterested spectator, but was a receiver who was vitally concerned with the proceedings before the Tribunal and whose presence was necessary to make the ultimate award effective, valid and enforceable.	None
30.	None
In our view, the ratio of the above judgment has not supported the respondents contentions.	None
31.	None
After referring to the decision of the Madras High Court in P.G. Brookes vs. Industrial Tribunal (supra), in Radhakrishna Mills Ltd., Coimbatore vs. Special Industrial Tribunal, Madras and Ors.	None
(1954 (1) LLJ 295) and to the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Anil Kumar Upadhyaya vs. P.K. Sarkar Ors.	None
(1961 (II) LLJ 459), this Court has gone on to observe in the said judgment as under It would be noticed that in all these decisions, the implied power of the Tribunal to summon additional parties in the reference proceedings is confined only to cases where such addition appeared to be necessary for making the reference complete and the award effective and enforceable.	None
Such a power cannot be exercised to extend the scope of the reference and to bring in matters which are not the subject matter of the reference and which are not incidental to the dispute which has been referred.	None
32.	None
In the present case, the nonworkmen are not necessary parties.	None
The reference is complete, covering as it does Mukund Ltd. and the workmen employed by them.	None
The award, in our opinion, can be made effective and enforceable in respect of the workmen after its infirmities are cured.	None
It was submitted that in fact settlement of 1989, for instance, did not cover the employees in Grades 01 and 00 and yet, the same was implemented by the parties thereto.	None
The finding of the High Court that the workmen and the nonworkmen belong to the same class, in our view, is erroneous.	None
The question of class to which the employees belong is to be decided not on the basis of the Grades in which they are placed but on the basis of their duties, responsibilities and powers as laid down in Section 2(s) of the Act.	None
33.	None
In the instant case, the parties have adduced detailed evidence, documentary as well as oral, on the duties, responsibilities and powers of the employees but the Tribunal totally sidestepped the said evidence running into more than thousand pages on the ground that the Company is estopped from raising the issue of the status of the employees under the Act, i.e. whether they are workmen or not.	None
The Tribunal arrived at its decision erroneously by ignoring the fact that (a) the Company had not waived its rights or contentions of the issue in any of the settlements between the parties, (b) the settlement of 1989 concluded despite all the preexisting facts including previous settlements, without prejudice to the rights and contentions of the parties on the issue, as already submitted, and (c) the settlement of 1995 concluded during the pendency of the Reference before the Tribunal which stated inter alia that both the parties shall continue to be at liberty to raise their respective contentions on these issues on all fora.	None
In fact the applicantCompany had identified the positions in terms of job titles i.e., designations of employees who are not workmen under the Act by affidavit dated 5.7.1995 of Mr. Krishnan Nair.	None
The facts affirmed in the said affidavit were proved by examination of witnesses and were also admitted to be correct by General Secretary and witness of the Association vide paragraph 95 of his evidence which reads as under Annexure1 of Ex. C29 is now shown to me, designation mentioned therein under respective grades are broadly correct.	None
Grades are based on the job and responsibilities of the various categories in the Grade.	None
In the hierarchy in a typical production shop are downwards to upwards i.e., dailyrated workmen, supervisors 2 to 7, supervisors, foremen.	None
34.	None
It was further submitted by the learned counsel for the respondent that award rendered at the instance of the workmen with regard to the conditions of service of the workman employed in Grade 12 to 00 would have surely affected the nonworkmen working in the same factory in the same grades and they would have been required to be given an opportunity to be heard by the Industrial Tribunal.	None
There is, therefore, no doubt that there is community of interest between the workmen who raised the dispute and the nonworkmen working in those grades whose cause the workmen had espoused.	None
It is true that the contention on behalf of the workmen all throughout has been that all the employees concerned in the Reference are workmen under the Act.	None
In the alternative, it has been contended that assuming without admitting the same of the employees are nonworkmen, the Association can espouse the cause of the nonworkmen and it is on this footing that the High Court has held that the workmen were entitled to espouse the cause of nonworkmen placed in the same Grades.	None
The above submission has no force.	None
35.	None
In the event, the Tribunal never adverted to the factual material including the evidence anywhere in its award.	None
The Tribunal neither considered the factual material before it nor applied the law thereto.	None
36.	None
We, therefore, hold that the reference is limited to the disputed between the Company and the Workmen employed by them and that the Tribunal, being the creature of the Reference, cannot adjudicate matters not within the purview of the dispute actually referred to it by the order of Reference.	None
Community of Interest or estoppel 37.	None
According to Mr. Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantCompany, there are no pleadings either on the issue of community of interest or on the issue of estoppel in the Statement of Claim filed by the respondentStaff Officers Association before the Tribunal.	None
The law, on this point, is wellsettled in a catena of cases.	None
This Court, in its recent judgment in the case of Bondar Singh Ors. vs. Nihal Singh Ors., (2003) 4 SCC 161 , held as under It is settled law that in the absence of a plea no amount of evidence led in relation thereto can be looked into.	None
38.	None
In this view of the matter, we are of the opinion that the findings rendered regarding community of interest or estoppel in the absence of pleadings by the Association, cannot at all be looked into.	None
Jurisdiction and power of this Court to interfere with the award of the Tribunal 39.	None
Elaborate and lengthy submissions were made by both the learned counsel appearing on either side and many rulings were cited on this issue.	None
Mr. Ashok H. Desai, learned senior counsel appearing for the Company, submitted that the High Court and this Court have the jurisdiction and power to interfere with the award of the Tribunal and cited the judgment of this Court in the case of Union of India vs. Tarachand Gupta Bros., 1971 (1) SCC 486.	None
This Court quoted, inter alia, the following passage from Anisminic Ltd. vs. The Foreign Compensation Commission, Lord Reid at pages 213 and 214, 1969 (1) All ER 208	None
But there are many cases where, although the tribunal had jurisdiction to enter on the enquiry, it has done or failed to do something in the course of the enquiry which is of such a nature that its decision is a nullity.	None
It may have given its decision in bad faith.	None
It may have made a decision which it had no power to make.	None
It may have failed in the course of the enquiry to comply with the requirements of natural justice.	None
It may in perfect good faith have misconstrued the provisions giving it power to act so that it failed to deal with the question remitted to it and decided some question which was not remitted to it.	None
It may have refused to take into account something which it was required to take into account.	None
I do not intend this list to be exhaustive.	None
But if it decides a question remitted to it for decision without committing any of these errors it is as much entitled to decide the question wrongly as it is to decide it rightly.	None
40.	None
After quoting the above passage, this Court went on to observe in its abovementioned judgment as under To the same effect are also the observations of Lord Pearce at page 233.	None
R. vs. Fulham, Hammersmith and Kensington Rent Tribunal is yet another decision of a tribunal properly embarking on an enquiry, that is, within its jurisdiction, but at the end of its making an order in excess of its jurisdiction which was held to be a nullity though it was an order of the kind which it was entitled to make in a proper case.	None
22.	Reasoning
The principle thus it that exclusion of the jurisdiction of the Civil Courts is not to be readily inferred.	None
Such exclusion, however, is inferred where the statute gives finality to the order of the tribunal on which it confers jurisdiction and provides for adequate remedy to do what the courts would normally do in such a proceeding before it.	None
Even where a statute gives finality, such a provision does not exclude cases where the provisions of the particular statute have not been complied with or the tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.	None
The word jurisdiction has both a narrow and a wider meaning.	None
In the sense of the former, it means the authority to embark upon an enquiry in the sense of the latter it is used in several aspects, one of such aspects being that the decision of the tribunal is in noncompliance with the provisions of the Act.	None
Accordingly, a determination by a tribunal of a question other than the one which the statute directs it to decide would be a decision not under the provisions of the Act, and therefore, in excess of its jurisdiction.	None
41.	None
This Court in its judgment in the case of Cellular Operators Association of India Ors. vs. Union of India Ors.	None
(2003) 3 SCC 186 , held as under The question, therefore, that remains to be considered is, whether from the judgment of the Tribunal, the contentions raised by the appellants can be held to be a substantial question of law, which requires interference with the order of the Tribunal But the conclusion of the Tribunal that nothing should be allowed to stand in the way of pursuing the objective of increasing teledensity in the country and that the decision being a policy decision, is not liable to be interfered with by the Tribunal, cannot be sustained inasmuch as the main grievance of the cellular operators was to the effect that the Tribunal did not consider several materials placed before it on the question of level playing field nor has it given any positive finding on that On this issue, according to Mr. Chidambaram and Mr. Vaidyanathan, huge materials had been produced and the Tribunal never applied its mind to those materials, being swayed away by the question that this being a policy decision, cannot be interfered with by the Tribunal.	None
42.	None
Per contra, Mr. K.K. Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing for the Staff Officers Association cited the case of Ebrahim Aboobakar Anr.	None
vs. Custodian General of Evacuee Property, (supra) in which this Court observed as under It is plain that such a writ cannot be granted to quash the decision of an inferior court within its jurisdiction on the ground that the decision is wrong.	None
Indeed, it must be shown before such a writ is issued that the authority which passed the order acted without jurisdiction or in excess of it or in violation of the principles of natural justice	None
But once it is held that the court has jurisdiction but while exercising it, it made a mistake, the wronged party can only take the course prescribed by law for setting matters right inasmuch as a court has jurisdiction to decide rightly as well as wrongly.	None
43.	None
Relying on these observations, this Court in the case of Dharangadhara Chemical Works Ltd. vs. State of Saurashtra (supra), observed as under It is equally well settled that the decision of the Tribunal on a question of fact which it has jurisdiction to determine is not liable to be questioned in proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution unless at the least it is shown to be fully unsupported by evidence.	None
44.	None
In the case of Syed Yakoob vs. K.S. Radhakrishnan Ors.	None
(supra), the Constitution Bench of this Court observed as under The question about the limits of the jurisdiction of High Courts in issuing a writ of certiorari under Art. 226, has been frequently considered by this Court and the true legal position in that behalf is no longer in doubt.	None
A writ of certiorari can be issued for correcting errors of jurisdiction committed by inferior courts or tribunals these are cases where orders are passed by inferior courts or tribunals without jurisdiction, or in excess of it, or as a result of failure to exercise jurisdictions.	None
A writ can similarly be issued where in exercise of jurisdiction conferred on it, the Court or Tribunal acts illegally or improperly, as for instance, it decides a question without giving an opportunity to be heard to the party affected by the order, or where the procedure adopted in dealing with the dispute is opposed to principles of natural justice.	None
There is, however, no doubt that the jurisdiction to issue a writ of certiorari is a supervisory jurisdiction and the Court exercising it is not entitled to act as an appellate Court.	None
This limitation necessarily means that findings of fact reached by the inferior Court or Tribunal as a result of the appreciation of evidence cannot be reopened or questioned in writ proceedings.	None
An error of law which is apparent on the face of the record can be corrected by a writ, but not an error of fact, however, grave it may appear to be.	None
In regard to a finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal, a writ of certiorari can be issued if it is shown that in recording the said findings, the Tribunal had erroneously refused to admit admissible and material evidence, or had erroneously admitted inadmissible evidence which has influenced the impugned finding.	None
Similarly, if a finding of fact is based on no evidence, that would be regarded as an error of law which can be corrected by a writ of certiorari.	None
In dealing with this category of cases, however, we must always bear in mind that a finding of fact recorded by the Tribunal cannot be challenged in proceedings for a writ of certiorari on the ground that the relevant and material evidence adduced before the Tribunal was insufficient or inadequate to sustain the impugned finding.	None
The adequacy or sufficiency of evidence led on a point and the inference of fact to be drawn from the said finding are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Tribunal, and the said points cannot be agitated before a writ court.	None
It is within these limits that the jurisdiction conferred on the High Court under Art.	None
226 to issue a writ of certiorari can be legitimately exercised (vide Hari Vishnu Kamath vs. Syed Ahmed Ishaque, Nagendra Nath Bora vs. The Commissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam and Kaushalya Devi vs. Bachittar Singh.	None
It is, of course, not easy to define or adequately describe what an error of law apparent on the face of the record means.	None
What can be corrected by a writ has to be an error of law	None
but it must be such an error of law as can be regarded as one which is apparent on the face of the record.	None
Where it is manifest or clear that the conclusion of law recorded by an inferior Court or Tribunal is based on an obvious misinterpretation of the relevant statutory provision, or sometimes in ignorance of it, or may be, even in disregard of it, or is expressly founded on reasons which are wrong in law, the said conclusion can be corrected by a writ of certiorari.	None
In all these cases, the impugned conclusion should be so plainly inconsistent with the relevant statutory provision that no difficulty is experienced by the High Court in holding that the said error of law is apparent on the face of the record.	None
It may also be that in some cases, the impugned error of law may not be obvious or patent on the face of the record as such and the Court may need an argument to discover the said error but there can be no doubt that what can be corrected by a writ of certiorari is an error of law and the said error must, on the whole, be of such a character as would satisfy the test that it is an error of law apparent on the face of the record.	None
If a statutory provision is reasonably capable of two constructions and one construction has been adopted by the inferior Court or Tribunal, its conclusion may not necessarily or always be open to correction by a writ of certiorari.	None
In our opinion, it is neither possible nor desirable to attempt either to define or describe adequately all cases of errors which can be appropriately, described as errors of law apparent on the face of the record.	None
Whether or not, an impugned error is an error of law and an error of law which is apparent on the face of the record, must always depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case and upon the nature and scope of the legal provision which is alleged to have been misconstrued or contravened.	None
45.	None
In the case of Parry Co. Ltd. vs. P.C.	None
Pal Ors.	None
(supra), this Court observed as under The grounds on which interference by the High Court is available in such writ petitions have by, now been well established.	None
In Basappa vs. Nagappa it was observed that a writ of certiorari is generally granted when a court has acted without or in excess of its jurisdiction.	None
It is available in those cases where a tribunal, though competent to enter upon an enquiry, acts in flagrant disregard of the rules of procedure or violates the principles of natural justice where no particular procedure is prescribed.	None
But a mere wrong decision cannot be corrected by a writ of certiorari as that would be using it as the cloak of an appeal is disguise but a manifest error apparent on the face of the proceedings based on a clear ignorance or disregard of the provisions of law or absence of or excess of jurisdiction, when shown, can be so corrected.	None
In Dharangadhara Chemical Works Ltd. vs. State of Saurashtra this Court once again observed that where the Tribunal having jurisdiction to decide a question comes to a finding of fact, such a finding is not open to question under Art.	None
226 unless it could be shown to be wholly unwarranted by the evidence.	None
Likewise, in the State of Andhra Pradesh Ors. vs. S. Sree Ram Rao this Court observed that where the Tribunal has disabled itself from reaching a fair decision by some considerations extraneous to the evidence and the merits of the case or where its conclusion on the very face of it is so wholly arbitrary and capricious that no reasonable person can ever have arrived at that conclusion interference under Art.	None
226 would be justified.	None
46.	None
In the case of Ouseph Mathai Ors. vs. M. Abdul Khadir (supra), this Court observed as under It is not denied that the powers conferred upon the High Court under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution are extraordinary and discretionary powers as distinguished from ordinary statutory powers.	None
No doubt Article 227 confers a right of superintendence over all courts and tribunals throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises the jurisdiction but no corresponding right is conferred upon a litigant to invoke the jurisdiction under the said article as a matter of right.	None
In fact power under this article casts a duty upon the High Court to keep the inferior courts and tribunals within the limits of their authority and that they do not cross the limits, ensuring the performance of duties by such courts and tribunals in accordance with law conferring powers within the ambit of the enactments creating such courts and tribunals.	None
Only wrong decisions may not be a ground for the exercise of jurisdiction under this article unless the wrong is referable to grave dereliction of duty and flagrant abuse of power by the subordinate courts and tribunals, resulting in grave injustice to any party.	None
47.	None
In support of his contention that this Court while exercising its power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India in an appeal from the judgment of the High Court rendered in exercise of its powers under Article 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India will exercise the same power which the High Court could exercise and will not interfere with the finding of facts recorded by a Tribunal, learned counsel cited the judgment in the case of Parry Co. Ltd. vs. P.C.	None
Pal Ors.	None
(supra).	None
In the said case, this Court held as under Since this is an appeal arising from a writ for certiorari, we also would not interfere with the conclusions arrived at by the Tribunal except on grounds on which the High Court could have done.	None
48.	None
In the case of Fuel Injection Ltd. vs. Kamgar Sabha (supra), this Court observed as under But the present appeals are from a judgment of the High Court under Art.	None
226 and so the jurisdiction of this Court in entertaining an appeal by special leave under Art. 136 must ordinarily be confined to what the High Court could or would have done under Art.	None
226.	None
49.	Reasoning
In our view, the material that was placed before the Tribunal was not considered or discussed and that there was, as such, no adjudication by the Tribunal.	None
The whole award of the Tribunal, in our view, is liable to be set aside on the ground of nonapplication of mind by the Tribunal to the material on record.	None
In the first place, the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to entertain and decide a dispute which covered within its fold persons who are not workmen.	None
That the material on record before the Tribunal as regards the comparable concerns was admittedly sketchy and incomplete as observed by the learned single Judge of the High Court and that the award based on such material could not have been sustained.	None
50.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the employer and the employees by their conduct in concluding settlements in the past could not create for, or confer upon, an adjudicating authority jurisdiction, where none existed, in respect of employees to whom the provisions of the Act are not applicable.	None
This apart, the employer had not waived his right to raise the issue of the status of the employees under the Act in any of these settlements.	None
The employer cannot held to have waived his rights regarding the issue of the status of the employees under the Act in the absence of any of the settlements concluded by them with their employees.	None
The High Court has come to the conclusion that there are grave and fundamental errors, including the errors in assessing financial capacity, burden etc.	None
in the award of the Tribunal.	Decision
In the instant case, the Tribunal did not have the jurisdiction to adjudicate the present dispute inasmuch as it pertains to the conditions of service of nonworkmen.	None
The Division Bench has erred in holding that there is a community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen and holding further that the workmen can raise a dispute regarding the service conditions of nonworkmen.	None
This reasoning, in the absence of any pleading regarding the community of interest, is fallacious.	None
51.	Reasoning
It was not open to the High Court, in exercise of writ jurisdiction, to modify an award which, at its very basis, was flawed as it lacked proper application of the fundamentals of wage adjudication.	None
The Tribunal, in this case, has exeeded its jurisdiction.	None
It has embarked upon an enquiry against nonworkmen and, therefore, the decision of the Tribunal is a noncompliance with the provisions of the Act.	None
Therefore, the determination by a Tribunal on a question other than the one which Statute directs it to decide, would be a decision not under the provisions of the Act and, therefore, in exercise of its jurisdiction is liable to be set aside.	None
52.	Reasoning
It is proved by the appellant that the decision of the Tribunal is wrong and without jurisdiction or in excess of it.	None
This Court has jurisdiction to render justice to the wronged party, namely, the appellant and set aside the same.	None
It is showed before us that the decision of the Tribunal is not fully supported by evidence.	None
We, therefore, hold that this Court has jurisdiction and power to interfere with the awarded of the Tribunal.	None
The phrase any person in Section 2(k) and Section 18 of the Act does not include nonworkmen.	None
Section 2(k) and Section 18 are reproduced hereunder (k) industrial dispute means any dispute or difference between employers and employers, or between employers and workmen, or between workmen and workmen, which is connected with the employment or nonemployment or the terms of employment or with the conditions of labour, of any person 18.	None
Persons on whom settlements and awards are binding.	None
(1) A settlement arrived at by agreement between the employer and workman otherwise than in the course of conciliation proceeding shall be binding on the parties to the agreement.	None
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), an arbitration award which has become enforceable shall be binding on the parties to the agreement who referred the dispute to arbitration.	None
(3) A settlement arrived at in the course of conciliation proceedings under this Act or an arbitration award in a case where a notification has been issued under subsection (3A) of section 10A or an award of a Labour Court, tribunalor National Tribunal which has become enforceable shall be binding on (a) all parties to the industrial dispute (b) all other parties summoned to appear in the proceedings as parties to the dispute, unless the Board, arbitrator Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal, as the case may be, records the opinion that they were so summoned without proper cause (c) where a party referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) is an employer, his heirs, successors or assigns in respect of the establishment to which the dispute relates (d) where a party referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) is composed of workmen, all persons who were employed in the establishment or part of the establishment, as the case may be, to which the dispute relates on the date of the dispute and all persons who subsequently become employed in that establishment or part.	None
56.	Reasoning
According to Mr. Ashok Desai, learned senior counsel, the phrase any person in Section 2(k) and Section 18 of the Act includes a nonworkman who was a workman but retired, resigned or otherwise left the services of the employer during the pendency of the dispute under reference.	None
It also includes a person who was not a workman when the dispute was referred for adjudication but joined the services of the employer as a workman during the pendency of the proceedings.	None
In this regard, it may be pointed out that the contention of the respondentAssociation that the phrase any person employed in Section 2(k) and Section 18 covers nonworkmen was not accepted in Narendra Kumar Sen case reported in AIR 1953 Bombay 325, the Dimakuchi Tea Estate case (supra) reported in (1958)	None
SCR 1156 , the Reserve Bank of India case reported in (1996) 1	None
SCR 25 and in the Greaves Cotton Company Limited case reported in (1971) 2 SCC 658.	None
This Court in those cases has also rejected the contention regarding community of interest between workmen and nonworkmen.	None
The learned single Judge, by misconstruing the meaning of the ratio in the judgments above cited, arrived at his conclusion vide para 22 of his judgment which read as under 22.	None
It would, therefore, appear that the consistent view of the Supreme Court is that the nonworkmen as well as workmen can raise a dispute in respect of matters affecting their employment, service conditions etc., where they have a community of interest, provided they are directed and not remote.	None
57.	Reasoning
The fact is that in each and every case above cited, the contention that workmen can raise a dispute in respect of the nonworkmen was rejected by the Court.	None
This issue is, therefore, answered in favour of the Company.	None
The findings of the Court below that there is community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen is based on misconstruing of evidence and disregarding of vital facts.	None
58.	Reasoning
In this regard, learned senior counsel for the appellant brought to our notice the evidence of Mr. Krishnan Nair that the employees are interested in promotions because of financial benefits, a universal fact, has been misconstrued by the Courts below as proof of community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen.	Reasoning
The evidence of Mr. Krishnan Nair reads as follows 57.	Reasoning
It is true that the employees are promoted from the lower grade to upper grade as the case may be, on merits.	Reasoning
It is true that once a workman is not always a workman.	Reasoning
On promotion he comes out of that category.	Reasoning
I agree that wages scales of different grades of M.R.W. are in hierarchy.	Reasoning
But I deny there being any cooperation.	Reasoning
I cannot say whether the employees in the lower grade have an interest in the promotional grade because of financial benefits.	Reasoning
I say that it is not true to say that they are interested.	Reasoning
Now the witness says that the employees will be naturally interested in promotional post because of the financial benefits and for the reasons known to them.	Reasoning
59.	Reasoning
The learned single Judge vide para 22 of his judgment arrived at the conclusion as under The Companys witness Mr. Nayar has also admitted in his evidence existence of community of interest between them.	Reasoning
Under the circumstances the tribunal has rightly come to the conclusion that the respondents have a substantial interest in the subject matter of the dispute and there is a community of interest between the respondents and those whose case they have espoused.	Reasoning
60.	Reasoning
After quoting verbatim the relevant part of the evidence of Mr. Krishnan Nair as above, the counsel for the appellantCompany made the following submissions before the Division Bench (pages 9697 VolumeII of the Companys appeal before this Court).	Reasoning
It is submitted that the Tribunal has nowhere cited the above statement of the Appellant Companys witness in support of its conclusions.	Reasoning
It is respectfully submitted that the Learned Single Judge grievously erred in reappraising the evidence of the Companys witness on this vital issue.	Reasoning
It is further submitted that the witness had, by his statement quoted above, stated only that the employees are interested in promotions because of the financial benefits and that the said statement by the witness, while stating the obvious which is indeed a universal fact, in no way amounted to admission of any community of interest between employees in workmen and nonworkmen categories.	Reasoning
It is respectfully submitted, to illustrate the point, that a Typist may become interest in, and may rightfully aspire form promotion at some indeterminate point in his future career to the post of Managing Director but such interest does not establish a community of interest between Typists and the Managing Director.	Reasoning
It is submitted that no material whatsoever was placed by the Respondent Association and that no evidence was on record either before the Tribunal or before the Learned Single Judge to show community of interest between the two categories of employees.	Reasoning
The Learned Single Judge erred in picking up an isolated statement made by the Companys witness, in total disregard of the central thrust of the whole body of his evidence and in holding that the Companys witness admitted, in his evidence, existence of such community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen, wholly misconstruing the meaning of the evidence on a vital issue which goes to the root of the dispute and on such misinterpretation, the Learned Single Judge has built up the ratio of this Judgment on the issue of the status of the employees under the Act and the jurisdiction of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
61.	Reasoning
We have perused the Division Bench judgment on this aspect.	Reasoning
The Division Bench has not even adverted to, much less dealt with, the above submissions while confirming the learned single Judges ruling on this issue.	Reasoning
The Division Bench has also ignored the cumulative effect of the Settlements of 1989 and 1995 which were concluded between the parties without prejudice to their respective rights and contentions on the status of the employees under the Act.	Reasoning
62.	Reasoning
It is pertinent to refer to the Settlement of 1995 in this context.	Reasoning
Clause 1 of the Settlement of 1995 concluded during the proceedings in the reference when the issue was already before the Tribunal, stated Clause 1 of this Settlement reads It is the Companys contention that a majority of the staff, on the one hand and the officers on the other are not workmen under Section 2(s) of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and are also not covered by the provisions of The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965.	Reasoning
These contentions of the Company are not, however, accepted by the Association.	Facts
In the circumstances, it is agreed that this Settlement shall not be cited by either party as evidence of waiver of the contentions of the other and that both the parties shall continue to be at liberty to raise their respective contentions on these issues on all fora.	Reasoning
63.	Reasoning
It is thus seen that the High Court has not only disregarded of vital facts but also misconstrued the evidence of the witness of the Company.	Reasoning
This issue is answered accordingly in favour of the Management.	Reasoning
The nonworkmen cannot be given the status and protection available to the workmen under the Act.	Reasoning
64.	Reasoning
The above submission of learned counsel for the appellant is well founded under the Act.	Reasoning
Disputes can be raised only by the workmen with the employer.	Reasoning
The workmen, however, can in appropriate cases espouse the cause of nonworkmen if there is community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen.	Reasoning
In the instant case, it is an admitted fact that the community of interest or estoppel has never been pleaded and the findings rendered by the High Court on this issue is in the absence of pleadings.	Reasoning
If the nonworkmen are given the status and protection available to the workmen, it would men that the entire machinery and procedure of the Act would apply to the nonworkmen with regard to their employment nonemployment, the terms of employment, the conditions of labour etc.	Reasoning
This would cast on the appellantCompany the onerous burden of compliance with the provisions of the Act in respect of the nonworkmen.	Reasoning
In our view, the situation is not envisaged by the Act which is solely designed to protect the interests of the workmen as defined in Section 2(s) of the Act.	Reasoning
Estimation Computation of the total wage packet, which is a vital task in wage adjudication, has not been done by any of the Courts below.	Reasoning
65.	Reasoning
It is argued that individual items in the wage packets can, and often do, vary very considerably among comparable concerns.	Reasoning
Hence, estimation computation of the total wage packets for different categories of employees and comparison of the total wage packets among comparable concerns is essential.	Reasoning
As rightly pointed out by learned counsel for the appellant that none of the Courts below have admitted to estimate compute the total wage packets resulting from their awards judgments for any of the categories of employees.	Reasoning
This is a fatal omission in the award judgment.	Reasoning
There has been no acceptable reply from counsel for the respondentAssociation on this issue.	Reasoning
66.	Reasoning
The basic pay and increment structure, found to be higher than in comparable concerns by the Learned Single Judge, remain unchanged by the Learned Single Judge himself or by the Division Bench.	Reasoning
Along with the high rate of Dearness Allowance granted by the Order of the Division Bench, these have cascading effect on other items or emoluments like House Rent Allowance which is already high at 12.5 of Basic pay plus DA and Leave Travel Allowance which is fixed at one months basic pay the amounts specified in the Award.	Reasoning
67.	Reasoning
The Tribunal had granted in toto the demands relating to scales of basic pay and increment structure except the demand for the merger of grades 12 and 11 into grade 09.	Reasoning
The result has been a disproportionate increase in the basic pay and annual increments.	Reasoning
Neither the Learned Single Judge nor the Division Bench attempted to remedy the situation.	None
There is no discussion or analysis in support of the decision to grant the demand in respect of scales of basic pay in toto, as has been done by the Courts below.	None
68.	Reasoning
The Learned Single Judge has observed vide paragraph 38 of his judgment, which is at page 167 of Vol.II of the Companys Appeal, that the revised basic wage and his increment structure is comparatively higher than the comparable concerns but has left the situation unchanged.	None
The Division Bench, too, has left it unremedied.	None
While doing so, the Courts below totally ignored the cascading effect of the high basic wage and dearness allowance not only on Provident Fund, Gratuity and Superannuation but on other items of emoluments viz., one component of DA which is related to basic pay, House Rent Allowance and Leave Travel Allowance.	None
69.	Reasoning
Annexure P7 at pages 132 to 136 of Vol.	None
I of the present Appeal contain comparative data on Total Wage Packet, Basic plus DA, DA, HRA and LTA in the Appellant Company under the Order of the Division Bench vis vis the seven other companies adopted for comparison.	None
The data show that the Appellant Company, despite its poor financial capacity and performance, now ranks among the eight companies (seven plus the Appellant Company)	None
No. 1 in respect of Total Wage Packet, No. 4 in respect of Basic plus DA, No. 6 in respect of DA, No. 1 in respect of House Rent Allowance (HRA) and No. 1 in respect of Leave Travel Allowance.	None
70.	Reasoning
The rate of variable DA now stands raised from Rs. 1.72 to Rs. 3.00 for every change of 5 points in the Consumer Price Index which is disproportionately high but has been left unchanged by the Division Bench.	None
71.	Reasoning
The CHARTS ON INCREASES IN EMOLUMENTS GRANTED BY THE COURTS BELOW tendered by the Appellant Company as directed by this Court during the hearing of the present Appeal contain the relevant particulars of the demands in dispute and the Orders by the Courts below thereon.	None
72.	Reasoning
The timetested system and practice of allowances linked to grades has been changed by the Award and the change, which is drastic, continues under the impugned Order of the Division Bench.	None
73.	Reasoning
For decades in the preAward period, the allowances like House Rent Allowance, Leave Travel Allowance etc. were higher for the higher grades and there were thus financial benefits because of promotions when the employees were promoted from the lower to the higher grades and entrusted with higher responsibilities.	None
Under the Award of the Tribunal, the allowances are linked to basic pay and are delinked from the grades, a situation that has been left without any modification by the learned single Judge as well as by the Division Bench.	None
There is no application of mind or any discussion or analysis or any reason adduced in support, of the abovementioned change in the timetested system and practice anywhere in the Award Judgments of the Courts below.	None
As a result, financial benefits arising from promotions are rendered nugatory  in fact, the Award has virtually abolished the financial benefits on account of promotions.	None
The financial burden of the award passed by the Tribunal and the High Court.	None
74.	Reasoning
Lengthy submissions were made by counsel for both sides.	None
Counsel for the appellant invited our attention to the observation made by the learned single Judge and of the Division Bench.	None
The learned single Judge observed vide para 29 of his judgment as under I may, however, hasten to add that Mr. Rele is right in criticising the tribunal for not considering the total financial burden which is likely to be borne by the company as a result of the award passed by the tribunal.	None
Even according to the association the total burden on account of the award comes to Rs. 35.30 crores and the net burden for the year 1999 for the monthly rated employees and daily rated workmen at Kurla would be around Rs. 10 crores.	None
The tribunal has obviously committed an error in holding that the yearly burden on account of the award would be within the range of 3.3 crores to 3.7 crores and works out to more 6 to 7 percent of the total profits of the company.	None
As a matter of fact the burden on account of the present award itself works out to about 25 of the gross profit and this fact will have to be borne in mind while fixing the wage structure and the concerned employees.	Reasoning
75.	Reasoning
The Learned Single Judge has not however adverted to the above position anywhere else in his Judgment later.	Reasoning
Further, he has not estimated the burden that would result from his own judgment.	Reasoning
76.	Reasoning
In paragraph 22 of its Judgment, which is at pages 5152 of Vol.	Reasoning
I of the present appeal, the Division Bench observed inter alia	Reasoning
We would be revisiting the question of financial burden at a later stage of the judgment once gain in considering the appropriate relief, if any, that should be granted in these proceedings.	Reasoning
77.	Reasoning
Later in the Judgment however, vide paragraph 28 thereof which is on pages 76 to 78 of Vol.	Reasoning
I of the present Appeal, the Division Bench, after reproducing some of the submissions made by both the parties, observed We have duly taken into account the rival submissions and have carefully considered the figures which have been submitted before us by both the sides.	Reasoning
The Court will have also necessarily to have regard to the impact of the financial performance of the Company over a period of time.	Reasoning
This includes the financial difficulties faced by the Company in 199899.	Reasoning
Having regard to the financial burden under the award of the Tribunal as modified by us we are of the considered view that the award of the Tribunal as modified should be made operative not from 17th February, 1993 as directed by Industrial Tribunal but, with effect from 1st January, 1996.	Reasoning
78.	Reasoning
The Division Bench failed to recognise that the relief granted as above is only a onetime relief and that it does not reduce the prospective burden of the modified Award.	Reasoning
But for the observation that the rival submissions have been duly taken into account and carefully considered, there is no discussion or analysis of the submissions by the parties on the hotly contested issue of the financial burden of the Award vis vis the Companys financial capacity.	Reasoning
79.	Reasoning
It is further submitted that the reference to gross burden and net burden after taking into account the tax payable by the Company in the Award Judgment of the Courts below are not relevant in view of the subsequent developments as the Appellant Company has not been paying any tax since the year 20002001.	Reasoning
80.	Reasoning
The Division Bench, like the Learned Single Judge, has in fact nowhere estimated the financial burden that would result from its own judgment.	Reasoning
This is an omission that is fatal to the legality of the Order impugned in the present Appeal.	Reasoning
81.	Reasoning
The Industrycumregion principle has not been followed nor have the comparisons been made in accordance with the wellsettled law.	Reasoning
82.	Reasoning
The Companies adopted for comparison are not comparable in terms of the nature of the business, sales turnover, employee strength, profits and other relevant parameters.	Reasoning
The comparisons are also incorrect, as these have been made as between categories of employees, which are not comparable.	Reasoning
83.	Reasoning
The Learned Single Judge, vide paragraph 31 of his Judgment which is at page 159 of Vol.II of the Companys Appeal, has observed The data furnished by the association in respect of the comparable concerns is also not complete in many respects.	Reasoning
It seems that the data furnished is mainly in respect of the posts of peons, clerks, telephone operators, watchmen, supervisors etc.	Reasoning
and it seems that the data concerning the staff and officers working in grade 00 to grade 5 is rather incomplete and sketchy.	Reasoning
The claim of the workers will have to be examined keeping in mind these aspects of the matter.	Reasoning
84.	Reasoning
The Learned Single Judge, however, has not adverted to these aspects of the matter anywhere else in his Judgment later.	Reasoning
The Division Bench, toto, has not remedied the flaw in this aspect in its own Judgment.	Reasoning
Assessment of the appellantCompanys financial capacity by the courts below is riddled with serious errors 85.	Reasoning
The Tribunal on this issue relied entirely on the data submitted by the Association in respect of the Companys financial capacity.	Reasoning
The award dealt with this topic in two short paragraphs, namely, paras 63 and 64 thereof.	Reasoning
63.	Reasoning
I have perused the Balance Sheets and the charts submitted by the Union and I am of the opinion that the information tabulated by the Union is satisfactory and correct and the computation of the gross profits is on well laid down principles of various adjudicating authorities.	Reasoning
64.	Reasoning
It is the contention of the Union that the financial position of the Company is very sound.	Reasoning
It is the Companys contention that the financial position is not very sound.	Reasoning
It means that the financial condition of the Company is quite good.	Reasoning
86.	Reasoning
In arriving at its conclusion as above, the Tribunal ignored the serious errors pointed out by the Company which may be seen on page 159 of VolumeIII of the present appeal in the data submitted by the Association.	Reasoning
The Tribunal considered average gross profit at Rs. 56.25 crores for the years 199192 to 199697, as against Rs. 34.22 crores as computed corrected by the Company.	Reasoning
Learned single Judge vide para 28 of his judgment stated, inter alia, as under It is true that the company has been registering losses in the last year but that may be particularly due to the factor of recession which has affected the industries in general.	Reasoning
If we examine the material on record it is seen that the companys business is consistently growing.	Reasoning
Again the learned single Judge vide para 29 of his judgment went on to observe In the light of the material placed before me it is not possible to agree with Mr. Rele that the companys financial position is not sound and the company is doing badly.	Reasoning
87.	Reasoning
The Division Bench adopted, vide para 22 of its judgment, the gross profit for six years from 199192 to 199697 at Rs. 250.418 crores and average profit per year at Rs. 41.736 crores based on Krishnan Nairs affidavit dated 04.06.1999.	Reasoning
In doing so, the Division Bench ignored the fact that the said data on profits included capital profits i.e., profits from sale of the shares in other companies owned by the Appellant Company and from sale of land etc. which had not accrued from the Companys normal business operations.	Reasoning
The Division Bench in fact had before it the data on profits excluding capital profits, which the Tribunal also had before it, but failed to take these data into account.	Reasoning
The relevant data are available vide Annexure P4 on page 121 of Vol.	Reasoning
I of the present Appeal.	Reasoning
As may be seen from the said data, the total gross profit for the years from 199192 to 199697 was only Rs. 205.32 crores as computed corrected by the Company after excluding capital profits.	Reasoning
The Division Bench also had before it relevant data for the period upto and including the year 19992000.	Reasoning
Despite the declining trends in the financial performance of the Company as evident from the data, the Division Bench concluded, inter alia, vide paragraphs 19.8 and 19.9 of its Judgment, which are on pages 3739 of Vol.	Reasoning
I of the present Appeal, as under In the present case, these economic and financial indicators reflective of the performance and financial health of the employer establish beyond doubt that this is a company which is financially sound.	Reasoning
The Division Bench further observed The figures content in the annual accounts relating to the share capital, reserves and surplus, fixed asses, investments, networth and profits among other economic indicators are, in my view sufficient to indicate the financial health and standing of the Company.	None
88.	Reasoning
In any event, the Appellant Company became a Potentially Sick Industrial Company under Section 23 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.	None
89.	Reasoning
The fact that the Courts below were in grave error in their conclusions, which were arrived at by ignoring vital facts and submissions placed before them by the Appellant Company, is clear from the subsequent developments which are pointed out briefly.	None
Subsequent developments relating to the financial position of the appellantCompany need to be kept in mind.	None
90.	None
On this issue also arguments were advanced by both the learned senior counsel at length.	None
Mr. Ashok Desai, learned senior counsel, heavily relied on the ratio of the judgment in the Ahmedabad Millowners Association case reported in (1966)	None
1	None
SCR 382 , the trends in respect of the change in the Companys financial capacity and the subsequent developments relating thereto need to be considered by this Court, keeping in mind that the Company has to bear the burden of the modified award for several years to come.	None
The judgment in the Ahmedabad Mill Owners Association case observes, inter alia, as under The problem of constructing a wagestructure must be tackled on the basis that such wagestructure should not be changed from time to time.	None
It is a longrange plan and so, in dealing with this problem, the financial position of the employer must be carefully examined.	None
What has been the progress of the industry in question what are the prospects of the industry in future has the industry been making profits and if yes, what is the extent of profits what is the nature of demand which the industry expects to secure what would be the extent of the burden and its gradual increase which the employer may have to face?	None
These and similar considerations have to be carefully weighed before a proper wagestructure can be reasonably constructed by industrial adjudication.	None
91.	None
According to Mr. Desai if the Company succeeds in its appeal, it will have to recover Rs. 18 crores already paid to the employees including both workmen and nonworkmen and if it does not, it will have to bear the burden of having to disburse a further sum of Rs. 15.45 crores by way of balance of arrears for the period since 01.01.1996.	None
92.	None
Opposing Mr. Singhvi, learned senior counsel for the respondentAssociation, contended that the High Court and this Court while exercising powers under Article 226 and 32 of the Constitution for issuance of any writ against an award of the Industrial Tribunal will normally not take into consideration facts arising subsequent to the date of the award.	None
Arguing further, he would submit that a writ will be issued to set aside an award of the Industrial Tribunal on the material placed on record before the Tribunal and under subsection 3 of Section 19 of the Act, it is, inter alia, provided that an award shall, subject to the provision of that section remain in operation for a period of one year from the date on which the award becomes enforceable under Section 17A.	None
Under subsection 6 of Section 19, it is, inter alia, provided that notwithstanding the expiry of the period of operation under subsection 3, the award shall continue to be binding on the parties until a period of two months has elapsed from the date on which notice is given by any party bound by the award to the other party or parties intimating its intention to terminate the award.	None
The above provisions show that an award remains binding on the parties firstly for a period of one year from the date of its publication and secondly until a period of two months has elapsed from the date on which the notice of termination is given by any party bound by the award, and no demand can be raised pertaining to that award during that period.	None
93.	None
It was, therefore, submitted by Mr. Singhvi that if a party to an award can raise fresh dispute subsequent to the award and to take into account events subsequent to that award it will harm the interest f the workmen and that the superior court exercising its power will not entertain such a plea.	None
We are unable to countenance the said submission.	None
In the instant case, the total accumulated loss suffered by the appellantCompany as on 31.03.2003 is Rs. 225 crores.	None
The appellantCompany is now covered by Section 23 of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 and has become a Potentially Sick Industrial Company as defined thereunder.	None
The Company has suffered a further loss of Rs. 64.22 crores according to the audited results for the first half of the year 200304.	None
If the estimated loss for the third quarter of 200304 is also taken into account, the networth of the Company stands totally eroded.	None
94.	None
Opposing this submission Mr. Singhvi submitted subsequent events are not at all relevant for the purpose of assailing the award, but may be relevant if and when demands are made either by the workmen or the Company for subsequent period and a reference in that regard is given by appropriate government.	None
He, therefore, submitted that the application for bringing on record the additional documents should be rejected.	None
Mr. Singhvi further submitted that the compilation filed by the Management financial position of the appellantCompany require a lot of explanation and comments for which evidence will have to be led.	None
Without prejudice to the above submission, Mr. Singhvi drew our attention to the auditors notes appended to the balance sheet relating to loans and advances etc. read with item 3(vi) of the report of the auditor to the members.	None
According to him, the balancesheet clearly shows that there are no operating losses but the losses are mainly on account of the interest on borrowing for huge investments made in associate subsidiary group companies and for the expansion of the steel making capacity by setting up a new project at Hospet (where alone about Rs.	None
600 crores have been invested) etc.	None
and that borrowings were mainly used for such investments and for loans and advances to associate, subsidiary and group companies which have not been recovered.	None
95.	None
Concluding his arguments, Mr. Ashok Desai submitted that the award, after its infirmities are cured, should be made applicable only to the workmen and not to the nonworkmen.	None
We see merit and substance in the above submission.	None
We, therefore, set aside the award and of the judgments of the single Judge and of the Division Bench of the High Court and hold that the award should apply only to the workmen and that the workmen should not, in the facts and circumstances of the case, be permitted to raise demands disputes on behalf of the nonworkmen.	None
We place on record the undertaking given by the appellantCompany before us ensuring that the total wage packets of the nonworkmen to whom the award further modified as above will not be applicable, are not lower than the total wage packets available to the workmen under the said award.	None
96.	None
The appellantManagement has a prima facie case on merits and the balance of convenience is entirely in their favour.	None
We also hold that the employer and the employees by their conduct is concluding settlements in the past cannot create or confer upon an adjudicating authority jurisdiction where none existed in respect of employees to whom the provisions of the Act are not applicable.	None
In the instant case, the employer had admittedly not waived their right to issue the status of the employees under the Act in any of the said settlements.	None
The High Court, both the learned single Judge and of the Division Bench had stepped into the shoes of the adjudicating authority and virtually modified altered the award in vital respects like basic linked variable D.A., D.A. fixed in forms of percentages of basic pay, service increments, gratuity and effective dates for increase in emoluments.	None
97.	None
The Industrial Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to adjudicate the present dispute inasmuch as it pertains to the conditions of service of nonworkmen.	None
The learned single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court failed to appreciate that parties cannot be their conduct create or confer jurisdiction on an adjudicating authority when no such jurisdiction exists.	None
We have already noticed that the Division Bench has erred in holding that there is community of interest between the workmen and the nonworkmen and holding further that the workmen could raise a dispute regarding the service conditions of nonworkmen.	None
98.	None
The High Court further failed to appreciate that in order to secure revision of their own grades or other items of emoluments, it was not necessary for employees who are workmen under the Act to agitate also for the revision of the emoluments of those who are not workmen, and that as such the workmen in the present, have no direct or substantial interest in the revision of emoluments of employees who are not workmen, nor could the workmen be held to be vitally interested in the terms of employment of the nonworkmen.	None
99.	None
The High Court also failed to appreciate that workmen as well as nonworkmen being in the same grade did not imply that the distinction between the two categories ceased to exist, or that they belonged to the same class.	None
100.	None
The Division Bench has further erred in relying on the various settlements concluded between the parties in the past regarding the service conditions of the employees including the settlement of 1974 relating to welfare scheme.	None
Both the Division Bench and the learned single Judge failed to appreciate that none of the said settlements contained any provision, or even a whisper thereof, of any waiver by the appellantCompany of its rights with regard to the status of the employees under the Act.	None
101.	None
During the pendency of the proceedings in this Court, supplementary affidavit was filed by the Vice President, Finance of the appellantCompany bringing to this Courts notice certain crucial events that have occurred subsequent to the admission of the appeal, which have a vital bearing on the case.	None
It is stated therein that the appellantCompany is in dire financial straits.	None
The Company has already placed on record financial difficulties which it has been encountering.	None
The present affidavit was placed on record with the updated situation as at present.	None
The Company has suffered a loss before tax of about Rs. 210 crores in the financial year 200203 which was reduced to Rs. 157 crores after considering waivers and reduction in interest rate aggregating to Rs. 53 crores on the basis of concessions given by the banks and financial institutions under a restructuring package.	None
The loss as stated above follows a loss before tax of Rs. 111 crores in the previous financial year i.e. year 200102 and that the losses as above are without taking into account the arrears payable to the employees amounting to Rs. 15.45 crores.	None
The appellant being suffered a further loss before tax at Rs. 40 crores in the first quarter of the current year i.e. year 200304 as per the unaudited financial results and the accumulated loss is Rs. 269 crores as on 30.06.2003 leaving a net worth of Rs. 28 crores.	None
Along with the affidavit annexures were filed for the year ended 31.03.2003.	None
According to the learned senior counsel, the Company has now become a potentially sick industrial Company as defined by The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 since there has been an erosion of more than 50 in the Companys peak net worth in the four preceding years on the basis of the audited financial results for the financial year 200203.	None
The Appellant Company is required under the provisions of Section 23 of the said Act to report the fact of such erosion to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction within sixty days from the date of finalisation of the duly audited accounts of the Company for the financial year 200203 and also to take further actions specified in the said provisions.	None
The appellantCompany is now in the process of submitting the necessary report to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction as required under the said Act.	None
102.	Decision
On account of adverse market conditions and unviability of the business, the appellantCompany was complied to close down permanently its Machine Tools Division at Ballabgarh in Haryana with effect from 18.12.2002. 103.	None
Several other details in regard to the sickness of the company has also been furnished.	None
Since we are remitting the matter to the Industrial Tribunal, it is for the appellantCompany to place the additional materials before the said Tribunal for its adjudication.	None
During the pendency of the proceedings before the High Court and of this Court, certain directions were given in regard to the disbursement of certain amounts.	None
The amounts already paid will be adjusted towards future payments after fresh adjudication.	Decision
104.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case, we are of the opinion it is proper to remit the matte back to the Industrial Tribunal for adjudication according to law since there are grave and fundamental errors including errors in assessing financial capacity burden etc.	Decision
in the award of the Tribunal.	Decision
105.	Decision
The Industrial Tribunal is directed to adjudicate the claim of the workmen alone within six months from the date of receipt of this judgment.	Decision
106.	Decision
In the result, Civil Appeal No. 5601 of 2001 filed by Mukand Ltd. is allowed and Civil Appeal Nos. 73407341 of 2001 filed by Mukand Staff and Officers Association are dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	Decision
