 P. Mohapatra, J. The appellant Tarak Nath Sha is the landlord of the suit property of which the respondent No.1 M s. Bhutoria Bros. Pvt.	Facts
Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Company) was the lessee.	Facts
The lease was for a period of 21 years commencing from 23rd March, 1963.	Facts
The rent stipulated to be paid by the lessee was Rs. 700/ per month.	Facts
The suit property was in occupation of Mr. Manmal Bhutoria respondent No.2 herein, who was the Director of the respondent No.1 company.	Facts
Before expiry of the period of lease the lessee is alleged to have sent the letter dated 18.4.1974 in which it was stated that Manmal Bhutoria had voluntarily resigned as Director of the Company that the company was no longer is need of the suit premises and that the landlord was requested to take over possession of the property.	Facts
From the endorsement made in the letter it appears that a copy was sent to Manmal Bhutoria with a request to negotiate with the landlord.	Facts
After expiry of the period of lease in 1984 the landlord addressed a letter to the company requiring it to hand over possession of the suit property to him.	Facts
In the meantime Manmal Bhutoria had filed a Title Suit No. 240/84 against the landlord seeking a declaration as the tenant of the suit property and a decree of permanent injunction restraining the landlord from disturbing his possession.	Facts
Since the company failed to deliver possession of the suit property to him the landlord filed the suit, T.S. No. 812/84, against the company and Manmal Bhutoria respondent No.1, seeking recovery of possession of the suit property.	Facts
The gist of the case of the landlord was that the letter dated 18.4.1974 allegedly addressed by the company to him was never received and that the acknowledgement card purporting to bear his signature was a fabricated document he denied the signature on the AD card.	Facts
According to him the lease executed in favour of the company continued till its expiry by efflux of time and the company was liable to hand over vacant possession of the suit property to him which it had failed to comply.	Facts
It was the case of the company and Manmal Bhutoria respondents herein that the lease with the company was terminated by the aforementined letter that a fresh tenancy was created by the lessor with Manmal Bhutoria in his personal capacity and in pursuance thereof, he continued to occupy the suit property on monthly rent of Rs. 1100/.	Facts
In the circumstances he could not be evicted from the property except in accordance with the provisions of the West Bengal Premises Tenancy Act, 1956.	None
The trial court, considering the case of the parties, accepted the case pleaded by Manmal Bhutoria and held that the lease in favour of the company was terminated by the letter dated 18.4.1974 and a fresh tenancy had been created in favour of Manmal Bhutoria in his personal capacity.	Facts
On such finding the trial court dismissed the suit filed by the landlord and decreed the suit filed by Manmal Bhutoria.	Facts
The landlord filed two appeals, F.A. Nos. 87/90 and 88/90 challenging the judgment and decree passed by the trial court.	Facts
The said appeals were decided by a Division Bench of the High Court by the judgment rendered on 28.8.97 confirming the judgment and decree passed by the Trial Court and dismissing the appeals.	Facts
The said judgment is under challenge in these appeals filed by the landlord.	Facts
On the case pleaded by the parties, the issues framed by the Trial Court and the contentions raised in the appeals, the Division Bench formulated the following questions for decision 1.	Issue
whether in view of the admitted position that the company took a lease from the predecessorsininterest of the appellant, it surrendered the same?	Issue
2. whether a fresh tenancy was entered into by and between the appellant and the aforementioned Manmal Bhutoria?	Issue
Shri Bhaskar P. Gupta learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant contended that the High Court has not recorded any specific finding on the legality and validity of the notice of determination said to have been given under the letter dated 18.4.1974 by the respondent company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Gupta further contended even assuming that the letter dated 18.4.1974 was sent by the company and it was received by the landlord that does not amount to determination of the lease with the respondent company.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Shri Gupta since the lessee did not deliver vacant possession of the demised premises to the lessor as provided in section 108(q) of the Transfer of Property Act read with section 111(h) of the Act the lease could not be held to have been terminated by merely sending the letter.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Gupta placed reliance on the decisions of this Court in Kishan Lal vs. Ganpat Ram Khosla Another reported in AIR 1961 S.C. 1554 and the case of Raptakos Brett Co. Ltd. vs. Ganesh Property reported in 1998(7) SCC 184.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra Shri B. Sen learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent Manmal Bhutoria contended that delivery of possession of the demised premises is not a condition precedent in law for determination of lease.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore submitted Shri Sen merely because vacant possession of the suit premises was not given to the landlord by the company it could not be held that there was no valid determination of the lease.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Sen fairly accepted the position that the Courts below did not record any specific finding regarding the validity or otherwise of the notice of determination of lease.	Arguments of Respondent
We have perused the impugned judgment of the High Court.	Reasoning
As noted earlier the High Court formulated, and in our view, rightly two questions for determination in the case.	Reasoning
Thereafter the High Court proceeded to discuss at length certain principles of law enunciated in different decisions rendered by this Court, the Calcutta High Court and other High Courts.	Reasoning
From the judgment it appears that lengthy discussions have been made with reference to certain observations made in the decisions rendered thereunder.	Reasoning
But the High Court does not appear to have considered in depth evidence on record.	Reasoning
The High Court has also not recorded any specific findings on the validity or otherwise of the notice of determination of the lease said to have been given under the letter dated 18.4.1974.	Reasoning
It is clear from the discussions in the judgment that the High Court having answered the question whether the said letter was received by the landlord, against the landlord and in favour of the tenant assumed that there was a valid determination of the lease.	Reasoning
The further finding of the High Court that after determination of the lease a fresh tenancy in respect of the premises had been created in favour of Manmal Bhutoria is not based on any discussion of the evidence on record but on the mere observation i.e. The Court is required to consider the cumulative effect of all the materials and there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that keeping in view the fact that the plaintiffs had manufactured rent receipts and also sought to put a date in the Hindi letter addressed by Manmul Bhutoria to the appellant clearly go to show that Manmul Bhutoria became a tenant to the appellant in his personal capacity.	Reasoning
The position might have been different if Sri Manmal Bhutoria continued to occupy the said premises as a director of the company.	Reasoning
This finding in our view is begging the question itself.	Reasoning
The point to be determined by the Court was whether the tenancy in favour of the company had been violated terminated and thereafter a fresh tenancy in respect of the premises had been created in favour of Manmal Bhutoria in his personal capacity.	Reasoning
This question is of considerable importance for decision in the case.	Reasoning
In view of the undisputed factual position that during subsistence of the lease with the company Manmal Bhutoria was in occupation of the premises for residential purpose as a Director of the Company, and after the alleged determination of the lease by the Company he continued to remain in occupation of the premises using it as his residence.	Reasoning
Since Manmal Bhutoria had taken the stand that after determination of the tenancy with the company a fresh tenancy has been created with him in his personal capacity it was for him to establish the case.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, the approach of the High Court to the case has not been on proper lines.	Reasoning
Further the High Court appears to have been under an impression that the appellate court would be slow to interfere with the finding of fact arrived at by the trial court.	Reasoning
So while making the observations to this effect the High Court failed to note that it was seized of the first appeal filed under section 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure in which the appellate court was to consider the matter both on facts and on points of law.	Reasoning
Further the judgment of the High Court is based on an erroneous assumption which appears from the observations to the effect  one it is held that Shri Manmal Bhutoria became a tenant under the appellant, surrender of the tenancy by the company and acceptance thereof by the appellant would be deemed to have been proved.	Reasoning
This observation cannot amount to begging the question.	Reasoning
The question for determination before the High Court was whether the tenancy in favour of the company had been validly terminated and this question was required to be proved by the party alleging it (the tenant company) by adducing evidence.	Reasoning
A matter which is required to be proved by evidence cannot be assumed.	Reasoning
If this question is answered in the affirmative only then the further question whether there was a fresh tenancy in favour of Manmal Bhutoria in his personal capacity will arise.	Reasoning
On careful consideration of the matter we have no hesitation to hold that the Judgment of the High Court under challenge is unsustainable.	Decision
Accordingly, the appeals are allowed.	Decision
The Judgment of the High Court in F.A. Nos. 87/90 and 88/90 is set aside and the cases are remanded to the High Court for fresh disposal in accordance with law.	Decision
The parties will bear their respective costs.	Decision
