 Sikri, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the Rajasthan High Court allowing the petition filed by the respondent, Messrs Karam Chand Thapar and Bros.	Issue
(Coal Sales) Ltd.	Issue
Jaipur (hereinafter referred to as the petitioner) under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution.2.	Issue
The facts relevant to the determination of the points raised before us are as follows.	Facts
The petitioner carries on the business of supplying coal throughout India.	Facts
It has a branch at Jaipur, which was registered as a dealer with the Sales Tax Officer, Jaipur.	Facts
The branch does retail business in Jaipur and supervises the supply of coal made to consumers directly by collieries.	Facts
On September 2, 1948, the petitioner secured a monopoly to sell the coal of collieries belonging to the Equitable Coal Company for certain areas including Rajputana.	Facts
On April 28, 1955, the Company entered into a contract with the Government of Rajasthan for the supply of coal for one month to Jaipur Power House for the first time.	Facts
Various similar agreements were entered into later for the regular supply of coal to the said power house at Jaipur and Kotah power house.	Facts
The petitioner supplied coal under these agreements uptill May 1958.	Facts
It is necessary to set out the terms of the agreement dated April 28, 1955, as the effect of the agreement has been the subject of much debate before us.	None
Articles of agreement made this twenty eighth day of April, one thousand Ninehundred and fifty five between His Highness the Rajpramukh of the State of Rajasthan, of the one part, and Messrs Karamchand Thapar and Bros. (Coal Sales) Ltd. of 5, Royal Exchange Place, Calcutta, hereinafter called the contractor of the other part.	None
The contractor shall supply the coal to the Rajasthan Government Power House at Jaipur in accordance with the specifications and terms as follows, for a period of one month1.	None
Rubble Coal, selected grade A, double screened size 3/4 to 11/2 fusion point of ash 1250 F, from Bejdih, Dhamomain and Jamuria West Collieries and as per coal analysis mentioned in their letter No. CS/4844 dated 1121955.2.	None
The contractor shall deposit a sum of Rs.10,000/ (Rupees ten thousand only) as security for due performance of the contract which would be forfeited in the event of their failure to fulfil their part of the contract satisfactorily.3.	Facts
The test report given by the laboratory at Jaipur power house will be final.4.	Facts
The decision of the Chief Engineer, Electrical and Mech.	Facts
Department, Govt. of Rajasthan, will be final, for all purposes.5.	Facts
The coal will be supplied F. O. R. colliery subject to the following(a) Payment will be claimed only in respect of supplies actually received and admitted as per specifications at the Jaipur Power House.(b)	Facts
The contractor will arrange all the transport and safe delivery of coal at Jaipur Power House.(c)	Facts
First consignment is to reach Jaipur Power House within 10 days from the date of order and supplies will not be less than 150 tons per day for the first ten days.6.	Facts
Coal will be supplied at the controlled rate.	Facts
Railway freight will be paid by the coal supplier in the first instance and reimbursement claimed afterwards on the strength of relevant vouchers along with the bill, for the admitted supplies of the coal in Jaipur Power House.	Facts
3.	None
It is common ground that at the time of the supply of coal the Colliery Control Order, 1945, governed the supply of coal from the collieries.	Facts
Clause 4 enabled the Central Government to fix the price at which the coal may be sold.	Facts
Clause 5 ensured that no colliery could sell at a price different from that fixed under clause 4.	Facts
Clauses 6(1) and (2) read thus6.	None
(1) Where a colliery owner has signified to the Deputy Coal Controller (Distribution) in writing his willingness to self direct to consumers and an allotment is made by the Deputy Coal Controller (Distribution) to a consumer with his consent for such direct sale, the coal shall be delivered to the consumer at the price fixed under clause 4, and no commission or other charges shall be paid in addition, except that where a broker is employed, brokerage not exceeding six annas per ton may be paid by the colliery owner to the broker.(2) Where a consumer purchases coal through a del credere agent such agent shall not, on the sale of such coal, charge or receive from the consumer a margin over the price fixed under clause 4 which exceeds(a) one rupee per ton in the case of coal or(b) one rupee eight annas per ton in the case of soft coke or(c) two rupees eight annas per ton in the case of hard coke.4.	Facts
It will be noticed that Para 1 of clause 6 enables a colliery owner falling within this para to give brokerage to a broker not exceeding six annas per ton.	Facts
The petitioner claims that it was getting this brokerage from the Equitable Coal Company, whose coal was supplied to the Jaipur Power House.	Facts
Clause 8 empowered the Central Government to give directions to a colliery regulating the disposal of his stock of coal. . . . .	Facts
including directions as grade, size and quantity of coal which may be disposed of and persons of class or description of persons to whom coal shall or shall not be disposed of . . .	Facts
If a direction is given, the colliery owner is obliged by clause (9) to dispose of coal in accordance therewith.5.	Facts
Clause 12E directs thatNo person shall acquire or purchase or agree to acquire or purchase any coal from a colliery and no colliery owner or his agent shall despatch or agree to despatch or transport any coal from the colliery except under the authority and in accordance with the conditions contained in a general or special authority of the Central Government.6.	Facts
The actual procedure adopted for the supply as stated by the petitioner and not disputed by the appellant before the High Court was as followsThe Chief Engineer, Electrical and Mechanical Department, Government of Rajasthan, Jaipur informed the Deputy Coal Controller, Calcutta, for a monthly ad hoc allotment of coal through the petitioner.	Facts
A copy was marked to the petitioners office at Jaipur.	Facts
The petitioner through its head office at Calcutta would submit a programme to the Deputy Coal Commissioner (Distribution) Calcutta, for the supply of coal from the collieries who issued a sanction according to the programme and sent copies of such sanction to the Railway Allotment authorities so that adequate wagons might be allotted and the supplies made.	Facts
On receipt of the sanction from the Deputy Coal Commissioner (Distribution), Calcutta, the collieries supplied coal directly to the Executive Engineer of the Power House concerned, in Rajasthan, and the Railway Receipt was sent to the consignee, through the petitioner, so that he might take the delivery of the coal from the Railways.	Facts
The bill for the sale of coal supplied to the State of Rajasthan along with the copies of Railway Receipts through the petitioners head office at Calcutta reached their Jaipur office and the latter office collected the sale price from the State for the supply made to the State of Rajasthan by the collieries.7.	Facts
One comment is made by the learned counsel for the appellants as to the said procedure.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that in the counteraffidavit of the State it is stated that whatever documents the Company submitted were only by way of vouchers to its own bills and otherwise the Government had nothing whatever to do with the Equitable Coal Company.8.	None
In connection with this procedure it is necessary to refer to a letter of the Deputy Coal Commissioner, dated November 19, 1956, for it contains a direction under cl.	None
8 of the Colliery Control Order.	Arguments of Petitioner
After sanctioning priority for the supply of wagons and the quantity and grade of coal to be supplied by certain collieries belonging to the Equitable Coal Company, the Deputy Coal Commissioner directed that the grade and size and quantity of coal to be supplied should strictly conform to the specification given above.	None
Copies of this letter were forwarded, among others, to the Managing Agents of the Equitable Coal Company, and the petitioner.9.	None
The petitioner submitted its returns for the year 195556 to the Sales Tax Officer and showed therein supplies made to the power house under the heading Turnover of goods without fee.	None
By order dated February 12, 1957, the Sales Tax Officer, Jaipur City, included the sales to power houses amounting to Rs.	None
7,11,941133 in the taxable turnover.	None
The petitioner complained in the petition that the Sales Tax Officer did not dispose of its contention raised before him that the sales to the power houses could not be included in the taxable turnover.	None
The Company did not file any appeal but approached the Government and the Sales Tax Commissioner for relief but without success.	None
It appears that though on December 30, 1957, the Council of Ministers passed a resolution exempting sales of coal to the Electric and Mechanical Department this could not be implemented because the papers were not submitted through the Finance Department.	None
This decision was, however, orally communicated to the petitioner.	None
In the meantime the petitioner submitted the returns for the assessment year 195657, showing therein the supply of the coal to the power houses under the head.	None
Turnover of goods exempt without fee on Form STV.	None
The Company alleged that it feared that the Sales Tax Officer would tax the, said turnover as before.10.	None
The petitioner contested its liability to be taxed in respect of the supply of coal to the power houses on three grounds.	None
First, that the petitioner acted merely as a broker and was not a dealer within the definition of the word dealer in the first para of S. 2(f) of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1954, as far as the supplies in question are concerned.	None
Secondly, that the sales took place in the course of interState trade and, thirdly, that the sales took place outside the State of Rajasthan.	None
Mr. Vishwanatha Sastri, relying on the decision of this Court in M s. New India Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Commr. of Sales, Tax, Bihar, (1963)	None
Supp 2 SCR 459 (AIR 1963 SC 1207 ) has sought to raise an additional ground, namely, that as the supply of coal was made under the provisions of the Colliery Control Order, it, did not amount to a sale.11.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court accepted the first contention of the petitioner but did not deal with the second and the third contentions.	None
The learned counsel for the appellants, Mr. Tewari, submits that the High Court was wrong in holding that the Company acted as a broker.	None
According to him, the sales were made directly by the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the alternative, he contends that the petitioner was an agent within the Explanation to S.2(f) of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act (Rajasthan Act XXIV of 1954), Section 2(f) defines a dealer thus 2(f) dealer means any person who carries on the business of buying or selling or supplying goods in the State, whether on commission or for remuneration or otherwise, and, includes the Central Government, a State Government or any of their departments in respect of any such business, a Hindu undivided family, and a society, club or any other association which buys goods from or sells or supplies goods to, its membersExplanation Where a dealer who resides outside the State carries on the business of buying, selling or supplying goods in the State through a manager or agent, the manager or agent shall, in respect of such business, be deemed to be a dealer for the purpose of this Act.12.	None
Mr.Tewari says that there was no privity of contract between the Equitable Coal Company and the Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that under the agreement dated April 28, 1955, it is the petitioner which had to supply the coal and payment could only be claimed in respect of supplies which were accepted as per specifications at the Jaipur Power House.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner had to arrange transport and safe delivery of coal and pay railway freight in the first instance.	Arguments of Petitioner
The security of Rs. 10,000/ was deposited by the petitioner to secure due performance of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sastri in reply submits that this agreement is to be read in the light of the Colliery Control Order, and if there is inconsistency between the contract and the Colliery Control Order, 1945, the latter will prevail.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, no property in the coal ever passed or could pass to the petitioner and it was a case of a direct sale by the colliery to the State Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is evident, he says, from cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(6) and the direction given by the Coal Controller under cl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(8) of the Colliery Control Order.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the direction coal could only be supplied to the State of Rajasthan.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
It seems to us that the petitioner is not a dealer within the definition of the word dealer in the first para of S. 2(f), set out above.	Reasoning
The petitioner did not sell or supply coal.	Reasoning
What it did was to procure the supply of coal.	Reasoning
Under the direction issued under cl.	Reasoning
(8) of the Colliery Control Order, it is the Equitable Coal Company that supplied the coal directly to the Rajasthan Government.	Reasoning
No property in the coal ever passed or could pass to the petitioner.	Reasoning
If the agreement dated April 28, 1955, contemplated a sale by the petitioner to the Rajasthan Government, the agreement could not be carried out in view of the provisions of the Colliery Control Order, at least as far as supplies from collieries are concerned, because the collieries could not but obey directions issued under clause (8).	Reasoning
Therefore, we must reject the contention of Mr. Tewari that the petitioner fell within the first para of S. 2(f).14.	Reasoning
Mr. Tewari put his alternative point thus The High Court has omitted to notice the explanation to S. 2(f).	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioner is an agent within the explanation because the Equitable Coal Company had sold or supplied goods to the Rajasthan Government through the petitioner, under the agreement dated September 2, 1948.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Colliery Control Order does not prohibit collieries from securing orders through agents.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the said agreement, the petitioner had to arrange despatches to cover monthly quantities of coal reserved on its account.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the petitioner was carrying out its obligations to the Equitable Coal Company when it entered into the agreement dated April 28, 1955.15.	None
It seems to us that there is considerable force in his contention.	None
Clause (1) of the said agreement mentions the collieries from which the coal is to be supplied and these collieries belonged to the Equitable Coal Company.	Reasoning
The petitioner charged no remuneration from the Rajasthan Government.	Reasoning
It had to supply coal at the controlled rate and, therefore, the only profit which the petitioner could make was from the brokerage it received from the Equitable Coal Company.	Reasoning
Therefore, it seems reasonable to conclude from these facts that the petitioner was acting as the agent of the Equitable Coal Company.	Reasoning
The fact that the remuneration it received was called brokerage is not conclusive.	Reasoning
Whether the petitioner is an agent or not must depend on the facts of each case.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is not necessary to discuss the decisions of this Court in G. Gilda Textile Agency v. State of Andhra Pradesh, (1963) 2	Reasoning
SCR 248 and Firm Shivratan G. Mohatta v. Sales Tax Officer, Jodhpur, AIR 1964 Raj 5 relied on by Mr. Tewari.	Reasoning
Mr. Sastri contends that the petitioner was also an agent of the Government, but we are unable to agree with him.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that the petitioner was charging no remuneration from the Government, the agreement dated April 28, 1955, read as a whole is clearly between two principals.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we hold that the petitioner is an agent within the explanation to S.2(f), and therefore, he is deemed to be a dealer for the purposes of the Act.	Reasoning
We may mention that Mr. Sastri has not contended that assuming that the supply of coal amounted to sale the Equitable Coal Company was not carrying on the business of selling or supplying goods within Rajasthan.16.	Reasoning
We may now deal with the point raised by Mr. Tewari that the High Court should not have granted relief under Art.	None
226.	Arguments of Petitioner
He does not dispute that the High Court had the jurisdiction, but he says that on the facts of the case, the High Court should not have interfered.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has given good reasons for interfering.	Reasoning
The High Court observed that the petitioner had challenged the authority of the State of Rajasthan to enact a law whereby tax on the sale of goods outside the State of Rajasthan could be levied and the application of the law itself to the circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
The petitioner has also averred in its petition that it has a fundamental right of free trade and any such imposition infringes this right of the petitioner.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, entertain the plea in bar.17.	Reasoning
Regarding delay, the High Court excused the delay on the following groundThe petitioner has also in our opinion adequately explained the delay in seeking relief from this Court.	None
The petitioner has alleged, and this allegation has not been controverted, that the Secretary of the Government Public Works Department, submitted a proposal to the Council on 30th December, 1957, recommending that the transactions under dispute be exempted from the levy of sales tax.	None
The council passed a resolution to that effect on 10th January, 1958, but since the papers were not submitted through the Finance Department, the decision of the Council could not be implemented.	None
This decision was verbally communicated to the petitioner and, therefore, the petitioner did not move this Court earlier.	None
In our opinion, in view of these uncontroverted facts, the petitioner was justified in not rushing to this Court.18.	None
In the result the appeal must succeed, but as the High Court did not deal with the question of the situs of sale or whether the sale was made in the course of interState trade, the case must be remitted to the High Court.	Reasoning
Although Mr. Tewari has opposed the raising of the question at this stage whether the supply of coal amounted to sale, we are inclined to allow this point to be raised because the question is one of law which can be decided on the material on the records of the case, in the light of the decision of this Court in (1963)	Reasoning
Supp 2 SCR 459 (AIR 1963 SC 1207 ) which was decided after the judgment of the High Court in this case.	Reasoning
We express no opinion whether the said decision covers the present case or not.19.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the appeal is accepted and the case remitted to the High Court, which will dispose of the case in accordance with law.	Decision
Costs incurred in this Court will be costs in the case.20.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
