 RANGANATHAN	None
, J. These are two appeals under Section 35L of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
They arise out of the claim of M s. Rohit Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the assessee) for partial exemption from excise duty in respect of the art paper and chromo paper manufactured by it.	Issue
The assessee is having a factory at Khadki in which different varieties of paper and paper boards are manufactured.	Facts
The factory does not have a bamboo pulp plant.	Facts
It uses waste paper and cereal straw which are considered to be unconventional raw materials for the manufacture of paper and paper board.	Facts
The pulp used by the assessee contains more than 50 per cent weight of pulp made from these unconventional raw materials.	None
Paper and paper board are goods falling under Item 17(1) of the First Schedule to the Act.	None
Two notifications were issued on 1st March, 1984 under Rule 8(1) of the Central Excises Rules, 1944 in respect of the above item.	Facts
The first of them, being Notification No. 24 of 1984, restricted the excise duty on items falling under the aforesaid item in the manner following Description RateNo1.	Facts
Printing and writing paper.	Facts
10 per cent ad valorem paper plus Rs. 1005 per metric tonne2.	None
All sorts of paper commonly 10 percent ad valorem plus known as kraft paper Rs. 1385 per metric tonne (including paper and paper boards of the type known as kraft liner or corrugating medium) of a substance equal to or exceeding 65 grams per square metre3.	Facts
Paper board of the following 10 per cent ad varieties, namely, pulp board valorem plus duplex board and triplex board Rs. 1810 per metric tonne4.	Facts
Paper and paper boards, other 10 per cent ad than those specified in S. Nos. valorem plus Rs. 1430 1 to 3. per metric tonne4.	Facts
The second notification, Notification No. 25 of 1984, is the one with which we are directly concerned here.	Facts
It provides for a concession in respect of paper and paper boards falling under Item 17(1) of the Schedule, manufactured out of pulp containing not less than 50 per cent by weight of pulp made from materials (other than bamboo, hardwoods, softwoods, reeds or rags) and cleared on or after April 1 in any financial year.	Facts
The concessional rates prescribed were as belowTABLES.	Facts
No. Description Rate Conditions1.	Facts
(i) Printing and Rs. 450 per Provided that the writing paper metric tonne total quantity of clearances, if any, of all varieties of paper and paper boards in the preceding financial year, by or on behalf of a manufacturer from one or more manufacturers did not exceed 3, 000 metric tonnes(ii) All sorts of Rs. 450 per paper commonly metric tonne known as kraft paper (including paper paper boards of the type known as kraft liners or corrugating medium) of a substance equal to or exceeding 65 grams per square metre(iii) Others Rs. 560 per metric tonne2.	None
(i) Printing and Rs. 730 per Provided that the writing paper metric tonne total quantity of clearances of all varieties of paper paper boards in the preceding financial year, by or on behalf of a manufacturer from one or more factories, or from a factory by or on behalf of one or more manufacturers exceeding 3, 000 metric tonnes but did not exceed 7, 500 metric tonnes(ii)	None
All sorts of Rs. 730 per papers commonly metric tonne known as kraft paper (including paper and paper boards of the type known as kraft liners or corrugating medium) of a substance equal to or exceeding 65 grams per square metre Others Rs. 900 per metric tonne(3) (i) Printing and Rs. 900 per Provided that the total wring paper quantity of clearances of all varieties of paper and paper boards in the preceding financial year, by or on behalf of a manufacturer from one or more factories or from a factory or on behalf of one or more manufacturers exceeded 7, 500 metric tonnes but did not exceed 16, 500 metric tonnes All sorts of Rs. 900 per paper commonly metric tonne known as kraft paper (including paper paper boards of the type known as kraft liners or corrugating medium) of a substance equal to or exceeding 65 grams per square metre(iii) Others Rs. 1, 120 per metric tonne4.	None
This para, added by Notification No. 92/84 dated 1841984 added another concessional rate where the clearances exceeded 10, 500 but did not exceed 24, 000 metric tonnes on the same lines as above but this does not need to be set out here The grant of the above concessional rates were, however, subject to certain important conditions set out in the provisos to the notification.	Facts
These provisos read Provided that the factory does not have a plant attached thereto for making bamboo or wood pulpProvided further that the exemption contained in this notification shall not apply to cigarette tissue, glassine paper, grease proof paper, coated paper (including waxed paper) and paper of a substance not exceeding 25 grams per square metre.	Facts
Another Notification No. 45 of 1985 dated 1731985 has been relied upon in support of the contention of the Union of India and hence this may also be set out here.	Facts
It prescribed rates on paper and paper board falling under Item 17(1) in the following manner  	Facts
No. Description Rate1.	None
Printing and writing paper (i) coated paper 10 per cent ad valorem plus Rs. 1505 per metric tonne(ii) of a substance not 10 per cent ad exceeding 25 grams per valorem thousand plus square metre.	Facts
Rs. 1505 per metric tonne(iii)	Facts
Others 10 per cent ad valorem plus Rs. 120 per metric tonne2.	Facts
All sorts of paper commonly 10 per cent ad known as kraft paper valorem plus (including Rs. 1930 per metric tonne paper and paper boards of the known as kraft liner or corrugating medium) of a substance equal to or exceeding 65 grams per square metre3.	Facts
Coated paper (including waxed 10 per cent ad paper) and paper of valorem plus a substance Rs 1930 per metric tonne not exceeding 25 grams per square metre (other than those specified in S. No. 1)4.	None
Glassine paper, cigarette, 10 per cent ad tissue and grease proof valorem plus paper.	None
Rs. 1930 per metric tonne5.	Facts
Paper board of the following 10 per cent ad varieties, namely, pulp board, valorem plus duplex board and triplex board.	Facts
Rs. 1810 per metric tonne6.	Facts
Paper and paper boards, other 10 per cent ad than those specified valorem plus in S. No. 1 to 5.	Facts
Rs. 1430 per metric tonne.	Facts
The assessee seems initially to have paid excise duty on the goods manufactured by it in terms of Notification No. 24/84 but later seems to have thought of claiming the concessional rates prescribed by Notification No. 25/84.	None
The company was manufacturing art paper and chromo paper.	Facts
It is common ground that these two types of paper fall under category printing and writing paper.	Facts
It is also common ground that these two articles also fall under the description coated paper used in the second proviso.	Facts
Since coated paper is taken by the proviso out of the purview of the Notification No. 25 of 1984, the excise department refused to permit the assessee to avail of this concession in respect of its manufactured goods.	Facts
This treatment by the excise department has also been confirmed by the Central Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal (CEGAT).	Facts
The Tribunal disposed of the matter very briefly.	Facts
It observed That brings us to the second question whether art paper and chromo paper were eligible for the exemption granted under notification No. 25 of 1984.	Facts
We have carefully considered arguments of the appellants.	Facts
We have perused the Notification No. 24 of 1984 as amended and note that the second proviso excludes from the exemption, among others, coated paper (including waxed paper).	Facts
There is no denial that art paper and chromo paper are coated papers.	Facts
It may be correct that these are not, like other papers mentioned in second proviso, industrial varieties of papers and are writing and printing varieties.	Facts
All the same when the proviso, as it is worded, is clear there is no warrant for us to supply words to the proviso to the notification.	Facts
We, therefore, find against the appellants in this regard and hold that art and chromo paper would not be eligible for exemption under Notification No. 25 of 1984.	None
The assessee is aggrieved by this order of the Tribunal and hence the present appeals8.	None
Sri K. Parasaran, appearing for the appellant, raises an ingenious contention.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urges that though the expression coated paper has generally a wide connotation and includes coated papers of all varieties, it should be given a restricted meaning in the context in which it appears in the proviso.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in the paper business, paper is broadly of two varieties, industrial paper and cultural paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
Paper used for printing or writing is treated as cultural paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, industrial paper is paper which is used for various purposes which may be broadly described as industrial purposes, such as wrapping, packing, sanitary use and the like.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that though the notification intended to grant a concession to small factories manufacturing paper out of unconventional raw material, it was decided to deny the concession to certain kinds of paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
These exceptions have been set out in the proviso.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are (1) cigarette tissue, (2) glassine paper, (3) grease proof paper, (4) coated paper (including waxed paper), and (5) paper of substance not exceeding 25 gm.	Arguments of Petitioner
per square metre in weight (which may be compendiously described as light paper).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that a common strain runs through all these five categories.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trust three varieties, namely, cigarette tissue, glassine paper, and grease proof paper admittedly fall under the category of industrial paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
Likewise, paper of a substance not exceeding 25 gm.	Arguments of Petitioner
per square metre in weight is invariably used for industrial purposes and this is so found by the Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The word coated paper, it is urged, must be read in this context.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the other items set out in the proviso are items of industrial paper, it stands to reason that though coated paper, in a wider sense, may include all categories of coated paper, the denial of concession by the proviso is to be restricted only to coated paper falling under the industrial variety.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, it is submitted that the word coated paper should be interpreted by applying the principle of noscitur a sociis or on the analogy of the ejusdem generis principle.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention, it is submitted, is reinforced by two considerations.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first is that the government must have had some idea or principle in putting together the exceptions and there is no conceivable principle other than the one enunciated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second consideration is the addition of the words used in parenthesis along with coated paper viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
(including waxed paper).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that waxed paper obviously means coated paper because waxed paper is nothing but paper coated with wax and would have anyhow been covered by the exception.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nevertheless, it was considered necessary, it is said, to specifically include it in order to make it clear by this illustration that only industrial paper like waxed paper is taken out from the concession.	Arguments of Petitioner
The words in parenthesis are, in other words, the words, the words illustrative of the limitation to be read into the expression coated paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is finally argued that, even if the words of the proviso are capable of being construed in a wider manner so as to deny exemption to all kinds of coated paper, the court should apply the well established principle of construction of taxing statutes that an ambiguous provision should be interpreted in favour of the subject.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the learned Solicitor General submits that if there are two possible views of the proviso, the court should not interfere with the conclusion reached by the Tribunal which reflects one of two possible and plausible views.	Arguments of Respondent
On the interpretation of the proviso, the Solicitor General submits that there is no principle of interpretation by which the plain and natural meaning of the word coated paper can be abridged nor, he says, is there anything in the context to warrant such a limitation.	Arguments of Respondent
He refutes the suggestion that, in commercial parlance, there is a clear cut distinction between industrial and cultural paper.	Arguments of Respondent
He does not agree that light paper can only be industrial paper and refers to the terms of the 1985 notification in support.	Arguments of Respondent
He points out that if coated paper meant only industrial paper, as contended for by the assessee, the expression in parenthesis was totally unnecessary.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that there is a distinction between coated paper and impregnated paper.	Arguments of Respondent
As waxed paper could fall under either of these categories, there was a possibility of some one contending that paper impregnated with wax is not coated paper that is why it became necessary to add the parenthesis to clarify that both kinds will be coated paper for the purpose of of the proviso.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits for these reasons that the view taken by the Tribunal was the correct one and that the appeals should be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the contentions urged on both sides and we have come to the conclusion that there is force in the appellants contentions.	None
All the three notifications we have extracted above draw a distinction between printing and writing paper on the one hand and other types of paper on the other.	None
They also show that the duty on printing and writing paper is generally less than that on the other varieties of paper.	None
Though paper can be classified into various varieties, it does appear that one such classification is between industrial paper and cultural paper.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Dictionary of Paper published by the American Paper and Pulp Association (Second Edition) contains the following definition Industrial Papers.  	None
A very general term which is used for to indicate papers manufactured for industrial uses as opposed to those for cultural purposes.	None
Thus, building papers, insulative papers, matching paper etc. would be considered industrial papers whereas writing and printing papers would be cultural papers.	None
Now the proviso denies the concession extended by Notification No. 25/84 to certain types of papers.	None
It is true that no meticulous reasons can always be made available or discovered for variations in rates of duty as between various types of goods and the absence of some common thread in relation to a set of goods treated alike may not necessarily render the classification irrational or arbitrary.	None
But, at the same time, one can legitimately postulate that the denial of a concession to a group proceeds on the basis of some aspect or feature common to all items in the group.	None
If such a principle can be conceived of which would rationalise the inclusion of all the items, it would be quite reasonable and proper to give effect to a construction of the notification as will accord with that principle.	None
It is this which the appellant has attempted to do and we are inclined to think that the ratiocination of the exceptions suggested, far from being artificial or farfetched, is a plausible and likely one that the Government could have had in mind and that it should be accepted.	None
As mentioned earlier, the concession of the notification is denied to five kinds of paper.	None
Three of them, undoubtedly and indisputably, are varieties of industrial paper.	None
This is indeed common ground and it has also been supported by reference to the definitions in the Dictionary of Paper and elsewhere which it is unnecessary to set out here.	None
The fourth is what we have referred to as light paper not exceeding a particular weight.	None
On behalf of the assessee, it is contended that this is also only industrial paper.	None
In support of this contention, reference is invited to the tables appended to the Dictionary of Paper which indicate that there cannot be printing and writing paper of weight less then 26 gms.	None
per sq. metre.	None
It is also pointed out that the Tribunal has also given a finding to this effect in para 37 of its order.	None
The learned Solicitor General, on the other hand, points out that S. No. 1(ii) of the 1985 notification itself clearly shows that there can be printing and writing paper of a substance not exceeding 25 grams per sq. metre.	None
On behalf of the assessee, on instructions, it is submitted that this classification proceeds on a totally unreal basis and that there is no such printing and writing paper in existence.	None
We cannot, however, assume that the 1985 notification proceeds on an erroneous basis.	None
It is sufficient for our purposes to take it, on the basis of the record in this case, that light paper is, by and large, industrial paper without altogether excluding all possibility that it is used occasionally for cultural purposes also.	None
The classification set out in the 1985 notifications also lends some support to the contentions urged.	None
The five varieties of paper we are concerned with are found in S. Nos. 3 and 4 of this notification and S. Nos. 1 and 3 reflect a contrast between coated a paper and light paper used for cultural purposes (Item No. 1) and that used for other (industrial) purposes (Items No. 4).	None
On this basis, then, it is clear that four out of the five varieties of paper which are denied the benefit of the concession seem to constitute industrial paper.	None
In fact even if, as urged for the Union of India, only three of these items are of the industrial variety while the other two could be either, it will not still be unreasonable (though, may be, a little less plausible) to draw an inference that only industrial paper falling in those two categories are intended to be comprehended in the classification rather than assume, for no detectable reason, that all paper of these two varieties alone are excluded from the concession.	None
We think, therefore, that the appellants are on firm ground in submitting that the expression coated paper in the proviso should draw colour from the context in which it is employed and receive an interpretation consistent therewith than its literal one, which in its widest sense, may be comprehensive enough to include all coated paper, industrial or otherwise.	None
The principle of statutory interpretation by which a generic word receives a limited interpretation by reason of its context is well established.	Reasoning
In the context with which we are concerned, we can legitimately draw upon the noscitur a sociis principle.	Reasoning
This expression simply means that the meaning of a word is to be judged by the company it keeps.	Reasoning
Gajendragadkar, J. explained the scope of the rule in State of Bombay v. Hospital Mazdoor Sabha ( 1960 (2) SCR 866 in the following words (SCR pp. 87374)	None
This rule, according to Maxwell, means that, when two or more words which are susceptible of analogous meaning are coupled together they are understood to be used in their cognate sense.	None
They take as it were their colour from each other, that is, the more general is restricted to a sense analogous to a less general.	Reasoning
The same rule is thus interpreted in Words and Phrases (Vol. XIV, p. 207)	Reasoning
Associated words take their meaning from one another under the doctrine of noscitur a sociis, the philosophy of which is that the meaning of a doubtful word may be ascertained by reference to the meaning of words associated with it such doctrine is broader than the maxim ejusdem generis.	Reasoning
In fact the latter maxim is only an illustration or specific application of the broader maxim noscitur a sociis.	Reasoning
The argument is that certain essential features or attributes are invariably associated with the words business and trade as understood in the popular and conventional sense, and it is the colour of these attributes which is taken by the other words used in the definition though their normal import may be much wider.	Reasoning
We are not impressed by this argument.	Reasoning
It must be borne in mind that noscitur a sociis is merely a rule of construction and it cannot prevail in cases where it is clear that the wider words have been deliberately used in order to make the scope of the defined word correspondingly wider.	Reasoning
It is only where the intention of the legislature in associating wider words with worded of narrower significance is doubtful, or otherwise not clear that the present rule of construction can be usefully applied.	Reasoning
It can also be applied where the meaning of the words of wider import is doubtful but, where the object of the legislature in using wider words is clear and free of ambiguity, the rule of construction in question cannot be pressed into service.	Reasoning
This principle has been applied in a number of contexts in judicial decisions where the Court in clear in its mind that the larger meaning of the word in question could not have been intended in the context in which it has been used.	Reasoning
The cases are too numerous to need discussion here.	Reasoning
It should be sufficient to refer to one of them by way of illustration.	Reasoning
In Rainbow Steels Ltd. v. CST ( 1981 (2) SCC 141 this Court had to understand the meaning of the word old in the context of an entry in a taxing tariff which read thus Old, discarded, unserviceable or absolute machinery, stores or vehicles including waste products Though the tariff item started with the use of the wide word old, the Court came to the conclusion that in order to fall within the expression old machinery occurring in the entry, the machinery must be old machinery in the sense that it has become nonfunctional or nonusable.	Reasoning
In other words, not the mere age of the machinery, which would be relevant in the wider sense, but he condition of the machinery analogous to that indicated by the words following it, was considered relevant for the purposes of the statute.	Reasoning
The maxim of noscitur a sociis has been described by Diplock, C.J. as a treacherous one unless one knows the societas to which the socii belong (vide Letang v. Cooper ((1965) 1 QB 232 1964 (2) ALLER 929 The learned Solicitor General also warns that one should not be carried away by labels and Latin maxims when the word to be interpreted is clear and has a wide meaning.	None
We entirely agree that these maxims and precedents are not to be mechanically applied they are of assistance only insofar as they furnish guidance by compendiously summing up principles based on rules of common sense and logic.	None
As explained in Collector of Central Excise v. Parle Exports (P) Ltd.	None
( 1989 (1) SCC 345 in interpreting the scope of any notification, the court has first to keep in mind the object and purpose of the notification.	None
All parts of it should be read harmoniously in aid of, and not in derogation of, that purpose.	None
In this case, the aim and object of the notification is to grant a concession to small scale factories which manufacture paper with unconventional raw materials.	None
The question naturally arises Could there have been any particular object intended to be achieved by introducing the exceptions set out in the proviso ?	None
Instead of proceeding on the premise that it is not necessary to look for any reason in a taxing statute, it is necessary to have a closer look at the wording of the proviso.	None
If the proviso had referred only to coated paper, no special object or purpose would have been discernible and perhaps there would have been no justification to look beyond it and enter into a speculation as to why the notification should have thought of exemption only coated paper manufactured by these factories from the purview of the exemption.	Reasoning
But the notification excepts not one but a group of items.	Reasoning
If the items mentioned in the group were totally dissimilar and it were impossible to see any common thread running through them again, it may be permissible to give the exceptions their widest latitude.	Reasoning
But when four of them  undoubtedly, at least three of them  can be brought under an intelligible classification and it is also conceivable that the government might well have thought that these small scale factories should not be eligible for the concession contemplated by the notification where they manufacture paper catering to industrial purposes, there is a purpose in the limitation prescribed	Reasoning
and there is no reason why the rationally logical restriction should not be placed on the proviso based on this classification.	Reasoning
In our view, the only reasonable way of interpreting the proviso is by understanding the words coated paper in a narrower sense consistent with the other expressions used therein.	None
In the view we have taken it is unnecessary to consider the other contentions urged before us (i) whether the words (including waxed paper) are words indicative of the limitation sought to be placed on the words coated paper or they are only intended to make it clear that even paper impregnated with wax will not be entitled to exemption and (ii) whether, if the notification is capable of two equally plausible interpretations, the one in favour of the subject should be upheld or the one taken by the Tribunal should be confirmed.	Reasoning
For the reasons discussed above, we accept the appellants submission that coated paper in the second proviso refers only to coated paper used for industrial purposes and not to coated varieties of printing and writing paper.	None
The Tribunals order is set aside and the appellant held entitled to the concessional rates specified in Notification No. 25/84.16.	None
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
But we make no order as to costs.	None
