 Dr. B.S. CHAUHAN, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal has been preferred against the judgment and order dated 1.8.2008 passed by the High Court of Calcutta in FMA No.782 of 2007 MAT No.4487 of 2005 and CAN No.4852 of 2006 by which the Division Bench has allowed the appeal of the respondent against the judgment and order of the learned Single Judge dated 16.9.2005 passed in Writ Petition No.2539(W) of 2005 by which the learned Single Judge had rejected the claim of the respondent for parity in pay and issuance of direction to upgrade the post held by him.	Issue
Facts and circumstances giving rise to this appeal are that the appellant No.2 issued an advertisement in The Statesman newspaper dated 22.9.1993 inviting applications for the post of Speech Therapist Audiologist at the Durgapur Steel Plant in S6 grade in Medical and Health Services.	Facts
The respondent applied in response to the said advertisement.	Facts
An interview was held on 17.6.1996 and the respondents name found place at serial no.4 in the merit list.	Facts
As none of the first three candidates joined, the appointment was offered to the respondent vide letter dated 17.6.1996.	Facts
The respondent joined the said post without any protest.	Facts
After serving for a few years, respondent started claiming parity with one Shri B.V. Prabhakar, employed at Rourkela Steel Plant, a different unit of the same company who was holding the post of E1 grade in executive cadre though designated as Speech Therapist Audiologist.	Facts
Respondent made representation dated 1.9.2004 not claiming parity in pay but to change the cadre and upgrade his post, accord relaxation in eligibility and give him the payscale of the post of E1 grade from the date of his joining the service.	Facts
The said representation stood rejected vide order dated 12/14.10.2004 by the Authorities, observing that upgradation of his post to executive cadre was not permissible under the policy of the company, and as the respondent was working in nonexecutive cadre, he could not claim parity with an employee in another unit of the company on a post of executive cadre.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the respondent preferred the writ petition before the High Court claiming the same relief, however, the learned Single Judge dismissed the same vide judgment and order dated 16.9.2005.	Facts
The respondent challenged the said judgment by filing an intra court appeal.	Facts
The said appeal has been allowed, issuing direction to the present appellants to grant the payscale to the respondent as was being paid to Shri B.V. Prabhakar at the Rourkela Steel Plant in the executive cadre and that too from the date of his initial appointment.	Facts
The arrears also were to be paid within six weeks.	Facts
Hence, this appeal.	Facts
Shri Rajiv Dhawan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants has submitted that the said B.V. Prabhakar had been appointed vide order dated 20.4.1987 in Rourkela Steel Plant in executive cadre in E1 grade taking into account his experience in service in the Bokaro Steel Plant, another unit of the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are different set of rules governing the services of the employees of all different plants units of the company and all the employees are not governed by the Central Rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent has not been appointed in the centralised service nor is his post transferable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The mode of appointment and selection of employees in each unit is different and made independently.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent had applied in pursuance of an advertisement dated 22.9.1993 for a nonexecutive post along with eight other candidates.	Arguments of Petitioner
Respondents name was at serial no.4 in the merit list panel.	Arguments of Petitioner
The name of Shri Sourav Mukhopadhyay, serving in Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as BHEL) appeared at serial no.1 in the panel, however as he was getting higher pay in BHEL than the post in question, he asked for pay protection.	Arguments of Petitioner
His demand was not acceptable to the appellants, thus, he declined the offer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The post was offered to Shri Mithlesh Kumar, the next candidate in the panel, but he did not turn up to join.	Arguments of Petitioner
The third candidate in panel claimed for upgrading the post which was not acceptable to the company for the reason that the post had been advertised with certain grade and payscale and it was not possible for the unit to upgrade the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
On refusal to join by the third candidate, the post was offered to the respondent and he accepted and joined the post without protest in S6 grade on 17.6.1996 on the terms and conditions incorporated in his appointment letter.	Arguments of Petitioner
The post to which the respondent claimed parity is not equivalent to the post held by him and therefore, the question of pay parity could not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relief sought by the respondent had been of upgradation of post, granting relaxation of eligibility with retrospective effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a relief could not be granted to him.	Arguments of Petitioner
Each plant unit has to make the recruitment as per the local needs and as per the requirements of the plant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, all the units do not have the same service conditions.	Arguments of Petitioner
A post may be in executive cadre in one unit and may be in nonexecutive cadre in another unit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Unequals cannot be treated equals.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, there was no justification for the Division Bench to allow the appeal filed by the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Pay parity claimed by the respondent could not be given to him as he was holding a non executive post, while Shri B.V. Prabhakar was holding the post in executive cadre in another unit of the same company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	Reasoning
Per contra, Shri S.K. Keshote, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondent has vehemently opposed the appeal contending that parity in pay is a fundamental right of an employee.	Arguments of Respondent
Both the posts carry the same nature of work and responsibilities.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no difference in both the posts qualitatively.	Arguments of Respondent
It is immaterial whether Shri B.V. Prabhakar was holding the post in executive cadre.	Arguments of Respondent
The relief has been granted by the Division Bench of the High Court after considering all relevant factors and judgments of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The impugned judgment and order does not require any interference and thus, the appeal is liable to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the rival submissions made by both learned counsel for the parties and perused the record.	None
Undoubtedly, several posts were advertised on 22.9.1993 by the appellant No.2 to fill up the vacancies in Durgapur Steel Plant including the post of Speech Therapist Audiologist in S6 grade and post of Doctor in grade E1, Executive in Medical and Health Services.	None
The respondent applied for the post in grade S6 as he was not eligible for the post of grade E1 wanting the qualification of a Doctor.	None
Respondent in his representation made to the Authorities, claimed the change of cadre and upgradation of his post.	None
The last part of his representation dated 1.9.2004 reads as under I may kindly be placed selected in Executive cadre waiving some criteria applicable to eligible candidate for Executive posts, if nothing can be done to place me initially from the date of my joining in DSP in Executive cadre.	None
(Emphasis added)	None
Thus, it is evident from the aforesaid representation that the respondent requested the employer to waive the eligibility criteria and upgrade his post to the executive cadre with retrospective effect, i.e., from the date of his initial joining.	None
The said representation stood rejected vide order dated 12/14.10.2004 with observation that nonexecutive post could not be upgraded to the executive cadre as per the policy of the company.	Facts
More so, there was no enabling provision for grant of relaxation to the eligibility criteria.	None
The respondent approached the High Court by filing the writ petition, inter alia, claiming the following reliefs A writ of and or in the nature of Mandamus commanding the respondents, their men, agents and or assigns to rescind and or cancel the memos bearing no.	Arguments of Respondent
PL 1/1(101)/6/07/Theraphy/004/2217 dated 1.10.2004, and DMHS Misc reply October dated 12/14.10.2004, issued by the Manager (Personnel recruitment), SAIL, DSP and the Director (M HS), Durgapur Steel Plant respectively, forthwith A writ of and or in the nature of Mandamus commanding the respondents, each one of them, their servants, agents and or assigns to fix up the scale of pay of the petitioner commensurate to the post of E1 as it is prevailing in other units of SAIL, forthwith A writ of and or in the nature of Mandamus commanding the respondents, each one of their agents and or assigns not to withhold scale of pay for the post of Speech Therapist Audiologist commensurate to the post of E1 grade A writ of and or in the nature of Mandamus directing the respondents, each one of them, their agents and or assigns to fix up the scale of pay of the petitioner commensurate to the post of E1 grade and to release all arrear salary and consequential benefits since joining with the admissible rate of interest thereto, forthwith A writ in the nature of Mandamus directing the respondents, each one of them, their agents and or assigns to treat the post of the petitioner as Executive post (E1 grade) forthwith A writ of and or in the nature of Certiorari directing the respondents to transmit the entire records of the case forming the basis of non providing and or non fixation of the pay scale for the post of Speech Therapist Audiologist commensurate to the post of E1 grade to this Honble Court and to certify them and on being so certified, quash the same so that conscionable justice may be administered to the parties.	None
Appellants contested the case pointing out that it was not permissible under the statutory rules policy of the company to meet the demand of the respondentemployee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Had it been so, the appointment could have been offered to Shri Sourav Mukhopadhyay who claimed protection of pay which he was getting in BHEL, or to accede to the request made by other panellists to upgrade the post and in that manner the company could have got the service of a better candidate than the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The writ petition was dismissed vide judgment and order dated 16.9.2005 observing that two unequals cannot be treated equals.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the respondent was not dealt with any discrimination as there was no post in Durgapur Steel Plant of Speech Therapist Audiologist in executive cadre.	Arguments of Petitioner
The relief sought could not be granted to him and there was no reason to accept the writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Division Bench failed to appreciate what the relief claimed by the respondent was and further that two unequals cannot be treated equals.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Division Bench was swayed by an impression that it was not permissible for the employerCompany to have different pay scales in two different units existing at different locations, though such a course is always permissible for the management.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have thoroughly examined the Personnel Manual prepared by the Steel Authority of India Ltd. in 1992.	None
It prescribes different posts in different grades.	None
E1 grade posts include Management Trainees, Junior Managers and Medical Officers.	None
Clause 5.3.1 clearly provides that centralised services are limited for few posts only which are Executive posts in grade E6 and above Management Trainees (Technical) in E1 grade and Junior Manager (F A) in grade E1 etc.	None
Clause 5.3.2 reads as under Direct recruitment to all other posts, executive as well as nonexecutive, will be done at the respective Plant Unit level, unless decided otherwise by the competent authority.	None
Clause 16.2 provides that all appointments offered shall be made by respective Unit Plant.	None
Thus, it is evident that the services of the respondent were governed by rules governing the Unit Plant i.e. Durgapur Steel Plant.	None
It was not centralised service and every unit was to be treated as a separate and independent in these regards though belonging to the same company.	None
In peculiar circumstances, it may be open to the authority to place a particular post in executive cadre and such a post may be required to be filled up by an experienced qualified person.	None
Another unit may not require such a higher post, considering the local needs and requirements.	None
In such a factsituation, it is neither desirable nor permissible to allow the claim of parity by the respondent holding a post in nonexecutive cadre to a post in executive cadre.	None
Nor it is permissible for the court to have a judicial review of the reasons for which the said post has been kept in executive cadre in another unit.	None
Such a requirement may be present in the Unit at Rourkela Steel Plant.	None
However, it cannot be doubted that the said Shri B.V. Prabhakar had been appointed in 1987 about two decades prior to the respondent.	None
Parity in pay with a person of such seniority may not be justified.	None
In State of Haryana v. Jasmer Singh Ors., AIR 1997 SC 1788 , this Court considered the provisions of Articles 39 (d), 14 and 16 of the Constitution and held that the principle of equal pay for equal work is not always easy to apply.	None
There are inherent difficulties in comparing and evaluating the work done by different persons in different organisations, or even in the same organisation.	None
There may be differences in educational or technical qualifications, which may have a bearing on the skills which the holders bring to their job although the designation of the job may be the same.	None
There may also be other considerations which have relevance to efficiency in service, which may justify differences in pay scales on the basis of criteria such as experience and seniority, or a need to prevent stagnation in the cadre, so that good performances can be elicited from persons who have reached the top of the pay scale.	None
There may be various other similar considerations which may have a bearing on efficient performance in a job.	None
In State of Haryana Anr.	None
v. Tilak Raj Ors., AIR 2003 SC 2658 , this Court held as under To claim a relief on the basis of equality, it is for the claimants to substantiate a clearcut basis of equivalence and a resultant hostile discrimination before becoming eligible to claim rights on a par with other group visvis an alleged discrimination Equal pay for equal work is a concept which requires for its applicability complete and wholesome identity between a group of employees claiming identical pay scales and the other group of employees who have already earned such pay scales.	None
The problem about equal pay cannot always be translated into a mathematical formula.	None
In Harbans Lal Ors. v. State of Himachal Pradesh Ors., (1989) 4 SCC 459 , this Court considered a similar issue and observed that while determining the issue of parity in pay, large number of considerations and various dimensions of the job are required to be taken up by the courts.	None
The accuracy required by the job and the dexterity it entails may differ from job to job.	None
It cannot be evaluated by the mere averments in the self  serving affidavits or counter affidavits of the parties.	None
It must be left to be evaluated and determined by expert body.	None
The Court further held as under The discrimination complained of must be within the same establishment owned by the same management.	None
A comparison cannot be made with counterparts in other establishments with different management, or even in establishments in different geographical locations though owned by the same master.	None
Unless it is shown that there is a discrimination amongst the same set of employees by the same master in the same establishment, the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be enforced(Emphasis added)	None
In Mewa Ram Kanojia v. All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Ors., (1989) 2 SCC 235 , this Court dealt with an issue of pay parity between Speech Therapists and Audiologists and held that merely because Speech Therapists perform similar duties and functions in other institutions, are paid higher payscales is no good ground to accept the petitioners claim for equal pay.	None
There may be difference in educational qualifications, quality and volume of work required to be performed by the hearing therapists in other institutions.	None
The person claiming parity must sufficiently produce material before the Court to adjudicate upon such a complicated issue of factual determination.	None
More so, if the employer is not the same, the principle of equal pay for equal work would not be applicable.	None
It is the duty of an employee seeking parity of pay under Article 39(d) of the Constitution of India to prove and establish that he had been discriminated against, as the question of parity has to be decided on consideration of various facts and statutory rules etc.	Reasoning
The doctrine of equal pay for equal work as enshrined under Article 39 (d) of the Constitution read with Article 14 thereof, cannot be applied in a vacuum.	Reasoning
The constitutional scheme postulates equal pay for equal work for those who are equally placed in all respects.	Reasoning
The Court must consider the factors like the source and mode of recruitment appointment, the qualifications, the nature of work, the value thereof, responsibilities, reliability, experience, confidentiality, functional need, etc.	Reasoning
In other words, the equality clause can be invoked in the matter of pay scales only when there is wholesome wholesale identity between the holders of two posts.	Reasoning
The burden of establishing right and parity in employment is only on person claiming such right.	Reasoning
(Vide U.P. State Sugar Corporation Ltd. Anr.	Reasoning
v. Sant Raj Singh Ors., AIR 2006 SC 2296 Union of India Anr.	Reasoning
v. Mahajabeen Akhtar, AIR 2008 SC 435 Union of India Ors.	Reasoning
v. Dineshan K.K., AIR 2008 SC 1026	Reasoning
Union of India Ors.	Reasoning
v. Hiranmoy Sen Ors., (2008) 1 SCC 630 Official Liquidator v. Dayanand and Ors., (2008) 10 SCC 1 Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board Anr.	Reasoning
v. Aziz Ahmad, (2009) 2 SCC 606 and State of Madhya Pradesh Ors.	Reasoning
v. Ramesh Chandra Bajpai, (2009) 13 SCC 635 ).	Reasoning
This Court while deciding a similar issue in State of West Bengal Anr.	None
v. West Bengal Minimum Wages Inspectors Association Ors., (2010) 5 SCC 225 , held as under The evaluation of duties and responsibilities of different posts and determination of the pay scales applicable to such posts and determination of parity in duties and responsibilities are complex executive functions, to be carried out by expert bodies.	None
Granting parity in pay scale depends upon comparative job evaluation and equation of posts.	Reasoning
The principle equal pay for equal work is not a fundamental right but a constitutional goal.	None
It is dependent on various factors such as educational qualifications, nature of the jobs, duties to be performed, responsibilities to be discharged, experience, method of recruitment, etc.	None
Comparison merely based on designation of posts is misconceived.	None
Courts should approach such matters with restraint and interfere only if they are satisfied that the decision of the Government is patently irrational, unjust and prejudicial to any particular section of employees.	None
The burden to prove disparity is on the employees claiming parity.	None
(emphasis added) (See also State of Kerala v. B. Renjith Kumar Ors., (2008)12 SCC 219)	None
In Union of India Anr.	None
v. P.K. Roy, AIR 1968	None
SC 850 , this Court accepted the factors laid down by the Committee of Chief Secretaries which was constituted for settling the disputes regarding equation of posts arising out of the States Reorganization Act, 1956, wherein the following four factors had been held to be determinative of the issue of equivalence of posts The nature and duties of a post The responsibilities and powers exercised by the officer holding a post, the extent of territorial or other charge held or responsibilities discharged The minimum qualifications, if any, prescribed for recruitment to the post and The salary of the post.	None
In The State of Maharashtra Anr.	None
v. Chandrakant Anant Kulkarni Ors., AIR 1981 SC 1990 and Vice Chancellor, Lalit Narain Mithila University v. Dayanand Jha, AIR 1986 SC 1200 , a similar view has been reiterated observing that equal status and nature and responsibilities of the duties attached to the two posts have to be taken into consideration for equivalence of the post.	None
Similar view has been reiterated in E.P. Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu Anr., AIR 1974 SC 555 and SubInspector Rooplal Anr.	None
v. Lt. Governor through Chief Secretary, Delhi Ors., (2000) 1 SCC 644 , wherein this Court following the earlier judgment in P.K. Roy (Supra) held that the salary of the post alone may not be a determining factor, the other three criterion should also be fulfilled.	None
In Union of India Ors.	None
v. S.L. Dutta Anr., (1991) 1 SCC 505 Union of India Ors.	None
v. N.Y. Apte Ors., (1998) 6 SCC 741 State of U.P. Ors.	None
v. J.P. Chaurasia Ors., AIR 1989 SC 19 and Kshetriya Kisan Gramin Bank v. D.B. Sharma Ors., AIR 2001 SC 168 , this Court held that whether the determination of two posts are equal or not, is a job of the Expert Committee and the court should not interfere with it unless the decision of the Committee is found to be unreasonable or arbitrary or made on extraneous considerations.	None
More so, it is an executive function to fix the service conditions etc. and lies within the exclusive domain of the rule making authority.	None
(See also T. Venkateswarulu v. Executive Officer, Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams Ors., (2009) 1 SCC 546 ).	None
In S.C. Chandra Ors.	None
v. State of Jharkhand Ors, (2007) 8 SCC 279 , this Court held In our opinion fixing pay scales by courts by applying the principle of equal pay for equal work upsets the high constitutional principle of separation of powers between the three organs of the State.	None
Realising this, this Court has in recent years avoided applying the principle of equal pay for equal work, unless there is complete and whole sale identity between the two groups In S.P. Shivprasad Pipal v. Union of India Ors., (1998) 4 SCC 598 , this Court held as under it is not open to the court to consider whether the equation of posts made by the Central Government is right or wrong.	None
This was a matter exclusively within the province of the Central Government.	None
Perhaps the only question the court can enquire into is whether the four principles cited above had been properly taken into account.	None
This is the narrow and limited field within which the supervisory jurisdiction of the court can operate.	None
It is a settled legal proposition that it is not always impermissible to provide two different payscales in the same cadre on the basis of selection based on merit with due regard to experience and seniority.	None
(Vide J.P. Chaurasia (Supra) and Meva Ram Kanojia (Supra).	None
Nonuniformities would not in all events violate Article 14.	None
Thus, a mere difference does not always amount to discrimination.	Reasoning
(Vide Madhu Kishwar Ors.	Reasoning
v. State of Bihar Ors., (1996) 5 SCC 125 Associate Banks Officers Association v. State Bank of India Ors., AIR 1998 SC 32 and Official Liquidator (Supra)).	Reasoning
In view of the above, the law on the issue can be summarised to the effect that parity of pay can be claimed by invoking the provisions of Articles 14 and 39(d) of the Constitution of India by establishing that the eligibility, mode of selection recruitment, nature and quality of work and duties and effort, reliability, confidentiality, dexterity, functional need and responsibilities and status of both the posts are identical.	Reasoning
The functions may be the same but the skills and responsibilities may be really and substantially different.	Reasoning
The other post may not require any higher qualification, seniority or other like factors.	Reasoning
Granting parity in pay scales depends upon the comparative evaluation of job and equation of posts.	Reasoning
The person claiming parity, must plead necessary averments and prove that all things are equal between the concerned posts.	Reasoning
Such a complex issue cannot be adjudicated by evaluating the affidavits filed by the parties.	Reasoning
The onus to establish the discrimination by the employer lies on the person claiming the parity of pay.	Reasoning
The expert committee has to decide such issues, as the fixation of pay scales etc. falls within the exclusive domain of the executive.	Reasoning
So long as the value judgment of those who are responsible for administration i.e. service conditions etc., is found to be bonafide, reasonable, and on intelligible criteria which has a rational nexus of objective of differentiation, such differentiation will not amount to discrimination.	Reasoning
It is not prohibited in law to have two grades of posts in the same cadre.	Reasoning
Thus, the nomenclature of a post may not be the sole determinative factor.	Reasoning
The courts in exercise of their limited power of judicial review can only examine whether the decision of the State authorities is rational and just or prejudicial to a particular set of employees.	Reasoning
The court has to keep in mind that a mere difference in service conditions does not amount to discrimination.	Reasoning
Unless there is complete and wholesale wholesome identity between the two posts they should not be treated as equivalent and the Court should avoid applying the principle of equal pay for equal work.	Reasoning
The present case requires to be examined in view of the aforesaid settled legal propositions.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the respondent had applied in response to an advertisement for the post of Grade S6 and not for Grade E1 as he did not possess the requisite qualifications for the post in the said Grade.	Reasoning
The name of the respondent had appeared at serial No. 4 in the merit list and he was offered appointment only for the reason that the candidates whose names appeared at serial Nos.1 and 3 asked for pay protection upgradation of the post, and it was not acceptable to the employer.	Reasoning
The candidate whose name appeared at serial No.2 in the merit list, did not join though was offered the appointment.	Reasoning
The respondent accepted the appointment in Grade S6 on the terms and conditions incorporated in his appointment letter without any protest.	Reasoning
The relief sought by the respondent is the same, which had, in fact been asked by two candidates in the merit list, above the respondent.	Reasoning
If such a demand was acceptable to the appellants they could have gotten a more meritorious candidate than respondent.	Reasoning
Grant of the relief sought by the respondent is violative of equality clause contained in Article 14 of the Constitution of India qua other candidates in the panel above the respondent who did not join for not granting the same relief though it had been sought at least by two of them at the initial state of recruitment.	Reasoning
By the impugned order, the respondent has not been granted the post in Grade E1 but salary equivalent to that of Shri B.V. Prabhakar has been granted to the Respondent.	Reasoning
The order itself is mutually inconsistent and contradictory.	Reasoning
The representation of the respondent had been for waiving the criteria meaning thereby that the respondent sought a relaxation in the eligibility criteria for the post in Grade E1.	Reasoning
It is evident from the representation itself that the respondent never possessed the eligibility for the post of Grade E1.	Reasoning
The Law does not prohibit an employer to have different grade of posts in two different units owned by him.	Reasoning
Every unit is an independent entity for the purpose of making recruitment of most of its employees.	Reasoning
The respondent had not been appointed in centralised services of the company.	Reasoning
Shri B.V. Prabhakar, had been appointed in E1 Grade, in the Rourkela unit, considering his past services in the Bokaro Steel Plant, another unit of the company, for about two decades prior to the recruitment of the respondent.	Reasoning
As every unit may make appointments taking into consideration the local needs and requirement, such parity claimed by the respondent cannot be held to be tenable.	Reasoning
The reliefs sought by the respondent for upgradation of the post and waiving the eligibility criteria had rightly been refused by the appellants and by the learned Single Judge.	Reasoning
In such a factsituation, there was no justification for the Division Bench to allow the writ petition, granting the benefit from the date of initial appointment of the respondent.	Reasoning
The respondent has not produced any tangible material to substantiate his claim, thus, he could not discharge the onus of proof to establish that he had made some justifiable claim.	Reasoning
The respondent miserably failed to make out a case for pay parity to the post of E1 Grade in executive cadre.	Reasoning
The appeal, thus, deserves to be allowed.	Reasoning
Before parting with the case, it may be pertinent to state that although a Plant Unit of the appellantcompany is competent to make appointment in the executive and nonexecutive cadres in the said plant unit, however, it has no authority to determine the grade or the pay scale of a post or determine and sanction the number of posts since the same relates to the recruitment policy of the appellantcompany.	Reasoning
This would be evident from the perusal of the Recruitment Plan of the appellantcompany laid down at Clause 7.1 of the Personnel Manual which reads The Recruitment Plan will form part of the annual Human Resource Plan of the Company.	Reasoning
Among other things, the Human Resource Plan will clearly state the skill grade wise requirement of man power in the Company i.e., the Plants Units, and the subsidiaries separately.	Reasoning
Any deviation from the approved plan mix will be subject to the prior approval of Chairman Board.	None
In view of the above, the competent authority in the corporate office of the appellantcompany is directed to consider the issue expeditiously relating to anomaly raised by the respondent herein for future recruitments.	None
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
The judgment and order of the Division Bench dated 1.8.2008 which is impugned herein, is hereby set aside and the judgment of the learned Single Judge dated 16.9.2005 is restored.	Decision
In the facts of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
