 M. Lodha, J. Leave granted in SLP(C) Nos.2724127242 of 2010.	None
This is a group of six appeals, by special leave, four arising from the judgment of the Karnataka High Court and two from the Delhi High Court.	None
The two High Courts, Karnataka and Delhi, have taken diametrical opposite view on the question whether the prices fixed under the Drugs (Prices Control) Order (for short, DPCO) in respect of drugs formulations would be operative in respect of all sales subsequent to 15 days from the date of the notification by the Government in the official gazette receipt of the price fixation order by the manufacturer.	Issue
The Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 1995 (for short, DPCO,1995) was under consideration before the Karnataka High Court whereas the Drugs (Prices Control) Order,1987 (for short, DPCO,1987) fell for consideration before the Delhi High Court.	None
Although, the sequence of the relevant paragraphs in the two DPCOs differ but the relevant provisions are almost identical.	None
The view of the Karnataka High Court has not been accepted expressly by the Delhi High Court.	Facts
Since the common arguments have been advanced in this group of matters and the question of law is identical, all these six appeals were heard together and are disposed of by the common order.	None
The facts in civil appeals from Karnataka High Court are these The appellant, in the year 1998, was manufacturer of Furoxene Tablets and was also the sole distributor for DependalM Tablets and Dependal Suspension manufactured by Kanpha Labs, Bangalore.	Facts
DependalM and Dependal Suspension and Furoxene are formulations of Furozolidine and Metronidazole.	Facts
On 09.03.1998, a notification was issued by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPCA) under the DPCO,1995, whereby the ceiling price in regard to several formulations consisting of Furozolidine and or Metronidazole was fixed exclusive of excise duty and local taxes.	Facts
The notification was gazetted on 09.03.1998 itself.6.	Facts
On 10.03.1998, NPCA issued an explanatory notice clarifying that the notification reduces the existing prices and the manufacturers must make effective the prices so fixed revised, within 15 days (from the date of the notification in the official gazette or receipt of the order of the NPCA) as required under para 14(1) of the DPCO,1995 and also issue necessary revised price lists as required under para 14(3) of that Order.7.	Facts
On 14.07.1998, the Inspector of Drugs, Varanasi issued a letter addressed to the appellantCompany that it has not given the effect to the notification dated 09.03.1998.8.	Facts
On 22.07.1998, the appellantCompany responded to the letter received from the Inspector of Drugs and brought to his notice that the notification dated 09.03.1998 has been given effect to from the first batch manufactured on the expiry of 15 days from the date of the notification which is permissible under para 14 of the DPCO,1995.9.	Facts
On 30.07.1998, Inspector of Drugs sent another letter to the appellantCompany stating therein that under paragraph 16 of DPCO,1995, all sales of the subject formulations would have to be made at the new ceiling price fixed on 09.03.1998 irrespective of the date of manufacture of the subject formulations.	Facts
The plea of the appellantCompany was, accordingly, rejected by the Inspector of Drugs and he proposed to initiate the prosecution against the appellantCompany under the Essential Commodities Act,1955 (EC Act).	Facts
This was reiterated by the Inspector of Drugs in his further communication dated 16.11.1998.10.	None
The appellantCompany then challenged the notices letters dated 14.07.1998, 30.07.1998 and 16.11.1998 by filing a writ petition before the High Court.	Facts
The writ petition was contested by the Central Government and its functionaries.11.	Facts
The Karnataka High Court by its judgment dated 12.11.2002 dismissed the writ petition.	Facts
The principal reasoning is reflected in paragraph 9 of the judgment which reads as follows Having regard to the provisions of para 14 of DPC Order, petitioner who is a manufacturer of Furoxene tablets, ought to carry into effect the revised price fixed as per Notification dated 09.03.1998 within 15 days from the date of the said Notification or receipt of the Order of the Government.	Facts
There is no dispute that the Notification dated 09.03.1998 was published in the Gazette of India on the same date.	Facts
While subpara (2) of para 14 requires the retail price of the formulation as notified by the Government being displayed on the label of the container of the formulation and the minimum pack offered for retail sale, subpara (3) thereof requires the manufacturer to issue a price list and supplementary price list to the dealers and other persons specified therein indicating reference to price fixation revision from time to time.	Facts
Para 16 of DPC Order prohibits all persons including manufacturers distributors retailers from selling any formulation at the price exceeding the price specified in the current price list indicated on the label of the pack whichever is less.	Facts
Thus, a combined reading of these provisions make it clear that every manufacturer and distributor is duty bound to issue a revised price list within 15 days from the date of the notification issued by the Government under para 9 of the DPC Order.	Facts
It is also clear that manufacturers, distributors and retailers will be liable to sell formulations from the date of such revised price list (which is required to publish within 15 days from the date of notification) at the revised prices and not the prices mentioned on the label of the container or pack.	Facts
In view of it, the contention of the Petitioner that revised prices will not apply to the existing stocks but only to new batches of drugs and formulations to be manufactured after 15 days of the notification cannot be accepted.	Facts
The provisions of the DPC Order are clear that prices should be revised within 15 days even in regard to the formulations which were manufactured prior to the date of notification or those manufactured within 15 days from the date of notification.	Facts
It is from the above judgment that four appeals arise at the instance of the manufacturer distributor.13.	Facts
The two appeals from the judgment of the Delhi High Court are at the instance of the Central Government.	Facts
The facts in these two appeals in brief are these For the period 01.04.1979 to 25.08.1987, Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 1979 (for short, DPCO,1979) was in operation.	Facts
The bulk drug Ranitidine and its formulation were not subject to price control under DPCO,1979, and, consequently, there was no price fixation at all in respect of Zinetac tablets.14.	Facts
On 26.08.1987, DPCO, 1987 came into force whereby the bulk drug Ranitidine was included and, accordingly, Zinetac tablets (its formulations) were subjected to price control.15.	Facts
On 17.03.1988, the price fixation order was issued under para 9(1) of the DPCO, 1987 fixing the retail price of Zinetac tablets.	Facts
The price fixation order is said to have been received by the manufacturer (Biotech Pharma) on 21.03.1988.16.	Facts
The respondent is distributor of the Zinetac tablets in the strength of 150 mg and 300 mg per tablet manufactured by Biotech Pharma.	Facts
Zinetac is a formulation of the bulk drug Ranitidine.	Facts
On 04.04.1988, the Biotech Pharma sent the supplementary price list effective from 04.04.1988 in form V.	Facts
It is the case of the respondent that the price fixed by the price fixation order dated 17.03.1988 is applicable with effect from 04.04.1988 (on expiry of 15 days from 21.03.1988, i.e., the date of receipt of the price fixation order dated 17.03.1988).17.	Facts
On 23.05.1988, seizures were made of 300 mg Zinetac tablets from Batch No.3104.	Facts
The respondents case is that Batch No.3104 is prior to Batch No.3115 mentioned as the effective batch number in the manufacturers letter dated 04.04.1988.18.	Facts
The respondentCompany challenged the seizure of goods by filing a writ petition before the Delhi High Court.	Facts
The writ petition was contested by the Central Government before the Delhi High Court and the judgment of the Karnataka High Court was also cited.	Facts
However, Delhi High Court did not agree with the view adopted by the Karnataka High Court.	Facts
The Delhi High Court heavily relied upon a circular dated 28.04.1979 issued by the Ministry of Petroleum, Chemicals and Fertilizers, Department of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Government of India.	Facts
The said circular though was issued in the context of paragraph 19(2) of DPCO, 1979 but the Delhi High Court was of the view that the said circular was identical to paragraph 16(3) of DPCO,1987, and, therefore, the position explained in respect of the DPCO,1979 would continue to hold the field in respect of the very same provisions in DPCO,1987.	Facts
The Delhi High Court, accordingly, by its judgment dated 22.10.2009 allowed the writ petition and quashed the seizure memo whereby the goods were seized.	Facts
The Union of India is aggrieved by the judgment and the two appeals arise therefrom.	Facts
We have heard Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel for the manufacturer distributor and Ms. Indira Jaising, learned Additional Solicitor General for the Union of India.	None
It is appropriate at this stage to reproduce the few relevant paragraphs of DPCO, 1987 and DPCO, 1995 side by side.	None
DPCO, 1987DPCO, 1995 16(3)	None
Every manufacturer or importer shall give effect to the price of a bulk drug or formulation, as the case may be, as fixed by the government from time to time within 15 days from the receipt by such manufacturer or importer of the communication in this behalf from the government and issue a supplementary price list in this regard to the dealers, state drugs controllers and the government and indicate necessary reference to such price fixation.17.	Reasoning
Every manufacturer importer or distributor of a formulation intended for sale shall display in indelible print mark, on the label of container of the formulation and the minimum pack thereof offered for retail sale, the maximum retail price of that formulation with the words retail price not to exceed preceding it, and local taxes extra succeeding it.	None
Provided that in the case of a container consisting of smaller saleable packs, the retail price of such smaller pack shall also be displayed on the label of each smaller pack and such price shall not be more than the prorata price of the main pack rounded off to the nearest paisa.21.	None
Prices to the traders(1) A manufacturer, distributor or wholesaler shall sell a formulation to a retailer, unless otherwise permitted under the provisions of this Order or any other made thereunder, at a price equal to the retail price (excluding excise duty, if any) minus 16 thereof in the case of price controlled drug.(2)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subparagraph (1), the Government may by a general or special Order fix, in public interest, the price to the wholesaler or retailer in respect of any formulation the price of which has been fixed or revised under this Order.14(1)	None
Every manufacturer or importer shall carry into effect the price of a bulk drug or formulation, as the case may be, as fixed by the Government from time to time, within fifteen days from the date of notification in the Official Gazette or receipt of the order of the Government in this behalf by such manufacturer or importer.14(2)	Reasoning
Every manufacturer, importer or distributor of a formulation intended for sale shall display in indelible print mark, on the label of container of the formulation and the minimum pack thereof offered for retail sale, the retail price of that formulation notified in the Official Gazette or ordered by the Government in this behalf, with the words retail price not to exceed preceding it, local taxes extra succeeding it, and under Government Prices Control on a red strip, in the case of scheduled formulationsProvided that in the case of a container consisting of smaller saleable packs, the retail price of such smaller pack shall also be displayed on the label of each smaller pack and such price shall not be more than the prorata retail price of the main pack rounded off to the nearest paisa.14(3)	None
Every manufacturer or importer shall issue a price list and supplementary price list, if required, in form V to the dealers, State Drugs Controllers and the Government indicating reference to such price fixation or revision as covered by the order or Gazette notification issued by the Government from time to time.15(1)	None
Every manufacturer, importer or distributor of a nonscheduled formulation intended for sale shall display in indelible print mark, on the label of container of the formulation and the minimum pack thereof offered for retail sale, the retail price of that formulation with the words retail price not to exceed preceding it and the words local taxes extra succeeding it, and the words Not under Price Control on a green stripProvided that in the case of a container consisting of smaller saleable packs, the retail price of such smaller pack shall also be displayed on the label of each smaller pack and such price shall not be more than the prorata retail price of the main pack rounded off to the nearest paisa.(2)	None
Every manufacturer or importer shall issue a price list and supplementary price list, if required of the nonscheduled formulation in Form V to the dealers, State Drugs Controllers and the Government indicating changes from time to time.(3)	None
Every retailer and dealer shall display the price list and the supplementary price list, if any, as furnished by the manufacturer or importer, on a conspicuous part of the premises where he carries on business in a manner so as to be easily accessible to any person wishing to consult the same.19(1)	None
A manufacturer, distributor or wholesaler shall sell a formulation to a retailer, unless otherwise permitted under the provisions of this Order or any order made thereunder, at a price equal to the retail price, as specified by an order or notified by the Government (excluding excise duty, if any), minus sixteen per cent thereof in the case of scheduled drugs.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subparagraph (1), the Government may by a general or special order fix, in public interest, the price of formulation sold to the wholesaler or retailer in respect of any formulation the price of which has been fixed or revised under this Order.	None
The comparative statement of the above provisions indicates that para 14(1) of DPCO, 1995 is identical to para 16(3) of DPCO, 1987.	None
Para 14(2) of DPCO, 1995 is identical to para 17 of DPCO, 1987.	None
Para 14(3) of DPCO, 1995 is identical to para 16(3) of DPCO, 1987 and para 15(1) of DPCO, 1995 is identical to para 17 of DPCO,1987.	None
In light of the similarity of the above provisions, for the sake of convenience, we shall refer henceforth to the provisions contained in DPCO, 1995.	None
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel for the manufacturer distributor argues that on a plain reading of para 14(1) of the DPCO, 1995, a manufacturer is given fifteen days from the date of notification of a price fixation by the Government in the official gazette or receipt of the price fixation order by the manufacturer for carrying into effect the price of the bulk drug or formulation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under para 14(2) of the DPCO,1995, the manufacturer is required to print indelibly the retail price of the formulation on the label of the container of the formulation with the words retail price not to exceed preceding it and local taxes extra succeeding it.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, upto the expiry of the fifteenth day from the date of the notification, the price fixation order in the official gazette or receipt of the price fixation order by the manufacturer, the manufacturer is at liberty to manufacture the formulations and print on them the prenotification prices and clear the same from his factory after paying excise duty on the basis of such provided price.24.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel relies upon the Circular dated 28.04.1979 issued by the Central Government wherein it was clarified that all reductions in the prices of formulations effected from time to time by the Central Government would be applicable to the stocks cleared on and after the date of effectuation of reduction.	Arguments of Petitioner
The clarificatory Circular further says that price list shall state clearly the batch numbers from which the reduction is effective.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is, thus, the submission of Mr. S. Ganesh that the formulations which are manufactured and cleared prior to the date of effectuation of reduction (the 15th day after the date of notification in the official gazette or the date of receipt of price fixation reduction order) are not subject to the price reduction and, accordingly, the said preeffective batch products can be sold at the previously existing and operating prices which would be printed on them.25.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued by Mr. S. Ganesh that the said circular has not been withdrawn and it has been continuously observed by the trade as well as by the Central Government for several decades.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is his submission that if the interpretation as above is not accepted, the consequence will be that the period of 15 days expressly allowed by para 14(1) of the DPCO,1995 and the specific provision in Form V regarding the effective batch number to which the price reduction fixation would apply, will all be rendered completely meaningless and otiose.	Arguments of Petitioner
With reference to practical problems, it is submitted that the manufacturer pays excise duty on the basis of the printed price at the time of the manufacture and clearance from his factory and also on the payment of sales tax on the sale price charged by the manufacturer to the distributor wholesalers, which again will be on the basis of the printed price.	Arguments of Petitioner
The payment of excise duty and sales tax having become final, the differential amount cannot possibly be refunded and reassessed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, if a distributor wholesaler retailer has already paid a higher price on the basis of the previously prevailing price, he cannot possibly be required to sell the formulation at the newly reduced price.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel such an interpretation will be contrary to and in fact destructive of the provisions of para 19 of the DPCO,1995.26.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. Ganesh, heavily relied upon the judgment of this Court in Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited Union of India v. Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited and Others (2008) 7 SCC 502 which interpreted an exemption notification.	Arguments of Petitioner
Drawing analogy from that judgment, it is argued that just as the exemption notification which was issued under para 25 of the DPCO,1995 was addressed to the manufacturer, similarly, price fixation revision notification is also addressed to the manufacturer who is required to effectuate the same by printing the revised price on all products manufactured and cleared by him from the 15th day after the date of notification receipt of the order, and also issuing the revised price list declaring the effective batch number from which revised price will operate.27.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel submits that the manufacturer distributor having acted as per circular dated 28.04.1979, cannot be lawfully prosecuted penalized since the circular constitutes the contemporanea expositio of the Central Government which framed the DPCO.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, learned senior counsel places reliance upon the decision of this Court in Desh Bandhu Gupta Desh Bandhu Gupta and Company and Others v. Delhi Stock Exchange Association Ltd. (1979) 4 SCC 565 .	Arguments of Petitioner
His submission is that under the DPCOs, every price list is in respect of effective batch number.	None
The clarification made with regard to DPCO, 1979 is equally applicable for interpretation of 1995, DPCO, since para 14(1) and 14(3) of DPCO, 1995 is identical to DPCO,1979.28.	None
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel argues that there is no allegation of any act or omission by the manufacturer distributor during the period of 15 days allowed by para 14 of DPCO,1995.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submits that the interpretation of DPCO,1979, DPCO,1987 and DPCO,1995 is no more a relevant issue as with effect from June, 2013, DPCO, 2013 has come into operation and its scheme and provisions are entirely different from the earlier DPCOs.29.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying upon the decision of this Court in Usha Martin Collector of Central Excise, Patna v. Usha Martin Industries (1997) 7 SCC 47 , it is submitted by the learned senior counsel that the issuance of 1979 circular shows that two views are possible and, therefore, the view beneficial to the subject must be adopted, particularly, to a case of criminal prosecution penalty.30.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued by Mr. S. Ganesh that there is no provision in DPCO or in the EC Act which nullifies or sets aside past lawfully completed transaction for sale of goods by the manufacturer to the distributor or by the distributor to the retailer.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is also no provision which requires the manufacturer to reprint products already in the market with the new price.	Arguments of Petitioner
The printing of the price is covered by Section 3(f) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and, therefore, the reprinting of the price can be done only by the manufacturer in his licence manufacturing premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
The manufacturer has no privity whatsoever with the retailer and may not even know his identity.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is absolutely impossible for the manufacturer to get possession of the goods from large number of retailers, bring them back to his factory, reprint the lower price and then send them back to the retailer with a lower price printed on it, so that the retailer who paid the higher price to the distributor is then compelled to sell the goods at a loss at the lower price.	Arguments of Petitioner
The retailer who has already paid for the goods would never part with them especially only for having them reprinted with a much lower price.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that such an interpretation of the DPCO will be utterly unworkable and impossible to comply with and any interpretation other than what has been stated in the circular must be summarily rejected.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ms. Indira Jaising, learned Additional Solicitor General, on the other hand, argues that the scheme of the two DPCOs, 1987 and 1995 is very clear and that scheme is that once the price is notified for a formulation, the sale to the consumer can only be at the notified price.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Additional Solicitor General submits that para 16 of the DPCO,1995 imposes an absolute obligation on all persons not to sell any formulation to any consumer at a price exceeding the price specified in the current price list or price indicated on the label of the container or back thereof, whichever is less.	Arguments of Respondent
With reference to the definition of the expression price list in para 2(u) of DPCO, 1995 learned Additional Solicitor General submits that the price specified in the current list is nothing but the currently notified price of the bulk drug or formulation under the DPCO.	Arguments of Respondent
For purpose of interpreting the expression price specified in the current price list, it is essential that the manufacturer has not defaulted in its obligation to issue price list or supplementary price list.	Arguments of Respondent
The current price list is, therefore, simply the price list reflecting the currently operating notified price under the DPCO.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, price specified in the current price list is nothing but the MRP reflected in column 11 of	Arguments of Respondent
Form V. Thus, regardless of the entry in column 11, effective batch number the price specified in column 11 is the price specified in the current price list, for the purposes of para 16.	Arguments of Respondent
Batch number is not relevant for the purpose of identifying this price.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that batch number is altogether different concept which may be traced to Rule 96 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, and the reference to effective batch number in Form V is only for internal record related purposes.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no reference to batch numbers in either, DPCO, 1987 or DPCO, 1995.	Arguments of Respondent
Such reference can only be found in Form V and Form V does not give any definition of effective batch number.33.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Additional Solicitor General submits that the plain meaning suggests that revised price must be carried into effect within 15 days.	Arguments of Respondent
The words carried into effect read with within 15 days mean that the prices of the drugs are fixed with effect from fifteen days from the date of notification.	None
The expression within 15 days indicates the outer limit.34.	None
The contention of the learned Additional Solicitor General is that there cannot be two different prices in the distribution chain.	Arguments of Respondent
Each of the DPCOs, i.e., DPCO,1979, DPCO, 1987 and DPCO,1995 contains a provision where the benefit of the price reduction will mandatorily have to be passed on to the consumer from the moment the reduction became operative.	Arguments of Respondent
While there may be several persons in the distribution chain, there is an embargo in the DPCO preventing any person from selling to the endpoint consumer at anything above the notified price (once such price became operative).	Arguments of Respondent
That being the position, there cannot be one price that is operational at the endpoint of the distribution chain and another price upstream in the distribution chain.	Arguments of Respondent
The emphasis by the learned Additional Solicitor General is that DPCOs ensure that consumer is given the benefit of the notified price, upon its notification.	Arguments of Respondent
The consumer gets the benefit of the notified price, irrespective of batch numbers since the formulation be interpreted with the object of the DPCO as the guiding principle.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance is placed on Cynamide India Limited Union of India and Another v. Cynamide India Limited and Another (1987) 2 SCC 720 .35.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General that no prejudice is caused to the manufacturer distributor as the revised price is also based on a cost plus methodology.	Arguments of Respondent
The reduction in the price is only to reflect reduced cost and it simply prevents the manufacturers from making windfall gains by charging high prices even though costs have reduced.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards distributors or others in the distribution chain, it is submitted that it is possible that certain stock has been purchased at the higher and revised price and is lying with the distributor or wholesaler or retailer but once the revised price comes into effect, this stock becomes unsellable at the higher price, and the losses or reductions need to be absorbed somewhere in the distribution chain.	Arguments of Respondent
How the manufacturers distributors and dealers, interse, make arrangements for these losses to be absorbed, depends on the specific contractual and credit arrangements.	Arguments of Respondent
It is possible to work out an arrangement where the stock is recalled or necessary adjustments are made to reflect the lower price.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact that the Chemists and Druggists Federation advocates such a mechanism shows that it is entirely within the realm of possibility.	Arguments of Respondent
It is emphasised that paramount consideration of the Central Government is that the revised price must be carried into effect insofar as the consumer is concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
It is for the manufacturers and distributors to make appropriate arrangements how the unsold stock is dealt with.36.	Arguments of Respondent
As regards the circular of 28.04.1979, the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General is that DPCO,1979 stands repealed and the socalled circular is not saved by the saving clause as it is not a thing done or action taken under the DPCO.	Arguments of Respondent
Rather it is clarification of the DPCO itself and it cannot survive once the DPCO is repealed.	Arguments of Respondent
The circular of 28.04.1979 was in the context of interpretation of DPCO, 1970 and DPCO, 1979 whereas the present matters are concerned with DPCO,1987 and DPCO,1995.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying upon a decision of this Court in M s. G.S. Dall and Flour Mills State of Madhya Pradesh and another v. M s. G.S. Dall and Flour Mills1992 Supp.(1) SCC 150, it is argued that an executive instruction issued in a certain context cannot govern a later notification.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, it is submitted that if a circular provides an interpretation that runs contrary to the provisions of DPCO, the Court may examine the provisions and interpret them in their proper perspective.	Arguments of Respondent
The circular is not binding on the court.	Arguments of Respondent
The circular is not issued under any statutory authority and cannot be used to interpret the provisions of the statute.37.	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that the circular is, in any event, inconsistent with the provisions of DPCO, 1987 and DPCO,1995.	Arguments of Respondent
It only represents the departments view at the time which may have been erroneous.	None
There is no estoppel against statute.	Arguments of Respondent
In this regard, the decision of this Court in Bengal Iron Corporation and Another Bengal Iron Corporation and another v. Commercial Tax Officer and Others 1994 Supp.(1) SCC 310 is relied upon.38.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also argued by the learned Additional Solicitor General that a circular which is contrary to the statutory provisions has no existence in law.	Arguments of Respondent
Ratan Melting Wire Industries Commissioner of Central Excise, Bolpur v. Ratan Melting Wire Industries (2008) 13 SCC 1 is pressed into service in this regard.	Arguments of Respondent
In any case, it is submitted that the manufacturer distributor have not relied on the circular in good faith.	Arguments of Respondent
In 1988, there is correspondence in the Glaxo between appellant and respondent where appellant was clearly put to notice that it was required to comply with notified price.	Arguments of Respondent
Despite this correspondence, the appellant elected not to comply with the notified price.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the appellant can hardly rely on the circular once the respondent has put forward a certain interpretation in 1998.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellant was fully aware of the interpretation taken by the respondent and willfully elected to act in contravention of the DPCO.	Arguments of Respondent
That being the case, the appellant cannot now act oblivious of correspondence in 1988 and place reliance on 1979 circular.39.	Arguments of Respondent
It is the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that the relabeling is permitted under law.	Arguments of Respondent
Earlier, issue of printing prices was governed by the Standards of Weights and Measures Act, 1976.	Arguments of Respondent
Now it is governed by Legal Metrology Act, 2009.	Arguments of Respondent
Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 (for short, 2011 Rules) contains an exemption for pharmaceuticals being cognizant of the fact that Government can fix prices at any time and such prices would need to be given effect to within the statutorily prescribed period.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, relabeling may be required where there is a revision in price, and prevailing law specifically permits that by exempting price from the rigors of 2011 Rules.	Arguments of Respondent
The Central Government is empowered by Section 3 of EC Act to make an order providing for controlling the price at which the essential commodity may be bought or sold.	None
A Committee on Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Industry (known as the Hathi Committee) was appointed by the Central Government to examine the various facets of the drug industry in India including the measures taken so far to reduce prices of drugs for the consumer, and to recommend such further measures as may be necessary to rationalize the prices of basic drugs and formulations.	None
The Hathi Committee in its Report observed that there was no justification for the drug industry charging prices and having a production pattern which is based not upon the needs of the community but on aggressive marketing tactics and create demand.	None
Following the Hathi Committee Report, the Government first framed the statement on drug policy and then issued DPCO, 1979.	None
The DPCO, 1970 was accordingly repealed.	None
DPCO, 1979 is repealed by DPCO, 1987 and DPCO, 1987 is repealed by DPCO,1995.	None
In order to have the proper perspective of the matter, it is necessary that certain provisions of the DPCO, 1995 are surveyed.	None
Paragraph 2 is an interpretation clause, it defines certain expressions occurring in DPCO as under 2.	None
(a) bulk drug means any pharmaceutical, chemical, biological or plant product including its salts, esters, stereoisomers and derivatives, conforming to pharmacopoeial or other standards specified in the Second Schedule to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940(23 of 1940), and which is used as such or as an ingredient in any formulation. . . . . . . . . . . .	None
.(d) dealer means a person carrying on the business of purchase or sale of drugs, whether as a wholesaler or retailer and whether or not in conjunction with any other business and includes his agent(e) distributor means a distributor of drugs or his agent or a stockist appointed by a manufacturer or an importer for stocking his drugs for sale to a dealer. . . . . . . . . . . .	None
.(m) manufacturer means any person who manufactures a drug. . . . . . . . . . . .	None
.(r)	None
price list means a price list referred to in paras 14 and 15 and includes a supplementary price list(s) retail price means the retail price of a drug arrived at or fixed in accordance with the provisions of this Order and includes a ceiling price(t) retailer means a dealer carrying on the retail business of sale of drugs to customers(u) scheduled bulk drug means a bulk drug specified in the First Schedule. . . . . . . . . .	None
.(y)	None
wholesaler means a dealer or his agent or a stockiest appointed by a manufacturer or an importer for the sale of his drugs to a retailer, hospital, dispensary, medical, educational or research institution purchasing bulk quantities of drugs. . . . . . . . .	None
Under paragraph 3, the Central Government is empowered to fix price of the bulk drugs for regulating the equitable distribution of indigenously manufactured bulk drugs and the maximum price at which the bulk drug shall be sold.	None
Such fixation of maximum sale price of bulk drugs specified in the First Schedule has to be done by notification in the official gazette.	None
Once the Government exercises the power and fixes maximum sale price of bulk drugs specified in the First Schedule, there is ban to sell a bulk drug at a price exceeding the maximum sale price so fixed plus local taxes, if any.	None
It is the obligation of the manufacturer, if he commences production of the bulk drug after the commencement of the order, to furnish the details to the Government in Form I and any such additional information as may be required by the Government within 15 days of the commencement of the production of such bulk drug.	None
If any manufacturer desires revision of the maximum sale price of a bulk drug fixed under subparagraph (1) or (4) or as permissible under subparagraph (3), it is permitted to make an application to the Government in Form I. Insofar as a retail price of scheduled formulations is concerned, under paragraph 7, the Central Government is empowered to fix the same in accordance with the formula laid down therein.	None
The method of calculation of retail price of formulation is clearly provided in paragraph 7.	None
With a view to enable the manufacturers of similar formulations to sell those formulations in pack size different to the pack size for which ceiling price has been notified under subparagraphs (1) and (2) of paragraph 9, manufacturers have to work out the price for their respective formulation packs in accordance with such norms as may be notified by the Government from time to time.	None
The manufacturer is required to intimate the price of formulation pack, so worked out, to the Government and such formulation pack can be released for sale only after the expiry of 60 days after such intimation.	None
However, Government may, within its power, revise the price so intimated by the manufacturer and upon such revision the manufacturer is not permitted to sell such formulation at a price exceeding the price so revised.	None
Under paragraph 13, the Government has been conferred with the overriding power requiring the manufacturers, importers or distributors to deposit the amount accrued due to charging of prices higher than those fixed or notified by the Government under the DPCO,1987 and so also under DPCO,1995.	None
One finds, therefore, that the price fixation by the Central Government under DPCO is in the nature of legislative measure and the dominant object and purpose of such price fixation is the equitable distribution and availability of commodities at fair price.	Reasoning
The whole idea behind such price fixation is to control hoarding, cornering or artificial short supply and give benefit to the consumer.	Reasoning
The regulation of drug price being ultimately for the benefit of the consumer, we must now consider the effect of paragraph 14(1),(2) and (3), paragraph 16 (3), paragraph 19 and Form V.48.	Reasoning
Paragraph 14 of DPCO,1995 makes provision for carrying out the effect of the price fixed or revised by the Government.	Reasoning
Subparagraph (1) of paragraph 14 provides that every manufacturer or importer shall carry into effect the price of a bulk drug or formulation, as fixed by the Government, within fifteen days from the date of notification in the official gazette or receipt of the order of the Government by such manufacturer or importer.	Reasoning
Does it mean that during this period of 15 days, it is open to the manufacturer to manufacture and clear the bulk drug or formulation at prenotification prices?	Reasoning
We do not think so.	Reasoning
In our view, subparagraph (1) of paragraph 14 does not deserve to be given a construction which is derogatory to the object and scheme of DPCO, 1995.	Reasoning
It is important to bear in mind that under paragraph 14(2), the manufacturer is required to print the retail price of the formulation on the label of the container of the formulation.	Reasoning
This is expressed by the words retail price not to exceed preceding it local taxes extra succeeding it.	None
In our view, subpara (2) of para 14 does not, in any manner, support the contention of the manufacturer distributor that upto to the expiry of the fifteenth day from the date of notification of the price fixation order in the official gazette or receipt of the price fixation order by the manufacturer, the manufacturer is at liberty to manufacture the formulation and print on them the prenotification prices.49.	Reasoning
The true import of paragraph 14(1) is that once the price notification is gazetted, it takes effect immediately though its enforcement is postponed by fifteen days to enable the manufacturers and others to make suitable arrangements with regard to unsold stocks.	Reasoning
We agree with learned Additional Solicitor General that the period of 15 days is simply a grace period or cooling period allowed to manufacturers to adjust their business in a manner where appropriate arrangements are made with regard to the unsold stocks in the distribution chain.	Reasoning
The argument of the manufacturer or distributor, if accepted, that the stocks cleared by the manufacturer before the fifteenth day can be sold to the consumer at the higher unrevised price then, in our view, that may result in same formulation being offered for sale to a consumer at two different prices.	Reasoning
This must be avoided and, therefore, we do not think that the interpretation put forth by Mr. S. Ganesh is reasonable.	Reasoning
It does not deserve acceptance.50.	Reasoning
Then, the interpretation to subparagraph (1) of paragraph 14 urged on behalf of the manufacturer distributor may also result in misuse by the manufacturer inasmuch as the manufacturer may increase manufacture of the bulk drugs during fifteenday period of notified price and clear that stock at the unrevised higher price.	Reasoning
We are afraid, this interpretation will also lead to frustrating the regulatory regime which is sought to be put in place by DPCO.51.	Reasoning
The senior counsel for the manufacturer contends that under paragraph 15 of DPCO, 1995, it is incumbent to print the maximum retail price on the product and that too indelibly.	Reasoning
There is no provision for reprinting of the labels or of return of drugs once they leave the factory premises.	Reasoning
Thus, the batches which have been manufactured and stamped with old prices can continue to be sold at those prices.	Reasoning
We do not find any merit in the argument.	Reasoning
The DPCO defines dealer, distributor, manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.	None
The provisions contained in paragraphs 3,8, 9 and other relevant provisions clearly show that DPCO effectively covers the chain from manufacture of the bulk drug by the manufacturer to sale of formulation to consumer though there may be several persons in the distribution chain.	Reasoning
The ultimate object of the DPCO is that there is no deception to a consumer and he is sold the formulation at a price not exceeding the price specified in the current price list or price indicated on the label of the container or pack thereof, whichever is less.	Reasoning
Logically it follows that there cannot be two prices at the end point of the distribution chain depending on the batch number.	Reasoning
A consumer approaching a chemist retailer can hardly be offered two prices for the very same product based only on the difference in batch numbers.	Reasoning
Consumer must get the benefit of the notified price.	Reasoning
That is the ultimate objective of DPCO.	Reasoning
The batch number cannot override the benefit to which a consumer is entitled on price reduction of a formulation.	Reasoning
A fair reading of DPCO leaves no manner of doubt that a formulation cannot be sold to the consumer at the higher price (for earlier batch numbers).	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, we find merit in the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that the provisions of DPCO requires not just the end point sale to be at the notified price, but also every sale within the distribution chain must be at the notified price, if such sale is made after the date on which sale price is operative.52.	Reasoning
Paragraph 16 of DPCO,1995 bans sale of bulk drug or formulation to a consumer at a price exceeding the price specified in the current price list or price indicated on the label of the container or pack thereof whichever is less, plus all taxes, if any payable.	Reasoning
The expressions current price list and whichever is less in paragraph 16 are significant expressions.	Reasoning
We find ourselves in agreement with the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that the current price list is simply the price reflecting the currently operating notified price under the DPCO.	Reasoning
Once a price is notified for a formulation, it takes effect immediately and sale of the formulation to the consumer has only to be at the notified price.	Reasoning
This is the plain and ordinary meaning of paragraph 16.	Reasoning
The expression, whichever is less further makes it an absolute obligation on all concerned not to sell any formulation to any consumer at a price exceeding price specified in the current price list or price indicated on the label of the container or pack thereof whichever is less.53.	Reasoning
The requirement of issuance of a price list in Form V by the manufacturer to the dealers, State Drugs Controllers and the Government which mentions mandatorily effective batch number and the date thereof is of no real help in construction of paragraph 14.	Reasoning
Moreover, if the argument of Mr. S. Ganesh with reference to Form V that every price list is in respect of effective batch number only, is accepted, it may have effect of overriding the entire scheme of DPCO.	Reasoning
In our view, this cannot be done.54.	Reasoning
In Cynamide India Limited (Supra), though the Court was concerned with challenge to the notifications issued by the Central Government fixing the maximum prices at which various indigenously manufactured bulk drugs could be sold under the DPCO,1979 but the prefatory statement made by this Court in paragraph 2 is worth noticing.	Reasoning
In paragraph 2 (Pg. 733) of the Report, the Court observed Profiteering, by itself, is evil.	None
Profiteering in the scarce resources of the community, much needed lifesustaining foodstuffs and lifesaving drugs is diabolic.	None
It is a menace which has to be fettered and curbed.	None
One of the principal objectives of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 is precisely that.	None
It must be remembered that Article 39(b) enjoins a duty on the State towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.	None
We are of the considered view that if an interpretation of paragraph 14(1),(2)(3), paragraph 16(3) and paragraph 19 of DPCO,1995 results in frustrating its object and leads to denial of the benefit of current notified price to the consumer, then such interpretation must be avoided.	Reasoning
We, therefore, find it difficult to accept the construction put to the above provisions by Mr. S. Ganesh.56.	Reasoning
We may now deal with the circular dated 28.04.1979 upon which heavy reliance has been placed by Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel for the manufacturer distributor.	Reasoning
It is true that the principle of contemporanea expositio guides that contemporaneous administrative construction, unless clearly wrong, should be given considerable weight and should not be lightly overturned but in light of the construction of the relevant provisions indicated by us above, the view in the circular cannot be followed and upheld.57.	Reasoning
In Usha Martin Industries (Supra), while dealing with exemption notification issued under the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944, this Court in paragraphs 19 and 20 observed as follows No doubt the court has to interpret statutory provisions and notifications thereunder as they are with emphasis to the intention of the legislature.	Reasoning
But when the Board made all others to understand a notification in a particular manner and when the latter have acted accordingly, is it open to the Revenue to turn against such persons on a premise contrary to such instructions?20. Section 37B of the Act enjoins on the Board a duty to issue such instructions and directions to the excise officers as the Board considers necessary or expedient for the purpose of uniformity in the classification of excisable goods or with respect to levy of duty excised on such goods.	Reasoning
It is true that Section 37B was inserted in the Act only in December 1985 but that fact cannot whittle down the binding effect of the circulars or instructions issued by the Board earlier.	None
Such instructions were not issued earlier for fancy or as rituals.	Reasoning
Even the preamendment circulars were issued for the same purpose of achieving uniformity in imposing excise duty on excisable goods.	Reasoning
So the circular, whether issued before December 1985 or thereafter should have the same binding effect on the Department.	Reasoning
In Indian Oil Corporation (Supra), this Court culled out the following principles in relation to the circulars issued by the Government under the fiscal laws (Income Tax Act and Central Excise Act) as follows Although a circular is not binding on a court or an assessee, it is not open to the Revenue to raise a contention that is contrary to a binding circular by the Board.	Reasoning
When a circular remains in operation, the Revenue is bound by it and cannot be allowed to plead that is not valid nor that it is contrary to the terms of the statute.2.	Reasoning
Despite the decision of this Court, the Department cannot be permitted to take a stand contrary to the instructions issued by the Board.3.	Reasoning
A showcause notice and demand contrary to the existing circulars of the Board are ab initio bad.4.	Reasoning
It is not open to the Revenue to advance an argument or file an appeal contrary to the circulars.	Reasoning
The above legal position culled out in Indian Oil Corporation Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta and others v. Indian Oil Corporation Limited and Anr (2004) 3 SCC 488 has been followed in Arviva Industries Union of India v. Arviva Industries (I) Ltd. 2007(209)	None
E.L.T. 5 (S.C.).	None
In our view, it is well settled that if the departmental circular provides an interpretation which runs contrary to the provisions of law, such interpretation cannot bind the Court.	None
1979 circular falls in such category.	None
Moreover, the 1979 circular is with reference to the DPCO, 1979 whereas we are concerned with DPCO, 1987 and DPCO, 1995.	Arguments of Respondent
We are not impressed by the argument of Mr. S. Ganesh that in view of the saving clause in DPCO, 1987, the circular is saved which is further saved by the saving clause in DPCO, 1995.	None
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned senior counsel for the manufacturer distributor also relied upon a decision of this Court in Ranbaxy Laboratories (Supra), wherein this Court had an occasion to interpret an exemption notification issued under paragraph 25 of the DPCO, 1995.	Reasoning
By the notification dated 29.08.1995, the exemption was granted to Ranbaxy in respect of Pentazocine and its formulations upto 31.10.1999.	None
This Court held that the said exemption was available in respect of such products manufactured upto 31.10.1999, even though the same might be sold afterwards.	None
It is argued that just as the exemption notification issued under Section 25 of the DPCO,1995 was addressed to the manufacturer, similarly, a price fixation revision notification is also addressed to the manufacturer who is required to effectuate the same by printing the revised price on all products manufactured and cleared by him from the 15th day after the date of the notification receipt of the order, and also issuing a revised price list declaring the effective batch number from which the revised price will operate.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that the reasoning of the Court in Ranbaxy Laboratories (Supra) is directly applicable to the present situation because the conceptual issue arising in both the cases is same.	None
In Ranbaxy Laboratories (Supra), the exemption notification dated 29.08.1995 is reproduced in paragraph 20 of the Report which reads as follows O. No. 7153 (E), in exercise of the powers conferred by subpara (1) of Para 25 of the Drugs (Prices Control) Order, 1995, the Central Government having regard to the factors specified in clause (e) of subpara (2) of Para 25 of the said Order and also having been satisfied for the need to do so in the public interest hereby exempts the bulk drug and formulations based thereupon specified in Column 2 of the Table below which is manufactured by the Company specified in the corresponding entry in Column 3 from the operation of price control stipulated in subpara (1) of Para 3, subpara (1) of Para 8 and subpara (1) of Para 9 of the said Order, up to the period as indicated in Column 4 thereof.	Reasoning
TABLESl.	Reasoning
No.Name of the productName of the companyPeriod up to which the Exemption is granted12341.Pentazocine and its formulationsM s Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.31101999?	Reasoning
In paragraph 27 of the Report in Ranbaxy Laboratories (Supra), this Court held as under The court while construing an exemption notification cannot lose sight of the ground realities including the process of marketing and sale.	Reasoning
The exemption order dated 2981995 is clear and unambiguous.	Reasoning
By reason thereof what has been exempted is the drug which was manufactured by the Company and the area of exemption is from the operation of the price control.	Reasoning
They have a direct nexus.	Reasoning
They are correlated with each other.	Reasoning
While construing an exemption notification not only a pragmatic view is required to be taken but also the practical aspect of it.	Reasoning
A manufacturer would not know as to when the drug would be sold.	Reasoning
It has no control over it.	Reasoning
Its control over the drug would end when it is dispatched to the distributor.	Reasoning
The distributor may dispatch it to the wholeseller.	Reasoning
A few others may deal with the same before it reaches the hands of the retailer.	Reasoning
The manufacturer cannot supervise or oversee as to how others would be dealing with its product.	Reasoning
All statutes have to be considered in light of the object and purport of the Act.	Reasoning
Thus, the decisions relied upon by the learned Additional Solicitor General in Union of India v.	Reasoning
Cynamide India Ltd.	Reasoning
Prag Ice Oil Mills v. Union of India, Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Union of India and Panipat Coop.	Reasoning
Sugar Mills v. Union of India will have no application.	Reasoning
The issue before us is quite different and, in our view, the judgment of this Court in Ranbaxy Laboratories1 does not apply to the present controversy for more than one reason.	Reasoning
First, in Ranbaxy Laboratories1, the Court was concerned with the exemption notification issued under paragraph 25 of the DPCO, 1995 whereas in the present matters, the issue centres around paragraphs 14, 16 and 19 of that DPCO.	Reasoning
Second, the notification under consideration in Ranbaxy Laboratories1 was an exemption notification and not a notification for fixation of price.	Reasoning
Third, the exemption notification is relatable to the manufacturer to the drugs whereas price fixation notification is related to sale of drug formulation at a given price.65.	Reasoning
The Delhi High Court in the impugned order has relied upon 1979 circular and further held that 1979 circular was in the context of paragraph 19(1) of DPCO, 1979, which is almost identical to paragraph 16(3) of DPCO, 1987 and, therefore, the circular explaining the position in respect of the DPCO, 1979 would continue to hold the field in respect of the very same provisions in DPCO,1987.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the view of the Delhi High Court for the reasons which we have already discussed above.	Reasoning
Moreover, the Delhi High Court has gone more by practical difficulties which a manufacturer may suffer and completely overlooked the scheme of the DPCO which is intended to give benefit to the consumer of the reduced current price of the formulation.	Reasoning
It is pertinent to notice that Delhi High Court distinguished the view of the Karnataka High Court and observed as follows We agree with the submissions made by Mr. Ganesh that the Karnataka High Court decision did not consider Form 5 nor its reference to Effective Batch	None
No	None
Nor did the said decision refer to the Circular of 1979 which we have already indicated to be applicable to the DPCO 1987 also.	None
We, therefore, do not agree with the view adopted by the Karnataka High Court.	Reasoning
In fact, the Supreme Court decision cited by Mr. Ganesh clearly recognizes the practical aspects of pricing in the context of time lags.	Reasoning
Once the reality of time lags in the process of manufacture, clearance, distribution and sale is recognised, the importance of Effective Batch Nos. as mentioned in Form 5 comes to the fore.	Reasoning
The Effective Batch No. represents the cutoff for the new pricing.	Reasoning
The seizure memo which is impugned herein relates to Batch No. BT 3104 (for 300mg tablets) which is prior to the Effective Batch No. BT 3115.	Reasoning
The said seizure was, thus, in respect of tablets which had been manufactured prior to the effective Batch No. BT 3115 which, we have explained above, is to be taken as the cutoff point insofar as the new prices are concerned.	Reasoning
The above view of the Delhi High Court is fundamentally flawed and clearly wrong in light of our foregoing discussion.	Decision
The Karnataka High Court has taken the correct view and the same is upheld.67.	Decision
We, accordingly, dismiss the appeals preferred by the manufacturer distributor and allow the appeals of the Union of India.	Decision
The parties shall bear their own costs.	Decision
