 Hidayatuliah, J. 1.	None
These three consolidated appeals by special leave are against a common judgment and order of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, dated September 8, 1958, in three second appeals filed under R. 13 of the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927 of the former Holkar State, which were in force before the State became part of Madhya Bharat State.	Issue
They concern three assessments relating to the assessment years, 1941, 1942 and 1943 respectively.	Issue
These second appeals were originally filed in the Madhya Bharat High Court as early as 1952 but the records of the appeals were destroyed by fire and had to be reconstructed.	Issue
By the time the appeals were ready, Madhya Bharat had merged in the new State of Madhya Pradesh, and the appeals were accordingly heard by a Divisional Bench of that High Court.	Issue
2.	None
The appellant is a Textile Mill and a Public Joint Stock Company called the Nandlal Bhandari Mills, Ltd.	Facts
The appellant had appointed a firm, Messrs. Nandlal Bhandari and Sons as agents, secretaries and treasurers of the Mills, and under cl.	Facts
(6) of the agreement of agency, it agreed to pay to the agents an office allowance, commission on the Companys net profits and commission on the sale proceeds of sales of yarn, cloth, etc.	Facts
The remuneration of the agents for the three accounting years was as follows Remuneration As per agreement Accounting Years 1941 1942 1943 Rs.	Facts
Rs.	Facts
Rs.	Facts
Clause 6 1500 18,000 18,000 18,000 (a) Fixed monthly allowance as office allowance P.M. for the year for the year(b) Commission on the Companys Net Profits 16 net on profits 2,68,335 6,15,946 10,52,939 (c) Commission on the sale proceeds of sales of yarn cloth etc. 190 Per Cent.	Facts
1,10,156 1,64,751 2,71,672 3.	Facts
In computing the tax, the Mills claimed to deduct under R. 3(2)(ix) of the Rules the above amounts paid as remuneration.	Facts
The Rule reads (ix) any expenditure (not being in the nature of capital) incurred solely or the purposes of earning such profits or gains.	Facts
The Assessing officer accepted the appellants claim for deduction but only as to a part.	Facts
We are not required in these appeals to consider the correctness of the quantum of the deduction in view of what transpired later.	Facts
The Assessing officer also disallowed certain other claims made by the appellant, which again need not be mentioned.	Facts
The appellant then appealed to the Appellate Authority, and on December 31, 1951, the Appellate Authority, while accepting some of the appellants other contentions, upheld the order refusing to deduct the agents commission on profits under R. 3(2)(ix).	Facts
Three second appeals were preferred in the Madhya Bharat High Court under R. 13 of the amended Rules.	Facts
They were dismissed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, and hence the present appeals.	Facts
4. The Indore Industrial Tax Rules were first promulgated in 1926 by a Cabinet Resolution (No. 373 dated March 22, 1926).	None
In 1927, by Cabinet Resolution No. 1991 dated November 23, 1927, the Rules were modified, and the new Rules were made applicable retrospectively from May 1, 1926.	None
These Rules were framed for the levy of the tax and for ascertainment and determination of the income of cotton mills.	None
The tax called the Industrial Tax was leviable under R. 3, which imposed the charge.	None
It says that the Industrial Tax shall be payable by an assessee in respect of the profits or gains of any Cotton Mill industry carried on by him in the Holkar State.	None
Subrule (2) of R. 3 provides that such profits or gains are to be computed after making allowances, inter alia, for any expenditure incurred solely for the purpose of earning such profits or gains.	None
Rule 6, which is a part of Rule imposing a charge, lays down the rates which are (a) on all incomes up to Rs. 50,000, at 1 1/2 annas per rupee, and (b) above, at 2 1/2 annas per rupee.	None
The short question thus was whether in computing the profits and gains of the appellant, the remuneration paid to the agents was deductible under R. 3(2)(ix).	Issue
5.	None
It is necessary at this stage to see the legislative machinery existing in the Holkar State in 1927 and onwards.	None
On February 27, 1926.	None
His Highness Maharaja Tukoji Rao III abdicated, and his son, H. H. Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar, became the Ruler, whose installation ceremony was performed on March 11, 1926.	None
A Regency Council was appointed under the orders of the Government of India for the administration of the State during the minority of the Maharaja.	None
This Regency Council, which was called the Cabinet, was entrusted with the administration of the State according to existing rules and practice, under the supervision and with the advice of the Agent to the Governor General in Central India.	None
The Prime Minister of the State was the Chairman.	None
H. H. Maharaja Yeshwant Rao Holkar attained majority on September 6, 1929 and resumed sovereign powers on May 9, 1930.	None
It was during the minority of the Ruler that the Cabinet had promulgated the amended Rules of 1927.	None
In 1931, the decision of the Privy Council in the wellknown case of Pondicherry Ry. Co. Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax 58 Ind App 239 (AIR 1931 PC 165 ), was rendered.	None
In that case, a Railway Company had agreed to make over to the French Colonial Government half of the Companys net profits in consideration of a 99 year concession.	None
This was sought to be deducted by the Company from its assessable profits as an expenditure incurred solely for the purpose of earning such profits.	None
The Privy Council disallowed the deduction.	None
Lord Macmillan observed as follows A payment out of profits and conditional on profits being earned cannot accurately be described as a payment made to earn profits.	None
It assumes that profits have first come into existence.	None
But profits on their coming into existence attract tax at that point and the revenue is not concerned with the subsequent application of the profits.	None
6.	None
It seems that, as a result of this decision, a notification was issued in August.	Reasoning
1931, and another on February 2 /3, 1932 by the Commerce and Industry Department of the Holkar State.	Reasoning
The latter notification reads as follows Commerce and Industry Department Notification.	None
Notification No. 1 dated the 2nd 3rd Feb. 1932.	None
In continuation of this office Notification No. 4733 dated the 6th December, 1927 (Vice Issue No. II dated the 12th December, 1927, of the Holkar Sirkar Gazette), embodying modified rules for the levy of the Industrial Tax the Cabinet in their Resolution No. 1072 dated the 25th August, 1931, have ordered that the Agents Commission on Profits should not be allowed to be deducted from the assessable profits.	None
It as to be noticed that this notification refers to the earlier notification No. 4733 of December 6, 1927 under which were published the amended Industrial Tax Rules, 1927 and to the notification of August 1931.	None
The letter has not been produced before us.	None
7.	None
This notification led to representations by the persons affected by it.	None
The Maharaja of Holkar thereupon referred the matter for the opinion of the Full Bench of the High Court of the State.	None
It appears that lee opinion of the High Court was in favour of disallowing such deductions.	None
on July 14, 1933, another notification (No. 13 was issued, which read as follows In continuation of this office Notification No. 1 dated 3rd February, 1932, it is hereby published for the information of the mills and factories concerned that on submission of the Prince Ministers (Legal Department) report No. 25 dated 11th May 1933.	None
His Highness the Maharaja is pleased to order (Vice Huzur Shri Shankar Order No. 173 dated 29th June, 1933) that the opinion of the Full Bench of the High Court being that the Managing Agents Commission on profits is not an item of expenditure incurred solely for the purpose of earning the said profits within the meaning of Rule 3(2)(ix) of the said Industrial Tax Rules and this being also the view of the Cabinet as expressed in their resolution No. 1072 dated 28th August, 1931, the aforesaid Cabinet Resolution be given effect to and the industrial tax due on the amount of the managing agents commission on profits be recovered with effect from the date of the said Cabinet Resolution.	None
This notification, it is contended before this Court, had not the force of law and was not enforceable against the appellants, who claim that they are entitled to show that the remuneration paid to the agents was deductible from the profits of the Mills before computing the Industrial Tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, the appellants wish to use the later decision of the House of Lords in Union Cold Storage Co. Ltd. v. Adamson, (1931)16 Tax Cas 293, and of the Privy Council in Indian Radio end sable Communications Co. Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, (1937) 5 ITR 270 (AIR 1937 PC 189) , in which the decision in the Pondicherry Ry. Co. case 58 Ind App 239 (AIR 1931 PC 165 ), was explained.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case before the Privy Council , Lord Maugham observed It is not universally true to say that a payment the making of which is conditional on profits being earned cannot properly be describe as an expenditure incurred for the purpose of earning such profits.	None
The typical exception is that of a payment to a director or a manager of a commission on the profits of a company If a company having made an apparent net profits of? 10,000 has then to pay ?1,000 to directors of managers as the contractual recompense for their service during the year, it is plain that the real net profit is only ?	None
9,000.	None
Lord Macmillan in the former case observed that the Pondicherry Railway Company case 58 Ind App 239 (AIR 1931 PC 165 ) must be read in the context of the facts of that case, and there, the obligation was first to find out the net profits of the company and then to divide them.	None
These two sets of cases proceed upon different principles.	None
If the agreement is to share the profits the expenditure cannot properly be treated as one incurred solely for the purpose of earning such profits but if a slice of the profits is to be paid to persons as remuneration to help in the earning of the profits, the deduction can be claimed.	None
8.	None
All this would of course be pertinent to consider, if there was no legislative enactment on the subject.	Reasoning
If the matter was not one concluded by law, then there would be room for judicial interpretation of the Rule.	Reasoning
The rival claims in these appeals are thus confined to the legislative force of the notifications issued in 1931, 1932 and 1933 respectively.	None
The appellants contention is that the notifications were not an act of legislation but an interpretation by the Sovereign.	None
Mr. Desai concedes that if they be regarded as legislation, then later decisions of the Privy Council and some of this Court cannot be called in aid, because where the law itself speaks with clarity, judicial interpretation is out of place.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends, however that the two notifications were not framed as rules and were not expressly stated to be amendments of the rules then existing.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that after the first notification which was nothing more than an administrative direction to the assessing officers to include in the profits the remuneration of the agents, the opinion of the High Court was obtained, and the second notification merely pointed out that the earlier notification was to be given effect to, and did no more than add a second administrative direction.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other side, it is contended that the Cabinet could make laws as often as it pleased and that the notifications must be read either as independent rules or as a legislative explanation of R. 3(2) (ix).	Arguments of Respondent
In so far as the legislative supremacy of the Cabinet was concerned, no question was raised before us.	None
When the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1926 were framed, they came into existence by virtue of a Cabinet Resolution of that year.	None
When they were modified, they were superseded by yet another Cabinet Resolution of the year 1927, which promulgated the new Rules with retrospective effect from May 1, 1926.	None
The source of the Rules was thus a Resolution of the Cabinet on both the occasions, and it is not denied that the Rules thus framed had legislative sanction and were unquestionable.	None
When the Cabinet promulgated its notifications in, 1931, 1932 and 1933, it followed the same procedure, and it stated that the notification of 1932 was in continuation of this office Notification No. 4733 dated December 6, 1927.	None
This has reference to that notification under which the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927 were originally published.	None
From this, it follows that new Rules were framed by a resolution of the Cabinet and were promulgated by a notification in the Gazette as part of the Rules.	None
The mode followed in 1926 and 1927 was repeated in 1932 and 1933 also presumable also 1931, though the notification of that year has not been printed in the record of this case.	None
9.	None
This view was taken by the Full Bench of the Madhya Bharat High Court in Rajkumar Mills Ltd. v Madhya Bharat State AIR 1953 Madh.	None
B. 135.	None
The question which is involved in these appeals also arose in that case.	None
It was observed by the Full BenchThis Notification makes it abundantly clear that His Highness the Maharaja ordered that the industrial tax due on the amount of the managing agents commission on profits be recovered.	None
This being an order of the ruler, who enjoyed sovereign powers that order is not open to challenge.	None
This is a mandate emanating from a sovereign and as such has the force of law.	None
This Court has therefore, no power to go behind the order and enquire as to whether the managing agents commission on profits is an item of expenditure solely incurred for the purpose of earning profits or not.	None
In this view of the matter the point at issue is concluded by Huzur Shri Shanker Order No. 173	None
dated 29th June, 1933.	None
This view was affirmed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in the judgment under appeal.	None
10.	None
In our judgment, the two notifications cannot be described as judicial interpretation.	Reasoning
If anything, they must be interpreted as legislative exposition of R. 3 (2)(ix) and in the nature of an explanation.	None
This Court in Ameerunnissa Begum v. Mahboob Begum AIR 1955 SC 352 , in dealing with the Firmans of His Exalted Highness the Nizam of Hyderabad, observed as follows It cannot be disputed that prior to the integration of Hyderabad State with the Indian Union and the coming into force of the Indian Constitution the Nizam of Hyderabad enjoyed uncontrolled sovereign powers.	None
He was the supreme legislature, the supreme judiciary and the supreme head of the executive, and there were no constitutional limitations upon his authority to act in any of these capacities.	None
The Firmans were expressions of the sovereign will of the Nizam and they were binding in the same way as any other law  nay, they would override all other laws which were in conflict with them.	None
So long as a particular Firmans held the field, that alone would govern or regulate the rights of the parties concerned, though it could be annulled or modified by a later Firman at any time that the Nizam willed.	None
The same can be said of the Ruler of the Holker State.	None
When to the order of the Ruler was added the usual mode of making and promulgating rules, the position which emerges is really unassailable.	None
11.	None
Mr. Desai in attempting to show that the ruling does not apply to the case, raised two contentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first was based upon a more recent decision of this Court in Madhaorao v. State of Madhya Bharat, AIR 1961 SC 298 , where certain Kalambandis of the Maharaja of Gwalior were considered.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court in deciding whether the Kalambandis were existing law under Art.	None
372 of the Constitution observed In dealing with the question as to whether the orders issued by such an absolute monarch amount to a law or regulation having the force of law, or whether they constitute merely administrative orders, it is important to bear in mind that the distinction between executive orders and legislative commands is likely to be merely academic where the Ruler is the source of all power.	None
There was no constitutional limitation upon the authority of the Ruler to act in any capacity he liked he would be the supreme legislature, the supreme judiciary and the supreme head of the executive, and all his orders, however issued, would have the force of law and would govern and regulate the affairs of the State including the rights of its citizens.	None
It was, however, pointed out in the case that even where an order is issued by the sovereign ruler, one must look to the character of the order and its content to find out whether it enacted a binding rule.	None
Mr. Desai has constructed his entire argument on the basis of these observations, and has contended that the orders only expressed an opinion and did not bind.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out as the second limb of his argument that these notifications were not expressed as a rule but as an order, and that they did not seek to amend the rules, nor to add to them.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred to other notification in which a legislative act was clearly discernible, as for example, Notification No. 22/Com. dated May 17,1946, by which for the existing.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rule 4, a new Rule was substituted.	None
An examination of the Rules, however, shows that there was no set pattern of language.	None
Some of the Rules do not read line rules at all.	None
Notes have been appended to the rules, which are not rules proper, and R. 29 says All matters not dealt with in these rules may be submitted to the memberincharge, Commerce and Industry Department for decision.	None
The existence of such a rule seems to obliterate the frontiers between legislative, judicial and executive exercise of the power of a State, such as we understand it.	None
There being no invariable use of a clearcut legislative language, each general order emanating from the sovereign ruler and promulgated in the same manner as any other rule and having its roots in a resolution of the Cabinet must be regarded as one binding upon the subject.	Reasoning
This is the purport of the decisions of this Court, and the present case falls in line with those which have been previously decided.	Reasoning
There is nothing in the content, the character or the nature of these notifications, which would put them on a level lower than the Rules, which had been earlier promulgated.	Reasoning
12.	None
In our opinion, the judgment of the High Court under Appeal is correct, and the appeals are accordingly dismissed with costs, one set.	Decision
13.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
