 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Application of Section 45 of the Insurance Act, 1938 is in question in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 17th December, 2004 passed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in A.F.A. No. 18 of 2000 setting aside the judgment and order of a learned Single Judge dated 23rd September, 2000 passed in Appeal Suit No.633 of 1993 confirming the judgment and decree passed by the Subordinate Judge of Kozhikode in OS No. 240 of 1990 dated 27th February, 1993.	Facts
Plaintiffs in the suit are the appellants herein.	None
They filed the said suit inter alia for recovery of the amount of insurance on the death of one Chackochan (hereinafter referred to as the insured).	Facts
The insured took an insurance policy on 21st February, 1987.	Facts
He died on 6th July, 1987.	Facts
On his death, the appellants herein claimed the insured amount.	Facts
On the premise that the insured suppressed material facts, the policy had been repudiated by the respondent on 10th February, 1989.	Facts
Nondisclosure and misstatement in the proposal form to the various questions to which answers were given by the insured is said to be the reason for the aforementioned repudiation of the contract of insurance.	None
It now stands admitted that the insured had undergone an operation for Adenoma Thyroid.	None
The particulars furnished by him while filling up the application form for obtaining the said policy were as under  Did you ever have any operation, accident or injury?	Facts
The answer was No. (b) Have your remained absent from place of your work on ground of health during the last 5 years ?	Facts
To which answer was No. (c) What has been your state of health?	Facts
The answer was good.	None
The fact that the said answers were incorrect is not in dispute.	Facts
The suit filed by the appellants, however, was decreed.	None
On an appeal preferred by the respondents, on the premise that despite such wrong answers, as the injured died on account of polyneuritis, a learned Single Judge of the High Court opined that there was nothing to indicate that if the injured had disclosed the factum of previous operation, the appellantCorporation might not have inclined to insure and insisted on a higher premium and thus there was no material to show that the nondisclosure was of a material fact justifying repudiation of the policy by the Corporation.	Facts
On an intra court appeal, the Division Bench of the High Court, however, by reason of the impugned judgment opined that the parties are bound by the warranty clause contained in the agreement which is also clear from the declaration signed by the insured and the nondisclosure related to a material fact which was required to be answered correctly under question No.22(a).	None
Mr. R. Sathish, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants would submit that a clear finding of fact having been arrived at by the trial court that despite undergoing Adenoma Thyroid operation four years prior to the date of proposal of policy, the cause of insureds death being polyneuritis which had no connection with the operation and the judgment of the trial court having been affirmed by the learned Single Judge, should not have been interfered with by the Division Bench.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was further drawn to the fact that the medical officer had noted a black mole on lower aspect of left side of neck and from Ext.	Arguments of Petitioner
A1 wherefrom it appeared that there had been no past history suggestive of allergies, injuries, operations, diseases like rheumatic fever, syphilis etc. and the deceased having no other complaint due to operation, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
Life Insurance policy, it was submitted is a requirement of social security.	None
In that view of the matter, a suppression could not have been led to repudiation of policy, particularly when the doctor who examined the insured was appointed by the respondentCorporation itself.	None
Our attention in this behalf has been drawn to the decision of the Madras High Court in All India General Insurance Co. Ltd. and another vs. S.P. Maheshwari AIR 1960 Madras 484 for the proposition that there exists a distinction between a representation and a warranty.	None
Mr. Patwalia, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, submitted that having regard to the provisions contained in Section 45 of the Insurance Act and the policy having been repudiated within a period of 2 years, the impugned judgment should not be interfered with.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that undergoing of an operation having a direct nexus with the health of the insured, suppression thereof has rightly been considered with all seriousness by the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that the operation underwent by the insured being a major one, was a material fact which ought to have been disclosed.	Arguments of Respondent
Not only the insured had given wrong answers to the questions, his brother himself being a Life Insurance Corporations agent and furthermore in view of the fact that a declaration was given by the insured that no untrue averment was made therein, the contract of insurance was null and void and all monies which had been paid in respect thereof would stand forfeited to the Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the Corporation has placed strong reliance on Mithoolal Nayak vs. Life Insurance Corporation of India 1962 Suppl (2) SCR 571 .	Arguments of Respondent
The basic fact of the matter is not in dispute.	None
The insured had undergone an operation for Adenoma Thyroid.	None
It was a major operation.	None
Although the said operation was undergone by him four years prior to the date of the proposal made by him, he did not disclose thereabout prior to obtaining the insurance policy.	None
We may notice that he died within six months from the date of taking of the policy i.e. on 6th July, 1987, policy having taken on 21st February, 1987.	None
Section 45 of the Insurance Act reads as under  45.  	None
Policy not to be called in question on ground of misstatement after two years,  No policy of life insurance effected before the commencement of this Act shall after the expiry of two years from the date of commencement of this Act and no policy of life insurance effected after the coming into force of this Act shall after the expiry of two years from the date on which it was effected, be called in question by an insurer on the ground that a statement made in the proposal for insurance or in any report of a medical officer, or referee, or friend of the insured, or in any other document leading to the issue of the policy, was inaccurate or false, unless the insurer shows that such statement was on a material matter or suppressed facts which it was material to disclose and that it was fraudulently made by the policyholder and that the policyholder knew at the time of making it that the statement was false or that it suppressed facts which it was material to disclose Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent the insurer from calling for proof of age at any time if he is entitled to do so, and no policy shall be deemed to be called in question merely because the terms of the policy are adjusted on subsequent proof that the age of the life insured was incorrectly stated in the proposal.	None
Section 45 postulates repudiation of such policy within a period of two years.	None
By reason of the aforementioned provision, a period of limitation of two years had, thus, been specified and on the expiry thereof the policy was not capable of being called in question, inter alia on the ground that certain facts have been suppressed which were material to disclose or that it was fraudulently been made by the policy holder or that the policy holder knew at the time of making it that the statement was false.	None
Statute, therefore, itself provides for the limitation for valid repudiation of an insurance policy.	None
It takes into account the social security aspect of the matter There are three conditions for application of second part of Section 45 of the Insurance Act which are (a) the statement must be on a material matter or must suppress facts which it was material to disclose(b) the suppression must be fraudulently made by the policyholder and(c)	None
the policyholder must have known at the time of making the statement that it was false or that it suppressed facts which it was material to disclose.	None
See Mithoolal Nayak (supra)	None
The insureds brother was an agent of the Life Corporation of India.	None
It was he, who had asked the insured to take the insurance policy.	None
He, being an authorized agent of the Life Insurance Corporation, presumably knew the effect of misstatement of facts.	None
Misstatement by itself, however, was not material for repudiation of the policy unless the same is material in nature.	None
The insured furthermore was aware of the consequence of making a misstatement of fact.	None
If a person makes a wrong statement with knowledge of consequence therefor, he would ordinarily be estopped from pleading that even if such a fact had been disclosed, it would not have made any material change.	None
The purpose for taking a policy of insurance is not, in our opinion, very material.	None
It may serve the purpose of social security but then the same should not be obtained with a fraudulent act by the insured.	None
Proposal can be repudiated if a fraudulent act is discovered.	None
The proposer must show that his intention was bona fide.	None
It must appear from the face of the record.	None
In a case of this nature it was not necessary for the insurer to establish that the suppression was fraudulently made by the policy holder or that he must have been aware at the time of making the statement that the same was false or that the fact was suppressed which was material to disclose.	None
A deliberate wrong answer which has a great bearing on the contract of insurance, if discovered may lead to the police being vitiated in law.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that there exists a distinction between a representation and a warranty.	None
A Division Bench of the Madras High Court in S.P. Maheshwari (supra) upon taking into consideration the history of insurance laws in United States of America, in England and in India stated One great principle of insurance law is that a contract of insurance is based upon utmost good faith Uberrima fides in fact it is the fundamental basis upon which all contracts of insurance are made.	None
In this respect there is no difference between one contract of insurance and another.	None
Whether it be life or fire or marine the understanding is that the contract is uberrima fides and though there may be certain circumstances from the peculiar nature of marine insurance which require to be disclosed, and which do not apply to other contracts of insurance, that is rather an illustration of the application of the principle than a distinction in principle.	None
From the very fact that the contract involves a risk and that it purports to shift the risk from one party to the other, each one is required to be absolutely innocent of every circumstance which goes to influence the judgment of the other while entering into the transaction.	None
While the parties entered into a contract of insurance the same shall, subject to statutory interdict, be governed by the ordinary law of contract.	None
The insurer may not rely upon the disclosures made by the insured.	None
It may gather information from other sources.	None
The Madras High Court, although in our opinion, has rightly issued a note of caution to construe a representation and warranty as a general proposition which may operate harshly against the policy holders, itself noticed The principles underlying the doctrine of disclosure and the rule of good faith oblige the proposer to answer every question put to him with complete honesty.	None
Honesty implies truthfulness.	None
But it happens that no man can do more than say what he believes to be the truth.	None
Whether in a given case the court should take judicial notice of practice followed in such cases or not would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case.	None
If it is found that the agent himself was interested in getting the policy executed by the Life Insurance Corporation, such common knowledge takes a back seat.	None
In S.P. Maheshwari (supra), it was stated This brings us on finally to the topics of nondisclosure or misrepresentation which are practically the positive and negative aspects of the same thing.	None
The effect of misrepresentation on the contract is precisely the same as that of nondisclosure it affords the aggrieved party a ground for avoiding the contract.	None
There are a number of dicta and one decision to the effect that life insurance is an exception to the general rule that innocent misrepresentation may afford grounds for avoiding a policy and that the misrepresentation must be fraudulent to have this effect upon a policy of life insurance.	None
But in order to give the insurer grounds for avoidance both under nondisclosure as well as misrepresentations, both must relate only to material information.	None
The said decision, therefore, is of no assistance to the appellants herein.	None
We are not unmindful of the fact that Life Insurance Corporation being a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India, its action must be fair, just and equitable but the same would not mean that it shall be asked to make a charity of public money, although the contract of insurance is found to be vitiated by reason of an act of the insured.	None
This is not a case where the contract of insurance or a clause thereof is unreasonable, unfair or irrational which could make the court carried the bargaining powers of the contracting parties.	None
It is also not the case of the appellants that in framing the aforesaid questionnaire in the application proposal form, the respondents had acted unjustifiably or the conditions imposed are unconstitutional.	None
In Life Insurance Corpn.	None
Of India Ors.	None
v. Asha Goel (Smt) Anr.	None
(2001) SCC 160, whereupon reliance has been placed by Mr. Sathish, it was held The contracts of insurance including the contract of life assurance are contracts uberrima fides and every fact of material (sic material fact) must be disclosed, otherwise, there is good ground for rescission of the contract.	None
The duty to disclose material facts continues right up to the conclusion of the contract and also implies any material alteration in the character of the risk which may take place between the proposal and its acceptance.	None
If there are any misstatements or suppression of material facts, the policy can be called into question.	None
For determination of the question whether there has been suppression of any material facts it may be necessary to also examine whether the suppression relates to a fact which is in the exclusive knowledge of the person intending to take the policy and it could not be ascertained by reasonable enquiry by a prudent person.	None
It has not been shown in this case that repudiation of the contract of insurance was not done by the respondent with extreme care and caution or was otherwise invalid in law.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court has taken all the aspects of the matter in consideration and, in our opinion arrived at a just decision.	Reasoning
Strong reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the appellants on Allianz Und Stuttgarter Life Insurance Bank Ltd. v. Hemanta Kumar Das AIR 1938 CAL 641 wherein in regard to some purported statements made by the proposor in regard to his age was not found to be material as would appear from the following It is to be borne in mind that this was an insurance by a man who admittedly was, at any rate, at the age of over fortyfive years.	None
He himself stated that he was fifty four.	None
Therefore, the transaction came within the category of those proposals which require at the outset the furnishing by the proponents of proof of their age.	None
Noot Behari Das was required to furnish proof of his age.	None
He produced a horoscope.	None
The horoscope was accepted by the company as being sufficient.	None
Therefore, we may take that the company issued the policy upon the footing that they were insuring the life of a man whose age was fifty four.	None
This is not a case where the proposer says that his age was fifty four and the Company merely accepted that statement at its face value and proceeded to issue a policy on that footing and subsequently, either shortly afterwards or a long time afterwards, admitted the age as stated in the policy in accordance with the provisions of Cl.9(2) thereof.	None
This was a case where the whole transaction from the very beginning proceeded upon the basis that the company had satisfied themselves that the proposer was of the age of fifty four and then issued the policy accordingly.	None
In my view therefore the admission contained in the endorsement at page 3 of the policy is of such a character that the defendants when the policy matured could not be heard to say that the age of the insured was anything different from what he himself had stated it to be in February 1934.	None
It is not necessary that one should apply in terms of the principle of estoppel, because that is merely a rule of evidence.	None
In my view, this matter goes far deeper than that.	None
The question of the age of the deceased was a definite and determining factor in the transaction from the very outset.	None
It is not a case where the company had further enquired into the matter in regard to the question as to whether the proposor was operated upon or not.	None
In Ratan Lal Anr.	None
v. Metropolitan Insurance Co. Ltd.	None
AIR 1959 PAT 413 , a distinction was made between as to what is material and what is not material.	None
In regard to the disclosure of facts in that case itself, it was opined The wellsettled law in the field of insurance is that contracts of insurance including the contracts of life assurance are contracts uberrima fides and every fact of materiality must be disclosed otherwise there is good ground for rescission.	None
And this duty to disclose continues up to the conclusion of the contract and covers any material alteration in the character of the risk which may take place between proposal and acceptance.	None
Ratio of the said decision, therefore, instead of assisting the case of appellants, runs counter to his contention.	None
Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, we are of the opinion that no case has been made out for our interference with the impugned judgment.	Decision
The appeal fails and is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
No costs.	None
