 Sinha, J. 1.	None
The main question for determination in this appeal from the concurrent decisions of the Courts below is whether the Delhi and Ajmer Rent Control Act.	None
38 of 1952 (which, hereinafter will be referred to as the, Control Act) is applicable to the promises in question.	None
The Courts below have come to the conclusion that in view of the Provisions of S. 3 (a) of the Control Act the market called the new Fruit and Vegetable Market, Subzimandi, under the administration of the respondent, the Delhi Improvement Trust, (which hereinafter will be referred to as the Trust) is Government property to which the provisions of the Act are not attracted.	None
This appeal has been brought to his Court on a certificate granted by the High Court of Judicature of the State of Punjab that the case involved a substantial question of law as to the legal status of the respondent visavis the Government.	None
2.	None
The sequence of events leading up to the institution of the suit by the appellant the Fruit and Vegetable Merchants Union, Subzimandi a registered body under the Indian Trade Unions Act, 1926, 16 of 1926 giving rise to this appeal may shortly be stated as follows 3.	Facts
By an agreement dated March 31, 1937 (Exhibit D5) between the Secretary of State for India in Council and the Delhi Improvement Trust, which will have to be set out in detail hereinafter and the construction of which is the main point in controversy between the parties, a certain area of the land admittedly belonging to Government was placed at the disposal of the Trust for the orderly expansion of Delhi under the Supervision of a single authority.	Facts
The said property was compendiously called the Nazul Estate.	Facts
By a letter dated May 1/2, 1939 (not exhibited but filed in the High Court at the appellate stage) the Chairman of the Trust forwarded a copy of the resolution No. 551 dated April 24, 1939 (Exhibit D15) to Chief Commissioner of Delhi.	Facts
The resolution acts out the scheme for the construction of the new Subzimandi Fruit Market on a gross area of 10.87 acres including certain lands which till then did not vest in the Trust.	Facts
The Chairman asked for administrative sanction of the Government of India to place the additional area at the disposal of the trust on the same terms as those applicable to the Nazul Estate aforesaid held under the agreement, Ex.	Facts
D 5.	None
The resolution aforesaid sets out the object and history of the scheme.	Facts
It contains the categorical statement that Government is the owner of all the land included in the scheme.	Facts
The position according to the revenue records is giver in the statement on the next page.	Facts
The scheme then sets out in great detail the several structures to be constructed and the profit and loss figures.	Facts
Under the headings Computation of revenue surplus occur the following significant statements very much relied upon by the appellantThe revenue surplus of Rs. 4,530 is made up as follows and is based on the recommendation that the Trust shall own and maintain the market.	Facts
Under the heading Future Jurisdiction the following significant passage occursAt this stage, if the suggestion is accepted that the Trust should own and run the market at least until it is firmly established, and in view of fact that Government are the sole owners of the land, no difficulty is anticipated due to divided territorial jurisdiction of the two local authorities and no change is proposed.	Facts
The letter enclosing the resolution of the Trust as aforesaid contains a summary of the scheme, a portion of which is as followsAn estimated capital expenditure of Rs. 4.73 lakhs is involved.	Facts
On this capital expenditure there will be a capital deficit of Rs. 4.20 lakhs and a recurring revenue surplus of Rs. 4,530.	Facts
This financial result assumes ownership and management of the market by the Trust, and takes into account all charges on maintenance and daytoday management which would otherwise fall to a local body.	Facts
The scheme involves no acquisition of land, but assumes transfer free of charge of an area of 10.87 acres of Government land, all of which except for 1,510 square yards, falls within the limits of the Civil Lines Notified Area Committee.	Facts
(Underlined (here into ) by us).	None
4.	None
In answer to this communication from the Trust, the Chief Commissioner sent the letter (Ex. D8) dated May 13, 1939 sanctioning under S. 22A of the Trust Law the scheme of the New Fruit and Vegetable Market, as proposed in the resolution aforesaid at a cost not exceeding Rs. 4,73,186.	Facts
The sanction is in terms made subject to the remarks (1) that the whole of the land required for the construction of the new market is the property of the Government, and (2) the trust will administer the new market on its completion.	Facts
It will thus appear that it was clearly understood that the land on which the market was to he constructed would continue to be the property of the Government in modification of the proposal made by the Trust as aforesaid, the Trust only being vested with the power to administer the new market.	Facts
5.	None
On receipt of the letter aforesaid of the Chief Commissioner, the Chairman of the Trust requested the former to obtain the order of the Government of India to place the additional land required for the market at the disposal of the Trust under S. 54A of the United Provinces Town Improvement Act, 8 of 1919 (which will hereinafter be referred to as the Improvement Act) as extended to the Province of Delhi, on the same terms applicable to other Nazul estate held under the agreement between the Trust and the Government of India (Ex. D7).	Facts
By his letter dated August 10, 1939 (Ex. D6) the Chief Commissioner forwarded the orders dated June 21, 1939 of the Government of India agreeing to the proposal aforesaid of the Trust placing the additional area at the disposal of the Trust on the original terms aforesaid.	Facts
This is the genesis of the New Fruit and Vegetable Market, Subzimandi, which hereinafter be referred to as the Market, for a period of six years with effect from May 25, 1942 at an annual rent of Rs. 35,000 rising every year by Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 45,000 in respect of the sixth year of the lease.	Facts
In anticipation of the termination of the lease period aforesaid the Trust advertised the auction of the market for a fresh settlement.	Facts
That occasioned the suit for an injunction by the plaintiff against the Trust in the Court of the Senior Subordinate Judge of Delhi, instituted on March 18, 194 8.	Facts
The Court granted the plaintiff an interim injunction restraining the defendant from putting the market to auction.	Facts
The said exparte order of injunction was contested by the Trust with the result that the trial Court dissolved that injunction.	Facts
The plaintiff carried an appeal to the High Court of Punjab at Simla.	Facts
During the pendency of the appeal a settlement was arrived at between the parties and the plaintiffs offer of Rs. 1,50,000 as annual rent of the market on the expiry of the lease was accepted by the Trust.	Facts
This settlement is evidenced by the resolution of the Trust dated February 24, 1949 (Ex. D18).	Facts
In pursuance of the settlement a fresh lease was executed.	Facts
By the indenture (Ex. D4) dated April 22, 1949 the plaintiff was granted a fresh lease for the period May 25, 1948 to March 31, 1950 at an annual rent of Rs. 1,50,000.	Facts
One of the terms of the lease, which is a registered document, was That the lessee shall on expiry of the lease or on its determination by the lessor vacate the premises and deliver its peaceful possession to the lessor.	Facts
If the lessee fails to do so, he shall be liable to pay double the rent as liquidated damages for the unauthorised period of occupation till such time as he vacates it or he is ejected by process of law.	Facts
Paragraph 22 of the indenture aforesaid contains the following important admission that both the lessor and lessee agree that the premises in dispute are owned by the Government and the Provisions of the Delhi Ajmer Merwara Rent Control Act (1947) do not apply to the same.	Facts
The effect of this admission is also one of the controversies between the parties and shall have to be adverted to later.	Facts
6.	None
It appears that during the pendency of the second lease aforesaid negotiations had started between the parties for extension of the period of the lease.	Facts
The plaintiff made an offer of a fresh lease for a further period of five years at an annual rent of rupees two lakhs.	Facts
But the Trust by its resolution dated May 25, 1950 (Ex. D12) agreed only to extend the period by two years on the existing conditions, subject to enhancement of rent to Rs. 2 lakhs per year.	Facts
The plaintiffs case in the plaint is that these onerous terms successively enhancing the rent to Rs. 2 lakhs per year were agreed to by it as it had no other alternative in view of the plaintiffs need.	Facts
The plaintiff has been paying the enhanced rent of Rs. 2 lakhs per year in view of the resolution aforesaid of the Trust but has all the same started proceedings under S. 8 of the Control Act, for fixation of standard rent in respect of the market.	Facts
The Trust got an advertisement inserted in the Hindustan Times, New Delhi, dated March 5, 1953 inviting tenders for the lease of the market for a period of three years from April 1, 1953.	Facts
The plaintiffs case in the plaint is that the tenancy in favour of the plaintiff still subsisted and had not been terminated in accordance with law.	Facts
That was the cause of action for the plaintiff to institute the present suit on March 9, 1953.	Facts
The plaintiffs prayer in the plaint is that a decree for a permanent injunction may be passed in favour of the plaintiff restraining the defendant from evicting the plaintiff from the market.	Facts
7.	None
The suit was contested by the Trust on the allegations that the market had been Constructed on Nazul land under the authority of the Delhi State Government with Government funds, that the market was Government property and was only being managed by the defendant on behalf of the Government, that the Control Act by virtue of S. 3 (a) thereof was not applicable to the premises in question and that therefore the plaintiff was liable to be ejected as the term of its lease had expired.	Facts
Reliance was also placed on behalf of the defendant on the provisions of the Government Premises (Eviction) Act, XXVII of 1950, read with the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, XXX of 1952.	Facts
8.	None
On those pleadings a number of issues were joined between the parties of which the most important is issue No	Facts
. l	Facts
Whether the property in dispute belongs to the Government within the meaning of S. 3 (a) of the Rent Control Act, 1952?	Facts
Both the courts below have answered that issue in the affirmative, that is to say, in favour of the defendant.	None
The plaintiff prayed for and obtained the necessary certificate from the High Court that the case involved substantial questions of law as to the interpretation of the relevant statute and the agreement (Ex. D5) between the Government of India and the Delhi Improvement Trust.	Facts
Hence this appeal.	Facts
9.	None
It has been contended on behalf of the appellants that on a true construction of the provisions, particularly S. 54A of the Improvement Act as applied to the Province of Delhi and the agreement (Ex. D5) between the Government of India and the Trust, as also of the correspondence that passed between the Chief Commissioner of Delhi and the Trust, the land on which the market was constructed and the structure itself belonged to the trust and that therefore the provisions of the Control Act were applicable to the tendency created by the Trust in favour of the plaintiff and that being so, the plaintiff could not be ejected by the defendant on the expiry of the term or the extended term of the lease.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it has been argued on behalf of the defendant respondent that the trust is the statutory agent of the Government and has to function in accordance with the provisions of the statute aforesaid, namely, the Improvement Act.	None
The agency was created under the provisions of S. 54A (1) of the Improvement Act, the terms of the agreement being incorporated in the indenture, Ex. D5, dated March 31, 1937.	None
The argument further is that in accordance with the scheme as embodied in the agreement the Government was to hand over to its agent, the Trust, Government property which vests in possession of the agent who has to manage and develop the property with funds made available to it by Government.	None
Proper accounts have to be kept by the Trust of the monies thus advanced by Government in a separate account.	None
The Trust has also to pay a certain fixed sum by way of revenue on the property placed at its disposal.	None
The income from the property in the hands of the Trust has to be applied to payment of the interest on money advanced by Government at a specified rate as also to expenses for the management and improvement of the property and any surplus left over out of the income of the property in the hands of the Trust after meeting all the outgoings has to be placed at the disposal of Government to be spent according to its directions.	None
Thus the case of the respondent is that no legal title was created in favour of the Trust and the land, as also to the structures constructed by the Trust with the monies thus advanced by Government are the property of the Government.	None
The Trust as the statutory agent has only to manage and develop the property in accordance with schemes sanctioned by Government.	None
Consequently, it was argued that the market in question belongs to Government and is not governed by the Control Act.	None
10.	None
The question as to in whom the title to the market in question vests may be discussed in two parts, (1) title to the land on which the market is situated, and (2) title to the buildings admittedly constructed by the Trust.	None
Adverting first to the question of title in respect of the land, it is common ground that before it was placed at the disposal of the Trust it was Government property.	None
The question, therefore, naturally arises whether either by the provisions of S. 54A relied upon by both the parties in this connection, or by virtue of the terms of the indenture aforesaid or by the combined operation of the two, title to the land has become vested in the Trust.	None
The appellant contends it is so vested.	None
The respondent contests this proposition and contends that there are no words in the statute or in the agreement which either separately or together can be said to have transferred the preexisting title of the Government to the Trust.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out on behalf of the respondent that S. 54A only authorises government to place the land in question at the disposal of the Trust which has to hold it in accordance with the terms agreed upon between them, as evidenced by the indenture (Ex. D5).	Arguments of Respondent
Let us examine those terms.	None
The agreement provides, inter alia, that with a view to the orderly expansion of Delhi under the supervision of a single authority the Government agreed to place at its disposal the Nazul Estate (described in schedule I), with effect from April 1, 1937.One of the conditions stipulated was that the Trust shall hold and manage the said Nazul estate on behalf of the Government.	None
These words cannot he construed as transferring title to the Nazul Estate from Government to the Trust.	None
They amount to constituting the Trust as an agent of the Government to hold possession of the property and to manage the same for the purpose for which the Trust had been created.	None
The Trust is enjoined to use its best endeavors for the improvement and development of the said Nazul Estate in accordance with the provisions of the Improvement Act, provided that no expenditure shall be incurred upon the purchase of land to be added to the said Nazul Estate unless the proposal to make the purchase has been specifically included in an Improvement Scheme sanctioned under S. 42 of the said Act.	None
Particular reliance was placed on behalf of the appellant on the following terms in the indenture to show that the title to the Nazul estate vested in the TrustThe Trust may sell or lease any land included in the said Nazul Estate in pursuance of the provisions of an Improvement Scheme sanctioned under S. 42 of the said Act The Trust may, otherwise than in pursuance of an Improvement Scheme sanctioned under S. 42 of the said Act, sell any land included in the said Nazul Estate.	None
11.	None
In order to appreciate the true legal position it is necessary here to examine some of the provisions of the Improvement Act bearing on this aspect of the case.	None
Section 22A occurring in Chap.	None
IIIA vests the Trust with the power to undertake any works and incur any expenditure for the improvement or development of the area to which the Act may have been extended.	None
Section 23 in Chap.	None
IV sets out in detail what is meant by An Improvement Scheme.	None
It lays down that the acquisition by purchase, exchange or otherwise of any property necessary for or affected by the execution of the scheme, the construction or reconstruction of building, the sale, letting or exchange of any property comprised in the scheme and doing of all incidental acts necessary for the execution of the scheme may be undertaken by the Trust.	None
Section 24 sets out the different types of improvement scheme including a general improvement scheme, a rebuilding scheme, a rehousing scheme, a development scheme, etc. and the sections following S. 24 lay down in detail the scope of the different types of improvement schemes enumerated in S. 24.	None
Section 42 requires the Chief Commissioner to announce an improvement scheme sanctioned by him by notification and thereupon the Trust embarks upon the execution of the scheme.	None
Then comes Chapter V dealing with the powers and duties of the Trust when a scheme has been sanctioned.	None
In this chapter occur Ss. 45 to 48 which provide for the vesting of certain properties in the Trust.	None
Section 45 lays down the conditions and the procedure according to which any building, street square or other land vested in the Municipality or Notified Area Committee may become vested in a Trust.	None
Similarly, S. 46 deals with the vesting in the Trust of properties like a street or a square as are not vested in a Municipality or Notified Area Committee.	None
These sections, as also Ss. 47 and 48 make provision for compensation and for empowering the Trust to deal with such property vested in it.	None
The vesting of such property is only for the purpose of executing any improvement scheme which it has undertaken and not with a view to clothing it with complete title.	None
As will presently appear, the term vesting has a variety of meaning which has to be gathered from the context in which it has been used.	None
It may mean full ownership, or only possession for a particular purpose, or clothing the authority with power to deal with the property as the agent of another person or authority.	None
12.	None
Coming back to the terms of the indenture with reference to the power of the Trust to sell or lease any land included in the Nazul Estate, certain conditions are laid down for the exercise of the aforesaid power to transfer.	None
The Trust is empowered to sell any land included in the Nazul Estate on its own authority only in cases where the sale is for full market value and which does not exceed Rs. 25,000.	None
In other cases the transaction has to be sanctioned either by the Chief Commissioner or by Government and in every case the forms of conveyances and leases by the Trust have to be approved by Government.	None
It would thus appear that the power to transfer by way of sale, lease or otherwise vested in the Trust is not an unlimited or an unqualified power but a power circumscribed by such conditions as the Government or the Chief Commissioner, as the case may be, thought fit to impose.	Reasoning
The imposition of those conditions is not consistent with the title to the property vesting absolutely in the Trust.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the imposition of those conditions is more consistent with the proposition contended for by the learned AttorneyGeneral on behalf of the respondent that the Trust was only constituted a statutory agent on behalf of the Government in accordance with the provisions of the Improvement Act and the terms of the indenture, Ex.	Reasoning
D 5.	None
It is noteworthy that there are no provisions either in the Improvement Act or in the indenture, Ex. D5 to the effect that the title to the Nazul Estate vested in the Trust.	None
It must, therefore, be held that no grounds have been made out for holding that title to the land on which the market stands was conveyed by Government to the Trust.	Reasoning
13.	None
We turn now to the question whether apart from title to the land, title to the building standing upon the land is vested in the Trust.	None
In order to examine the contentions raised on behalf of the appellant it is necessary to set out the remaining portion of the terms of the indenture aforesaid.	Issue
The Trust was to assume full liability for all expenditure to be incurred upon works of improvement and to arrange for the completion of those works to the satisfaction of Government.	None
The Trust is also enjoined to maintain in accordance with the statutory rules separate accounts of all revenue realized from and all expenditure incurred upon, the said Nazul Estate and to pay to Government the sum of Rs. 2 lakhs being the equivalent of the net annual revenue in respect thereof subject to certain conditions, not material to this case.	Reasoning
Then follows the most important clause in these termsAny surplus funds in the Nazul Development Account remaining at the end of each financial year when the said sum has been paid shall be put at the disposal of Government and shall be applied until further orders of Government to the further improvement and development of the said Nazul Estate and or to the repayment of loans made to the Trust as Government may direct.	None
Government on its part undertook to finance either in part or in whole such schemes as may be agreed between the parties and also to advance loans at interest equal to Government rates for the time being for loans to Local Authorities.	None
It was in pursuance of the terms aforesaid that the scheme of the building of the market in question was put through at an estimated cost of a little less than five lakhs of rupees.	None
14.	None
It is clear upon the terms of the agreement shortly set out above that the market was constructed by the Trust on Government land with Government funds advanced by way of loan at interest.	Reasoning
On those facts what is the legal position of the Trust visis the government in respect of the ownership of the property?	Reasoning
It is important, therefore, to determine the true nature of the initial relationship between the Government and the Trust.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant conceded that, that relationship could not be described in terms of ordinary legal import, that is to say, in terms of mortgagor and mortgagee, or lessor and lessee, or licensor and licensee.	None
He contended that it was a peculiar relationship which could not be defined in exact legal phraseology, but all the same, that the Trust was the owner or the market, especially in view of, the fact that, as admitted by the defendants counsel at the trial, the Trust had repaid the entire amount of five lakhs odd advanced by Government for the construction of the market.	Arguments of Petitioner
This result, it was further contended, follows from the terms of S. 54A of the Improvement Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The AttorneyGeneral appearing on behalf of the respondent also strongly relied upon the terms of that section for his contention that the relationship between the Trust and the Government was that of agent and principal.	None
It is therefore necessary to examine closely the provisions of that section which is in these terms (1) The Government may, upon such terms as may be agreed upon between the Government and the Trust, place at the disposal of the Trust any properties, or any funds or dues, of the Government and thereupon the Trust shall hold or realise such properties, funds and dues in accordance with such terms.	None
(2) If any immovable property, held by the Trust under Subs .	None
(1) is required by the Government for administrative purposes the Trust shall transfer the same to the Chief Commissioner upon payment of all costs incurred by the Trust in acquiring, reclaiming or developing the same together with interest thereon at such rate as may be fixed by the Chief Commissioner calculated from the day on which this Act comes into force or from the date on which such costs wore incurred, whichever is the later.	None
The transfer of any such immovable property shall be notified in the Gazette and such property shall thereupon vest in the Chief Commissioner from the date of the notification.	None
The section quoted above finds place in Chap.	None
VA headed Government Property Held by Trust.	None
It is manifest upon a reading of the entire section that there are no express words of conveyance whereby title is transferred by Government to the Trust either absolutely or upon certain conditions.	None
As applied to the present case, subs.	None
(1) only provides that the Government would place the property in question at the disposal of the Trust which shall hold the same in accordance with the terms as may be agreed between them, that is to say, in accordance with the terms of the agreement aforesaid, (Ex. D5).	None
Placing the property at the disposal of the Trust does not signify that Government had divested itself of its title to the property and transferred the same to the Trust.	None
Clause 12 of the agreement (Ex. D5) to the effect that Government may at any time on giving six months notice terminate this agreement clearly indicates that the Government had created his agency not on a permanent basis but as a convenient mode of having its schemes of improvement implemented by a single agency with wide powers of management and expenditure of funds placed at its disposal, either by way of income from the property or by way of advance from Government funds.	None
Subsection (1) therefore does not in express terms or by necessary implication confer any title on the Trust in respect of the market.	None
The Trust only holds the market and realises the income therefrom which is disbursed in accordance with the terms of the agreement and the rules framed by the Chief Commissioner in exercise of the powers conferred on him by Cl.	None
(e) of subs.(1) of S. 72.Our attention was called to some of those statutory rules, particularly Rr. 21, 36, 38 and 156 read along with the forms and the Appendix.	None
It is not necessary to discuss those rules in detail because on a consideration of those rules we are satisfied that they are more consistent with the Trust being a statutory agent of the Government, which has to maintain separate accounts in respect of nazul property.	None
Any reappropriation from nazul to nonnazul or vice versa could not be made by the trust without the prior sanction of the Chief Commissioner.	None
The method of keeping accounts in respect of the nazul estate would show that the Trust had to function as the statutory agent of the Government in the matter of the administration of the Trust funds with particular reference to the nazul estate with which we are immediately concerned.	None
But it has been argued on behalf of the appellant that subs.	None
(2) of S. 54A quoted above postulates that the Trust is the owner of the property, otherwise the subsection would not speak of the Trust having to transfer immovable property held by it to the Chief Commissioner in certain contingencies, upon payment of all costs incurred by the Trust in acquiring, reclaiming or developing that property together with interest calculated in the way set out in that subsection.	Arguments of Petitioner
It should be noted in this connection that what the Government was required to pay was not the market value of the property but only the cost incurred by the Trust.	None
That provision apparently was made for the purpose of accounting between the different branches of the Trust activities.	None
If title really vested in the Trust, it would be entitled to receive from Government the price of the property and not merely required to be reimbursed in respect of the actual expenditure on the scheme.	None
Particular reliance was placed upon the words and such property shall thereupon vest in the Chief Commissioner.	None
It was argued that unless the property previously vested in the Trust it could not upon the transfer contemplated by subs (2) vest in the Chief Commissioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
This argument assumes that the word vest necessarily signifies that title to the property resides in the Trust.	Reasoning
But the word vest has several meanings with reference to the context in which it is used.	None
In this connection reference may be made to the following observations of Lord Cranworth in Richardson v. Robertson.	None
(1862) 6	None
LT75 at p.	None
78(A)the word vest is a word at least of ambiguous import.	None
Prima facie Vesting in possession is the more natural meaning The expressions investitureclothing and whatever else be the explanation as to the origin of the word, point prima facie rather to the enjoyment than to the obtaining of a right.	None
But I am willing to accede to the argument that was pressed at the bar, that by long usage vesting ordinarily means the having obtained an absolute and indefeasible right, as contradistinguished from the not having so obtained it.	None
But it cannot be disputed that the word vesting may mean, and often does mean, that which is its primary etymological signification, namely, vesting in possession.	None
15.	None
Similarly with reference to the provisions of a local Act (5 Geo. 4, c. lxiv), it was held that the word vest did not convey a freehold title but only a right in the nature of an easement.	None
The following words of Willes.	None
J. in Hinde v. Chorlton, (1866) 2 CP 104 at p. 116	None
(B), are relevant there is a whole series of authorities in which words, which in terms vested the freehold in persons appointed to perform some public duties, such as canal companies and boards of health, have been held satisfied by giving to such persons the control over the soil which was necessary to the carrying out the objects of the act without giving them the free hold.	None
16.	None
In the case of Coverdale v. Charlton, (1878) 4QBD 104 (C), the Court of Appeal on a consideration of the provisions of the Public Health Act, 1875 (38 and 39 Vict. c. 55) with particular reference to S. 149, has made the following observations at p. 116What then is the meaning of the word vest in this section?	None
The legislature might have used the expression transferred or conveyed, but they have used the word vest.	None
The meaning I should like to put upon it is, that the street vests in the local board qua street not that any soil or any right to the soil or surface vest, but that it vests qua street.	None
17.	None
Referring to the provisions of S. 134 of the Lunacy Act, 1890 ( 53 and 54 Vict.	None
c. 5) in the case of In re Brown, (1895) 2 Ch 66 (D), it has been laid down by Lindley, L. J. that the word vested in that section included the right to obtain and deal with, without being actual owner of, the lunatics personal estate.	None
18.	None
In the case of Finchley Electric Light Co. v. Finchley Urban District Council.	None
(1903) 1	None
Ch 437 (E), adverting to the provisions of S. 149 of the Public Health Act, 1875 (supra) Romer, L.J. series of cases.	None
It was not by that section intended to vest in the urban authority what I may call the full rights in fee over the street, as if that street was owned by an ordinary owner in fee having the fullest rights both as to the soil below and as to the air above.	None
It is settled that the section in question was only intended to vest in the urban authority so much of the actual soil of the street as might be necessary for the control, protection, and maintenance of the street as a highway for public use.	None
For that proposition it is sufficient to refer to what was said by Lord Halsbury L.C. and by Lord Herschell in Tunbridge Wells Corporation v. Baird, (1896) AC 434(F)	None
That section has nothing to do with title it is not considering a question of title.	None
No matter what the title is of the person who owns the street, the section is only considering how much of the street shall vest in the urban authority 19.That the word vest is a word of variable import is shown by provisions of Indian statutes also.	None
For example, S. 56 of the Provincial Insolvency Act (5 of 1920) empowers the Court at the time of the making of the order of adjudication or thereafter to appoint a receiver for the property of the insolvent and further provides that such property shall thereupon vest in such receiver.	None
The property vests in the receiver for the purpose of administering the estate of the insolvent for the payment of his debts after realising his assets.	None
The property of the insolvent vests in the receiver not for all purposes but only for the purpose of the Insolvency Act and the receiver has no interest of his own in the property.	None
On the other hand, Ss. 16 and 17 of the Land Acquisition Act (Act 1 of 1894), provide that the property so acquired, upon the happening of certain events, shall vest absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances.	None
In the cases contemplated by Ss. 16 and 17, the property acquired becomes the property of Government without any conditions or limitations either as to title or possession.	None
The legislature has made it clear that the vesting of the property is not for any limited purpose or limited duration.	None
It would thus appear that the word vest has not got a fixed connotation, meaning in all cases that the property is owned by the person or the authority in whom it vests.	Reasoning
It may vest in title, or it may vest in possession, or it may vest in a limited sense, as indicated in the context in which it may have been used in a particular piece of legislation.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Improvement Act, particularly Ss. 45 to 49 and 54 and 54A when they speak of a certain building or street or square or other land vesting in a municipality or other local body or in a trust, do not necessarily mean that ownership has passed to any of them.	Reasoning
20.	None
The question of the ownership of the structure built upon Government land by the Trust may be looked at from another point of view.	Reasoning
We have already held that the Trust was in the position of a statutory agent of Government and had erected the structure with money belonging to Government but advanced at interest to the Trust.	Reasoning
In such a situation the structure also would be the property of Government, though for the time being it may he at the disposal of the Trust for the purpose of managing it efficiently as a statutory body.	Reasoning
Simply because the Trust erected the structure in question and later on paid up the amount advanced by Government for the purpose would not necessarily load to the legal inference that the structure was the property of the Trust.	Reasoning
In this connection reference may be made to the decision of this Court in Bhatia Cooperative Housing Society Ltd. v. D. C. Patel, 1953 SCR, 185 (AIR 1953 SC 16 ) (G).	Reasoning
The case is not on all fours with the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
But the following observations of Das J. (as he then was) at P. 195 of the report are pertinentIt is true that the lessee erected the building at his own cost but he did so for the lessor and on the lessors land on agreed terms.	None
The fact that the lessee incurred expenses in putting up the building is precisely the consideration for the lessor granting him a lease for 999 years not only of the building but of the land as well at what may, for all we know, be a cheap rent which the lessor way not have otherwise agreed to do.	None
By the agreement the building became the property of the lessor and the lessor demised the land and the building which, in the circumstances, in law and in fact belonged to the lessor.	None
The law of fixtures under S. 108 of the Transfer of Property Act way be different from the English law, but S. 108 is subject to any agreement that the parties may choose to make.	None
Here, by the agreement the building became part of the land and the property of the lessor and the lessee took a lease on that footing.	None
21.	None
In our opinion, therefore, it cannot he said that either under the provisions of the Improvement Act or in accordance with the terms of the agreement (Ex. D5) or the two taken together, the market became the property of the Trust.	Reasoning
We have already noticed the relevant, portions of the correspondence that passed between Government and the Trust to show that though at the initial stages the Trust proposed that the ownership of the market should vest in the Trust the final terms agreed between the parties in accordance with the provisions of S. 54A left the ownership with Government.	Reasoning
We have come to this conclusion without reference to the admission of the plaintiff contained in para.	Reasoning
22 of the indenture (Ex. D4) quoted above.	Reasoning
It is therefore not necessary for us to consider the question raised by the learned AttorneyGeneral that the plaintiff was bound by that admission or whether that admission is vitiated by any pressure of circumstances or duress as pleaded by the plaintiff.	Reasoning
Certainly that admission is a piece of evidence which could be considered on its merits oven apart from the question of estoppel which had not been specifically pleaded or formed the subject matter of a separate issue.	Reasoning
22.	None
In view of our finding that the market, as also the land on which it stands, is the property of Government, the conclusion follows that the operative provisions of the Control Act do not apply to the premises in question.	None
That being so, it must be held that there is no merit in this appeal.	Decision
It is accordingly dismissed with costs.	Decision
23.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
