 Reddy, J. 1.	None
These are fourteen Writ Petition by various Colleges managed and administered by Dayanand Anglo Vedic College (D.A.V. College) Trust and the Managing Society, against the Respondents challenging the constitutional validity of certain provisions of Guru Nanak University, Amritsar, Act 21 of 1969 (hereinafter called the University or the Act, as the context may permit) and in particular Sections 4, 4(2), 4(3) and 5 of the Act as being violative of Articles 14, 19(1)(c) and (f), 26, 29 (1) and 30(1) of the Constitution of India.	None
There was also a prayer for quashing the Notification No. 22014RDI70/7147, dated March 16, 1970, issued under subsection (1) of section 5, by the first Respondent, the State of Punjab as being illegal, unconstitutional and void.	None
As all these petitions raised common question as to the validity of the provisions of the Act, the Notification issued by the Government pursuant to that Act and certain provisions of the statutes made thereunder it would be sufficient if facts in Writ petition No. 256 are set out.	None
2.	None
The Managing Committee of the D.A.V. Collage is composed of 24 members and manages a score of other D.A.V. Institutions established in the country.	Facts
The D.A.V. Collage Trust and the Managing Society was formed to perpetuate the memory of Swami Dayanand Saraswati who was the founder of an organisation known as Arya Samaj, which organisation it is claimed has a fixed religious programme and its constitution is designed to perpetuate the religious teaching and philosophy of its founder.	Facts
The Arya Samaj it is stated has its own philosophy conception of God worship, religious tenets, rituals, social work, educational work etc., as would appear from the constitution of the Arya Samaj.	Facts
It is, therefore, claimed that it being a religious sect and denomination, is a minority within the meaning of Article 50(1) of the Constitution.	Facts
The Schools and Collages were established on the lines, teachings and principles of Arya Samaj in which the imparting of the Vedic culture and religious instruction and worship based on the concept of Vedas, was and has its essential ingredient.	Facts
3.	None
The Institutions which have filed the Writ Petitions were before the Punjab Reorganisation Act (hereinafter called the Reorganisation Act) affiliated to the Punjab University constituted under the East Punjab Act, 7 of 1947 (hereinafter called the Punjab University or the Punjab University Act as the context admits).	Facts
Before the partition of India some of these Institutions were affiliated to the Punjab University, Lahore.	Facts
After the partition other Universities were set up in Punjab State like the Punjab University, the Kurukshetra University, the Agricultural University etc., each of which had its own territorial jurisdiction.	Facts
4.	None
There being a strong movement in the state of Punjab by the Sikhs to have a State of their own and others who did not want it, the Government of India being faced with this problem ultimately decided to reorganise the State of Punjab on linguistic basis.	Facts
A Boundary Commission was appointed under the Chairmanship of Shah, J. as he then was, and on the basis of that report Parliament ultimately passed the Reorganisation Act by and under which the State of Punjab and the State of Haryana were formed and certain other territories were added to Himachal Pradesh.	Facts
Chandigarh, the erstwhile capital was to be a Union territory and was to serve as capital of both these States.	Facts
A provision was made in this Act for the continuance of certain Corporations and Institutions which had served the needs of the people of both areas to continue as heretofore subject to the special provisions enacted in the Act.	Facts
Three of such institutions were the Punjab University, the Punjab Agricultural University and the Board constituted under the provisions of Part III of Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925.	Facts
The continuance of the aforementioned two Universities was dealt alongwith other statutory Corporation under the general provisions contained in Section 72 of the Reorganisation Act.	Facts
5.	None
As already pointed out at the time of the reorganisation of the State other Universities other than the University of Punjab were in existence namely the Punjab University in Punjab, and Kurukshetra University in Haryana.	Facts
After the reorganisation the various Colleges which were in the State of Punjab other than those over which the Punjab University had jurisdiction were continued to be affiliated to the Punjab University.	Facts
While this was the position till 1969 the Punjab Legislature in order to mark the 500th Birth anniversary of Shri Guru Nanak Devji established a University to perpetuate his name.	Facts
The Act received the assent of the Governor on November 28, 1969.	Facts
On March 16, 1970 the first Respondent in exercise of the powers conferred on it by subsection (1) of Section 5 of the Act specified the districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Jullundur and Kapurthala in the State of Punjab as the area in which the University shall exercise its power and perform its duties.	Facts
It further notified on March 16, 1970, in exercise of the powers under subsection (3) of section 5, June 30, 1970, as the date for the purpose of the said subsection in respect of the educational institutions situated within the limits of the aforesaid area, which meant that as and from that date the colleges in the areas specified above which were affiliated to the Punjab University ceased to be affiliated to that University and were deemed to be associated with and admitted to the privileges of the University.	Facts
6.	None
The contentions urged before us are that the main purpose and object of the University as constituted by the University Act is to propagate Sikh religion and promote Punjabi language in Gurmukhi script, that since the petitioners institutions belong to minority based on religion and language in that they being adherents of Arya Samaj sect and denomination their compulsory affiliation to the University violates Article 29(1) and 30(1) of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this main contention it is submitted that section 5(3) of the Act and also Clauses 2(1)(a), 17 and 18 of the statutes in Chapter V which inter alia interfere with the management of the minority institutions are ultra vires being violative of the guarantee under Article 30(1).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that the minority educational institutions have the freedom to chose to which University they will be affiliated and that the Legislature cannot compel affiliation to any particular University.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any case in view of Section 72 of the Reorganisation Act it is the Central Government which must determine whether Colleges affiliated to the Punjab University can be disaffiliated before any Notification under the Act can be issued specifying the areas in which educational institutions are to be affiliated and admitted to the privileges of the University as from date notified.	Arguments of Petitioner
On this view it is submitted that the notification of March 16, 1970, is bad and must be struck down.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that this statutory affiliation being compulsory affects the petitioners right of association guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c) and that Article 14 is contravened because Section 4(2) and 4(3) discriminate against the Hindus, for while providing for the study of the teachings of Guru Nanak and the encouragement of the Punjabi language no provision is made for the study of the religion or teachings of the Hindus or for their language  the Hindi.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now the question is, have the petitioners been established and administered by a religious or linguistic minority, having a district script or culture of its own within the meaning of Articles 29(1) and 30(1) of the Constitution and do the provisions of the Act or any statute or ordinance or notification made thereunder offend any of the rights guaranteed to them.	None
This in turn leads to an enquiry whether the Arya Samaj sect is a religious or linguistic minority.	None
Articles 29(1) and 30(1) are as follows 29.	None
(1) Any section of the citizens residing in the territory of India or any part thereof having a distinct language, script or culture of its own shall have the right to conserve the same.	None
30.	None
(1) All minorities, whether based on religion or language, shall have the right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice.	None
8.	None
It will be observed that Article 29(1) is wider then Article 30(1), in that, while any section of the citizens including the minorities, can invoke the rights guaranteed under Article 29(1), the rights guaranteed under Article 30(1) are only available to the minorities based on religion or language.	None
It is not necessary for Article 30(1) that the minority should be both a religious minority as well as a linguistic minority.	None
It is sufficient if it is one or the other or both.	None
A reading of these two articles together would lead us to conclude that a religious or linguistic minority has a right to establish and administer educational institutions of its choice for effectively conserving its distinctive language, script or culture, which right however is subject to the regulatory power of the State for maintaining and facilitating the excellence of its standards.	None
This right is further subject to clause (2) of Article 29 which provides that no citizen shall be denied admission into any educational institution which is maintained by the state or receives aid out of State funds, on grounds only of religion, race, casts, language or any of them.	None
While this is so these two articles are not interlinked nor does it permit of their being always read together.	None
9.	None
In Rev. Father W. Proost and Others v. State of Bihar and Others (1969 (2)	None
SCR 73 AIR 1969 SC 465 (1969) 1 SCJ 700), where while conceding that the Jesuits of Ranchi who were a religious minority established the petitioner Institution the St. Xaviers College which was admitting students of other communities also, the Attorney General had contended that as the protection to minorities in Article 29(1) is only a right to conserve a distinct language, script or culture of its own the College did not qualify for the protection of Article 30(1) because (i) it was not founded to conserve them, and (ii) it was open to all sections of people.	None
An attempt was made to read into the protection granted by Article 30(1) a corollary taken from Article 29(1).	None
While conceding that the Jesuit community is a minority community based on religion and therefore it has a right to establish and administer educational institutions of its choice, it was contended that as the protection to minorities in Article 29(1) is only a right to conserve the distinct language, script or culture of its own, the College does not qualify for the protection of Article 30(1) because it is not founded to conserve them.	None
Hidayatullah, C.J., rejected the interpretation sought to be placed on Articles 29(1) and 30(1) as if they have to be read together.	None
At Page 60 he said In our opinion, the width of Article 30(1) cannot be cut down by introducing in it considerations on which Article 29(1) is based.	None
The latter article is a general protection which is given to minorities to conserve their language, script or culture.	None
The former is a special right to minorities to establish educational institutions of their choice.	None
This choice is not limited to institution seeking to conserve language, script or culture and the choice is not taken away if the minority community having established an educational institution of its choice also admits members of other communities.	None
That is a circumstances irrelevant for the application of Article 30(1) since no such limitation is expressed and none can be implied.	None
The two articles create two separate rights, although it is possible that they may meet in a given case.	None
10.	None
The next question is what constitutes a religious or linguistic minority and how is it to be determined ?	Issue
It was submitted that in re Kerala Education Bill, 1957 (1959 SCR 995 AIR 1958 SC 956 (1959) SCJ 321) this court did not in fact lay down any test for ascertaining what is meant by minority community or how it is to be ascertained because in that case it had assumed that question (2) itself proceeded on the footing that there were minorities in Kerala who are entitled to the rights conferred under Article 30(1).	None
No doubt to some extent this is true.	None
Das, C.J., had observed at Page 1050 that strictly speaking for answering question (2) they need not enquire as to what a minority community means or how is it to be ascertained.	None
Nonetheless earlier he did consider these matters (vide Page 10471050) and laid down the principles which govern it, including an examination of the figures relating to the total population of the Kerala State and the population of the minorities, the Christians, the Muslims and the Anglo Indians.	None
11.	None
Though there was a faint attempt to canvas the position that religious or linguistic minorities should be minorities in relation to the entire population of the country, in our view they are to be determined only in relation to the particular legislation which is sought to be impugned, namely that if it is the State Legislature these minorities have to be determined in relation to the population of the state.	None
On this aspect Das, C.J., in Kerala Education Bill case speaking for the majority thought that there was a fallacy in the suggestion that a minority or section envisaged by Article 30(1) and Article 29(1) could mean only such persons as constitute numerically, minority in the particular region where the educational institution was situated or resided under local authority.	None
He however, thought, it was not necessary to express a final opinion as to whether education being the subjectmatter of Item 11 of the State list, subject only to the provisions of Entries 62, 63, 64 and 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III, the existence of a minority community should in all circumstances and for purposes of all laws of that State be determined on the basis of the population of the whole State or whether it should be determined on the said basis only when the validity of a law extending to the whole State is in question or whether it should be determined on the basis of a population of a locality when the law under that Act applies only to that locality, because in that case the Bill before the Court extended to the whole of the State of Kerala and consequently the minority must be determined by reference to the entire population of that State.	None
12.	None
It is undisputed, and it was also conceded by the State of Punjab, that the Hindus of Punjab are a religious minority in the State though they may not be so in relation to the entire country.	None
The claim of Arya Samaj to be a linguistic minority was however contested.	None
A linguistic minority for the purpose of Article 30(1) is one which must at least have a separate spoken language.	None
It is not necessary that language should also have a distinct script for those who speak it to be a linguistic minority.	None
There are this country some languages which have no script of their own, but nonetheless those sections of the people who speak that language will be a linguistic minority entitled to the protection of Article 30(1).	None
13.	None
The Punjab Boundary Commission Report under the Chairmanship of Shah, J., as he then was dealt not only with the several scripts in use but also the language of the dominant sections residing in Punjab.	None
Earlier the States Reorganisation Report also went into the question and noted the controversies between Akali Dal sponsoring Punjabi with Gurmukhi script and Hindus who while at home they speak Punjabi asserted that in their religious ceremonies and festivals, in their Schools and Colleges they use Hindi.	None
In any case they never accepted Gurmukhi script.	None
At Page 143 it was observed The problem of language in the Punjab is therefore primarily on of scripts and in this battle of scripts sentiment is arrayed against sentiment.	None
This matter was dealt with in somewhat great detail in Shahs report at Pages 2 and 3 History of the language controversy in the Punjab is over fifty years old.	None
In the Punjab of preBritish days, the Court language was Persian, the Punjabi was almost invariably written in the Persian scrip.	None
Under the British rule, Urdu was the language of the Courts and of district administration in addition to English.	None
During the last decades of the 19th Century two important social reform movements gained strong foothold in the Punjab.	None
The Arya Samaj movement took hold among the urban Hindu population and use of Hindi in the Devnagri script was propagated.	None
After Swami Dayanand, founder of the Arya Samaj movement, published his Satyarath Prakash in the eyes of a section of the Hindus the Hindi language and the Devnagri script acquired religious significance.	None
During the same period, the cause of Punjabi was espoused by the Chief Khalsa Dewan.	None
They published a large number of books and pamphlets dealing with the lives of Gurus and diverse facets of the Sikh religion.	None
These books were written in Punjabi Gurmukhi script, which had been given its present form by the second Guru of the Sikhs, and in which the holy Granth is written.	None
The language issue in course of time got linked up with the politics of the province.	None
Demands for giving better status in the administrative scheme to Punjabi in Gurmukhi script and Hindi in Devnagri script gained strength, and the Government of the day agreed to accede to these demands and recognised the status, of both Punjabi and Hindi in the educational curricula.	None
14.	None
In our view it is unnecessary to consider whether Arya Samajis are a linguistic minority, because if they can be considered to be a religious minority they will be entitled to invoke the protection under Article 30(1).	None
15.	None
For the purposes of Article 29(1) even though it may not be necessary to enquire whether all the Hindus of Punjab as also the Arya Samajis speak Hindi as a spoken language, nonetheless there can be no doubt that the script of the Arya Samaj is distinct from that of the Sikhs who form the majority.	None
It is claimed that while the Sikhs have Gurmukhi as their script the Arya Samajis have their own script which is the Devnagri script.	None
Their claim to be a religious minority with distinct script of their own seems to us to be justified as would appear from the following.	None
16.	None
The Arya Samaj is a reformist movement, believes in one God and in the Vedas as the books of true knowledge.	None
It holds that it is the duty of every Arya Samaji to read the Vedas and have them read, to teach or preach them to others.	None
It has a distinct organisation, the membership of which is open to all those who subscribe to its aims and objects.	None
The Arya Samajis worship before the Vedic fire and it begins with the burning of incence (the homa sacrifice) accompanied by the chanting of the Vedic verses.	None
17.	None
Encyclopaedia Britannica  (Vol. II1968) has this to say about Arya Samaj at Page 558 Arya Samaj, a vigorously reforming Sect of modern Hinduism, founded in 1875, by Swami Dayanand Saraswati (182483) at Bombay The Vedas as interpreted by the method laid down by Dayanand may be said to be the theology of the Arya Samaj and are held to contain all truth and all knowledge, including the basis of modern science.	None
The Arya Samaj is completely opposed to idolatry, is sternly monotheistic and denies the efficacy of priestly intervention.	None
Its organization and services are strongly reminiscent of Protestantism The Arya Samaj opposes the caste system based upon birth, as unvedic and insists that casts should reflect merit The Arya Samaj has sought to revitalize Hindu life and to instill selfconfidence and national pride among Hindus.	None
It has established a network of excellent Schools and Colleges, including the Dayanand AngloVedic College in Lahore, which teach rigorously in the Vedas and in modern science 18.	None
To show the affinity between Arya Samaj and Protestantism a comparison is made in the Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics between Dayanand Saraswati and Martin Luther.	None
In Volume 2 at pages 5859, it is said As Luther the German monk was a child of the European Renaissance, so Dayanand the Gujrati monk was a child of the Indian Renaissance Luther attacked indulgences, while Dayanand attacked idolatry.	None
Luther appealed from the Roman church and the authority of tradition to the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments.	None
Swami Dayanand appealed from the Brahmanical Church and the authority of Smrti to the earliest and most sacred of Indian scriptures.	None
The watchword of Luther was Back to the Bible the watchword of Dayanand was Back to the Vedas but it noted to the Vedas as interpreted, not by the traditional scholarship of Indian orthodoxy or by the critical scholarship of the West, but by the scholarship of the Arya Samaj alone The scripture basis of the Arya Samaj then, while formally the Vedas, is in reality a certain interpretation of the Vedas, which is not recognized as legitimate by a single Sanskrit scholar, either Indian or European, outside of the Arya Samaj.	None
19.	None
Shri Motilal Setalvad, learned Advocate for the Respondents contends that there is nothing to indicate that the Arya Samajis should be Hindus.	None
This argument however overlooks the basis tents of the sect in that it admits to membership only those Hindus who subscribe to the decalogue and its beliefs in the canons of Vedic interpretation laid down by Swami Dayanand but all outsiders who are nonHindus such as Muslims and Christians must undergo a ceremony of purification or Shudhi.	None
20.	None
The passages read above show beyond doubt that the Arya Samaj by rejecting the manifold absurdities found in Smrti and tradition and in seeking a basis in the early literature for a purer and more rational faith can be considered to be a religious minority, at any rate as part of the Hindu religious minority in the State of Punjab. 21.	None
It was also sought to be contended by the petitioners Advocate that they are a religious denomination for the purposes of protection under Article 26(a).	None
It is true that Mukherjea, J., as he then was in The Commissioner of Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras v. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Shirur Mutt (1954 SCR 1005 AIR 1954 SC 282 1954 SCJ 335 ) after referring to Oxford Dictionary for the meaning of religious denomination as a collection of individuals classed together under the same name  a religious sect or body having a common faith and organisation and designated by a distinctive name held that different sects or subcastes can certainly be called a religious denomination as it is designated by distinctive name  has a common faith and common spiritual organization.	None
This may be so but in the view we have taken that the Arya Samaj is a religious minority, we find it unnecessary to determine whether it is also a religious denomination, as it does not arise for consideration under Article 30 (1).	None
22.	None
Now coming to the question whether the Arya Samajis have a distinct script of their own byelaw 32 of their constitution shows that the proceeding of all meetings and subcommittees will have to be written in Arya Bhasha  in Hindi language and Devnagri character.	None
All Aryas and Arya Sabhasads should know Arya Bhasha, Hindi or Sanskrit.	None
The belief is that the name of the script Devnagri is derived from Deva and therefore has divine origin.	None
From what has been stated it is clear that the Arya Samajis have a distinct script of their own, namely Devnagri.	None
They are therefore entitled to invoke the right guaranteed under Article 29(1) because they are a section of citizens having a distinct script and under Article 30(1) because of their being a religious minority.	None
23.	None
It is now to be ascertained whether any of the provisions of the Act, statutes or Ordinances offend the guaranteed rights of the petitioners.	None
The petitioners contend that subsections (2) and (3) of Section 4 directly infringe the fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 29(1) and 30(1) of the Constitution.	None
Under these provisions the Arya Samaj through its educational institutions have the right to conserve its script, culture and its language.	None
24. Subsection (2) of the Act, it is submitted enacts a provision for making it imperative to study and conduct research on the life and teachings of Guru Nanak and their cultural and religious impact on Indian and World civilizations while subsection (3) contemplates the adopting of measure for the study of Punjabi language, literature and culture which provisions according to the petitioners directly aim at strangulating the growth of Hindi while encouraging the growth of Punjabi.	None
Their apprehension is that Punjabi with Gurmukhi script will be made the sole medium of instruction in the University and that all Colleges affiliated to this University may be forced to impart education through that medium.	None
25.	None
The State of Punjab in its counter denied that the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of Section 4 seek to strangulate the development and growth of Hindi language.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that there is nothing in these provisions which offends the religious susceptibilities of the petitioners nor can the provisions for the promotion of and research in Punjabi language, literature and culture in the State of Punjab, which has as its declared policy the adoption of Punjabi as the sole language of the Punjabispeaking area, be construed as offending the rights of the minorities.	Arguments of Respondent
26.	None
The second Respondent the University traversed the petitioners allegations on grounds similar to those taken by the State of Punjab except that it was further stated that Respondent 3 the University of Punjab has also set up a Guru Nanak Chair and that the Punjab Government has offered to set up Guru Nanak Chairs in the Universities of Calcutta, Dharwar, Madras, Kurukshetra, Bombay as also in the Khalsa College, Amritsar.	None
27.	None
Assuming for the moment that the Punjab Legislature had the competence to enact the Act, about which considerable argument was addressed before us, particularly in respect of the scope and ambit of Section 72 of the Reorganisation Act  subsection (2) and (3) of Section 4 do not in our view offend by themselves any of the rights of the petitioners either under Article 29(1) or Article 30(1) of the Constitution.	None
Subsections (2) and (3) of Section 4 are as follows Section 4.  	None
The University shall exercise the following power and perform the following duties (1) X X X X (2) To make provision for study and research on the life and teachings of Guru Nanak and their cultural and religious impact in the context of Indian and World Civilizations (3) To promote studies to provide for research in Punjabi language and literature and to undertake measures for the development of Punjabi language, literature and culture.	None
It will be seen from the language of subsection (2) that nowhere is there a mandate for compelling Colleges affiliated to it either to study the religious teachings of Guru Nanak or to adopt in any way the culture of the Sikhs.	None
28.	None
Guru Nanak is the founder of the Sikh religion.	None
His teachings were inspired by a need to synthesise the essentials of the Hindu and Mohamadan faith which were always irreconcilable, by preaching that in no essentials of faith did they differ.	None
His was intersely a monotheistic philosophy of the unity of God largely directed against idolatory hypocracy, distinction of castes, creeds and the pretentions of priestcraft.	None
He was an inspired soul from his very childhood, travelled widely and his pilgrimages extended to Mecca and Madina.	None
If the University makes provision for an academic study and research of the life and teachings of any saint it cannot on any reasonable view be considered to require Colleges affiliated to the University to compulsorily study his life and teachings or to do research in them.	None
The impugned provision would merely indicate that the University can institute courses of study or provide research facilities for any student of the University whether he belongs to the majority or the minority community to engage himself in such study or research but be it remembered that this study and research on the life and teachings of the Guru Nanak must be a study in relation to their culture and religious impact in the context of Indian and world civilizations which is mostly an academic and philosophical study.	None
29.	None
It is however contended that as the Guru Nanak University is wholly maintained out of the State funds the provision under Section 4(2) offends Article 28(1) which is not saved by clause (2) thereof.	None
The petitioners pointed out that Section 23 (1) of the act enjoins on the State Government to provide from time to time such amounts by way of grants for meeting the capital, recurring or other expenditure of the University as it may deem fit and at any rate require it to provide a minimum annual grant of Rs. 50 lakhs to the University for meeting its recurring expenditure, provided that if during any financial year the entire amount of the aforesaid grant is not utilized for meeting the recurring expenditure the unutilized balance may with the previous consent of the State Government be utilized for meeting capital expenditure of the University.	None
Neither the State Government nor the University in their counter denied this allegation and even in the counter filed during the course of the hearing by the State of Punjab nothing was stated to controvert the assertion that the University is wholly maintained out of State funds.	None
During the course of the arguments however learned Advocate appearing on behalf of the state and the University suggested that this was not so because the University gets income from affiliation fees and examination fees as such it cannot be said that the University is wholly maintained out of State funds.	None
We can only say that this was not a serious attempt to deny the averment.	None
The income from affiliation fees and the examination fees as the term fee itself indicates is something that is charged for rendering the service in respect of those two items which is a sort of quid pro quo and could hardly be said to be an income for the purposes of running the University.	None
30.	None
Even so the petitioners have still to make out that Section 4(2) implies that religious instruction will be given.	None
We think that such a contention is too remote and divorced from the object of the provision.	None
Religious instruction is that which is imparted for inculcating the tenets, the rituals, the observances, ceremonies and modes of worship of a particular set or denomination.	None
To provide for academic study of life and teaching or the philosophy and culture of any great saint of India in relation to or the impact on the Indian and world civilizations cannot be considered as making provision for religious instructions.	None
31.	None
Subsection (3) of section 4 also does not in our view transgress the guarantee under Article 29(1).	None
Whether one may like it or not, linguistic State in this country have come to stay.	None
The purpose and object of these linguistic states is to provide with grater facility the development of the people of that area educationally, socially and culturally, in the language of that region but while the State or the University has every right to provide for the education of the majority in the regional medium, it is subject to the restrictions contained in Articles 25 to 30.	None
Neither the University nor the State can provide for imparting education in a medium of instruction in a language and script which stifles the language and script of any section of the citizens.	None
Such a course will trespass on the rights of those sections of the citizens which have a distinct language or script and which they have a right to conserve through educational institutions of their own.	None
In our view Section 4(3) does not lend itself to the interpretation that the medium of instruction of all affiliated colleges has to be Punjabi.	None
The provision, as we construe it, is for the promotion of Punjabi studies and research in and the development of the Punjabi language, literature and culture which is far from saying that the University can under that provision compel the affiliated colleges particularly those of the minority to give instruction in the Punjabi language or in any way impede the right to conserve their language, script and culture.	None
32.	None
It is again contended that while provision is made in Section 4(2) and 4(3) for the study and research of the life and teachings of Guru Nanak and for the study of Punjabi language, script and literature, no similar provision is made for the study of religious Heads of Hindus or for the study of Hindi and Devnagri script though Hindus form a substantial portion of the population of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
These provisions therefore and discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.	None
This argument in our view is devoid of merit.	None
The State of Punjab is created as a unilingual State with Punjabi as its language and if provision is made for study of Punjabi language that does not furnish a ground for discrimination nor can the provision for study of the life and teachings of Guru Nanak afford any cause for complaint as in neither case as we have noticed, is there any compulsion on any person to undertake such studies nor is any of the communities prohibited from persuing studies in respect of either Hindi or of the life and teachings of any Hindu saint.	None
The facts of the case in our view do not attract Article 14.	None
33.	None
It is contended that the compulsory affiliation of the petitioners to the University affects their fundamental right of freedom of association as guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c), therefore the notification under Section 5(3) affiliating them to the University is bad.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also urged that since the words associated with and admitted to any privileges are used in Section 5 of the Act, it would mean that petitioners are compulsorily formed into an Association with the University.	None
This contention however is countered by the respondents who point out that the freedom of association under article 19(1)(c) implies association between citizens while in the case of the petitioners what is sought to be affected is an affiliation with the University which is a corporate body.	None
34.	None
The right to form an association implies that several individuals get together and form voluntarily an association with a common aim, legitimate purpose and having a community of interests.	None
It was sought to be suggested that the compulsory affiliation with the University affects the aims and objects of the association, as such its freedom is infringed.	None
There is in our view a fallacy in this argument which on earlier occasions had also been repelled.	None
35.	None
In the All India Bank Employees Association v. National Industrial Tribunal and Others, (1962 (2) SCR 269) it was observed that the right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c) does not carry with it a concomitant right that the Associations shall achieve their object such that any interference in such achievement by any law would be unconstitutional unless it could be justified under Article 19(4) is being in the interests of public order or morality.	None
The right under Article 19(1)(c) extends inter alia to the formation of an Association or Union.	None
36.	None
In Raghubar Dayal Jai Prakash v. Union of India and Others, (1963 (2) SCR 547)	None
it was held that if the statute imposes conditions subject to which alone recognition could be accorded or continued, it is a little difficult to see how the freedom to form the Association is affected unless, of course, that freedom implies or involves a guaranteed right to recognition also which it did not.	None
37.	None
A reference has been made to a recent case of Smt.	None
Damayanti Narang v. Union of India and Others, (1971 (1) SCC 678 ) that a compulsory affiliation by statute would interfere with the right of association.	None
This argument in our view is untenable because in that case Parliament passed a law under Entry 63 of List II of Schedule VII to the Constitution under which a Hindi Sammelan was to be constituted which was to consist of the first members of the Hindi Sammelan registered under the Societies Registration Act and all persons who become members thereof in accordance with the rules in that behalf.	None
This statutory Sammelan was constituted as a body corporate the first members of which were to consist of persons who immediately before the appointed day were life members of the Society, had been Presidents of the Society or were awarded the Mangla Prasad Paritoshik by the Society.	None
There were also other provisions by which the Hindi Sammelan Society, its constitution as well as its property was affected.	None
In those circumstances it was held that the Act in so far as it interferes with the composition of the Society in constituting the Sammelan violated the rights of the original members of the Society to form an association guaranteed under article 19(1)(c).	None
No such thing was intended or effected by Section 5 of the Act.	None
At any rate the D.A.V. College Trust and Management Society is not being interfered with, by any attempt to form an Association with the University.	None
We can see no infringement of article 19(1)(c).	None
38.	None
The next ground of attack is in respect of the statutes made in exercise of the powers conferred under subsection (1) of section 19 of the University Act which according to the petitioners interferes with the management of their institutions, as such violates Article 30(1) of the Constitution.	None
The relevant impugned statutes are contained in Chapter V relating to admission to colleges.	None
These are Sections 2(1)(a), 17 and 18 read with clause 1(2) and (3) which are as follows 1.	None
(1) X X X X 1.	None
(2) Colleges shall be of two types namely University Colleges and affiliated Colleges.	None
1. (3) The educational institutions and Colleges situated in the Districts of Amritsar, Jullundur, Gurdaspur and Kapurthala are deemed to be associated with and admitted to the privileges of the University with effect from 30th day of June 1970.	None
These institutions shall observe the conditions for admission to the privileges of the University failing which the rights conferred may be withdrawn.	None
2. (1)(a)	None
A college applying for admission to the privileges of the University shall send a letter of application to the Registrar and shall satisfy the Senate (a) that the College shall have a regularly constituted governing body consisting of not more than 20 persons approved by the Senate and including, among others, two representatives of the University and the Principal of the College exofficio Provided that the said conditions shall not apply in the case of colleges maintained by Government which shall however, have an Advisory Committee consisting of among others the principal of the college (exoffice) and two representatives of the University.	None
17.	None
The staff initially appointed shall be approved by the ViceChancellor.	None
All subsequent changes shall be reported to the University for ViceChancellors approval.	None
In the case of training institutions, the teacherpupil ratio shall not be less than 1 12.	None
NonGovernment colleges shall comply with the requirements laid down in the ordinance governing service and conduct of teachers in nonGovernment colleges as may be framed by the University.	None
18.	None
NonGovernment colleges shall comply with the requirements laid down in the ordinances governing service and conduct of teachers in nonGovernment colleges as may be framed by the University.	None
39.	None
It is contended that these provisions interfere with the petitioners in the management of their institutions, in that the Colleges are required to constitute a regular governing body for each of them of not more than 20 persons to be approved by the University Senate.	None
Of these two representatives of the University and the Principal of the College are to be exofficio members.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the petitioners the Managing Committee of their institution is composed of 24 members under the D.A.V. College Trust and Management Society registered under the Societies Registration Act (Act 21 of 1860).	None
It will be observed that under clause 1(3) if the petitioners do not comply with the requirements under Section 1(a)	None
their affiliation is liable to be withdrawn.	None
Similarly it is stated that Clause 17 also interferes with the petitioners right to administer their college as the appointment of all the staff has to be approved by ViceChancellor and that subsequent changes will also have to be reported to the University for ViceChancellors approval.	None
We have already held that the petitioners institutions are established by a religious minority and therefore under Article 30 this minority has the right to administer their educational institutions according to their choice, clauses 2(1)(a) and 17 of Chapter V in our view certainly interferes with that right.	None
40.	None
In the case of Kerala Education Bill (1959 SCR 995 AIR 1958 SC 956 1959 SCJ 321) dealing with Article 30(1)	None
this Court observed at page 1053	None
The key to the understanding of the true meaning and implication of the Article under consideration are the words of their own choice It is said that the dominant word is choice and the content of that Article is as wide as the choice of the particular minority community may make it.	None
The ambit of the rights conferred by Article 30(1) has therefore to be determined on a consideration of the matter from the points of view of the educational institutions themselves.	None
While so stating it was nonetheless observed that the constitutional right to administer an educational institution of their choice does not necessarily militate against the claim of the State to insist that in order to grant aid the State may prescribe reasonable regulations to ensure the excellence of the institution to be aided.	None
41.	None
Similarly in Rev. Sidhajbhai Sabhai and Others v. State of Bombay and Others, (1963 (3) SCR 837 AIR 1963 SC 540 (1963) 2 SCA 394) it was held that Unlike Article 19 the fundamental freedom under clause (1) of Article 30 is absolute in terms it is not made subject to any reasonable restrictions of the nature the fundamental freedoms enunciated in Article 19 may be subjected to.	None
All minorities, linguistic or religious have by Article 30(1) an absolute right to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice and any law or executive direction which seeks to infringe the substance of that right under Article 30(1) would to that extent be void.	None
This, however, is not to say that it is not open to the State to impose regulations upon the exercise of this right Regulation made in the true interests of efficiency of instruction, discipline, health, sanitation, morality, public order and the like may undoubtedly be imposed.	None
Such regulations are not restrictions on the substance of the right which is guaranteed they secure the proper functioning of the institution, in matters educational.	None
42.	None
We have already seen that in Re Father W. Proost and Others v. The State of Bihar and Others, (1969 (2) SCR 73 AIR 1969 SC 466 (1969) 1	None
SCJ 700) the provisions of Section 48(A) which required the selection of the teachers of all affiliated colleges including the colleges established by the minorities, to be made by the University Service Commission, was held to interfere with the rights of the petitioners in that case.	None
In that case, while the petition was pending in the Court, Section 48(A) was added to the Bihar State University Act whereby notwithstanding the provisions of Section 48(A) exemption was given to the minority institutions to make appointments with the approval of the Commission and the Syndicate, the petitioners claimed exemption under Section 48(B) and submitted that as an affiliated college established by a minority based on religion or language they are exempted from Section 48(A) and that if this petition was accepted they will withdraw the petition which had become superfluous.	None
Even this prayer was not acceded to by the State and consequently it was held that they were entitled to the exemption clauses.	None
This decision is not therefore an authority for the proposition that even the requirement that the staff of a minority education institution be appointed, dismissed or removed only with the approval of the University or the State does not infringe the right to administer the institution guaranteed under Article 30(1).	None
43.	None
In our view there is no possible justification for the provisions contained in Clauses 2(1)(a) and 17 of Chapter V of the statutes which decidedly interfere with the rights of management of the petitioners colleges.	None
These provisions cannot therefore be made as conditions of affiliation, the noncompliance of which would involve disaffiliation and consequently they will have to be struck done as offending Article 30(1).	Reasoning
44.	None
Clause 18 however in our view does not suffer from the same vice as Clause 17 because that provision in so far as it is applicable to the minority institution empowers the University to prescribe by regulations governing the service and conduct of teachers which is enacted in the larger interests of the institutions to ensure their efficiency and excellence.	Reasoning
It may for instance issue an ordinance in respect of age of superannuation or prescribe minimum qualifications for teachers to be employed by such institutions either generally or in particular subjects.	Reasoning
Uniformity in the conditions of service and conduct of teachers in all nonGovernment colleges would make for harmony and avoid frustration.	Reasoning
Of course while the power to make ordinances in respect of the matters referred to is unexceptional the nature of the infringement of the right, if any, under Article 30(1) will depend on the actual purpose and import of the ordinance when made and the manner in which it is likely to affect the administration of the educational institution, about which it is not possible now to predicate.	Reasoning
45.	None
There is then the larger question which has been urged at some length namely that having regard to Section 72 of the Reorganisation Act the State Legislature is not competent to enact Section 5 of the Act which empowers the State Government by notification to compulsorily disaffiliate from the Punjab University all colleges including the colleges of the minorities situated in the areas which are now in Punjab and affiliate them to the University.	None
Section 72 of the Reorganisation Act and section 5 of the Act are as follows Section 72(1).  	None
Save as otherwise expressly provide by the foregoing provisions of this part, where any body corporate constituted under a Central Act, State Act or provincial Act for the existing State of Punjab or any part thereof serves the needs of the successor States or has, by virtue of the provisions of Part II, became an interState body corporate, then the body corporate shall, on and from the appointed day, continue to function and operate in those areas in respect of which it was functioning and operating immediately before that day, subject to such directions as may from time to time be issued by the Central Government until other provision is made by law in respect of the said body corporate.	None
(2) Any direction issued by the Central Government under subsection (1) in respect of any such body corporate may include a direction that any law by which the said body corporate is governed shall, in its application to that body corporate, have effect, subject to such exceptions and modifications as may be specified in the direction.	None
(3) For the removal of doubt it is hereby declared that the provisions of this Section shall apply also to the Punjab University constituted under the Punjab University Act, 1947, the Punjab Agricultural University constituted under the Punjab Agricultural University Act, 1961 and the Board constituted under the provisions of Part III of the Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925.	None
(4) For the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this section in so far as it relates to the Punjab University and the Punjab Agricultural University referred to in subsection (3) the successor State shall make such grants as the Central Government may, from time to time, by order determine.	None
Section 5(1).  	None
The State Government may, by notification, specify the limits of the area in which the University shall exercise its powers and perform its duties.(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no educational institution beyond the limits of the area specified under subsection (1) shall be associated with or admitted to any privileges of the University.	None
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, any educational institution situated within the limits of the area specified under subsection (1) shall, with effect from such date as may be notified in this behalf by the State Government be deemed to be associated with and admitted to the privileges of the University and shall cease to be associated in any way with, or be admitted to any privileges of the Punjab University and different dates may be appointed for different institutions.	None
46.	None
The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of Section 72 of the Reorganisation act are similar to those contained in Section 109 of the states Reorganisation Act, 1956 except that for removal of doubts subsection (3) has specified the institutions named therein as being governed by subsections (1) and (2).	None
Subsection (4) is consequential on the two Universities being made subject to the said provisions by requiring the successor State to make such grants to them as the Central Government may from time to time by order determine.	None
47.	None
The State Government had by notification of March 16, under subsection (1) of section 5 of the Act specified the districts as the areas in which the Universities shall exercise its powers and perform its duties and under subsection (3) of the said Section, it further notified June 30, 1970 as the date from which the educational institutions situated within the limits of the areas so specified in the notification shall be deemed to be associated with and admitted to the privileges of the University.	None
48.	None
The contention of the petitioners in that since under Section 72 of the Reorganisation Act it is the Central Government which is vested with the power to issue directions in respect of the Punjab University or the Punjab Agricultural University and or to amend and alter the provisions of the Punjab University Act or the Punjab Agricultural University Act, the State Legislature is not competent to legislate in respect of the said University or Universities without the necessary directions of the Central Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is sought to be justified on the ground (a) that in respect of the Punjabi University the extension of jurisdiction of the University by a notification under the relevant provisions of the Punjabi University Act issued by the State Government, the Central Government had issued a direction disaffiliating the colleges situated in those areas which were affiliated to the Punjab University, (b) that as the Reorganisation of the State of Punjab itself involved various matters upon which the successor States may not be agreed Parliament by law had in exercise of the power vested in it, enacted provisions empowering the Central Government to give directions in the interests of both the States, which directions had the affect of making a change in the then existing law governing the corporate bodies till such time as both the State agreed.	None
Though it is submitted that this power is transitory nonetheless it is effective till such time as the Central Government in agreement with the States concerned permits them to legislate in respect of the body corporate by giving necessary directions in that behalf.	None
49.	None
On the other hand it is contended by the respondents inter alia (1) that under item 11 of list II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution education being a state subject the State Legislature alone and not parliament, is competent to legislate in respect of Universities, support being gathered for this submission from the provisions of Sections 88 and 89 of the Reorganisation Act under which the law in force immediately before the appointed day could be otherwise provided for, or altered, repealed or amended only by a competent Legislature which in the context is that Legislature which is competent to legislate under any of the entries in Lists I, II or under the concurrent List III of the Seventh Schedule (2) that the law referred to in subsection (1) of Section 72 of the states Reorganisation Act which could take away the power of the Central Government to give directions from time to time as may be necessary in respect of the functioning and operating of corporations including those in respect of the two Universities referred to in subsection (3) is the State law, as it could not have been the intention of Parliament to deprive the States of their legislative powers by means of a law made under Article 4 of to give effect to the reorganisation of the States by having recourse to the power to make supplemental, incidental and consequential provision (3) that Parliament itself understood that it has no power to legislate in respect of one of the two Universities namely the Punjab Agricultural University when it enacted the Haryana and Punjab Agricultural University Act 16 of 1970, pursuant to the resolution of the Legislatures of the States of Punjab and Haryana under clause (1) of Article 252 of the Constitution in which it was categorically stated, as is apparent from the resolution of the Legislature of Haryana before us, that as legislation had to be undertaken under Entries 11 and 32 of List II in the seventh Schedule and as Parliament has no power to make a law for the State except as provided under Articles 249 and 250 thereof it shall by law make provision for the dissolution of the aforesaid Punjab Agricultural University for setting up a separate Agricultural University for vesting the rights and liabilities of the University so dissolved in the University to be so set up and for all matters connected therewith or incidental thereto and (4) that in any case in a petition under Article 32 this Court cannot go into the question of legislative competence if the law that is impugned does not in any way affect the fundamental rights of the petitioners.	None
50.	None
We have already found that none of the provisions of the act offend any fundamental rights of the petitioners.	None
But it is contended on behalf of the petitioners that in a petition under Article 32 once it is alleged and a prima facie case is made out that the fundamental rights of a citizen are threatened or violated this Court is not only bound to entertain it for determining to what extent the allegation is valid but is also bound to go into the question, if raised, that the law under which it is alleged that his fundamental right is infringed is invalid on the ground of want of legislative competence.	None
There are two facets to the submission.	None
Firstly, whether ultimately any fundamental right in fact is threatened or violated, so long as a prima facie case of such a threat or violation is made out a petition under Article 32 must be entertained.	None
Secondly, once it is entertained irrespective of whether it is found ultimately that in fact no fundamental rights of the petitioners are invaded the vires of the legislation or the competence of the Legislature to enact the impugned legislation must be gone into and determined.	None
While the first proposition is valid, the second is not.	None
51.	None
Shri Tarkunde the learned Advocate for the respondents in Writ petitions Nos. 353 and 354 of 1970 which were heard immediately after these petitions has raised a contention similar to that raised in the second submission in support of which he referred to the case of Mohammad Yasin v. The town Area committee, Jalalabad and Another.	None
(1952 SCR 572 AIR 1952 SC 115 1952 SCJ 162 )	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think that this decision supports his contention because in that case it was held that in the absence of any valid law authorising the Town Committee to levy any fees otherwise than for the use of any immovable property vested in or entrusted to the management of the Town Committee such illegal imposition must undoubtedly operate as an illegal restraint and must infringe the unfettered right of the wholesale dealer to carry on his occupation, trade or business which is guaranteed to him by Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	None
In that case the levy on the petitioner as a wholesale dealer was held to be obviously ultra vires the powers of the Committee and therefore the byelaw under which such a fee was levied could not be said to constitute a valid law which alone may under Article 19(6) of the Constitution impose a restriction on the right conferred by Article 19 (1)(g).	None
It is, therefor, clear that as long as the petitioner makes out a prima facie case that his fundamental rights are affected or threatened he cannot be prevented from challenging that the law complained of which affects or invades those rights is invalid because of want of legislative competence.	None
52.	None
In Chiranjitlal Chowdhuri v. The Union of India and Others, (1950 SCR 869 AIR 1951 SC 41 1951 SCJ 29 ) Mukherjea, J. as he then was gave expression to a similar view as to the maintainability of a petition under Article 32.	None
At page 899 he said To make out a case under this Article, it is incumbent upon the petitioner to establish not merely that the law complained of is beyond the competence of the particular Legislature as not being covered by any of the items in the legislative lists, but that it affects or invades his fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution, of which he could seek enforcement by an appropriate writ or order.	None
53.	None
It is apparent therefore that the validity or the invalidity of the impugned law, on the ground of legislative competence should purport to infringe that fundamental rights of the petitioner as a necessary condition of its being adjudicated.	None
But if in fact the law does not, even on the assumption that it is valid, infringe and fundamental rights, this Court will not decide that question in a petition under Article 32.	Reasoning
The reason for it is obvious, namely that no petition under Article 32, will be entertained if fundamental rights are not affected and if the impugned law does not affect the fundamental rights it would be contrary to this principle to determine whether that law in fact has legislative competence or not.	Reasoning
54.	None
Gajendragadkar, J. as he then was, in Khyerbari Tea Co. Ltd., and Another v. State of Assam, (1964 (5) SCR 975 AIR 1964 SC 925 (1964) 2 SCA 317) while dealing with a challenge to the validity of Section 24 of the Assam Taxation on Goods Act, 1961 said at page 1009 There may be some force in this contention, but we do not see how the petitioners can be permitted to challenge the validity of Section 24 when it is not alleged by them that any action is proposed to be taken against them under the said Section.	None
In dealing with the petition under Article 32 this Court would naturally confine the petitioners to the provisions of the impugned Act by which their fundamental rights are either affected or threatened.	None
That is why we are not satisfied that it is necessary to decide the question about the validity of Section 24 in the present proceeding.	None
55.	None
In Saghir Ahmad v. State of U. P. (1955 SCR 707 at 726 AIR 1954 SC 728 1954 SCJ 819 )	None
it was held that when the enactment on the face of it is found to violate the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution it must be held to be invalid unless those who support the legislation can bring it within the purview of the exception laid down in Clause 6 of the Article but if the respondents did not place any materials before the Court to establish that the legislation comes within the permissible limits of Clause 6, it is surely not for the appellants to prove negatively that the legislation was not reasonable and was not conducive to the welfare of the community.	None
There are other such instances where this Court has drawn an initial presumption of constitutionality when a statute was impugned as being unconstitutional.	None
56.	None
This being the legal position in our view when once an impugned law does not affect the fundamental rights of the petitioners as in this case we have founded it to be so, it is not necessary to go into the question of legislative competence or to decide on the validity of Section 5. 57.	None
We have therefore no hesitation in holding that the notification under which the colleges have been affiliated to the Universities is legally valid and from the date specified therein petitioners colleges cease to be affiliated to the Punjab University.	Reasoning
In the result these petitions are allowed to the extent that Clause 2(1)(a) and Clause 17 of Chapter V of the statutes are struck down as affecting the fundamental rights of the petitioners, but in the circumstances without costs.	Decision
