 Arijit Pasayat, J. The scope and ambit of Section 49(2) of the Prevention of Terrorist Act, 2002 (in short the POTA) fall for consideration in this appeal.	Issue
Since the legal issue involved in this appeal relates to the question as to during what period prayer for police custody can be made, brief reference to the factual aspects is sufficient.	None
On 27.2.2002 some persons died at Godhra in the State of Gujarat and several persons were injured when allegedly a train was attacked and set ablaze.	Facts
The first information report was lodged and various persons were arrested in connection with the alleged occurrence.	Facts
Initially, the case was registered for alleged commission of offences punishable under various provisions of Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the IPC), Indian Railways Act, 1989 (in short the Railways Act) and the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984 (in short the Public Property Act) read with Section 135 of the Bombay Police Act, 1951 (in short the Bombay Act).	Facts
Subsequently, an application was filed in the Court of Judicial Magistrate, First Class, Railway seeking addition of offences punishable under Section 3(1)(a), (b) and 3(2) of the POTA.	Facts
The appellant was arrested on 6.2.2003.	Facts
He was remanded to police custody till 11.2.2003 and subsequently the police custody was extended till 13.2.2003.	Facts
As the application for addition of offences covered by POTA was not pressed earlier, a subsequent application was filed and the Additional Sessions Judge accepted the prayer.	Facts
As an application for extending the police remand was rejected a Criminal Revision was filed before the Sessions Judge, Panchmahal, Godhra.	Facts
The Special Court was constituted under Section 23 of the POTA on 6.3.2003.	Facts
Sanction order as required under Section 50 of POTA was also passed so far as the appellant is concerned.	Facts
The revision application which was filed questioning rejection of the prayer for police custody was withdrawn and an application in terms of Section 49(2)(b) of POTA was filed on 24.4.2003.	Facts
The prayer was accepted by the learned Special Judge, POTA.	Facts
Questioning legality of the said order, an appeal under Section 34(1) of POTA was filed before the High Court of Gujarat which came to be dismissed by the impugned judgment.	Facts
Mr. Colin Gonsalves, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that true import of Section 49(2) has not been kept in view by the Special Court and High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
The same is not intended to give unbridled power to the investigating agency to seek police custody.	Arguments of Petitioner
That would negate the statutory limit provided in Section 167 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short the Code).	None
For harmonizing construction of the provisions it has to be held that Section 49(2)(b) has application only for the period of 30 days and not beyond it.	None
If the construction put by the High Court is accepted, it would mean that for a period slightly less than 180 days the accused can be in police custody which can never be the legislative intent.	None
Section 49(2)(b) is at the most a procedural provision intended to aid the operation of Section 167(2) of the Code and it cannot be given an extended meaning which would frustrate the legislative intent to restrict the period of police custody.	None
Great emphasis is laid on the expression in police custody for a term not exceeding 15 days in the whole in subsection (2) of Section 167 and otherwise than in the custody of the police, beyond the period of 15 days in the first proviso of subsection (2) of Section 167.	None
It is submitted that in Section 49(2)(a) the period of 15 days in Section 167 (2) of the Code has been substituted to be 30 days.	None
Therefore, according to learned counsel for the appellant, Section 49(2)(b) can be resorted to only during the period of 30 days.	None
In response, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that if the interpretation suggested by learned counsel for the appellant is accepted it would make the second proviso to Section 49(2)(b) redundant in the sense that even if beyond the period of 30 days the custody of the accused is judicial custody yet the investigating officer will have no scope to seek for police custody beyond the 30 days period.	Arguments of Respondent
The same can never be the legislative intent.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to appreciate the rival submissions, the provisions of Section 167(2) of the Code and Section 49(2)(b) of POTA need to be extracted.	None
Section 167(2) along with its proviso reads as follows Section 167(2)	None
The Magistrate to whom an accused person is forwarded under this section may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try the case, from time to time, authorize the detention of the accused in such custody as such Magistrate thinks fit, a term not exceeding fifteen days in the whole and if he has n jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial, and considers further detention unnecessary, he may order the accused to be forwarded to a Magistrate having such jurisdiction Provided that (a) the Magistrate may authorize the detention of the accused person, otherwise than in the custody of the police, beyond the period of 15 days, if he is satisfied that adequate grounds exist for doing so, but no Magistrate shall authorize the detention of the accused person in custody under this paragraph for a total period exceeding ninety days, where the investigation relates to an offence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term not less than ten years sixty days, where the investigation relates to any other offence, and, on the expiry of the said period of ninety days, or sixty days, as the case may be, the accused person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish bail, and every person released on bail under this subsection shall be deemed to be released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter	None
No magistrate shall authorize detention in any custody under this section unless the accused is produced before him No Magistrate of the second class, not specially empowered in this behalf by the High Court, shall authorize detention in the custody of the police.	None
Explanation I For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that, notwithstanding the expiry of the period specified in paragraph (a), the accused shall be detained in custody so long as he does not furnish bail.	None
Explanation II	None
If any question arises whether an accused person was produced before the Magistrate as required under paragraph (b), the production of the accused person may be proved by his signature on the order authorizing detention.	None
Section 49(2) of POTA reads as follows Section 49(2) Section 167 of the Code shall apply in relation to a case involving an offence punishable under this Act subject to the modification that in subsection (2), (a) the references to fifteen days, ninety days and sixty days, wherever they occur, shall be construed as references to thirty days, ninety days and ninety days, respectively, and (b) after the proviso, the following provisos shall be inserted, namely Provided further that if it is not possible to complete the investigation within the said period of ninety days, the Special Court shall extend the said period up to one hundred and eighty days, on the report of the Public Prosecutor indicating the progress of the investigation and the specific reasons for the detention of the accused beyond the said period of ninety days Provided also that if the police officer making the investigating under this Act, requests, for the purposes of investigation, for police custody from judicial custody of any person from judicial custody, he shall file an affidavit that the reasons for doing so and shall also explain the delay, if any, for requesting such police custody.	None
If the arguments of learned counsel for the appellant is accepted it would mean that what is specifically provided in Section 49(2)(b) would be controlled by Section 167(2) of the Code.	None
The normal function of a proviso is to except something out of the enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be within the purview of the enactment.	None
As was stated in Mullins vs. Treasurer of Survey (1880) (5) QBD 170, (referred to in Shah Bhojraj Kuverji Oil Mills and Ginning Factory vs. Subhash Chandra Yograj Sinha (AIR 1961 SC 1596 ) and Calcutta Tramways Co. Ltd. vs. Corporation of Calcutta (AIR 1965 SC 1728 ) when one finds a proviso to a section the natural presumption is that, but for the proviso, the enacting part of the section would have included the subject matter of the proviso.	None
The proper function of a proviso is to except and to deal with a case which would otherwise fall within the general language of the main enactment and its effect is confined to that case.	None
It is a qualification of the proceeding enactment which is expressed in terms too general to be quite accurate.	None
As a general rule, a proviso is added to an enactment to qualify or create an exception to what is in the enactment and ordinarily, a proviso is not interpreted as stating a general rule.	None
If the language of the enacting part of the statute does not contain the provisions which are said to occur in it you cannot derive these provisions by implication from a proviso.	None
Said Lord Watson in West Derby Union vs. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. (1897)	None
AC 647 (HL).	None
Normally, a proviso does not travel beyond the provision to which it is a proviso.	None
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other.	None
(See A.N. Sehgal and others vs. Raje Ram Sheoram and others (AIR 1991 SC 1406 ), Tribhovandas Haribhai Tamboli vs. Gujarat Revenue Tribunal and others (AIR 1991 SC 1538 ) and Kerala State Housing Board and others vs. Ramapriya Hotels (P) Ltd. and others (1994 (5) SCC 672 ).	None
This word (proviso) hath divers operations.	None
Sometimes it worketh a qualification or limitation sometime a condition and sometime a covenant (Coke upon Littleton 18th Edition, 146).	None
If in a deed an earlier clause is followed by a later clause which destroys altogether the obligation created by the earlier clause, the later clause is to be rejected as repugnant, and the earlier clause prevails .	None
But if the later clause does not destroy but only qualifies the earlier, then the two are to be read together and effect is to be given to the intention of the parties as disclosed by the deed as a whole (per Lord Wrenbury in Forbes vs. Git (1922) 1 A.C. 256).	None
A statutory proviso is something engrafted on a preceding enactment (R. vs. Taunton, St James, 9 B. C. 836).	None
The ordinary and proper function of a proviso coming after a general enactment is to limit that general enactment in certain instances (per Lord Esher in Re Barker, 25 Q.B.D. 285).	None
A proviso to a section cannot be used to import into the enacting part something which is not there, but where the enacting part is susceptible to several possible meanings it may be controlled by the proviso (See Jennings vs. Kelly (1940) A.C. 206).	None
The above position was noted in Ali M.K. others vs. State of Kerala and others (2003) (4) SCALE 197 ).	None
It is well settled principle in law that the Court cannot read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and unambiguous.	Reasoning
A statute is an edict of the Legislature.	Reasoning
The language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of legislative intent.	Reasoning
Words and phrases are symbols that stimulate mental references to referents.	None
The object of interpreting a statute is to ascertain the intention of the Legislature enacting it.	None
(See Institute of Chartered Accountants of India vs. M s. Price Waterhouse and Anr.	None
(AIR 1998 SC 74 )	None
The intention of the Legislature is primarily to be gathered from the language used, which means that attention should be paid to what has been said as also to what has not been said.	None
As a consequence, a construction which requires for its support, addition or substitution of words or which results in rejection of words as meaningless has to be avoided.	None
As observed in Crawford vs. Spooner (1846 (6) Moore PC1), Courts, cannot aid the Legislatures defective phrasing of an Act, we cannot add or mend, any by construction made up deficiencies which are left there.	None
(See The State of Gujarat and others vs. Dilipbhai Nathjibhai Patel and Anr.	None
(JT 1998 (2) SCC 253).	None
It is contrary to all rules of construction to read words into an Act unless it is absolutely necessary to do so.	None
(See Stock vs. Frank Jones (Tiptan) Ltd. (1978 (1) All ER 948) (HL).	None
Rules of interpretation do not permit Courts to do so, unless the provision as it stands is meaningless or of doubtful meaning.	None
Courts are not entitled to read words into an Act of Parliament unless clear reason for it is to be found within the four corners of the Act itself.	None
(Per Lord Loreburn L.C. in Vickers Sons and Maxim Ltd. vs. Evans (1910)	None
AC 445 (HL), Quoted in Jamma Masjid, Mercara vs. Kodimaniandra Deviah and others (AIR 1962 SC 847 ).	None
The question is not what may be supposed and has been intended but what has been said.	None
Statutes should be construed not as theorems of Euclid.	None
Judge Learned Hand said, but words must be construed with some imagination of the purposes which lie behind them.	None
(See Lenigh Valley Coal Co. vs. Yensavage 218) FR 547).	None
The view was reiterated in Union of India and others vs. Filip Tiago De Gama and Vedem Vasco De Gama (AIR 1990 SC 981 ).	None
In Dr. R. VEnkatchalam and others etc. vs. Dy. Transport Commissioner and others etc.	None
(AIR 1977 SC 842 ), it was observed that Courts must avoid the danger of a priori determination of the meaning of a provision based on their own preconceived notions of ideological structure or scheme into which the provision to be interpreted is somewhat fitted.	None
They are not entitled to usurp legislative function under the disguise of interpretation.	None
While interpreting a provision the Court only interprets the law and cannot legislate it.	Reasoning
If a provision of law is misused and subjected to the abuse of process of law, it is for the legislature to amend, modify or repeal it, if deemed necessary.	Reasoning
(See Commissioner of Sales Tax, M.P. vs. Popular Trading Company, Ujjain (2000(5) SCC 515).	None
The legislative casus omissus cannot be supplied by judicial interpretative process.	None
Two principles of construction  one relating to casus omissus and the other in regard to reading the statute as a whole  appear to be well settled.	Reasoning
Under the first principle a casus omissus cannot be supplied by the Court except in the case of clear necessity and when reason for it is found in the four corners of the statute itself but at the same time a casus omissus should not be readily inferred and for that purpose all the parts of a statute or section must be construed together and every clause of a section should be construed with reference to the context and other clauses thereof so that the construction to be put on a particular provision makes a consistent enactment of the whole statute.	Reasoning
This would be more so if literal construction of a particular clause leads to manifestly absurd or anomalous results which could not have been intended by the Legislature.	None
An intention to produce an unreasonable result, said Danackwerts, L.J. in Artemiou vs. Procopiou (1966 (1) QB 878), is not to be imputed to a statute if there is some other construction available.	None
Where to apply words literally would defeat the obvious intention of the legislature and produce a wholly unreasonable result we must do some violence to the words and so achieve that obvious intention and produce a rational construction.	None
(Per Lord Reid in Luke vs. IRC (1966 AC 557) where at p. 577 he also observed this is not a new problem, though our standard of drafting is such that it rarely emerges.	None
It is then true that, when the words of a law extend not to an inconvenience rarely happening, but due to those which often happen, it is good reason not to strain the words further than they reach, by saying it is casus omissus and that the law intended quae frequentius accident.	Reasoning
But, on the other hand, it is no reason, when the words of a law do enough extend to an inconvenience seldom happening, that they should not extend to it as well as if it happened more frequently, because it happens but seldom (See Fenton vs. Hampton 11 Moore, P.C. 345).	Reasoning
A casus omissus ought not to be created by interpretation, save in some case of strong necessity.	None
Where, however, a casus omissus does really occur, either through the inadvertence of the legislature, or on the principle quod semel aut bis existit proetereunt legislators, the rule is that the particular case, thus left unprovided for, must be disposed of according to the law as it existed before such statute  Casus omissus et oblivioni datus dispositioni communis juris relinquitur a casus omissus, observed Buller, J. in Jones vs. Smart (1 T.R. 52), can in no case be supplied by a court of law, for that would be to make laws.	None
The golden rule for construing wills, statutes, and, in fact, all written instruments has been thus stated The grammatical and ordinary sense of the words is to be adhered to unless that would lead to some absurdity or some repugnance or inconsistency with the rest of the instrument, in which case the grammatical and ordinary sense of the words may be modified, so as to avoid that absurdity and inconsistency, but no further (See Grey vs. Pearson 6 H.L. Cas 61).	Reasoning
The latter part of this golden rule must, however, be applied with much caution.	Reasoning
if, remarked Jervis, C.J., the precise words used are plain and unambiguous in our judgment, we are bound to construe them in their ordinary sense, even though it lead, in our view of the case, to an absurdity or manifest injustice.	Reasoning
Words may be modified or varied where their import is doubtful or obscure.	Reasoning
But we assume the functions of legislators when we depart from the ordinary meaning of the precise words used, merely because we see, or fancy we see, an absurdity or manifest injustice from an adherence to their literal meaning (See Abley vs. Dale 11, C.B. 378).	Reasoning
At this juncture, it would be necessary to take note of a maxim Ad ea quae frequentius accidunt jura adaptantur	None
(The laws are adapted to those cases which more frequently occur).	None
One thing which is specifically to be noted here is that the proviso inserted by Section 49(2)(b) of POTA is in relation to the proviso to Section 167(2) of the Code and not in respect of Section 167(2).	Reasoning
Therefore, what is introduced by way of an exception by Section 49(2)(b) of POTA is in relation to the proviso to Section 167(2)(b).	Reasoning
That being the position, the interpretation suggested by learned counsel for the appellant cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
It is to be noted that the acceptance of application for police custody when an accused is in judicial custody is not a matter of course.	Reasoning
Section 49(2)(b) provides inbuilt safeguards against its misuse by mandating filing of an affidavit by the investigating officer to justify the prayer and in an appropriate case the reason for delayed motion.	Reasoning
Special Judge before whom such an application is made has to consider the prayer in its proper perspective and in accordance with law keeping in view the purpose for which the POTA was enacted, the reasons and or explanation offered and pass necessary order.	Reasoning
Therefore, the apprehension of learned counsel for appellant that there is likelihood of misuse of the provision is without substance.	Reasoning
In any event, that cannot be a ground to give an extended meaning to the provision in the manner suggested by the learned counsel for the appellant.	Reasoning
The appeal is sans merit and deserves dismissal, which we direct.	Decision
