 JAYACHANDRA REDDY, J. There are four appellants (original accused Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 7).	None
All of them were convicted u Ss. 302 and 302 read with 34.	Issue
I.P.C. and sentenced to imprisonment for life.	Issue
They were further convicted under S. 25 and S. 27 of the Arms Act and sentenced to one years R.I. on each count.	Issue
The sentences were directed to run concurrently.	Issue
The appeal preferred by them was dismissed by the High Court.	Issue
Hence this appeal.	Issue
The prosecution case is as follows2.	Facts
Milkha Singh is one of the deceased in the case.	Facts
His paternal aunt was the wife of Phuman Singh.	Facts
When the deceased Milkha Singh was young he lost his father about 15 years prior to the present occurrence.	Facts
On compassionate grounds Phuman Singh used to help Milkha Singh in managing the properties.	Facts
This went on smoothly for some time.	Facts
It is alleged that Phuman Singh, his sons and their close relations became greedy and dishonestly ousted the deceased, Milkha Singh, his mother and his grandmother from the land as well as from the farmhouse.	Facts
The deceased Milkha Singh shifted to the village of his fatherinlaw and began residing there.	None
He launched proceedings against Phuman Singh and his three sons Jarnail Singh, A1, Balbir Singh, A2 and Amrik Singh, A3 and succeeded in getting order of eviction.	Facts
On some of the lands crops were standing, in respect of which on 18th January, 1976 the deceased Milkha Singh paid compensation and got the possession of the vacant land.	Facts
On this the accused party was aggrieved against Milkha Singh, the deceased.	Facts
On 24th January, 1976 the deceased Milkha Singh went to his field at about 630 a.m.	None
At the relevant time Assa Singh, P.W. 5, Gurdial Singh, P.W. 4, Kanaj Singh, P.W. 7, Bakhtawar Singh and Jaswant Singh, another deceased in the case, were in the company of the deceased Milkha Singh for harvesting the wheat crop.	Facts
It is alleged that the three accused (A1 to A3) sons of Phuman Singh and his other relations A4 to A9 variously armed came on the scene.	Facts
A1 Jarnail Singh who was armed with a rifle hurled a lalkara at Milkha Singh the deceased and his companions and simultaneously fired a shot hitting Milkha Singh on his left leg.	Facts
A3 Amrik Singh fired a similar shot from his rifle which caused an injury on the left leg of Milkha Singh as a result of which he fell down.	Facts
On this Jaswant Singh, the other deceased requested the accused not to fire.	Facts
A1 Jarnail Singh fired another shot from his rifle hitting Jaswant Singh on his left shoulder as a result of which Jaswant Singh died on the spot.	Facts
P.W. 5 Assa Singh and P.W. 7 Kanaj Singh who had also rifles used them in their selfdefence while firing shots towards the accused.	Facts
The accused again returned the fire.	Facts
After this the accused went to the farmhouse belonging to Milkha Singh, the deceased.	None
From there again they fired some shots towards complainant Gurdial Singh, P.W. 4 and others.	Facts
P.W. 4 carried the injured Milkha, Singh to his house where his mother and grandmother were present.	Facts
P.W. 4 after apprising them about the occurrence left for the Police Station	Facts
and	Facts
lodged a report at about 800 a.m. which was recorded by A.S.I. Ajit Singh, P.W. 14.	None
He registered the crime, took a posse of constables and went to the spot along with P.W. 4 and reached the same at about 930 a.m.	Facts
He found that the accused were still busy firing shots from the farmhouse of Milkha Singh.	Facts
P.W. 13 divided the police contingent into three segments and surrounded the accused and after some exchange of fire arrested the accused and seized the weapons.	Facts
At the time of arrest he found that accused Kulwant Singh (A7) was having some marks of injuries and he was sent for medical examination.	Facts
P.W. 14 found the dead body of Jaswant Singh lying in the field.	Facts
He prepared the necessary panchnama and seized number of empty cartridges.	Facts
The dead body of Jaswant Singh was despatched for postmortem.	None
P.W. 3 the Doctor, examined Milkha Singh the deceased at about 1130 a.m. at the Primary Health Centre, Sirhali.	None
He found the pulse and blood pressure weak and referred the injured Milkha Singh to the General Hospital, Amritsar.	Facts
P.W. 3 also examined Kulwant Singh, A7 and found two lacerated wounds caused by gunshots and he was also referred to the General Hospital, Amritsar.	Facts
He also examined A1 and on his person he found two abrasions and two contusions which were the result of a blunt weapon.	Facts
Likewise he found some injuries on A3 Amrik Singh which were all abrasions and simple in nature.	Facts
Milkha Singh died later.	Facts
P.W. 2 conducted the postmortem on 25476.	None
He found four lacerated wounds and opined that the death was due to shock and haemorrhage as a result of those injuries which were caused by gunshots.	Facts
After completion of the investigation the chargesheet was laid.	None
The accused pleaded not guilty.	None
A1, however, stated that Kulwant Singh, A7 is his brotherinlaw and used to visit his village and a day prior to the present occurrence A7 came to his farmhouse.	None
A7 was having his rifle issued by the Home Guards Department.	None
A1 further stated that he and his father were in possession of the farmhouse since they had built it.	None
He and Amrik Singh, A3 slept outside the farmhouse (behak) whereas Kulwant Singh, A7 slept at the roof of the farmhouse with his rifle.	Facts
At about 6/7 a.m.	Facts
Jaswant Singh armed with stengun and Milkha Singh armed with rifle came there and asked him and Amrik Singh, A3 to vacate the farmhouse and they began to be labour him and Amrik Singh, A3 with the butts of the stengun and rifle.	None
A1 raised an alarm.	None
A3 then stood up and pointed his rifle against them.	None
Thereupon the two deceased persons took positions and began to fire towards Kulwant Singh, A7 with their respective weapons and then A7 fired in selfdefence.	Facts
The two deceased persons received injuries and A7 also received injuries.	None
Jaswant Singh died on the spot and injured Milkha Singh was removed.	Facts
The police came and detained him in the farmhouse.	None
A1 further stated that he filed an appeal against the order of ejectment passed by the S.D.O. Taran Taran.	None
But he has never been dispossessed and no possession was delivered to anybody of the land in his possession and police sided with the opposite party and fabricated a false case against him.	Facts
The same statement was adopted by Amrik Singh, A3, Kulwant Singh, A7 and other accused.	None
From the above it can be seen that the place and time of occurrence are not in dispute.	None
The presence of appellants and the witnesses cannot also be in doubt.	Facts
The only question that arises for consideration is as to who were the aggressors.	Facts
The trial court after considering the orders passed by the civil court and the other circumstances held that the accused were the aggressors.	Facts
The trial court, however, acquitted accused Nos. 4, 5, 6, 8 and 9 but convicted A1 Jarnail Singh for committing the murder of Jaswant Singh and sentenced him to imprisonment for life.	Facts
It also convicted A1 Jarnail Singh and A3 Amrik Singh under Ss. 302/34, I.P.C. and sentenced each of them to undergo imprisonment for life.	Facts
A2 and A7 were convicted under Ss. 302/34, IPC in respect of both the murders on the ground that they were present during the first part of the occurrence and they were sentenced to imprisonment for life.	None
All of them were also convicted under Ss. 25 and 27 of the Arms Act as mentioned above.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the appeal filed by them confirming the findings of the trial court.	Facts
In this appeal, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that A1, A3 and A7 also had injuries and the plea set up by A1 that they fired in selfdefence ought to have been accepted.	None
As mentioned above both the courts below held that the accused were the aggressors.	None
The crucial point of possession of land in question was considered by both the courts below and it was held in favour of the prosecution.	None
It is a common ground that Milkha Singh obtained and eviction order on 31st December, 1975 against the accused.	None
It is also a common ground that against the said eviction order in the appeal preferred by the appellant the Collector on 5176 passed the stay orders.	None
But before that Milkha Singh had taken out the execution proceedings.	None
On 15176 he sought the delivery of the land and according to the prosecution the execution thereto was carried by P.W. 11 Field Kanungo and accordingly Milkha Singh got actual possession of the land on 18176.	None
The defence, however, questioned the authenticity of the execution proceedings contending that it was only a paper delivery and that the accused were never dispossessed.	None
The fact remains that on 21476 the appeal filed by the accused persons was allowed and the orders of eviction were recalled.	None
The occurrence their possession was not disturbed, the case of the prosecution is that they took possession on 18176.	None
It is in this background that both the court below decided that Milkha Singh, the deceased was in possession at the time of the occurrence.	None
From the various orders of the revenue authorities mentioned above it is clear that there was a scramble for possession.	None
The fact remains that ultimately the appeal preferred by the accused was allowed on 21476.	None
The said proceedings however would show that Milkha Singh was put in possession on 18176.	None
Therefore it stands to reason that the accused having succeeded in appeal went to the land to take back the delivery.	None
Learned counsel for the State submitted that the accused had no right to take the forcible possession and ought to have a recourse to the civil authorities for restitution of the possession.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the appellants, however, submitted that the appellants having succeeded in the appeal, had gone to the field with a view to ask the prosecution party to vacate the premises.	Arguments of Petitioner
That by itself does not render them to be aggressors for the purpose of denying them the benefit of right of selfdefence.	None
After careful consideration of the facts and circumstances of this case, we find it difficult to accept this contention.	Reasoning
Both the courts below have rightly held that the accused already having won the appeal, tried to take law into their own hands in order to oust Milkha Singh, the deceased by show and use of force and take forcible possession of the land.	Reasoning
The evidence of the eyewitnesses amply establishes the same.	None
Regarding the injuries found on the accused Nos. 1, 3 and 7, P.Ws. 4, 5 and 7 have consistently deposed that P.Ws. 5 and 7 in selfdefence shot at the accused and caused those injuries.	Reasoning
There is absolutely no doubt about this aspect of the prosecution case.	Reasoning
The presence of accused Nos. 1, 3 and 7 is not in dispute and their participation in the occurrence also cannot be I doubted.	Reasoning
So far as Balbir Singh, A2 is concerned, in our view, his case is on the same footing as rest of the acquitted accused.	Reasoning
No doubt the prosecution witnesses have stated that he was armed with a stengun and was present in the company of the other accused.	Reasoning
But he did not cause any injury to anybody nor there is cogent evidence to show that he used the stengun.	None
Out of the three main witnesses, only P.W. 4 deposed that Balbir Singh, A2 also fired shots but he also deposed that Nirmal Singh, acquitted accused also fired from his firearm and in general way he has stated that the accused fired more shots from the roof top of the behak (farmhouse) later.	Reasoning
P.Ws. 5 and 7, however, did not say that Balbir Singh, A2 fired.	Reasoning
The learned trial Judge convicted him on the sole ground that he was later arrested at the scene of occurrence and at that time he was found in the possession of stengun.	None
In this context, we have to bear in mind that, according to the prosecution, when the police arrived, the firing was going on and several people were present.	None
This was the second part of the occurrence and according to the prosecution during this part there was an exchange of fire between the police party and the people gathered there.	Reasoning
Regarding the second part of the occurrence, the courts below were not prepared to accept this story.	Reasoning
That being the case, the case of Balbir Singh, A2 is not in any way different from that of the acquitted accused because according to the prosecution itself, some of the acquitted persons, also were armed with firearms.	Reasoning
They were acquitted on the ground that their participation was not proved.	None
Applying the same test, we think it is not safe to convict Balbir Singh, A2.	Reasoning
In the result convictions and sentences awarded against Balbir Singh, A2 are set aside.	None
If he is on bail, his bail bonds shall stand cancelled.	Decision
The convictions and sentences passed against other accused namely A1, A3 and A7 are confirmed.	Decision
Accordingly the appeal is allowed so far as A2 is concerned and dismissed as against A1, A3 and A7Order accordingly.	None
