 Dr. Mukundakam Sharma, J. This criminal appeal is filed by the State of Rajasthan being aggrieved by the judgment and order passed by the Rajasthan High Court on 18.07.2001 acquitting the respondent  accused from the charges under Sections 302 and 394 of the Indian Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as the IPC).	Issue
The High Court acquitted the respondent of all the charges by setting aside the judgment and order of conviction passed against the accused by the trial court.	Issue
Before discussing rival contentions of the parties, it would be necessary to set out certain facts leading to the filing of the first information report against the respondent under Sections 302 and 394 of the IPC.	None
On 12.08.1993, Khushal Singh (PW21), who was the then S.H.O. of the police station, Bassi received an information on wireless that someone by killing and also amputating the feet of a lady has taken away her silver anklets and that her dead body was lying near village, Kuthada.	Facts
On receiving the aforesaid information, the SHO alongwith the police party rushed to the village, Kuthada where Sita Ram S o	Facts
Bhagwan Sahai submitted a written report, Exhibit P7, on which he made an endorsement.	Facts
On the basis of the aforesaid written report the police registered a case under FIR No. 302 of 1993 under Sections 302 and 394 of the IPC.	Facts
On 13.08.2001 after registration of the said case, police started investigation.	Facts
During investigation, PW21 prepared an inquest report of deceased Guli Devi, which is exhibited as Exhibit P8.	Facts
Sumer Singh (PW19), Circle Officer inspected the site on 13.08.1993 and prepared the site plan.	Facts
He also took into possession the blood smeared clothes of the deceased, blood smeared soil, a cement piece of floor of kheli having bloodstains, one strap of wrist watch  Exhibit P5, one lathi and one pair of shoe  	Facts
Exhibit P6.	Facts
He also recorded the statements of Smt.	Facts
Mulli Devi, Ram Dayal, Gopal, Sanjay, Sita Ram, Mathura, Babu Lal, Smt.	Facts
Chotta, Ramrai, Rameshwar and Ganesh under Section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code (for short the Cr.P.C).	Facts
The police thereafter went to Uttar Pradesh in search of accused Naresh and apprehended him in the village Pahadi, District Banda (U.P.) and brought and produced him before the SHO, Bassi, who in turn arrested him.	Facts
It is alleged that Naresh on 20.01.1994 gave information, Exhibit P17, under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act for the recovery of ornaments of deceased Guli Devi.	Facts
It is also alleged that on the basis of the aforesaid information, PW17, recovered a pair of silver anklets of feet, one pair of silver bracelets of hands, one pair of silver earrings and one golden nosering (nath) from Ramcharan and prepared memo, Exhibit P14.	Facts
Again on 27.01.1994 accused Naresh gave information, Exhibit P18, to PW21 for the recovery of Khurpi the alleged weapon of offence and pursuant to which PW21 recovered Khurpi at the instance of accused Naresh under Exhibit P10.	Facts
Dr. Kailash Narain (PW1) conducted the postmortem report of Smt.	Facts
Guli Devi, which is exhibited in trial as Exhibit P1.	Facts
According to the doctor all the injuries were antemortem in nature and the cause of death was hemorrhagic shock associated with Asphyxia due to compression of neck.	Facts
Sugan Chand, Tehsildar, Bassi, examined as (PW13), conducted the identification of ornaments and it is alleged that Rameshwar (PW14), husband of deceased Guli Devi correctly identified ornaments of deceased  Guli Devi.	Facts
After completion of the investigation, the police submitted charge sheet against the respondent herein under Sections 302 and 394 of the IPC in the Court of Judicial Magistrate, Bassi, who in turn, committed the case to the Court of Sessions.	Facts
The learned Sessions Judge framed charges against the accused under Sections 302 and 394 of the IPC to which the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.	Facts
During trial, the prosecution in support of its case examined as many as 21 witnesses and exhibited some documents.	Facts
Thereafter, the accused was examined under Section 313 Cr.	Facts
P.C. for the purposes of enabling him to explain the circumstances existing against him.	Facts
The accused, however, did not examine any witness in his defence.	Facts
On completion of the trial, the learned trial court passed an order of conviction holding the accused respondent guilty for the offence under Sections 302 and 394 of the IPC.	Facts
After passing the order of conviction the accused was heard on the question of sentence and thereafter the Sessions Judge passed an order sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment with fine.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order passed by the trial court, the respondent herein filed an appeal in the High Court of Rajasthan, which was registered as D.B. Crl.	Facts
Jail Appeal No. 331 of 1996.	Facts
The aforesaid appeal came up for hearing before the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court.	Facts
After screening the evidence on record, the High Court held that there was no eyewitness to the occurrence and the entire case of the prosecution rests on the circumstantial evidence.	Facts
Each of the circumstance allegedly making a chain was examined by the High Court and on scrutiny thereof held that none of the said circumstances lead to the inference that the respondent had committed the aforesaid offence.	Facts
The High Court held that the circumstances relied upon by the prosecution are full of discrepancies and they do not inspire confidence so as to conclude that the accused had committed the offence.	Facts
The High Court held that the statements of the prosecution witnesses relating to the accused last seen with the deceased do not inspire confidence for none of them specifically said that the accused followed the deceased to the field, where the occurrence had taken place.	Facts
So far the second circumstance, that the accused was found running from the place of incident just after the incident, is concerned, the High Court has pointed out discrepancies in the evidence of PWs4, 7, 8 and 9 and on analyzing the same held that on the basis of aforesaid evidence it cannot be safely concluded that the deceased was last seen in the company of accused or that he was found running from the place of occurrence having Lotah or Potli in his hands.	Facts
Other circumstance allegedly proved by the prosecution was the fact of recovery of ornaments belonging to the deceased on the basis of the information furnished by the accused.	Facts
In that connection, the Division Bench held that the only evidence, which is relied upon in that regard is the evidence of PWs  20 and 21 and on scrutiny of the same the High Court held that a glance at exhibit P17 merely indicates that accused informed Khushal Singh (PW21) that he has sold the ornaments to Ram Chandra Saraf, Fish Market, Banda, whereas, the ornaments were recovered from Ram Charan (PW20).	Facts
The High Court also found incongruity in the evidence of PW20, who has stated that he did not purchase the ornaments.	Facts
He could not give any satisfactory reply as to who had left the said ornaments in his custody and possession.	Facts
The High Court also pointed out that according to the said witness the accused took away the ornaments on the same day, and therefore, there could be no case of recovering the ornaments shown by the accused from PW20.	Facts
Resultantly, it was concluded that it would not be safe to hold that recovery of ornaments was in consonance with the information furnished by the accused Naresh, particularly, when neither the ornaments have been recovered from the same person about whom the accused had informed nor the shop is the same, about which the accused had indicated.	Facts
In that view of the matter, it was held that the recovery of the ornaments and identification thereof is not conclusively proved.	Facts
The next circumstance given by the High Court relates to the recovery of weapon alleged to have been used in the commission of the offence.	Facts
The High Court pointed out that Exhibit P10, which is Khurpi, was recovered by the police did not have any bloodstains on it.	Facts
Khushal Singh (PW21) in his crossexamination has also categorically admitted that primafacie no bloodstains were visible on Khurpi and for that reason he did not send it to the Forensic Science Laboratory.	Facts
The High Court also pointed out that the place from where the Khurpi was recovered was an open place and was accessible to all and sundry.	Facts
A perusal of Exhibit P10 indicates that one Khurpi was recovered under the heap of stones and that Khurpi was found in a rusted condition.	None
Another circumstance, which was heavily relied upon by the prosecution and also by the trial court was recovery of strap of wrist watch found on the dead body of Guli.	Facts
The High Court held that two witnesses Kailash (PW5) and Rameshwar (PW14) have stated that they found the strap of wristwatch lying near the dead body before the police reached the spot and they handed over the same to the police.	Facts
The High Court, however, on scrutiny of the evidence held that there is no evidence on record to prove and establish that the said strap of wristwatch relates to accused Naresh.	Facts
The High Court also disbelieved the aforesaid circumstance, in view of the fact that no watch has been recovered from the possession of accused Naresh to prove that the recovered strap of wrist watch pertains to the watch of Naresh.	Facts
After discussing the entire circumstances in the light of evidence on record, the High Court held that the prosecution has utterly failed to prove any of the circumstances relied upon and consequently it was held that the prosecution has failed to prove the guilt of the accused and accordingly the High Court acquitted the respondent of all the charges.	Facts
The State of Rajasthan being aggrieved by the said order of acquittal preferred a special leave petition on which notice was issued and leave granted.	Facts
We have heard learned counsel appearing for the parties when the appeal was listed for final hearing, who have painstakingly taken us through the evidence on record.	Facts
Mr. Milind Kumar, counsel appearing for the appellant  State of Rajasthan submitted before us that there are number of circumstances which lead to and prove the guilt of the respondent.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first circumstance, which was relied upon was the last seen factor of the accused going after the deceased and thereafter coming out alone from the place of occurrence.	Arguments of Petitioner
The next circumstance on which the public prosecutor relied upon is the fact of smearing the body of the respondent with mud when he was coming from the filed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The other circumstance heavily relied upon was the factor of recovery of jewellery belonging to the deceased at the instance of the accused from Ramcharan Shahu (PW20).	Arguments of Petitioner
The other circumstances like recovery of the dagger and the strap of wristwatch near the dead body were pressed into service by the public prosecutor.	Arguments of Petitioner
15.	None
Mrs. K. Sarada Devi, the counsel appearing for the respondent, however, submitted that since the present appeal is an appeal against an order of acquittal, the same should not be set aside unless the Court comes to a definite conclusion on the basis of cogent and reliable evidence that it is the accused who had committed the crime.	Arguments of Respondent
It was vehemently submitted by her that if two views are possible on the same evidence, the one in favour of the accused must be preferred.	Arguments of Respondent
With the help of learned counsel appearing for the parties, we have scrutinized the evidence on record.	None
The trial court on the basis of the evidence on record held that the prosecution has produced following four types of circumstantial evidences The accused was examining the palm by way of palmistry, of the deceased and there the deceased went towards the field.	None
The accused also went towards the field.	None
The accused washed his hands after committing the offence and blood of the deceased was found at the field.	None
The accused returned from the field smeared with mud, alongwith a Potli in his hand, he was seen going away from the village, and upon the identification of the accused, the jewellery of the deceased, which had been removed and taken away by amputating feet from her body, the same were seized and that identification proceedings of these jewelleryitems were carried out.	None
Each of the aforesaid circumstance was examined by the trial court in the light of the evidence on record and at the end it was held that the aforesaid circumstances prove and establish that it was accused who had committed the offence.	None
The High Court, however, found that none of the aforesaid circumstances lead to a definite conclusion that it is the accused and accused alone who had committed the offence.	None
Before we discuss the evidence on record, we must bear in mind the scope of interference with an order of acquittal.	None
An order of acquittal should not be lightly interfered with even if the court believes that there is some evidence pointing out the finger towards the accused.	None
This Court has dealt with the scope of interference with an order of acquittal in a number of cases.	None
The principle deducible from the said Judgments regarding the scope of interference with an order of acquittal could be summarized and the same is as follows In Anil Kumar v. State of U.P., (2004) 13 SCC 257 , at page 261, this court observed as under 12.	None
5.	None
There is no embargo on the appellate court reviewing the evidence upon which an order of acquittal is based.	None
Generally, the order of acquittal shall not be interfered with because the presumption of innocence of the accused is further strengthened by acquittal.	None
The golden thread which runs through the web of administration of justice in criminal cases is that if two views are possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the guilt of the accused and the other to his innocence, the view which is favourable to the accused should be adopted.	None
The paramount consideration of the court is to ensure that miscarriage of justice is prevented.	None
A miscarriage of justice which may arise from acquittal of the guilty is no less than from the conviction of an innocent.	None
In a case where admissible evidence is ignored, a duty is cast upon the appellate court to reappreciate the evidence where the accused has been acquitted, for the purpose of ascertaining as to whether any of the accused really committed any offence or not.	None
(See Bhagwan Singh v. State of M.P)	None
The principle to be followed by the appellate court considering the appeal against the judgment of acquittal is to interfere only when there are compelling and substantial reasons for doing so.	None
If the impugned judgment is clearly unreasonable and relevant and convincing materials have been unjustifiably eliminated in the process, it is a compelling reason for interference.	None
These aspects were highlighted by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra, Ramesh Babulal Doshi v. State of Gujarat, Jaswant Singh v. State of Haryana, Raj Kishore Jha v. State of Bihar, State of Punjab v. Karnail Singh and State of Punjab v. Phola Singh.	None
In Chandrappa v. State of Karnataka, (2007) 4 SCC 415 , at page 432, this court observed as under 42.	None
In our considered view, the following general principles regarding powers of the appellate court while dealing with an appeal against an order of acquittal emerge An appellate court has full power to review, reappreciate and reconsider the evidence upon which the order of acquittal is founded.	None
The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 puts no limitation, restriction or condition on exercise of such power and an appellate court on the evidence before it may reach its own conclusion, both on questions of fact and of law.	None
Various expressions, such as, substantial and compelling reasons, good and sufficient grounds, very strong circumstances, distorted conclusions, glaring mistakes, etc. are not intended to curtail extensive powers of an appellate court in an appeal against acquittal.	None
Such phraseologies are more in the nature of flourishes of language to emphasise the reluctance of an appellate court to interfere with acquittal than to curtail the power of the court to review the evidence and to come to its own conclusion.	None
An appellate court, however, must bear in mind that in case of acquittal, there is double presumption in favour of the accused.	None
Firstly, the presumption of innocence is available to him under the fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence that every person shall be presumed to be innocent unless he is proved guilty by a competent court of law.	None
Secondly, the accused having secured his acquittal, the presumption of his innocence is further reinforced, reaffirmed and strengthened by the trial court.	None
If two reasonable conclusions are possible on the basis of the evidence on record, the appellate court should not disturb the finding of acquittal recorded by the trial court.	None
In State of U.P. v. Gambhir Singh, (2005) 11 SCC 271 , at page 272, this court observed as under We do not feel persuaded to interfere with the order of the High Court in an appeal against acquittal.	None
It is well settled that if on the same evidence two views are reasonably possible, the one in favour of the accused must be preferred.	None
When we examine the present case in the light of the background of the aforesaid legal principles, we find that none of the circumstances relied upon by the prosecution stands proved against the accused leading to a definite conclusion that it was the accused, who had committed the offence.	Reasoning
It has come on evidence that deceased went towards the field on 12.08.1993 at about 3 oclock and that accused Naresh also went to the field with a Lotah in his hand.	Reasoning
However, such a statement appears not to have been made before the police and the same was found to be an improvement by the High Court and recorded so in the Judgment.	Reasoning
Mathura (PW4) has stated in her deposition that she had gone to the Kothi for feeding the cattle.	None
She has also stated that when she was sitting at the field for drinking water to cattle, she saw accused Naresh was running towards the village and that accused was having a Gaddi with him and also one Gaon.	Reasoning
In her crossexamination, she stated that she had seen the accused sitting at the Kheli and that she had turned her back towards accused Naresh because accused was washing his hands.	None
If that witness was present in the field near the place of occurrence, there was no occasion as to why she would not have seen the alleged actual occurrence.	Reasoning
If the accused committed the offence he must have stayed at the place of occurrence for a very long time as it is alleged that the accused had amputated both feet of the deceased and a pair of silver anklets of feet, one pair of silver bracelets of hands, one pair of silver earrings and one golden nosering (nath) were allegedly taken away by him.	Reasoning
When the allegation is that of amputation of both the feet by use of a Khurpi the same must have taken considerable time during the course of which the said witness (PW4) would have seen the occurrence itself.	Reasoning
There is also no explanation from PW4 as to why she turned her back when she saw accused washing him hands.	Reasoning
She does not state that she had seen the deceased with the accused nor does she state that she had seen the accused smeared with mud.	Reasoning
There is not even a single statement coming from any of the witnesses that they had seen any water being smeared with blood of the deceased or any soil of the field being smeared with human blood.	Reasoning
Some of the witnesses have stated that accused was smeared with mud when he was returning from the field whereas Mathura (PW4) does not say so.	Reasoning
She only states that she saw him running from the fields.	Reasoning
It is also not known why the said witness had turned her back towards the accused only because the accused was washing his hands.	Reasoning
If accused was washing his hands as stated by Mathura (PW4) there is no likelihood of body of the accused being smeared with mud as alleged by some of the prosecution witnesses (PWs 7 8).	Reasoning
The learned trial court also held accused guilty because the strap of wristwatch was found near the dead body of the deceased, which allegedly belong to the accused.	Reasoning
On scrutiny of the evidence, we do not find any such direct evidence that the said strap of wristwatch belongs to the watch of the accused.	Reasoning
None of the witnesses stated that such strap of wristwatch belongs to the accused nor any wristwatch has been recovered from the accused.	Reasoning
So far the time of occurrence is concerned there is also no unanimity and the evidence is scanty regarding the time of occurrence.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, the evidence regarding commission of offence by the accused in the field and also amputation of legs of the deceased is neither cogent nor reliable, and therefore, those circumstances cannot be relied upon for basing conviction of the respondent.	Reasoning
So far the circumstance about the recovery of ornaments is concerned, the star witness in that regard is PW20.	Reasoning
The said ornaments were recovered at the instance of accused from the custody and possession of PW20.	Reasoning
We have very carefully analysed the evidence of PW20 so as to find out the credibility of the said witness.	Reasoning
He had stated in his examinationinchief that the accused came to him saying that he wanted to sell the jewellery of his house.	Reasoning
The said witness, however, stated that they did not purchase such jewellery, which was, however, seized later on from him.	Reasoning
He stated in his crossexamination that they do the business for making new ornaments from the old ornaments.	Reasoning
He also stated that the said jewellery was not for their use and hence they refused to purchase.	Reasoning
He also stated that Naresh accused himself is a gold smith hence he used to come to him earlier also.	Reasoning
He also stated that Naresh asked him to keep the jewellery and told that he would come back soon, and therefore, he kept the said jewellery and that on the same day accused took away his ornaments.	Reasoning
If the accused has taken away the jewellery on the same day then how could the police recover the same jewellery from the custody and possession of PW20.	Reasoning
Besides, since he had stated that he would not purchase the jewellery there was no occasion for Naresh to keep that jewellery with PW20.	Reasoning
In the disclosure statements the accused stated that he sold the jewellery to Ram Chandra Saraf whereas the same was recovered from PW20.	Reasoning
On scrutinizing the evidence, we find that the aforesaid recovery of jewellery is shrouded in a total mystery as it was not recovered from the place and person to whom allegedly accused sold.	Reasoning
So far recovery of Khurpi is concerned the same admittedly did not contain any bloodstains on it	None
and it was recovered from an open place.	None
Since there was no bloodstain on it, the police also did not send it for chemical examination.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot be said that the said weapon was used for committing murder of the deceased.	Reasoning
There could be some suspicion regarding the conduct of the accused at the time of occurrence but the same cannot in any manner conclusively prove and establish that the accused has committed the murder of the deceased.	Reasoning
Unless and until we are satisfied that the evidence adduced clearly and pointedly establish the guilt of the accused we cannot pass an order of conviction by setting aside the order of acquittal.	Reasoning
The view that is taken by the High Court is found to be a plausible view, and therefore, the benefit must always go to the accused and not to the prosecution.	Reasoning
If the prosecution wants to prove the fact, the same must be proved by leading evidence, which is reliable and trustworthy, which pinpoints and conclusively proves the guilt of the accused.	Reasoning
This is not a case where we can safely hold that the evidence led was trustworthy and conclusively establishes that it is the accused only, who had committed the offence.	Reasoning
Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case we are not inclined to interfere with the order of acquittal.	Reasoning
We, accordingly, dismiss this appeal and uphold the order of acquittal passed by the Division Bench of the High Court.	Decision
