 Das Gupta, J.1.	None
This appeal is from a judgment of the Court of Appeal of the Bombay High Court confirming the decision of a single judge of that Court in a suit for damages for breach of a contract of sale.	None
By a contract in writing dated August 9, 1950 entered into at Bombay, the appellants who carry on business at Bombay as import and export merchants agreed to sell to the respondent, a company carrying on business also at Bombay as a Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mill, and the respondent agreed to purchase 50,000 lbs.	Facts
Of Italian Staple Fibre Cotton of the quality mentioned therein, at Rs. 1,350  per Candy Ex docks, Shipment October November, 1950.	Facts
Of this quantity 10,000 lbs. was delivered to and accepted by the respondent company on October 31, 1950.	Facts
The balance amount of 40,000 lbs.	Facts
not having been delivered in terms of the contract the respondent company brought the present suit for damages on the allegation that the appellant firm had wrongfully failed and neglected to deliver this balance amount of the contract goods.	Facts
The appellant admitted failure to deliver this amount but pleaded that this was not wrongful failure to deliver.	Facts
The appellant averred in its written statement that the nonsupply of the goods arose by reason of the intermediary parties (meaning thereby the suppliers) failing to supply and deliver goods to the defendant and also of the circumstances beyond their control and claimed that it was exempted from any liability to the plaintiff company under printed term 16 of the contract.	Facts
The defendant further pleaded that the shipment time mentioned in the contract was not guaranteed, and the time of shipment was not of the essence of the contract.	Facts
The trial Judge held that the shipment time was guaranteed, except in so far as delay in shipment might be due to delay in obtaining import licence which however was in the present case obtained in good time  that time of shipment was of the essence of the contract and finally that there was no case here of any intermediary parties failing to supply or deliver the goods and as the defendant firm had not made any adequate contract which would have enabled it to obtain the supply of goods  if such contract had not been broken  from which it could have delivered these 40,000 lbs, the further defence that the nonsupply was due to circumstances beyond their control also failed.	Facts
Accordingly the Trial Judge held that there had been wrongful breach of the contract by the appellant firm and the plaintiff company  the respondent  was entitled to damages.	Facts
The actual assessment of damages was referred to the Commissioner.2.	Facts
On appeal by the defendant, the Appeal Court held agreeing with the Trial Judge that as there was no delay in obtaining the import licence, the obligation to deliver to the plaintiff contract goods of October November shipment continued.	Facts
The learned judges also pointed out that the failure to give delivery primarily arose because the defendants never were ready and willing to carry out their obligation to give delivery because they had made no arrangement to get goods from Italy which they could have delivered at the contract time.	Facts
Therefore, the Court of Appeal held that it was not open to defendant to rely on any of the clauses in the contract which condones delay on their part or which excuses them from giving delivery.	Facts
The appeal was accordingly dismissed.3.	Facts
It is against this order of dismissal that the present appeal has been preferred by the defendant firm after having obtained special leave from this Court.4.	Facts
Three contentions were raised before us in support of the appeal.	Arguments of Respondent
The first contention is that the shipment date was not guaranteed the second contention, which really is involved in the first, is that the shipment time was not of the essence of the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
Lastly, if was urged that the contracts which the defendant firm had made its Italian suppliers, were adequate for their obtaining supplies in good time to enable them  if these contracts were not broken  to complete the requisite delivery to the plaintiff company in proper time.5.	Arguments of Respondent
The contract was on a printed document, with the terms regarding quantity, quality, price, shipment, payment, and the remarks column filed in manuscript.	None
Against Shipment  we find October November, 1950.	None
In the remarks column we find the following written 1.	None
Invoice weight to be accepted 2.	None
This contract is subject to import licence and therefore the shipment date is not guaranteed.6.	None
We find thus that whatever may have been said earlier in the printed portion of the contract the parties took care, after specifying October November, 1950 as the date of shipment to make a definite condition in the remark column, on the important question whether the shipment date was being guaranteed or not and if so, to what extent.	None
The words are This contract is subject to import licence, and therefore the shipment date is not guaranteed.	None
Remembering, as we must, that in commercial contracts, time is ordinarily of the essence of the contract and giving the word therefore its natural, grammatical meaning, we must hold that what the parties intended was that to the extent that delay in shipment stands in the way of keeping to the shipment date October November, 1950, this shipment date was not guaranteed but with this exception shipment October November, 1950, was guaranteed.	Reasoning
It has been strenuously contended by the learned AttorneyGeneral, that the parties were mentioning only one of the many reasons which might cause delay in shipment and the conjunction therefore was used only to show the connection between one of the many reasons  by way of illustration and a general agreement that the shipment date was not guaranteed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not consider this explanation of the use of therefore acceptable.	None
If the parties intended that quite apart from delay in obtaining import licence, shipment date was not guaranteed, the natural way of expressing such intention  an intention contrary to the usual intention in commercial contracts of treating time as the essence of the contract  would be to say This contract is subject to import licence and the shipment date is not guaranteed.	Reasoning
There might be other ways of expressing the same intention, but it is only reasonable to expect that anybody following the ordinary rules of grammar would not use therefore in such a context except to mean that only to the extent that delay was due to delay in obtaining import licence shipment time was not guaranteed.7.	None
As we have already mentioned, the remarks column was filled in manuscript and consequently even if the terms in print by themselves might have justified a conclusion that the parties intended that the shipment date was not guaranteed, the intention expressed in the manuscript should prevail.	Reasoning
We are not satisfied however that the terms in print would justify any such conclusion.	Reasoning
The learned AttorneyGeneral tried to persuade us that the printed term 2 was inconsistent with shipment date being guaranteed at all.	None
The term 2 is in two parts.	None
The first part provides that subject to provisions of Cls. 7 and 9, if the goods or any portion of them are not shipped for any reason or reasons other than those specified in Cl. 9, within the shipment time with the fifteen days latitude provided for in the said Cl. 7, the sellers shall not be responsible but shall give notice to the buyers of such nonshipment and the buyers shall have option to cancel the portion so overdue without claiming any allowance or compensation or grant such extension of time for shipment from time to time as may be required by the sellers.	None
At allowance as mentioned in the second paragraph.	None
The second paragraph of term 2 lays down graduated rates of allowance for different periods of delay at 1 1/2 for delay up to a month at 2 1/2 for delay from one month to two months at 2 1/2 for delay from one month to two months 3 1/2 for delay of two to three months and 7 1/2 for delay of more than three months.	None
Different rates were mentioned as regards the woollen goods.8.	None
It may be mentioned here that Cl. 7 of the contract provides for a latitude of 15 days after the shipment while Cl. 9 contains the special exemption clause where shipment is delayed by force majeure, war or warlike operations, strikes, lockouts, etc.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral contends that provisions of term 2 show that the parties agreed that the time will not be of the essence of the contract and shipment time will not be guaranteed.	None
It appears to us that these provisions show just the contrary.	None
The provisions in the first paragraph give the seller a right to give notice to the buyer of nonshipment and give the buyer an option on such notice either to cancel the portion not shipped or to grant extension of time at allowances mentioned in the second paragraph.	None
Unless time was of the essence of the contract and shipment time was guaranteed there would be no need for making such provisions for an option for extension of time, or for these allowances.9.	None
The provisions of Cls. 7 and 9 do not affect the question.10.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of opinion that the courts below were right in thinking that the shipment time was guaranteed, and time was of the essence of the contract.11.	Reasoning
This brings us to the question whether the defendant firm had any adequate contract with their Italian suppliers which if not broken would have put them in a position to supply the goods in question.	None
It is not disputed that if there was any such adequate contract the defendant will not be liable for damages.	None
It is equally clear that if there was no such contract, the defendant cannot escape liability.12.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral sought to argue that even if the contract was such that there was a change of the defendant obtaining the supplies in good time that would be sufficient to exonerate it.	Arguments of Petitioner
We think that this proposition is not sound.	None
Before the seller could be heard to say that the nonsupply was due to default on the part of his suppliers or some other cause beyond his control the seller is bound to show that he himself did all in his power to ensure timely supply.	Reasoning
He could do so by showing that he had made a contract under which he was entitled to obtain the supplies in good time.	Reasoning
If under his contract with his own suppliers he was not so entitled but there was merely a chance of his getting the supplies in time to enable him to honour his contract the nonsupply would clearly be due to his own default in not making a contract which would have so entitled him and not to a default on the part of the supplier or to a circumstance beyond his control.13.	Reasoning
Turning now to the facts of the case we find that the defendant had made two contracts with its Italian suppliers  one contract for 200,000 lbs.	None
of cotton	Reasoning
for August, 1950, shipment which it is said was later extended to September, 1950 another contract of August 4, 1950, for 300,000 lbs.	None
for November December, 1950.	None
The defendant had also a contract with the plaintiff company of July 22, 1950, for sale of 40,000 lbs.	None
August shipment later converted to November December shipment.	None
In October, 1950, 50,000 lbs.	None
out of the first contract with the Italian supplies arrived out of this 40,000 was delivered to the plaintiff company in satisfaction of the earlier contract and 10,000 was delivered in satisfaction of this second contract  the contract now in suit.	None
Under the contract for 300,000 lbs.	None
the buyer (the defendant) received 70,000 lbs.	None
of goods.	None
Of this nothing was given to the plaintiff company and so, 40,000 lbs.	None
remained undelivered.	None
The question is had the defendant a contract under which it could, provided the contract was not broken, obtain the goods in time to honour its agreement to sell October November shipment of goods.14.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral complains that the courts below totally left out of consideration the sellers (the appellants) earlier contract with Italian suppliers and says that that, at least, was an adequate contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
There would be force in this argument if at the time the breach took place, that is, the last date under which shipment could be made under the contract in suit, the defendant would have been entitled to obtain goods, under that earlier contract.	None
But that is not the position.	Reasoning
In any case the earlier contract was cancelled at the end of September so that at the time of the breach the seller was not entitled to receive any goods under that contract.15.	Reasoning
We come next to the sellers November December shipment contract with its Italian suppliers.	None
The courts below have pointed out that under such a contract, the Italian suppliers were entitled to delay shipment till the last day of December.	None
If that be the position the seller would not, on the last day by which the goods under its contract ought to have been supplied viz., December 15, 1950, after adding 15 days under Cl. 7, have any contract under which it would have been entitled to receive goods in sufficient time.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral has, however, contended that under the contract which the defendant had with its Italian suppliers, the Italian suppliers would be bound to spread the supply over the period, November December and thus bound to ship 40,000 lbs.	Arguments of Petitioner
at least well before the December, 15.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The great difficulty in the way of this argument is that the defendants contract with its Italian suppliers has not been produced and we do not know the terms of that contract.	Reasoning
In Bilasiram Thakursidas v. Ezekiel Abraham, ILR 43 Cal 305 (AIR 1917 Cal 721) (FB) from which the learned counsel sought assistance the term of shipment in the contract was shipments to be made by steamers during JulyDecember, 1914  shipment in any month by one or more steamers.	None
This was clearly an instalment contract and on the construction of that contract the court held that the buyer had the right to demand delivery of goods by separate shipments spread over the months from July to December.	None
In Phoenix Mills Ltd. v. Madhavdas Rupchand and Co., 24 Bom LR 142 the question arose whether the plaintiffsellers had committed a breach by not giving delivery where the terms of delivery were  200 bales No. 20s and 20 1/2s Ring OctoberNovember, 1913, and 50 bales No. 6 1/2 s Mule yarn as manufactured.	None
It was further mentioned in the contract that the buyers agreed to take delivery of the bales from time to time as they are ready.	None
It was in view of these terms that Mr. Justice Macleod held that the court can only consider the parties to have intended, when they signed that contract, that delivery should be asked for and given during OctoberNovember of two hundred bales, delivery being asked for the reasonable quantities at a time during the period of delivery.17.	None
These decisions are in line with the English law in this matter as stated by Benjamin on Sale, 8th Edition, at p. 724 thus Where the amount of instalments is not specified, the prima facie rule would seem to be that the deliveries should be rateably distributed over the contract period.18.	None
The learned author goes on to say that if it can be gathered from the terms of the contract or the circumstances that rateable deliveries were not intended, it then becomes a question for the jury whether the tender of or demand for, delivery is a reasonable one.19.	None
Quite clearly however the question whether delivery should be spread over the period arises only in case of instalment contracts.	Reasoning
There is nothing however before us to show that the defendants contract with its Italian suppliers was an instalment contract.	Reasoning
Even though the proprietor of the defendants Italian supplier was examined he said nothing which would even tend to show that the contract between him and the defendant was an instalment contract.	Reasoning
In the absence of the contract or any other circumstances justifying a conclusion that it was instalment contract it is not possible to accept the contention of the learned AttorneyGeneral that the defendants Italian suppliers would be bound to spread the supply over the period October November, 1950.20.	Reasoning
There is thus no escape from the conclusion that the defendant has failed to establish its case that it had an adequate contract with its Italian suppliers, which if not broken, would put it in possession of 40,000 lbs.	Reasoning
of cotton fibre	Reasoning
before December 15, 1950.The defendant firm cannot therefore escape the liability for the damages for breach of the contract, by the failure to supply those goods.21.	Reasoning
The appeal is accordingly dismissed with costs.22.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
