 K. Das, J.1.	None
This appeal relates to a trust known as the Srimati Charusila Trust and the properties appertaining thereto.	Facts
By its judgment and order dated 5101953 the High Court of Patna has held that the trust in question is a private trust created for the worship of a family idol in which the public are not interested and, therefore, the provisions of the Bihar Hindu Religious Trusts Act, 1950 (Bihar I of 1951), hereinafter referred to as the Act, do not apply to it.	Facts
Accordingly, it allowed an application made to it under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution	Facts
and quashed the proceedings taken against the respondent herein under Ss. 59 and 70 of the Act.	Facts
The State of Bihar, the President of the Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts and the Superintendent of the said Board who were respondents to the petition under Art.	Facts
226 are the appellants before us.2.	Facts
The trust in question was created by a trust deed executed on 1131938.	None
Srimati Charusila Dasi is the widow of one Akshaya Kumar Chose of No. 3, Jorabagan Street in Calcutta.	None
She resided at the relevant time in a house known as Charu Niwas at Deoghar in the district of Santhal Perganas in the State of Bihar.	Facts
In the trust deed she described herself as the settlor who was entitled to and in possession of certain properties described in schedules B, C and D. Schedule B property consisted of three bighas and odd of land situate in mohalla Karanibad of Deoghar town together with buildings and structures thereon schedule C property was Charu Niwas, also situate in Karanibad of Deoghar and schedule D properties consisted of several houses and some and in Calcutta the aggregate value of which was in the neighbourhood of Rs. 8,50,000.	Facts
In a subsequent letter to the Superintendent, Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts, it was stated on behalf of Srimati Charusila Dasi that the total annual income from all the properties was about Rs. 87,839.	Facts
In the trust deed it was recited that the settlor had installed a deity named Iswar Srigopal in her house and had since been regularly worshipping and performing the puja of the said deity that she had been erecting and constructing a twin temple (jugal mandir) and a Nat Mandir (entrance hall) to be named in memory of her deceased son Dwijendra Nath on the plot of land described in schedule B and was further desirous of installing in one of the two temples the deity Srigopal and such other deity or deities as she might wish to establish during her lifetime and also of installing in the other temple a marble image of Sri Sri Balanand Brahmachari, who was her religious preeceptor and who was regarded by his disciplas as a divine person.	Facts
It was further recited in the trust deed that the settler was also desirous of establishing and founding a hospital at Karanibad for Hindu females to be called Akshaya Kumar Female Hospitol in memory of her deceased husband.	Facts
By the trust deed the settlor transferred to the trustees the properties described in schedules B, C and D and the trustees were five in number including Srimati Charusila Dasi and her deceased husbands adopted son Debi Prasanna Ghosh the other three trustees were Amarendra Kumar Bose, Tara Shanker Chatterjee and Surendra Nath Burman, but they were not members of the family of the settlor.	Facts
Amarendra Kumar Bose resigned from the office of trusteeship and was later replaced by Dr. Shailendra Nath Dutt.	Facts
The trusts imposed under the trust deed were  (1) to complete the construction of the two temples and the Nat Mandir at a cost not exceeding three lakhs to be met out of the trust estate and donations, if any (2) after the completion of the two temples, to instal or cause to be installed the deity Iswar Srigopal in one of the temples and the marble image of Sri Balanand Brahmachari in the other and to hold a consecration ceremony and a festival in connection therewith (3) after the installation ceremonies and festivals mentioned above, to provide for the payment and expenditure of the daily sheba puja and periodical festivals each year of the deity Srigopal and such other deities as might be installed at an amount not exceeding the sum of Rs. 13,600 per annum and also to provide for the daily sheba of the marble image of Sri Balanand Brahmachari and to celebrate each year in his memory festivals on the occasion of (a) the Janmatithi (the anniversary of the installation of the marble image) (b) GuruPurnima (full moon in the Bengali month of Ashar) and (c) Tirodhan (anniversary of the day on which Sri Balanand Brahamachari gave up his body) at a cost not exceeding Rs. 4,500 per annum and (4) to establish or cause to be established and run and manage in Deoghar a hospital for Hindu females only to be called Akshaya Kumar Female Hospital and an attached outdoor charitable dispensary for all outpatients of any religion or creed whatsoever and pay out of the income for the hospital and the outdoor dispensary an annual sum of Rs. 12,000 or such other sum as might be available and sufficient after meeting the charges and expenditure of the two temples and after paying the allowance of the shebait and trustees and members of the temple committee.	Facts
It was further stated that the work of the establishment of the hospital and the outdoor charitable dispensary should not be taken in hand until the construction of the temples and the installation of the deities mentioned above.3.	Facts
It may be here stated that it is the case of both parties before us that the temples and the Nat Mandir have been constructed and the deity and the marble image installed therein but neither the hospital nor the charitable dispensary has yet been constructed.	Facts
The powers, functions and duties of the trustees were also mentioned in the deed and, in schedule A, detailed rules were laid down for the holding of annual general meetings, special meetings, and ordinary meetings of the trustees.	Facts
To these details we shall advert later.4.	Facts
On 27101952 the Superintendent, Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts, Patna, sent a notice to Srimati Charusila Dasi under S. 59 of the Act asking her to furnish a return in respect of the trust in question.	Facts
Srimati Charusila Dasi said in reply that the trust in question was a private endowment created for the warship of a family idol in which the public were not interested and therefore the Act did not apply to it.	Facts
On 511953 the Superintendent wrote again to Srimati Charusila Dasi informing her that the Board did not consider that the trust was a private trust and so the Act applied to it.	Facts
There was further correspondence between the solicitor of Srimati Charusila Dasi and the President of the Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts.	Facts
The correspondence did not, however, carry the matter any further and on 521953 the President of the State Board of Religious Trusts said in a notice that he had been authorised to assess a fee under S. 70 of the Act in respect of the trust.	Facts
Ultimately, on 641953, Srimati Charusila Dasi made an application to the High Court under Art.	Facts
226 of the Constitution in which she prayed that a writ or order be issued quashing the proceedings taken against her by the Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts on the grounds (a) that the trust in question was a private trust to which the Act did not apply and (b) that the Act was ultra vires the constitution by reason of the circumstance that its several provisions interefered with her rights as a citizen guaranteed under Art.	Facts
19 of the Con stitution.5.	Facts
This application was contested by the State of Bihar and the Bihar State Board of Religious Trst, though no affidavit was filed by either of them.	None
On a construction of the trust deed the High Court came to the conclusion that the trust in question was wholly of a private character created for the worship, of a family idol in which the public were not interested and in that view of the matter held that the Act and its provisions did not apply to it.	None
Accordingly, the High Court allowed the application and issued a writ in the nature of a writ of certiorari quashing the proceedings under Ss. 59 and 70 of the Act and a writ in the nature of a writ of prohibition restraining the Bihar State Board of Religious Trusts from taking further proceedings against Srimati Charusila Dasi in respect of the trust in question.	None
The appellants then applied for and obtained a certificate from the High court that the case fulfilled the requirements of Art.	None
133 of the Constitution.	None
The present appeal has been filed in pursuance of that certificate.6.	None
In connected Civil Appeals numbered 225, 226,228,229 and 248 of 1955 judgment has been pronounced today Mahant Moti Das v. S.P.Sahi, AIR 1959 SC 942 and we have given therein a conspectus of the provisions of the Act and have further dealt with the question of the constitutional validity of those provisions in the context of fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution.	None
We have held therein that the provisions of the Act do not take away or abridge any of the rights conferred by that Part.	Reasoning
In Civil Appeal No. 343 of 1955 in which also judgment has been pronounced today (Mahant Ram Saroop Dasji v. S. P. Sahi, AIR l959 SC 951), we have considered the definition clause in S. 2 (1) of the Act and come to the conclusion that the Act does not apply to private endowments, and have further explained therein the essential distinction in Hindu law between private and public religious trusts We do not wish to repeat what we have said in those two decisions but in the light of the observations made therein, the two questions which fall for decision in this appeal are  (1) if on a true construction of the trust deed dated 1131938 the Charusila Trust is a private endowment created for the worship of a family idol in which the public are not interested, as found by the High Court and (2) if the answer to the first question is in the negative, does the Act apply by reason of S. 3 thereof to trust properties which are situate outside the State of Bihar.7.	Reasoning
We now proceed to consider and decide these two questions in the order in which we have stated them.	None
On behalf of the appellants it has been contended that on a true construction of the deed of trust, the Charusila Trust must be held to be a public religious trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Judges of the High Court emphasised that part of the preamble wherein it was stated that the settlor had installed a deity called Iswar Srigopal in her house and had been regularly worshipping the said deity, which circumstance (according to them) showed that in its origin the endowment was a private endowment created for the worship of a family idol in which the public were not interested, and the learned Judges were further of the view that the installation of the said deity in one of the two temples and of the marble image of Sri Balanand Brahmachari in the other temple did not alter the nature of the endowment which continued to be a private endowment they also expressed the opinion that the provision in the trust deed for the establishment of a hospital for Hindu females and a charitable dispensary for patients of any religion or creed was merely incidental to the other main objects of the endowment.	None
These findings of the High Court have been seriously and strenuously challenged before us.8.	None
We say this with respect, but we consider that the learned Judges of the High Court have failed to give to several material clauses of the trust deed their due weight and these have an important bearing on the question in issue.	Reasoning
It is true that the settlor said that she had installed the deity Iswar Srigopal in her house and she had been regularly worshipping the deity since such installation if the trust had been created only for the purpose of continuing such family worship, the conclusion would no doubt be that the endowment was wholly of a private character in which the public had no interest.	Reasoning
That was not, however, what was done.	Reasoning
The settlor created the trust for the construction of two temples, in one of which was to be installed the deity Iswar Srigopal and in the other the marble image of her preceptor the trustees consisted of persons three of whom were strangers to the family, though the settlor reserved to herself the power to remove in her absolute discretion any one or more of the trustees for misconduct by reason of change of religion etc.	Reasoning
One of the relevant considerations is if by the trust deed any right of worship has been given to the public or any section of the public answering a particular description.	Reasoning
One of the clauses of the trust deed readsThe pronamis and perquisites to be offered to the deities and image in the Jugal Mandir shall form part of the Srimati Charusila Trust Estate and neither the shebait nor any one else shall have interest or claim in or over same.	None
This clause to which the learned Judges of the High Court have made no reference shows that the right of worship was not confined to the family of the settlor or founder, but was given to other members of the Hindu public who could offer pronamis and perquisites to the deities, and those pronamis and perquisites were to form part of the trust estate.	None
Schedule E of the deed gives details of the festivals and ceremonials to be performed for the deity and the image of Sri Balanand Brahmachari.	None
One of the ceremonials is a Jal Chhatra (free distribution of water) another is annakoot (distribution of food) at the time of Diwali, the approximate expenditure being fixed at Rs. 500.	None
A third cerenmony is a bhandara, culminating in free distribution of food, of the Mataji of Sri Balanand Brahmachari.	None
These are ceremonies which even if ancillary to devasheba, appear prima facie to confer benefit on the general body of worshippers.	None
Though not conclusive by themselves, they have to be considered in the light of the other main provisions of the trust deed.	None
The other festivals which have to be performed as a rule for the deity are such wellknown festivals as Rath Yatra Jhulan, Janmastami, Rash and Dol (Holi) in which members of the Hindu community usually take part in large numbers, and the scale of expenses laid down shows that the festivals are to be performed on a large scale so as to enable a large number of persons to take part in them.	None
Even with regard to the special festivals for Sri Balanand Brahmachari on the occasion of the Janmatithi, Gurupurnima, and Tirodhan, the provisions of the trust deed contemplate that they are to be performed on a large scale so that other disciples of Sri Balananda Brahmachari may also join in them.9.	None
Even the constitution of the committee of trustees is such as would show that the endowment is not a mere private endowment.	None
The trust deed saysIn filling up a vacancy the trustees shall see that in the Board of Trustees there shall be, if available, one who is the senior most lineal male descendant of Akshaya Kumar Chose, the deceased husband of the settlor, who is eligible and willing and capable of acting as a trustee, another who is a trustee of the Sree Sree Balanand Trust created at Deoghar by the said Sree Balanandji Brahmachari Maharaj of sacred memory, and a third who shall be disciple of Sree Sree Balanand order, that is to say, any one of the disciples of the said Sree Sree Balanand Brahmachari Maharaj of sacred memory and his disciples and the disciples of the latter and so on if such a disciple is willing, eligible and capable of acting as a trustee of the said Trust hereby created, provided always that the full number of trustees shall at all times be five in number and no one shall be eligible to be a trustee unless he be adult male, pious, Bengali Hindu and provided also that the shebait of Sree Gopal and the shebait of Sree Baleshwari Devi of the Ashrani Deoghar shall under no circumstances be eligible to be a trustee under these presents save and except in the case of the settlor who shall so long as she lives to both a trusted and a shebait.	None
We may here draw attention to the formation of the temple committee as envisaged by the trust deed.	None
It says that the temple committee shall consist of the Jugal Mandir shebait for the time being who shall be the ex officio member and president of the committee and the other members who will be appointed or nominated by the trustees shall consist of six pious Hindus who must be residents of Deoghar and of whom at least four shall be Bengalis.	None
If the trust were created for the worship of a family idol, one would not expect provisions of this nature which vest the management of the temple and the sheba puja in members of the public outside the family of the settlor.10.	None
Besides the aforesaid provisions, there is in express terms the imposition of a trust in favour of the public so far as the hospital and the charitable dispensary are concerned.	None
It is necessary to quote here cl.	None
8 of the trust deed.	None
That clause readsTo establish or cause to be established and run and manage in Deoghar a hospital for Hindu females only to be called in memory of the husband of the settlor, since deceased, the Akshaya Kumar Female Hospital and an attached outdoor Charitable Dispensary for all outpatients of any religion or creed whatsoever and out of the said income to pay and or spend for the objects of the said Hospital and outdoor Dispensary annually a sum of rupees twelve ousand or such sum as will be available and sufficient after meeting the aforesaid charges and expenditure and after paying the allowance of the shebait and trustees and members of the temple committee and the establishment charges of offices at Calcutta and Deoghar and of the temple establishment hereinafter mentioned provided however that the work of the establishment of the Hospital and outdoor Charitable Dispensary shall not be taken in hand by the trustees until the construction of the temple and installation of the deities hereinbefore mentioned.	None
The trust deed further states that the female hospital and charitable dispensary shall, so long as the settlor is, alive, be located in a house to be rented in Deoghar and after her death shall be shifted to and located in Charu Niwas.	None
Charu Niwas was, however, sold by an order of the Calcutta High Court and the sale proceeds, it is stated, were appropriated towards the satisfaction of the debts and liabilities of the trust estate.	None
One clause of the trust deed relating to the hospital and the charitable dispensary saysThe object of the said Hospital shall be to provide Hindu females with gratuitous medical and surgical and maternity advice and aid and also to admit them as indoor patients in conformity with such rules and regulation as may be made by or with the sanction of the Board of Trustees.	None
The outdoor Charitable Hospital shall be run as the trustees shall provide by rules.	None
In furtherance of these objects, its funds may be expended in subscriptions or contributions to convalescent and other similar institutions and to other special hospitals and in sending patients to and maintaining them in such institution and hospitals provided that the sum so expended in any one year shall not exceed rupees one thousand or such sum as may be fixed by the trustees from time to time.	None
The learned Judges of the High Court have expressed the view that these provisions for the establishment of a hospital and charitable dispensary are merely incidental or ancillary to the other main objects of the trust.	None
With great respect, we are, unable to appreciate how the establishment of a hospital and charitable dispensary of the nature indicated in the trust deed can be said to be ancillary or incidental to the other objects of the trust, viz., the construction of two temples and the installation of the deities therein.	None
In clear and unequivocal terms the trust deed imposes a distinct and independent trust in favour of a considerable section of the public for whose benefit the hospital and the charitable dispensary are to be established.	None
It is true that the establishment of the hospital and the charitable dispensary is to be taken in hand after the construction of the temples and the installation of the deities that circumstance, however does not make the trust in relation to the hospital and the dispensary any the less important or even merely incidental or ancillary to the other trusts.	None
It merely determines the priority of time when the different trusts created by the deed are to be given effect to.	None
The High Court has placed reliance on the decision in Prasaddas Pal v. Jagannath Pal, ILR 60 Cal 538 (AIR 1933 cat 519).	None
That was a case in which by the deed of endowment were dedicated certain houses and premises to the sheba of a family idol established in one of the said houses and for feeding the poor and carrying out other charitable objects the deity was installed inside one of the residential quarters, the shebaitship was confined to the members of the family of the founder, and the feeding of the poor and of students, in case the income of the debutter property increased, was found to be part and parcel of the debasheba, and in those circumstances it was held that the feeding of the poor etc. was not an independent charity but incidental to the main purpose of the endowment, viz, the puja of the deity.	None
We are unable to hold that the same considerations apply to the trust before us.11.	None
In Deoki Nandan v. Murlidhar, 1959 SCR 756 at p. 762 ((S) AIR 1957 SC 133 at p.137), this Court considered the principles of law applicable to a determination of the question whether an endowment is public or private, and observedThe cardinal point to be decided is whether it was the intention of the founder that specified individuals are to have the right of worship at the shrine, or the general public or any specified portion thereof.	None
In accordance with this theory, it has been held that when property is dedicated for the worship of a family idol, it is a private and not a public endoment, as the persons who are entitled to worship at the shrine of the deity can only be the members of the family, and that is an ascertained group of individuals.	None
But where the beneficiaries are not members of a family or a specified individual, then the endowment can only be regarded as public, intended to benefit the general body of worshippers.	None
One of the facts which was held in that case to indicate that the endowment was public was that the idol was installed not within the precincts of residential quarters but in a separate building constructed for that very purpose on a vacant site.	None
We do not suggest that such a fact is by itself decisive of the question.	None
The fact that the temple is outside the dwelling house is only a circumstance in favour of it being regarded a public temple, particularly in Madras (except Malabar) there are, however, private temples in Bengal which are built outside the residential houses of donors (see the Hindu Law of Religious and Charitable Trust, Tagore Law Lectures by the late Dr. B K. Mukherjea, 1952 edition, p. 188).	None
In the case before us, the two temples were constructed outside the residential quarters, but that is only one of the relevant circumstances.	None
We must construe the deed of trust with reference to all its clauses and so construed, we have no doubt that the trusts imposed constitute a public endowment.	None
There is one other point to be noticed in this connection.	None
The deed of trust in the present case is in the English form and the settlor has transferred the properties to trustees who are to hold them for certain specific purposes of religion and charity that in our opinion is not decisive but is nevertheless a significant departure from the mode a private religious endowment is commonly made.12.	None
It is necessary now to refer to a decision of the Calcutta High Court, In re Charusila Dasi, ILR (1946) 1 Cal 473 (AIR 1947 Cal 148), relating to this very trust.	None
The question for consideration in that case was the assessment of incometax on the income of this trust estate for the accounting year193839.	None
The trustees were assesse upon the whole income of the trust.	None
The trustees appealed against the assessment and contended that the entire trust was for public, religious and charitable purposes and the whole income fell within Cl.	None
(1) of subs.	None
(3) of S. 4 of the Incometax Act.	None
The contention of the Commissioner of Incometax was that the trust was no more than a private religious trust and the income did not enure for the public benefit, save with respect to that part of the income which was to be devoted to the hospital and dispensary and to which the latter part of Cl.	None
(1) applied.	None
A reference was accordingly made to the High Court and the question framed was whether on a proper construction of the deed of trust, so much of the income of the trust as was not applied for the purpose of constructing and maintaining the female hospital was exempt from tax under the provisions of S. 4(3) of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
It was pointed out before the High Court that no part of the income of the trust during the accounting year was devoted to the hospital and dispensary and it was conceded that part of the income which would be devoted to those institutions would fall within the exempting clause.	None
It so happens that the learned counsel who argued the case on behalf of the trustees in the Calcutta High Court in the incometax reference is the same counsel who has argued the case before us on behalf of Srimati Charusila Dasi.	None
The contention now is that the trust in its entirety is a private religious trust.	None
Eleven circumstances were referred to by learned counsel in the incometax reference in support of his contention that the entire trust as ascertained from the trust deed was of a public nature.	None
Gentle, J. with whom Ormond, J. agreed, held that on a proper construction of the deed of trust, so much of the income of the trust as was not applied for the purpose of constructing and maintaining the female hospital was not exempt from tax under the provisions of S. 4 (3) of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
This decision, it must be stated at once, does not wholly support the present respondent.	None
So far as the hospital and the dispensary are concerned the trust was held to be a public trust.	None
We are of the view that having regard to the main clauses of the trust deed to which we have already made a reference, the trusts in favour of the deity Iswar Srigopal and the image of Sri Balanand Brahmachari are also of a public nature.	None
One of the points which was emphasised before the Calcutta High Court was the provision with regard to pronamis and perquisites to be offered to the deity and the image.	None
The High Court said This provision does not indicate the creation of a trust in favour of the public, but, on the contrary, it denies the right of any one, which must include any member of the public, having a right to the pronamis.	None
In its terms, the deed negatives that benefit is conferred upon the public.	None
The aforesaid observations appear to us, with respect or to be based on a misconception.	None
When a member of the public makes an offering to a deity, he does not retain any right to what he has offered.	None
What he offers belongs to the deity.	None
When we talk of the right of members of the public or a considerable section thereof we refer to the right of worship or the right to make offerings in worship of the deity and not of the right to the offerings after they have been made.	None
With regard to other clauses of the trust deed also we take a view different from that of the learned Judges who decided the incometax reference.	None
We have already explained our view in the preceding paragraphs and it is unnecessary to reiterate it.	None
The conclusions at which we have arrived on a construction of the deed of trust is that it creates a religious and charitable trust of a public nature.13.	None
Now, we proceed to a consideration of the second point.	None
Section 3 of the Act saysThis Act shall apply to all religious trusts, whether created before or after the commencement of this Act, any part of the property of which is situated in the State of Bihar.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument before us on behalf of the respondent is this.	Arguments of Respondent
Under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
245 of the Constitution, Parliament may make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India and the legislature of a State may make laws for the whole or any part of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
Clause (2) of the said Article further states that no law made by Parliament shall be deemed to be invalid on the ground that it would have extraterritorial operation.	None
Article 246 gives the distribution of legislative power Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in what has been called the Union List Parliament as also the legislature of a State have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List the legislature of a State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List.	None
Item 28 of the Concurrent List is  Charities and charitable institutions, charitable and religious endowments and religious institutions.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent contends that by reason of the provisions in Arts.	None
245 and 246 of the Constitution read with item 28 of the Concurrent List, the Bihar legislature which passed the Act had no power to make a law which has operation outside the State of Bihar he further contends that under S. 3 the Act is made applicable to all religious trusts, whether created before or after the commencement of the Act, any part of the property of which is situated in the State of Bihar therefore, the Act will apply to a religious institution which is outside Bihar even though a small part of its property may lie in that State.	Arguments of Respondent
It is contended that such a provision is ultra vires the power of the Bihar Legislature and Parliament alone can make a law which will apply to religious institutions having properties in different States.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively, it is contended that even if the Act applies to a religious institution in Bihar a small part of the property of which is in Bihar, the provisions of the Act can have no application to such property of the institution as is outside Bihar, such as the Calcutta properties in the present case.14.	Arguments of Respondent
It is necessary first to determine the extent of the application of the Act with reference to Ss. 1 (2) and (3) of the Act read with the preamble.	None
The preamble statesWhereas it is expedient to provide for the better administration of Hindu religious trusts in the State of Bihar and for the protection and preservation of properties appertaining to such trusts.	Reasoning
It is clear from the preamble that the Act is intended to provide for the better administration of Hindu religious trusts in the State of Bihar.	None
Section 1 (2) states that the Act extends to the whole of the State of Bihar, and S. 3 we have quoted earlier.	None
If these two provisions are read in the context of the preamble, they can only mean that the Act applies in cases in which (a) the religious trust or institution is in Bihar and (b) any part of the property of which institution is situated in the State of Bihar.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the aforesaid two conditions must be fulfilled for the application of the Act.	None
It is now well settled that there is a general presumption that the legislature does not intend to exceed its jurisdiction, and it is a sound principle of construction that the Act of a sovereign legislature should, if possible, receive such an interpretation as will make it operative and not inoperativesee the cases referred to In re, Hindu Womens Right to Property Act, 1937, 1941 FCR 12 at pp. 2730 (AIR 1941 FC 72 at pp. 7576), and the decision of this Court in R. M. D. Chamarbaugwalla v. Union of India, 1957 SCR 930 ( (S) AIR 1957 SC 628 ).We	None
accordingly hold that S. 3 makes the Act applicable to all public religious trusts, that is to say, all public religious and charitable institutions within the meaning of the definition clause in S. 2 (1) of the Act, which are situate in the State of Bihar and any part of the property of which is in that State.	None
In other words, both conditions must be fulfilled before the Act can apply.	None
If this be the true meaning of S. 3 of the Act, we do not think that any of the provisions of the Act have extraterritorial application or are beyond the competence and power of the Bihar Legislature.	None
Undoubtedly, the Bihar Legislature has power to legislate in respect of, to use the phraseology of item 28 of the Concurrent List, charities, charitable institutions, charitable and religious endowments and religious institutions situate in the State of Bihar.	None
The question, therefore, narrows down to this in so legislating, has it power to affect trust property which may be outside Bihar but which appertains to the trust situate in Bihar?	Issue
In our opinion, the answer to the question must be in the affirmative.	None
It is to be remembered that with regard to an interest under a trust the beneficiaries only right is to have the trust duly administered according to its terms and this right can normally be enforced only at the place where the trust or religious institution is situate or at the trustees place of residence see Diceys Conflict of Laws, 7th edition, p. 506.	Reasoning
The Act purports to do nothing more.	Reasoning
Its aim, as recited in the preamble, is to provide for the better administration of Hindu religious trusts in the State of Bihar and for the protection of properties appertaining thereto.	Reasoning
This aim is sought to be achieved by exercising control over the trustees in personam.	Reasoning
The trust being situate in Bihar the State has legislative power over it and also over its trustees or their servants and agents who must be in Bihar to administer the trust.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is really no question of the Act having extraterritorial operation.	None
In any case, the circumstance that the temples where the deities are installed are situate in Bihar, that the hospital and charitable dispensary are to be established in Bihar for the benefit of the Hindu public in Bihar gives enough territorial connection to enable the legislature of Bihar to make a law with respect to such a trust.	Reasoning
This Court has applied the doctrine of territorial connection or nexus to incometax legislation, sales tax legislation and also to legislation imposing a tax on gambling.	Reasoning
In Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar, AIR 1958 SC 452 at p. 461, the earlier cases were reviewed and it was pointed out that sufficiency of the territorial connection involved a consideration of two elements, namely, (a) the connection must be real and not illusory and (b) the liability sought to be imposed must be pertinent to that connection.	Reasoning
It cannot be disputed that if the religious endowment is itself situated in Bihar and the trustees function there, the connection between the religious institution and the property appertaining thereto is real and not illusory indeed, the religious institution and the property appertaining thereto form one integrated whole and one cannot be dissociated from the other.	Reasoning
If, therefore, any liability is imposed on the trustees, such liability must affect the trust property.	Reasoning
It is true that in the Tata Iron and Steel Co.s case, AIR 1958 SC 452 at p. 461, this Court observedIt is not necessary for us on this occasion to lay down any broad proposition as to whether the theory of nexus, as a principle of legislation is applicable to all kinds of legislation.	Reasoning
It will be enough for disposing of the point now under consideration, to say that this Court has found no apparent reason to confine its application to incometax legislation but has extended it to sales tax and to tax on gambling.	None
We do not see any reason why the principles which were followed in State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala, 1957 SCR 874 ((S) AIR 1957 SC 699 ), should not be followed in the present case.	None
In R. M. D. Chamarbaugwalas case, 1957 SCR 874 (AIR 1957 SC 699 ), it was found that the respondent who was the organiser of a prize competition was outside the State of Bombay the paper through which the prize competition was conducted was printed and published outside the State of Bombay, but it had a wide circulation in the State of Bombay and it was found that all the activities which the gambler is ordinarily expected to undertake took place mostly, if not entirely, in the State of Bombay.	Reasoning
These circumstances, it was held, constituted a sufficient territorial nexus which entitled the State of Bombay to impose a tax on the gambling that took place within its boundaries and the law could not be struck down on the ground of extraterritoriality.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the same principles apply in the present case and the religious endowment itself being in Bihar and the trustees functioning there, the Act applies and the daries and the law could not be struck down on the ground of extraterritoriality.15.	Arguments of Respondent
We proceed now to consider some of the decisions on which learned counsel for the respondent has placed reliance.	None
These are (1) Sirdar Gurdyal Singh v. Rajah of Faridkote, 21 Ind App 171 at p. 185 (PC) (2) Commissioner of Wakfs, Bengal v. Narasingh Chandra Daw and Co., ILR (1939) 1 Cal 462 (AIR 1939 Cal 648 ) (3) Madangopal Bagla v. Lachmidas, ILR (1948)2 Cal 455 (AIR 1948 Cal 322) and (4) Maharaj Kishore Khanna v. Raja Ram Singh, AIR 1954 Pat 164 .	Reasoning
Those decisions, in our opinion, are not in point, as they related to different problems altogether.	Reasoning
In Sirdar Gurdyal Singhs case, 21 Ind App 171(PC), a Faridkote court passed an ex parte money decree against a defendant who had been a treasurer of Faridkote, but who at the time of suit had ceased to be such and was resident in Jhind of which State he was a domiciled subject it was held that the decree was a nullity by international law.	Reasoning
The ratio of the decision was thus expressed by Lord SelborneTerritorial jurisdiction attaches (with special exceptions) upon all persons either permanently or temporarily resident within the territory while they are within it	None
but it does not follow them after they have withdrawn from it, and when they are living in another independent country. . . . . .	None
In a personal action, to which none of these causes of jurisdiction apply, a decree pronounced in absentem by a foreign Court, to the jurisdiction of which the defendant has not in any way submitted himself, is by international law an absolute nullity.	None
The decision in ILR (1939) 1 Cal 462 (AIR 1939 Cal 648 ) proceeded on a construction of S. 70 of the Bengal Wakf Act which also had a section similar to S. 3 of the Act.	None
Section 70 of the Bengal Wakf Act required notice to the Commissioner of Wakfs before any wakf property could be sold and the question was whether a court in Assam was under any obligation to send such a notice.	None
It was held that the Bengal Act did not apply to Assam and S. 70 stood in a different category from the other sections of the Bengal Act.	None
The ratio of the decision was thus explainedSo far as the status of the Commissioner is concerned, it is conferred by the Bengal Act to operate even outside the province.	None
Therefore, the Commissioner may bring suits under S. 72 or S. 73 of the Bengal Act in courts outside the province.	None
But S. 70 lies in a different category, because it imposes an obligation on the court to issue notice to the Commissioner in certain circumstances. . . . . . . . .	None
Section 70 (1) refers to a suit or proceeding in respect of any wakf property, etc., and if this wakf property is situated outside the province, so that the court having jurisdiction over it is also outside the province, then the Act cannot operate beyond its extent, that is to say outside the province of Bengal.	None
The decision in ILR 19482 Cal 455 (AIR 1948 Cal 322), and the decision in AIR 1954 Pat 164  both related to the interpretation.	None
of some of the provisions of the United Provinces Encumbered Estates Act (U. P. Act 25 of 1934).	None
In the former case the limited question for decision was if the decreeholder under a decree of the Original Side of the Calcutta High Court was precluded from executing the decree by reason of certain proceedings which had taken place before the Special Judge, Benaras under the United Provinces Encumbered Estates Act, 1934.	None
The answer given was that the decreeholder was not so precluded and the decision proceeded on a construction of S. 18 of the United Provinces Encumbered Estates Act, 1934 read with Ss. 7, 13 and 14 (7) of that Act.	None
It was held that the exclusive jurisdiction intended to be conferred on the Special Judge in supersession of those of civil and revenue courts extended, as indicated by S. 7, only over debts enforceable through the courts within the province and the word creditor in S. 10 must be limited to those of them who would have to enforce their rights through such courts alone.	None
In the Patna case the question for decision was if S. 14 (7) of the U. P. Encumbered Estates Act, 1934 should be construed to mean that the decree of a Special Judge is to be deemed to be the decree of a civil court of competent jurisdiction even beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the State Legislature.	None
It was held that the decree passed by the Special Judge of Banaras had not the effect of a decree of a civil court outside the territorial limits of the United Provinces and the Subordinate Judge of Purnea in Bihar had no jurisdiction to execute such a decree or to direct that the properties of a judgment  debtor in Purnea should be attached in execution of the decree.	None
As we have said earlier, these decisions relate to an altogether different problem, namely, the proper construction of certain sections of the Bengal Wakfs Act or of the United Provinces Encumbered Estates Act.	None
The problem before us is of a more general nature and the aforesaid decisions are no authorities for the solution of that problem.16.	None
There is a decision of this Court to which our attention has been drawn (Petition No. 234 of 1953 decided on 1831953).	None
A similar problem arose in that case where the head of a math situate in Banaras made an application under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution for a writ in the nature of mandamus against the State of Bombay and the Charity Commissioner of that State directing them to forbear from enforcing against the petitioner the provisions of the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 on the ground inter alia that the Bombay Act could have no application to the math situate in Banaras or to any of the properties or places of worship appurtenant to that math.	Reasoning
In the course of the hearing of the petition the learned Attorney General who appeared for the State of Bombay made it clear that there was no intention on the part of the Government of Bombay or the Charity Commissioner to apply the provisions of the Bombay Act to any math or religious institution situated outside the state territory.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Attorney General submitted that the Bombay Act could be made applicable, if at all, to any place of religious instruction or worship which is a appurtenant to the math and is actually with the State territory.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of these submissions no decision was given on the point urged.	None
The case cannot, therefore, be taken as a final decision of the question in issue before us.17.	Reasoning
For the reasons which we have already given the Act applies to the Charusila Trust which is in Bihar and its provisions cannot be struck down on the ground of extraterritoriality.18.	Reasoning
The result is that the appeal succeeds and is allowed with costs, the judgment and order of the High Court dated 5101953 are set aside and the petition of Srimati Charusila Dasi must stand dismissed with costs.19.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	Decision
