 SURINDER SINGH NIJJAR, J. These appeals have been filed under Section 19 of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as TADA Act) against the final judgment and order dated 21st June, 2007 passed by the designated Court No. II TADA Act, 16(S)/93/CBI SCB MAS, whereby the learned Judge convicted the appellants under Section 120B IPC read with Sections 153A, 201, 302, 326, 324, 419, 436 IPC, Section 9(B)(1)(b) of the Explosives Act, Sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Explosives Substances Act and Section 3(2)(i) and (ii) and Section 3(3) of the TADA Act and they were sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life.	Issue
The prosecution case in brief was as follows After the demolition of the Babri Masjid in the month of December 1992, there were numerous violent incidents in various parts of the country attributed to Muslim fanatics against Hindu organizations, places of religious worship and other institutions.	Facts
During the period from December 1992 to October 1993, the appellants entered into a criminal conspiracy at Madras, Vaniyam Padi Melapalayam, Madurai, Bangalore, Tumkur, Anchal and other places to commit illegal acts by inciting Muslim youths to commit acts of violence and terrorism.	Facts
Such acts included manufacturing of bombs, exploding them in various Hindu organizations, places of worship and other religious institutions, committing murder of persons likely to be present in the offices of such organizations and places of worship, to cause hurt to the inmates therein, to escape after the commission of such acts, to provide accommodation and shelter to the conspirators to carry out the object of the conspiracy, to go into hideouts, to harbour the offenders involved in such violent acts and to screen the offenders from the clutches of law.	Facts
Ahmad Ali (A9) addressed public meetings and incited Muslim youths to fight against Hindu Munnani and RSS leaders and also to indulge in acts of violence to promote enmity between Hindu and Muslims.	Facts
On 8th July, 1993, A14 Hyder Ali (posing himself to be Ravi) and A15 Imam Ali (posing himself to be Sivakumar) visited Vadacherry (located in the outskirts of VaniyambadiVellore District, Tamil Nadu) with the intention of causing bomb blasts at a public meeting addressed by one of the Hindu Munnani leaders Sridhar (PW 118).	Facts
However they could not execute their plan since the meeting was over by the time they reached Vadacherry and the bomb remained unused.	Facts
However they met Sridhar and after introducing themselves as Ravi and Sivakumar, expressed their desire to meet him at Chennai.	Facts
The unused bomb was dismantled and kept in the house of A18 Mushtaq Ahmed at Jaffarbad in Vaniyambadi which is nearer to Vadacherry.	Facts
Afterwards the duo returned to Chennai.	Facts
On 29th July, 1993, A5 Abubucker Siddique, A14 Hyder Ali, A15 Imam Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin went to a house in Porur and ordered a remote control device.	Facts
Thereafter they went to the house of A18 Mushtaq Ahmed (absconding accused) at Jaffarabad.	Facts
Together all the aforesaid accused went to Gudiyatham and purchased gelatin and detonators and brought it to the house of A18 Mushtaq Ahmed.	Facts
It is further the case of the prosecution that A15 Imam Ali conducted a trial blast at the house of A18 Mushtaq Ahmed and thereafter left for Chennai on the following day.	Facts
They collected the remote control ordered earlier from the Porur house and checked the same.	Facts
They then purchased pen torch cells, one battery box, quartz timer, switch and some other items required for blasting suitcase bomb.	Facts
On 30th July, 1993 A15 Imam Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin along with A5 Abubucker Siddique and A14 Hyder Ali went to the RSS office Chennai for surveying the place.	Facts
While A15 Imam Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin were inside the RSS office A5 Abubucker Siddique and A14 Hyder Ali remained outside.	Facts
A15 and A17 could not meet Sridhar as he was out of office.	Facts
However they met other office bearers and informed him that they were running a cassette recording company in Alandur, Chennai and made an official entry of an incorrect nonexistent address in the register kept as a record of visitors to the RSS office.	Facts
On 6th August, 1993 all the above four accused went to RSS office, Chennai with suitcases containing bombs.	Facts
On the way, A15 and A17 got down near a temple, applied Vibhooti (white ash) and kum (tilak) on their forehead, stuck photos of Lord Krishna on their suitcases.	Facts
Again A15 and A17 went inside the RSS office carrying the suitcases containing bombs and A5 and A14 remained outside.	Facts
A5 and A17 enquired about Sridhar from Shanmugam, a RSS worker.	Facts
A15 and A17 had also talked to Jawahar, another RSS worker and handed over a letter addressed to Sridhar.	Facts
Thereafter they came out of the office leaving behind the suitcase bombs and waited for about half an hour at a tea shop.	Facts
However the bombs did not explode.	Facts
A15 and A17 went inside and brought the suitcase bombs outside and took it back to the godown of A1 Rafiq Ahmed.	Facts
On 7th August, 1993, they purchased new battery cells, cells for torch light and plastic covers which do not conduct electricity.	Facts
These were brought for rectification and then the bombs were again kept ready in both the suitcases.	Facts
On 8th August, 1993 at about 1112 am all the above four accused went again with the two suit cases containing the bombs.	Facts
Again A5 and A14 remained outside, A15 and A17 went inside the RSS office carrying the suitcases the bombs.	Facts
Inside the RSS office they met PW1 Srinivasan and asked about Sridhar.	Facts
After that they came out of the building leaving behind the suitcase bombs.	Facts
At about 145 pm there was loud explosions which resulted in the death of 11 persons, injuries to 7 others and also complete demolition of the building.	Facts
Instant case was registered by Mr. A. Rajaram, Inspector, Chetput, F5, Police Station, Chennai in crime No. 1137 of 1993 under Section 120B, 302 326, 153 A IPC, Section 9B(1)(b) of The Indian Explosive Act, 1884 and Sections 3 And 4 of The Explosive Substances Act, 1908 against unknown persons.	Facts
Initially the investigation was started by CBCID, Metro, Chennai.	Facts
Later on, the investigation was transferred to CBI on 26th August, 1993 and registered in R.C No. 16 (S) 93 CBI SCB Chennai and investigated by Mr. M.S. Sundarajan DSp, CBI SCB Madras.	Facts
After the completion of the investigation, charge sheet dated 8th June, 1994 was filed against 18 accused under Sections 120B IPC read with Sections 153A,201,302,326,324,419,436 IPC, Section 9(B)(1)(b) of the Explosives Act, Sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Explosives Substances Act and Section 3 of the TADA Act.	Facts
The Designated Court No. II TADA Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the Trial Court) by order dated 21st June, 2007 convicted A1 Rafiq Ahmed under Section 153A read with Section 109 IPC, A2 Shahabudeen under Section 201 IPC, A4 Abdul Rahim under Section 3(4) TADA Act, A5 Abubucker Siddique under Section 120B read with Sections 153 A, 201, 302, 326, 324, 419, 436 IPC, Section 9(B)(1)(b) of Explosive Act, Sections 3, 4, 5 6 of Explosives Substances Act, Sections 3(2) and 3(3) of TADA Act, A7 Ahmed Gnaiyar under Section 3(4) TADA Act, A10 Md.	Facts
Moosa Mohideen under Section 3(4)	Facts
TADA Act, A11 Syed Md Buhari under Section 3(4) TADA Act, A12 S.K. Md.Ali under Section 3(4) TADA Act, A14 Hyder Ali under Section 120B read with Sections 153A,201,302,326,324,419,436 IPC, Section 9 (B)(1)(b) of Explosive Act, Sections 3, 4, 5 6 of Explosives Substances Act, Sec 3(2), 3(3) of TADA Act, A15 Imam Ali (dead), A17 Kaja Nijammudin under Section 120B read with Sections 153 A,201,302,326,324,419,436 IPC, Section 9 (B)(1)(b) of Explosive Act, Sections 3, 4, 5 6 of Explosives Substances Act, Sections 3(2), 3(3) of TADA Act.	Facts
The following persons were acquitted namely A3 Mukhtar Ahmed, A6 S.A.Basha, A8 Ameenuddin Sheriff and A13 Abdul Aslam.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said judgment, A5 Abubucker Siddique and A14 Hyder Ali filed Criminal Appeal No. 1374 of 2007.	Facts
A17 Kaja Nizamuddin filed Criminal Appeal No. 552 of 2008 and the State filed Criminal Appeal No. 1271 of 2009.	Facts
We have heard Mr. Natrajan, learned Senior Advocate for the appellants Mr. P.P. Malhotra on behalf of the respondent State.	None
Mr. Natarajan has submitted that the trial court has committed a grave error in convicting the appellants.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, there was no legal evidence on the record to indicate that the appellants were involved in the explosion which was the subject matter of the charge sheet of 8th August, 1993.	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire body of evidence, according to Mr. Natarajan, relied upon by the prosecution, consists of various confessional statements recorded by the authorities under Section 15 of TADA Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, these confessions would show that  All the accused had entered into a conspiracy as alleged in the charge sheet.	Arguments of Petitioner
(ii) In pursuance of this conspiracy, Abubucker Siddique A5, Imam Ali (A15) Hyder Ali (A14) and one Mushtaq Ahmed were engaged with the task of procuring explosives and its accessories, making bombs with them.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iii) They went to Vaniyampadi in North Arcot District.	Arguments of Petitioner
There, they associated Mustaq Ahmed who helped them in procuring the explosive substance namely gelatin sticks and detonators.	Arguments of Petitioner
They, thereafter, travelled to Gudiyatham and contacted a licenced dealer Kamalnathan, PW.112, through a cycle shop owner Jayasekhar, PW.111 and illegally purchased the aforesaid explosives.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, five of the accused persons have given a confession on this point.	Arguments of Petitioner
In all, they purchased 8 kgs.	Arguments of Petitioner
of gelatin	Arguments of Petitioner
on 30th July, 1993 and 5 kgs.	Arguments of Petitioner
on 1st August, 1993.	Arguments of Petitioner
The 13 kgs.	Arguments of Petitioner
of gelatin alongwith the detonators were required for manufacturing the two bombs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(iv) On 6th August, 1993, the effort to blow up the RSS Office did not succeed as the bomb did not detonate.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that attempt, A5, Abubucker Siddique and A14, Hyder Ali stood outside the RSS Office.	Arguments of Petitioner
A15, Imam Ali and A17, Kaja Nizamuddin went inside the RSS Office.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 7th August, 1993, both the bombs were brought to the godown of Rafeeq Ahamed, A1.	Arguments of Petitioner
There, the two bombs were repaired.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 8th August, 1993, the same two bombs were again taken to the RSS Headquarters for causing the explosion as narrated above.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr.Natarajan, the entire foundation of the prosecution, as narrated above, is destroyed by the results of examination of the bomb site, by the committee of experts headed by the committee of experts headed by the Director of Central Forensic Laboratory (CFSL) and the evidence of Investigating officer, M.S. Sundarrajan PW 223 and K. Sundarrajan PW 189.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that  After the explosion, the bomb site was examined by the experts of the prosecution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The evidence of these experts, consisting of five volumes of exhibits is on the record.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expert report (Ex.P316) has clearly concluded that the Improvised Explosive Device (IED) used was prepared from high explosives.	Arguments of Petitioner
The explosive devices did not contain gelatin but was were made of RDX and PETN.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) Investigating Officer M.S. Sundarrajan (PW 223) and K. Sundarrajan (PW 189) have also stated that at the site only the presence of RDX and PETN was detected in the bomb used on 8th August, 1993 and gelatin was not used.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3)Mr.	Arguments of Petitioner
Natarajan then submitted that since the conspirators had only procured gelatin, it was for the prosecution to establish the source from where RDX was brought.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also for the prosecution to establish as to what has happened to gelatin, which was allegedly procured by the conspirators.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) Since the prosecution is unable to answer either of the two questions, the very substratum of the prosecution case is destroyed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Apart from the building, even from the remains of the dead bodies and the clothes, only traces of RDX and PETN were found.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) In the confessional statements, there is no mention of any other explosive being procured by the conspirators.	Arguments of Petitioner
The expression used was other materials.	Arguments of Petitioner
This expression referred only to the other materials which were required to assemble the bombs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(6) The trial court erred in law in reading other materials to mean other explosives.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his submission, he relied on the evidence of Mr. M.S. Sundarrajan, the investigating officer, PW.223.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mr. Natarajan, this witness has admitted in the cross examination that during the investigation, he was unable to find out the origin of RDX and PETN.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also pointed out to the crossexamination of Mr. K. Sundarrajan, PW.189, who stated that PETN and RDX are different explosives.	Arguments of Petitioner
This witness also stated that in gelatin sticks RDX will not be found.	Arguments of Petitioner
(7) Even the trial court had noticed that the evidence of experts shows that the explosion was caused only by RDX and PETN and not by gelatin sticks.	Arguments of Petitioner
(8) The trial court also accepts that even the confessional statements revealed that what was purchased at Gudiyatham was only gelatin and not RDX or PETN.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Natarajan submitted that the conclusion, therefore, reached by the trial court is without any legal basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
(9) The trial court has misconcluded the legal position while excluding from consideration the exculpatory part of the confession.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this, the learned counsel relied on Chhittar Vs. State of Rajasthan 1995 Supp (4) SCC 519	Arguments of Petitioner
Aghnoo Nagesia Vs. State of Bihar (1966) 1	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 134 and Devku Bhikha Vs. State of Gujarat (1996) 11 SCC 641 .	Arguments of Petitioner
(10) So far as A17 is concerned, Mr. Natarajan submitted that he was not identified.	Arguments of Petitioner
His confession was not recorded.	Arguments of Petitioner
A memo was filed in Court on 17th June, 1998 stating that he had died.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, charge against him had abated.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr.P.P.Malhotra, learned senior counsel on the other hand submitted that the terms used by the defence are scientific terms.	Arguments of Respondent
The accused had merely said that they have purchased explosives.	Arguments of Respondent
They were not scientists and therefore even if they call the explosives as gelatin instead of RDX would not be fatal to the case of the prosecution.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that the confessions have to be read from the point of view of a layman.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that merely because the prosecution has not been able to prove the source of the bomb making material does not mean bombs were not used or that they were not planted by them.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus the case of the prosecution as roughly summarized by the learned senior counsel was that there was a conspiracy hatched bombs were manufactured using explosive substances.	Arguments of Respondent
These bombs were used to destroy the RSS headquarters.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the prosecution had established that explosives were used, the planting of the bombs were also proved and it was for that reason that the prosecution was not required to prove what kind of explosives were used.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the prosecution case is that the explosive chemicals were used for causing the bomb blast.	Arguments of Respondent
The confession of A5 and others clearly indicate that explosive substances were procured.	Arguments of Respondent
Recovery of high explosive chemical PETN was also made form the godown of A1, form the well located in the house of A2 as well as from the grey colour pant of A17 as per recovery mahazars.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not the prosecution case that only gelatin and detonators were used but the prosecution case is that explosive chemicals were used.	Arguments of Respondent
On the basis of the confessional statement of A5 some of the sources of explosives and other materials were traced.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that PETN which was found from the debris of the bomb blast site was also recovered form the dust sweep collected from the godown of A1 where the bomb was prepared, from the well in the house of A2 as well as from the grey colour pant of A17.	Arguments of Respondent
As per the expert opinion of Sh.	Arguments of Respondent
K Sundararajan PW 189, PETN itself is a highly explosive substance and not simply a booster as claimed.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the meeting between Sridhar and A14 A15 at Vadacherry was confirmed by A15s own letter left at the office of RSS office on 6th August, 1993 and hand writing expert opinion.	Arguments of Respondent
The visiting card given by Sridhar to A15 on 8th July, 1993 at Vadachery recovered from the residence of A3 Mukhtar Ahmed at Bangalore confirms the connection between A15 and A3.	Arguments of Respondent
The visit of A15 Imam Ali posing himself as Sivakumar in the RSS office on 30th July, 1993 and the entry made in the register giving false non existing address found to be of his own hand writing corroborates the fact that he visited the RSS office on 30th July, 1993.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted the accused persons had made an attempt to blast a bomb on 8th July, 1993 at Vadachery but in vain.	Arguments of Respondent
A5 in his confession statement had indicated that explosives were procured in addition to gelatin and detonators and the same could be RDX PETN.	Arguments of Respondent
Merely because the source was not proved it cannot be held that the same were not used considering the fact that traces of RDX PETN were found in the bodies at the scene of crime.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted that the contention of the defence was totally fallacious that RDX can be found only in the Indian Military.	Arguments of Respondent
During the Bombay Bomb Blast about 50 kgs of RDX were smuggled to India.	Arguments of Respondent
Further RDX is also used for selective industrial applications like demolition of structures etc.	Arguments of Respondent
RDX exists in the form of plasticine putty and it may not leave any trace or residue like a liquid or powder substances as in the case of PETN.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Mr. Malhotra, the conclusions recorded by the Trial Court are based on the correct analysis of the entire evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
The conviction recorded against the appellants does not call for any interference.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel Undoubtedly, in this case there is no direct evidence of the crime.	None
The prosecution case hinges on circumstantial evidence.	None
It is an accepted proposition of law that even in cases where no direct evidence is available in the shape of eyewitnesses etc.	None
a conviction can be based on circumstantial evidence alone.	None
The hypothesis which can form the basis for conviction purely on circumstantial evidence was stated by this Court in the case of Hanumant Govind Nargundkar Vs.	None
State of M.P.,1952 SCR 1091 .	None
In the aforesaid judgment, Mahajan, J. speaking for the Court stated the principle which reads thus It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused.	None
Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved.	None
In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.	None
The aforesaid proposition of law was restated in the case of Naseem Ahmed v. Delhi Admn., (1974) 3 SCC 668 by Chandrachud J. as follows This is a case of circumstantial evidence and it is therefore necessary to find whether the circumstances on which prosecution relies are capable of supporting the sole inference that the appellant is guilty of the crime of which he is charged.	None
The circumstances, in the first place, have to be established by the prosecution by clear and cogent evidence and those circumstances must not be consistent with the innocence of the accused.	None
For determining whether the circumstances established on the evidence raise but one inference consistent with the guilt of the accused, regard must be had to the totality of the circumstances.	None
Individual circumstances considered in isolation and divorced from the context of the overall picture emerging from a consideration of the diverse circumstances and their conjoint effect may by themselves appear innocuous.	None
It is only when the various circumstances are considered conjointly that it becomes possible to understand and appreciate their true effect.	None
The trial court accepts that The entire case of the prosecution is based on circumstantial evidence and confessions recorded under Section 15 of TADA Act.	None
(ii) The confessional statements voluntarily made under Section 15 of TADA Act are admissible in evidence.	None
(iii) Having held the confessional statements to be admissible yet the trial court discards part of the confessional statement on the ground that they are not truthful to some extent in respect of the conspiracy aspect of all the accused and involvement of all the accused.	None
(iv) After analyzing the entire evidence, the trial court concludes that the evidence indicates that the explosion was caused only by RDX and PETN.	None
(v) It is also concluded that gelatin sticks were not used.	None
(vi) It is also accepted that in Gudiyatham only gelatin sticks were purchased and not RDX or PETN.	None
(vii)	None
The trial court accepted that the aforesaid will have a serious bearing on acceptability of the confessional statement of the accused and their involvement of all accused in the conspiracy.	None
(viii) Inspite of the aforesaid, it is concluded that there is sufficient evidence to show that the appellants committed the overt act of causing the explosion as claimed by the prosecution.	None
The discrepancy between the material found at the bomb site and the material purchased by the conspirators is held to be not of much importance.	None
On the basis of the aforesaid, the trial court concluded that the A5, A14, A15 and A17 were liable for the charges with which they were charged.	None
All the other accused were liable only for their act of either promoting enmity among the religious groups or harbouring the accused before or after the blast.	None
In our opinion, the contents of the confessional statements if true, would indicate that all the accused mentioned above and the appellants, in particular, had entered into a conspiracy for committing the violent and terrorist acts against a particular Hindu organization and Hindu places of religious worships, religious institutions and places frequented by Hindus in general.	Reasoning
In order to strike terror in the minds of the Hindus, they had decided to cause explosions and commit crimes of violence, such as murder.	Reasoning
They were also intent to cause destruction to the property belonging to the Hindu community.	Reasoning
In furtherance of this aim, the participants in the conspiracy, the appellants in particular, and their accomplices had been charged with the task of procuring high explosives.	Reasoning
For that purpose, they went to Gudiyatham and procured 13 kgs of gelatin as narrated herein above.	Reasoning
From the explosive material collected by the conspirators, two dangerously explosive bombs had been assembled.	Reasoning
The first attempt to explode such a bomb did not fructify as the intended target had already left the premises in which the bomb was to be exploded.	Reasoning
The bomb was dismantled and kept in the house of A18 Mushtaq Ahmed (absconding).	Reasoning
The second attempt for exploding these bombs also failed as the detonator was short circuited.	Reasoning
It was the third attempt in which the conspirators succeeded.	Reasoning
This attempt took place on 8th August, 1993 when A15 Imam Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin carried the two bombs into the building.	Reasoning
They deposited the bombs in the building and exited there from.	Reasoning
They waited outside for half an hour till the bomb exploded.	Reasoning
This is the sum total of the sequence of events leading upto the explosion that destroyed the RSS, Headquarters on 8th August, 1993.	Reasoning
Quite some time after the explosion, upon investigation, certain arrests were made.	Reasoning
A5 Abubucker Siddique was arrested on 24th October, 1993.	Reasoning
A14 Hyder Ali was arrested in some other case but was produced before the Trial Court on PT warrant on 16th August, 1995.	Reasoning
A15 has died.	Reasoning
A17 Kaja Nizamuddin was arrested in some other case and produced before the Trial Court on 13th March, 2000 on PT warrant.	Reasoning
We may notice here that A14 Hyder Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin were also arrested in some other case and that too after two years and 7 years respectively.	Reasoning
On interrogation, they made confessional statements.	Reasoning
Excepting for the confessional statements, admittedly, there is no other independent evidence with regard to the participation of the accused in the conspiracy and the particular role played by them.	Reasoning
According to these confessions, A15 Imam Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin had carried the two suitcases inside the building.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is apparent that even according to the prosecution version, they could have only carried bombs made from gelatin.	Reasoning
The lid on the prosecution case is blown away by the report of forensic experts and the traces of the explosive material collected at the Bomb site.	Reasoning
Upon investigation and according to the evidence, which has been recorded in the trial court itself, it has been established that the bomb which caused the damage consisted only of RDX and PETN.	Reasoning
This is also the conclusion in the Report on the Investigation of the Bomb blast which occurred at Chetput, Madras on August 8th, 1993 submitted by T.R. Baggi, Director, CFSL, Hyderabad.	Reasoning
Relevant extracts of the aforesaid report are as under The State Head quarters of R.S.S. is located at No. 2, M.V. Naidu Street, Chetput, Madras  8.	None
On Sunday, the 8th August, 1993 at about 1345 hours, the three storied building was damaged by a loud blast killing 11 persons and injuring 5.	None
On Monday, the 9th August, 1993, Shri J.N. Saksena, IPS, Director General, Bureau of Police Research Development (BPRD), New Delhi alerted Dr. T.R. Baggi, Director, Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Hyderabad and permitted the CFSL team to visit Madras to help the Tamil Nadu Police in the investigation if a request is received from them.	None
Later Shri B. Perumalswamy, IPS, Additional Director General of Police (Crime), Madras contacted the Director, CFSL, Hyderabad and requested him to visit Madras and help the Tamil Nadu Government in the investigation of the Bomb blast at R.S.S. Head quarters building at M.V. Naidu Street, Chetput, Madras.	None
Accordingly, a team consisting of Dr. T.R. Baggi, Shri Nagraj Shankpal, Shri V Suresh and Shri M Vara Prasad of CFSL, Hyderabad reached Madras on the morning of 10th August, 1993 to provide the necessary help in the investigation.	None
This report presents the details of the extent of damage to the structure, human life, property, neighbourhood due to the explosion while discussing the structural failure pattern.	None
The report also presents the details of the postexplosion laboratory investigations particularly fixing the seat of explosion in the building and the chemical nature of Improvised Explosive Device (IED) used in the blast.	None
LABORATORY ANALYSIS FOR THE EXPLOSION	None
RESIDUES	None
It was reported that the police officers collected several material objects (exhibits) immediately after the blast as clue materials to be sent to Forensic Science Laboratory for analysis.	None
Later the Forensic Science Laboratory personnel also collected several exhibits for analysis.	None
The material recovered from the dead bodies, which consisted of debris material, which had entered the bodies like metal pieces, stone pieces, glass pieces, plastic material, wooden pieces etc., were also sent for analysis.	None
Portions of the burnt skin of the deceased and the clothings of the deceased persons were also sent for analysis.	None
The debris which was removed by the bulldozer to extricate the dead bodies was piled up in the open space in front of the building.	None
As most of the crucial clues must be lying in this debris, it was suggested to the senior officers of the Tamil Nadu Police to transport the entire debris after removing big boulders and stones, etc., to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) premises, so that the debris could be served for parts of any IED initiating devices and explosion residues.	None
Accordingly, about 30 lorry loads of debris was transported to FSL premises and sieving process was undertaken.	None
Preliminary spot tests and Thin Layer Chromatographic (TLC) tests carried out on the select exhibits cited above gave positive tests for Penta Erythritol Tetra Nitrate (PETN) initially and no positive response was obtained for other propellants, low and high explosives.	None
Based on these findings, it was suggested by FSD Police Officers of Madras that PETN alone could have been used in the IED.	None
However, the CFSL, Hyderabad did not agree with this view and conveyed that the literature indicates that only in few cases PETN alone is used for causing small explosions like safecracking or blasting an automobile etc.	None
Therefore, it was suggested that as PETN was always used as an initiator booster for other high explosives such as Cyclotrimethylene trinitramine (RDX), Trinitro toluene (TNT), 2,4,6 trinitrophenylmethyl nitramine (Tetryl), Nitroglycerine (NG), Cyclotetramethylene tetramine (HMX) etc.	None
An analytical search could be carried out systematically for one of these high explosives.	None
Accordingly, some more screening tests were conducted on large number of exhibits sent by the police medical officers and the debris received in FSL by using larger quantities and cleanup procedures.	None
In this screening procedure positive response was obtained for both PETN and RDX in some of the exhibits.	None
It was also noted that few exhibits gave positive tests only for PETN, some exhibits gave positive tests only for RDX and some exhibits gave positive tests for both PETN and RDX.	None
However, many exhibits did not give positive tests for any of the explosives.	None
It can be seen that the retention times of RDX and PETN in various exhibits analysed are tallying with the retention times of the standard runs on RDX and PETN, confirming the presence of RDX PETN in the respective exhibits.	None
As a further confirmation, two representative exhibit extracts were injected into the column, later, the same exhibits were spiked with RDX and PETN and chromatographed.	None
Corresponding increase in peak heights was noted in each case confirming that the peaks were essentially of RDX and PETN.	None
Further the analysis was carried out at two different wave lengths namely 210nm and 230nm to get better sensitives for individual components.	None
It was noted that the chromatograms at both these wave lengths gave positive response for the presence of RDX PETN correspondingly.	None
The comparison of TLC results and HPLC results also indicates that in some of the exhibits only PETN is present, in some of the exhibits only RDX is present and in some of the exhibits both PETN and RDX are present.	None
Based on the site visits, discussions with Chief Engineer, PWD, visiting team of IIT Structural Engineers, the medial officers, the police officers and chemical analysis, the following conclusions are drawn a) The origin of the blast is in the ground floor.	None
b)	None
The seat of the blast is slightly to the north of the centre of the entry hall reading roomlibrary.	None
c)	None
The seat of explosion is located at a place above the ground level.	None
d)	None
The primary damage from the blast is the failure of the four walls, roof of the entry hall followed by the failure of the roof of the prayer hall, east and west walls of the prayer hall and the two storied porch.	None
e)	None
The secondary failures consisted of severe cracking of walls, shattering of door window frames and glass panes.	None
f)	None
The IED used was prepared from high explosives.	None
g)	None
The IED contained cyclotrimethylene trimitramine (RDX) as high explosive and Penta Erythritol Tetra Nitrate (PETN) as initiator booster.	None
h)	None
Seeing the damage, the RDX charge in the IED used could be roughly assessed to the order of about one (1) kg.	None
Mr. Natarajan, in our opinion, correctly formulated the two vital questions, viz., (i) where did the RDX come from? and (ii) what happened to the Gelatin?	None
Since the evidence of the prosecution itself clearly indicates that the explosive material used in the bomb explosion was RDX and PETN, it was necessary for the prosecution to satisfactorily answer the aforesaid two questions.	None
The Trial Court was well aware of the legal position which is evident from the following observations With regard to the contention of the defence in respect of RDX, PETN etc., it is true that when it is the specific case of the prosecution that the explosives and other materials were procured from Gudiyatham, Chennai and other places, it is the duty cast upon the prosecution to prove the specific allegation beyond doubt in a very cogent manner without missing any link in the chain of circumstances.	None
The prosecution says that gelatin sticks were procured from Gudiyatham at Vellore District, but the relevant witnesses were treated as hostile witnesses.	None
However, Ex.P.298 and Ex.P.316 and the conclusions reached therein by the team of experts shows the usage of RDX in blasting the building in question.	None
Presence of high explosives namely RDX, PETN and other lethal and Hazardous substances were detected from the dead bodies and other materials recovered from the debris and also seized from the accused when subjected for chemical examination.	None
Having recorded the aforesaid conclusion, the trial court, without any cogent evidence, accepted the submission of the prosecution that only two persons knew about the procurement of RDX, PETN etc, namely A15 Imam Ali and A18 Mushtaq Ahmed (absconding accused).	Reasoning
Thereafter, the trial court quite erroneously observed that A5 Abubucker Siddique in his confessional statement had indicated that gelatin sticks, detonators and other explosives were procured.	Reasoning
Having said so, the trial court without any basis goes on to accept the contention of the prosecution that other explosives could have been RDX, PETN and merely because the source could not be proved it cannot be said that such explosives were not used.	Reasoning
This conclusion is reached by the trial court inspite of the evidence of the investigating officer Mr. M.S. Sundarrajan, PW223.	None
His statement was as under During the course of my investigation, I could not find out the origin from where RDX or PETN was obtained by the accused for causing blast of RSS Office building in this case because the main accused Imam Ali and Hyder Ali were not available to me for my investigation at the relevant point of time to throw light about this.	None
From the examination of other accused persons, I could not get details about the particulars of RDX or PETN.	None
So also during the crossexamination of PW 189 Mr.K. Sundarrjan has stated as under PETN and RDX are different articles.	None
In Gelatin sticks RDX will not be found Upon noticing the aforesaid evidence the trial court quite rightly concludes that a conjoint reading of the above shows that RDX and PETN are different materials in composition, differing from that of gelatin.	None
In Gelatin sticks RDX or PETN will not be found.	Reasoning
Therefore, the prosecution ought to have investigated the case in the angle of the usage of the RDX, PETN etc., in the instant bomb blast.	None
But having recorded the aforesaid conclusion, the trial court again proceeds to record a conclusion which would be wholly without any basis.	None
This conclusion is as under However, it will not affect the merits of the case as high explosives were also stated to have been procured and used in addition to Gelatin sticks.	None
But the source from where these materials were purchased is said to have been within the exclusive knowledge of Mustaq Ahamed (absconding accused) and A15 Imam Ali (since dead), it will have some bearing on the reliability and acceptability of the confession statements of the accused to some extent as aforesaid.	None
The aforesaid conclusion does not explain as to what happened to 13 Kgs of Gelatin, which was procured from Gudiyatham.	Reasoning
It also does not explain as to why only traces of RDX were found in dead bodies, clothes and parts of the building.	Reasoning
Not a trace of Gelatin was found in the building.	Reasoning
It is worth noticing here that in none of the confessional statements, has it been stated about any other explosives being procured, yet the trial court concludes that other explosive material has also been procured.	Reasoning
The conclusion is clearly without any factual basis nor supported by any evidence.	Reasoning
We may reiterate here that it is admitted by Mr. Sundarrajan that the origin from where the RDX or PETN was obtained by the accused were not discovered.	Reasoning
He also emphatically stated that PETN and RDX are different articles.	Reasoning
It is also stated in his crossexamination that in Gelatin sticks, RDX will not be found.	Reasoning
On a conjoint reading of the entire evidence, the trial court clearly recorded the conclusion that only RDX and PETN and not Gelatin sticks as claimed by the prosecution were used for the explosion.	Reasoning
It is also noticed that the confessional statements reveals that what was purchased were only Gelatin sticks from Gudiyatham and not RDX and PETN.	Reasoning
Such evidence would clearly destroy the very foundation of the prosecution case, which proceeds on the basis that the gelatin and the detonators were procured in Gudiyatham was the material from which the bombs were manufactured, which were responsible for the explosion on 8th August, 1993.	Reasoning
Even according to the trial court, the exploding bomb consisted of RDX and PETN.	Reasoning
Having recorded the aforesaid conclusion that trial court without any justification concludes such evidence would only affect the evidentiary value and truthfulness of the confessional statements.	Reasoning
We may notice here the conclusion as recorded by the trial court as follows Now a conjoint reading of the confessional statements of the accused already said above, searches made and recoveries effected from the respective places of the accused, material seized from the scene of crime, recovery seizure and observation mahazers therefore and consequential chemical examination and its result and the evidence of the experts therefore shows that what was used for the explosion was only RDX and PETN and not gelatin sticks as claimed by the prosecution.	None
The confessional statements reveals that what was purchased was only gelatin sticks from Gudiyatham and not RDX or PETN which has got a serious bearing on the acceptability of the confessional statements of the accused and their involvement of all the accused in the conspiracy.	Reasoning
According to the learned Special Public Prosecutor only two persons namely A15 Imam Ali (died) and absconding accused Mustaq Ahamed knew about it.	None
It follows that the other three accused namely A5 Abubucker Siddique, A14 Hyder Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin who were closely associated with them also knew about it.	None
It goes without saying that they only conspired together and did everything for bomb blast.	None
In our opinion, the trial court having correctly recorded the conclusion in the earlier part of the paragraph, unnecessarily and without any basis diluted the same and restricted it only to the reliability of the confessional statement.	Reasoning
We are of the considered opinion that the Trial Court correctly observed that the prosecution ought to have investigated the case in the angle of the usage of the RDX, PETN etc.	Reasoning
Even after making such an observation, the Trial Court erroneously goes onto convict the appellants who had procured only Gelatin and Detonators from Gudiyatham.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept the submission of Mr. P.P. Malhotra that the appellants not being scientists, referring to the explosive substance as gelatin as opposed to RDX would not be fatal.	Reasoning
According to him, the confessional statements should be read from the point of view of a layman.	Reasoning
We may refer to certain extracts from the confessional statement of A5 Abubucker Siddique, which is as follows Afterwards, we four went to see Mustaq of Vaniyampadi to purchase gun powder for the preparation of bomb.	None
They went to Gudiyatham and bought 8 Kgs. of Gelatin and some detonators.	Reasoning
Imam Ali and Mustaq went outside and bought an iron box to be suitable for fitting in a two wheeler.	None
At the house of Mustaq, Imam Ali conducted a Trial of blasting the gun powders by setting a timer.	None
On the same day, we all of us along with Mustaq and his friend Shakil went to a theatre at Vaniyambadi and saw an English Film called Armour for the action.	None
While going to the cinema, Mustaq and Shakil kept the gun powder and other items in a house near the Theatre and after seeing the cinema, we took the items from that house and left for Chennai in the night and reached Chennai in the next day morning i.e., 30.07.93.	None
On the next day after our return from Vaniyambadi, we went to Riche Street and bought the following items some pen torch cells, one battery box, quartx timer, switch and some items which are required for blasting the bomb from a box suitcase.	None
On 1.8.93, Imam Ali sent me to purchase 5 kgs of gun powder, a box made of iron for the purpose of making the second bomb and also told me to meet Mustaq at Jafrabad.	None
He gave me Rs.275 for this purpose.	None
He also told me to bring the gun powder from Mustaqs house which was bought form Mustaqs house which was bought for planting bombs at Hindu Munnani meeting at Vadacherry.	None
We are of the considered opinion that the observations of the trial court that other materials could have been RDX and PETN is perverse.	Reasoning
In our opinion, Mr. Natarajan had correctly submitted that the other items in addition to gun powder were the iron box, suit case, battery box, quartz timer, switch etc.	Reasoning
The confessional statement of A5 Abubucker Siddique reveals that they had gone to Vaniyampadi to purchase gun powder for the preparation of the bomb.	Reasoning
Then they went to Gudiyatham and procured 8 kgs of gelatine on 29.7.93.	Reasoning
Later they had procured 5 kgs of gunpowder on 1.8.93.	Reasoning
We are of the considered opinion that the confessional statement of A5 Abubucker Siddique only reveals that they had procured gelatine, gunpowder and certain other accessories required for blasting a bomb viz.	Reasoning
detonators, switch, battery box, pen torch cells, quartz timer etc.	Reasoning
It is not mentioned in the confessional statement as to how and when the appellants had procured RDX and PETN i.e. the materials with which the bomb made for blasting the RSS building situated at No.1 M.V. Naidu Street was made.	Reasoning
It was vehemently argued before us by Mr. Malhotra that the charge has to be read along with the confessional statements.	None
We may notice an extract of the charge relied upon by him.	None
It reads as follows Fifthly that you A1, A2, A5, A5 and A8 in pursuance of the said criminal conspiracy during the said period and in the course of the same transaction and in the furtherance of the common intention of you A1, A2, A5 and A 8 and the absconding accused Imam Ali, Hyder Ali and Kaja Nizamuddin to commit murders and cause injuries to RSS and Hindu Munnani leaders and others who were likely to be present on 8.8.93 at about 1.45 pm at the RSS Headquarters building procured explosives and other materials required for preparing the two suitcasebombs at godown no 21, Subaiah Street, Periamet, Madras belonging to A1 We are of the considered opinion that the most important portion of the aforesaid charge is procured explosives and other materials.	None
We have considered the confessional statements in extenso.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that explosives were procured from Gudiyatham.	Reasoning
The confessional statement of A1 Rafiq Ahmed and A5 Abubucker Siddique are unequivocal that only gelatin sticks and detonators were bought from Gudiyatham form a licensed shop owner PW 112 Kamalnathan (declared hostile).	Reasoning
The prosecution has not been able to ascertain as to how the appellants had access to RDX.	Reasoning
The Trial Court had accepted that as only two persons namely A15 Imam Ali (died) and absconding accused Mustaq Ahamed knew about the source from where RDX was procured, the other three accused namely A5 Abubucker Siddique, A14 Hyder Ali and A17 Kaja Nizamuddin who were closely associated with them also knew about it.	Reasoning
The observation of the Trial Court is merely conjectural.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the conclusion of the Trial Court that the other materials as mentioned in the charge sheet brings in its sweep other explosives like RDX and PETN is wholly without any basis.	Reasoning
The evidence on the record clearly militates against such a conclusion.	Reasoning
Thus even if the charges are read along with the confessional statement, it would not, in any manner, improve the intrinsic value of the evidence led by the prosecution.	Reasoning
Suspicion no matter how strong cannot take the place of legal proof.	Reasoning
As submitted by Mr. Malhotra, it is true that the prosecution case was that explosive substances were used to make bombs.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that the present case was registered against the 18 persons for blasting the RSS building situated at No. 1 M.V. Naidu Street.	Reasoning
As noticed hereinabove the bomb was made of RDX and PETN but no trace of gelatin was found form the scene of crime.	Reasoning
The prosecution could only prove that the appellant had procured gelatin sticks and detonators form Gudiyatham but the traces of said explosives could not be found from the scene of occurrence.	Reasoning
Thus there is clearly no evidence to link the appellants with the explosion.	Reasoning
In the result the prosecution story as put forward does not inspire confidence on the basis of the material placed on record.	Decision
Criminal Appeal No.1374 of 2007 and Criminal Appeal No.552 of 2008 filed by the accused appellants are, therefore, allowed and the conviction and sentence passed against the appellants are set aside.	Decision
They shall be set free forthwith unless wanted in any other case.	None
CRIMINAL APPEAL NO.1271 OF 2009 In view of the judgment passed in the aforesaid two appeals, this appeal stands dismissed.	Decision
