 PATHAK, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave is directed against a judgment of the High Court of Punjab Haryana dismissing a tenants revision petition.	Issue
under s. 15(5), East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949 arising out of eviction proceedings.2.	Issue
The respondent, as landlord, applied under s. 13(2) (ii) (a) of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 19 49 for the possession of a shop forming part of the premises No. 6283, Nicholson Road.	Facts
Ambala Cantonment occupied by the appellants.	Facts
He claimed that the shop had been let out to the first appellant, Gurcharan Singh but that he had without the written consent of the respondent, sublet the shop to his father, Gurdayal Singh and his brothers, Anoop Singh and Jagjit Singh.	Facts
The appellants denied that the shop had been sublet and pleaded that they, along with their father constituted a joint Hindu family, and that the joint Hindu family was the tenant of the shop.	Facts
The Rent Controller found in favour of the respondent and passed an order of eviction, which was subsequently affirmed by the Appellate Authority.	Facts
The appellants applied in revision, and the High Court has, by its judgment and order dated 14th December, 1977 dismissed the revision application.3.	Facts
The first contention of the appellant is that there is no evidence that the shop was sublet, and the finding is misconceived in point of law.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is sufficient to point out that the Rent Control Authorities and the High Court have concurrently found that the shop was let out to Gurcharan Singh and not to the joint Hindu family, and that Gurcharan Singh sublet it in 1967 to a partnership firm consisting of his father and brother.	Reasoning
The finding is supported by ample evidence on the record.	Reasoning
The material shows that the shop was let out to Gurcharan Singh alone, and the business carried on by him was later take n over by a partnership consisting of his father and brothers.	Reasoning
He was no longer proprietor of the business, and merely extended his assistance under a power of attorney enabling him to, act for the partnership.	Reasoning
The execution of the power of attorney establishes that he was not a partner.	Reasoning
It appears that Gurcharan Singh individually carried on some other business, but there is no evidence to show that business was lodged in the shop under consideration.	Reasoning
The material before us demonstrates that the shop was occupied exclusively by the partnership firm and that Gurcharan Singh was left with no right to possession therein.	None
The evidence is incompatible with the case, now set up before us, that the partnership was merely a licensee of Gurcharan Singh.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants relies on Hira Singh Ors.	None
v. Banarsi Dass.	None
That case.	None
however, was one of a joint tenancy, and it was held that the mere circumstance that one of the cotenants had ceased living in the premises for some time could not lead to the inference that he had sublet it to the other cotenants.	None
The evidence Showed that all the cotenants were carrying or business in partnership, although one of them was not disclosed was a partner.	None
Some reliance was placed on the circumstance that the licence for carrying on the business stood in the name of Gurcharan Singh.	None
As the evidence plainly shows, the licence was issued to him when he was carrying on the business, and subsequently, al though it continued to stand in his name, it was.	None
used by the partnership firm, and no inquiry was ever made by the licensing authority, when renewing it, to determine whether the original holder of the licence was still carrying on the business.5.	None
We are of opinion that the finding of the High Court and the Rent Control authorities that Gurcharan Singh had sublet the shop is unassailable.6.	None
Learned counsel for the appellants contends next that the ground subletting taken under the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949 is not available to the respondent because on the date when the subletting took place that Act was not in force in the Ambala Cantonment.	None
Now, it appears that s. 3 of the Cantonments (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Act, 1957 empowered the Central Government to extend, by notification, to any cantonment with such restrictions and modifications as it thought fit, any enactment relating to the t control of rent and regulation of house accommodation which was in force on the date of the notification in the State in which the cantonment was situated.	Arguments of Petitioner
In exercise of that power, the Central Government issued Notification No. SRO7. dated 21st November, 1969 extending the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act, 1949 to cantonments in the States of Haryana Punjab.	Reasoning
Consequently, with effect from 21st November.	Reasoning
1969	Reasoning
the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act became a law operating in the cantonment.	Reasoning
Section 13 (2) (ii) (a) of the Act provides for an order of eviction if the Controller is satisfied that the tenant has, after commencement of this Act, without the written consent of the landlord(a) transferred his right under the lease or sublet the entire building or rented land or any portion thereof.7.	Reasoning
It is clear that the tenant falls within the mischief of this subclause only if he has effected the transfer or sub letting after the commencement of the Act.	None
The Act commenced to operate in the Ambala Cantonment on 21st November, 1969.	Reasoning
In regard to that territory, it was not law before that date, but only on and from that date.	Reasoning
It is clear that the subletting in the present case having been effected in 1967, was not made after the commencement of the Act.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent urges that s. 13(2)(ii)(a) of the Act uses the words has sublet, and submits that subletting is a continuous process and that even though in the present case it may be said to have commenced before the Act came into force it continued in operation after the Act was brought into force.	Arguments of Respondent
Now, when s. 13(2)(ii)(a) speaks of a tenant who has sublet, it refers to a tenant who has entered into a transaction of subletting.	None
And the transaction of subletting is referable to a single point of time.	Reasoning
It is the moment when the act effecting the subletting is completed.	Reasoning
That transaction is located a t a fixed point.	Reasoning
What happens then is that a flowing stream of rights and obligations issues from the sub letting.	Reasoning
Those rights continue as long as the sublease subsists.	Reasoning
but they have their source in the definitive transaction of subletting located in a single fixed point of time.	Reasoning
We may add that in the context of s. 13(2)(ii)(a) of the Act.	Reasoning
the words has sublet imply that the sub letting must subsist on the date when the Act comes into force.	Reasoning
The reason is apparent from the object of the Act, which is to protect the personal occupation of the tenant.	Reasoning
The protection is not extended to a tenant who has abandoned occupation of the premises and has passed possession to another, even though by way of a subtenancy.	Reasoning
The protection against eviction is not available for permitting a tenant to make a profit out of his tenancy rights by subletting the premises.	Reasoning
Therefore, the words has sublet unqualified by any reference to the commencement of the Act. refer to a transaction of sub letting entered into before or after the commencement of the Act, and in the case where subletting has been effected before the commencement of the Act the sublease must subsist, and the rights under it continue to flow, on the date of the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
In the present case, however, s. 13(2)(ii)(a) of the Act confines its scope to subleases effected after the commencement of the Act, that is to say, transactions of subletting effected after the date when the Act came into force.	Reasoning
For that reason, a sub letting effected before the commencement of the Act cannot be brought within the mischief of s. 13(2)(ii)(a) even though it continues to subsist on or after the commencement of the Act.	None
In Goppulal v. Thakurji Shriji Shriji Dwarkadheeshji Anr.	None
on which learned counsel for the respondent relies, the relevant provision did not include the words after the commencement of this Act.	None
and, therefore, took within its scope a subletting transacted before the coming into force of the relevant Act.8.	None
In our opinion, the respondent cannot avail of s. 13(2)(ii)(a) of the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act on the basis that it was brought into operation in the Ambala Cantonment by the Notification of 1969.9.	Reasoning
We find, however, that the Cantonment (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Act, 1957 was amended by Act No. XXII of 1972.	Reasoning
Upon amendment, s. 1(2) of the principal Act declared that the principal Act would be deemed to have come into force on 26th January, 1950.	Reasoning
The words on the date of the Notification were omitted in s. 3(1) of the principal Act, and were deemed always to have been omitted, so that under s. 3 the Central Government must be deemed to have been empowered always to extend to a cantonment any enactment relating to the control of rent and regulation of house accommodation in force in the State even as it stood before the date of the Notification.	Reasoning
This amendment was made in order to accord with the further amendment made by inserting subsection (3) in s. 3 of the principal Act, which provided that where an enactment in force in any State relating to the control of rent and regulations of house accommodation was extended to a cantonment from a date earlier than the date of such extension was made, such enactment, as in force on such earlier date, would apply to such cantonment.	Reasoning
Section 3(2) was added in the principal Act, and it provided2.	None
The extension of any enactment under subs.	None
(1) may be made from such earlier or future date as the Central Government may think fitProvided that no such extension shall be made from a date earlier than(a) the commencement of such enactment, or(b) the establishment of the cantonment, or(c) the commencement of this Act, whichever is later.10.	None
Subject to the proviso, the Central Government now enjoyed power to extend an enactment from a date earlier than the date of the notification or from a future date.	None
Subsequently, the Central Government issued Notification No. SRO55, dated 24th January, 197 4 superseding the earlier Notification No. SRO7, dated 21st November, 1969 and extending the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act afresh to cantonments in the States of Haryana and Punjab.	Reasoning
Section 1(3) of that Act was modified to read that , except for s. 19, it would be deemed to have come into force on 26th January. 1950.	None
The result is that the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act will be deemed to have come into force in the Ambala Cantonment on 26th January, 1950.	None
And if that be so, the subletting effected in 1967 must plainly be regarded as having been made after the commencement of that Act.11.	None
Two points are raised on behalf of the appellants against that conclusion.	None
The first is that the power under s. 3 of the Cantonments, (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Act, 1957 having been exercised once, that is to say, by the Notification dated 21st November, 1969, the power of extension stood exhausted and could not be availed of again, and therefore the Notification dated 24th January, 1974 was without statutory sanction and invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are referred to Lachmi Narain etc., etc. v. Union of India Ors.	None
That was a case where this Court held that a Notification under s. 2 Part States (Laws) Act, 1 950 having been issued in 1951 by the Central Government extending the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 to the State of Delhi, the power given by s. 2 exhausted itself on the extension of the enactment and could not be exercised again to enable the issue of a fresh Notification modifying the terms in which the Bengal Act was extended.	Reasoning
The case is clearly distinguishable.	Reasoning
The power under which the Notification dated 24th January, 1974 has been issued is a separate and distinct power from t hat under which the Notification dated 21st November, 1969 was made.	Reasoning
The power now exercised passed into the Cantonments (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Act, 1957 when it was amended in 1972.	Reasoning
In its nature and quality it is not identifiable with the power vested under the unamended Act.	Reasoning
A power conferred by statute is distinguished by the character and content of its essential components.	Reasoning
If one or more material components characterising the power cannot be identified with th e material components of another, they are two different and distinct powers.	Reasoning
Although broadly the power envisaged in s. 3 of the amended Cantonments (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Act, 1957 is a power of extension even as it was under the unamended Act, there is a vital qualitative difference between the two.	Reasoning
The power under the unamended Act was a limited power.	Reasoning
It could operate prospectively only.	Reasoning
There was no choice in the matter.	Reasoning
After amendment, the Act provided for a power which could be exercised retrospectively.	Reasoning
The power extended to giving retrospective effect to an enactment in force in the State in the form in which that enactment was in force on the date on which the extension was made.	Reasoning
It was a power whose re ach and cover extended far beyond what the power under the unamended Act could achieve.	Reasoning
We are of the view that in issuing the Notification dated 24th January, 1974 and thereby extending the East Punjab Urban Rent Restriction Act to the Ambala Cantonment retrospectively with effect from 26th January, 1950, the Central Government exercised a power not available to it when it issued the Notification dated 21st November, 1969.	Reasoning
The contention that the issue of the Notification o f 24th January, 1974 amounted to a further exercise of power conferred by s. 3 of the Cantonments (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Act, 1957, under which the earlier Notification was issued is without force and must be rejected.12.	Reasoning
The second point raised is that in clause (c) of the proviso to s. 3(2) of the Cantonments (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Act, 1957, which speaks of the commencement of this Act, the words this Act refer to the Cantonments (Extension of Rent Control Laws) Amendment Act, 1972, which commenced to operate from 2nd June, 1972.	Arguments of Petitioner
The argument is founded in fallacy.	None
The words this Act refer to the principal Act in which subsection 3(2) is inserted by virtue of the amendment, and that Act, by virtue of s. 2(2) as amended, must be deemed to have come into force on 26th January, 1950.13.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.14.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
