 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
This appeal on a certificate issued by the High Court of Punjab at Chandigarh raises the question whether a firm could be assessed to salestax after it was dissolved.2.	Issue
The facts may briefly be stated.	Facts
Messrs. Jullunder Vegetable Syndicate was a firm doing business in Jullunder from October 4, 1952 to July 11, 1953.	Facts
It was dissolved on July 11, 1953.	Facts
An intimation of the dissolution of the firm under S. 16 of the East Punjab General Sales Tax Act 1948, hereinafter called the Act, was sent to the Department on July 18, 1953.	Facts
The firm was assessed to sale tax on May 30, 1953, by the Sales Tax Officer under the provisions of the Act in respect of its turnover for the period between October 4, 1952 and March 31, 1953 but the said assessment order was quashed on April 11, 1955, by the Financial Commissioner on the ground that the authority which made the assessment had no jurisdiction to do so.	Facts
On September 3, 1955, the Sales Tax Officer made a fresh assessment on the turnover of the said firm.	Facts
Its taxable turnover was fixed at Rs. 15,04,091113 and was assessed to sales tax in a sum of Rs. 47,022140.	Facts
It is not clear from the record whether after the order of the Financial Commissioner fresh proceedings were initiated by the Sales Tax Officer or whether the earlier proceedings initiated by him before the dissolution of the firm were continued thereafter.	Facts
But from the question formulated for the decision of the Full Bench of the High Court, which is the subjectmatter of this appeal, it appears that the firm was dissolved before the proceeding for the assessment were initiated.	Facts
The frame of the question indicates that after the order of the Financial Commissioner quashing the original order of assessment on the ground that the assessing authority had no jurisdiction, fresh proceedings were started for assessment.	Facts
We shall, therefore, proceed to consider the question raised in the appeal on that assumption.	Facts
On appeal, the Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner, by his order, dated October 20, 1956, reduced the figure of turnover and also correspondingly reduced the tax payable to a sum of Rs. 30,049120.	Facts
On revision, the Financial Commissioner, rejecting the contention of the firm that the assessment proceedings could not be taken against a firm after its dissolution confirmed the assessment.	Facts
At the instance of the assessee the following question was referred to the High Court for its decision under S. 22 of the ActWhether a partnership firm, which is a registered firm under the provisions of the Punjab Sales Tax Act and which was in existence throughout the period for which assessment of sales tax has to be made, ceased to be liable to the said assessment by the mere fact that it has dissolved before the proceedings for assessment are initiated.	Facts
A Full Bench of the Punjab High Court answered the question in the affirmative.	None
The main reason given by it for its decision was that a firm was a separate assessable entity under the Act and that there was no machinery provided under the Act for assessing a firm after its dissolution in respect of its turnover of business before the said dissolution.	Facts
The State of Punjab, on a certificate issued by the High Court, has preferred the present appeal to this Court.3.	Facts
Mr. K. S. Chawla, learned counsel, for the State, raised before us the following points (1) a firm under the Act is not a separate legal entity and, therefore, an assessment thereunder can be made on the group of partners who constituted the firm before it was dissolved (2) even if it was a separate assessable unit, dissolution of a firm does not put an end to its liability for assessment till its registration certificate is cancelled by the appropriate authority (3) the High Court proceeded on a misapprehension that the assessment proceedings were initiated afresh the order of the assessing authority was quashed by the Financial Commissioner, but in fact after the said order of the Financial Commissioner, the assessment proceedings started before the dissolution of the firm were continued.	Arguments of Petitioner
On that assumption, the argument proceeded, that the proceedings validly started against a firm could be continued though the said firm was dissolved and the notice of such a dissolution was given to the appropriate authority till the registration of the firm was cancelled.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. M. S. Gupta, learned counsel for the firm, contended that a firm under the Act, just like a firm under the Indian, Incometax Act, was a separate assessable legal entity and that, unlike under the Incometax Act, there was no machinery provided under Act for making the assessment on such a firm after its dissolution and that, irrespective of the fact whether the proceedings were initiated before or after its dissolution, the assessing authority had no power or jurisdiction to assess the firm after such a dissolution.	Arguments of Respondent
He further argued that in the present case the High Court proceeded on the assumption that the assessment proceedings were started de novo after the order of the Financial Commissioner and, therefore, this Court should not permit the appellant to contend that the assessment proceedings were only the continuation of the earlier proceedings, particularly in the absence of any material on the record supporting the said fact.5.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we advert to the rival contentions it will be convenient to clear the ground.	None
It is a settled rule of construction that in interpreting a fiscal statute the Court cannot proceed to make good the deficiencies, if there be any, in the statute it shall interpret the statute as it stands and in case of doubt, it shall interpret it in a manner favourable to the tax payer see C. A. Abraham v. Incometax Officer, Kottayam, (1961) 41 ITR 425 (431) (AIR 1961 SC 609 (612).	None
In considering a taxing Act, the Court is not justified in straining the language in order to hold a subject liable to tax.6.	None
We are concerned in this appeal with the question of the statutory right of a taxing authority under the provisions of the Act to assess a dissolved firm in respect of its predissolution turnover.	None
That question fails to be decide on the relevant previsions of the Act.	None
The provisions of the Indian Partnership Act regulating the relationship between the partners and their liability to third parties have, except in so far as those provisions are expressly or by necessary implication incorporated in the provisions of the Act, no relevance to the present appeal.	None
The question also falls to be decided on the provisions of the Act as it stood in 1953.	None
Further, we cannot discover any distinction in the matter of assessability of a dissolved firm between a case where the proceedings were initiated before and that after the said dissolution.	None
We shall proceed, therefore, to consider the question irrespective of that distinction.7.	None
The relevant provisions of the Act may now be readSection 2.  	None
In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context (d) dealer means any person, firm or Hindu joint family, engaged in the business of selling or supplying goods in East PunjabSection 4.	None
(1) Subject to the provisions of Ss. 5 and 6, every dealer whose gross turnover during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales effected after the coming into force of this Act.	None
Section 7.	None
(1) No dealer shall, while being liable to pay tax under this Act, carry on business as a dealer unless he has been registered and possesses a registration certificate.	None
Section 16.	None
If any dealer to whom the provisions of subs.	None
(2) of S. 10 apply(b) discontinues his business or changes his places of business or opens a new place of business, he shall within the prescribed time inform the prescribed authority accordingly and if any such dealer dies, his legal representatives shall in like manner inform the said authority.	None
Section 17.	None
When the ownership of the business of a registered dealer is transferred, any tax payable in respect of such business remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be payable by the transferee as if he shall the registered dealer and the transferee shall within 30 days of the transfer apply for registration under S. 7.Rule 40 of the East Punjab General Sales Tax Rules, 1949, reads(1)	None
A dealer and his partner or partners shall be jointly and severally responsible for payment of the tax penalty, or any amount due under the Act or these rules.	None
The scheme of the Act is a simple one.	None
A firm is a dealer the said dealer is assessable to tax on its turnover, if its turnover exceeds the prescribed limit.	None
It cannot do business while being liable to pay tax under the Act without getting itself registered and possessing a registration certificate.	None
It is assessed to tax under S. 11 of the Act in the manner prescribed thereunder.	None
If it discontinues its business, it shall within the specified time inform the prescribed authority accordingly.	None
A dealer and its partners are jointly and severally responsible to pay the tax assessed on the dealer.	None
But there is no provision expressly empowering the assessing authority to assess a dissolved firm in respect of its turnover before its dissolution.	None
The question is whether such a power can be gathered by necessary implication from the other provisions of the Act.8.	None
The first question is whether a firm is a separate assessable entity for the purposes of the Act or whether it is only a compendious term used to denote a group of partners.	Issue
The definition of dealer takes in three categories of assessable units, namely, person, firm or a Hindu Joint family.	None
The substantive and the procedural provisions of the Act prescribe the mode of assessment and realization of the tax assessed on such a dealer.	None
If we read the expression firm in substitution of the word dealer, it will be apparent that a firm is an independent assessable unit for the purposes of the Act.	None
Indeed, a firm has been given the same status under the Act as is given to it under the Incometax Act,.	None
Under S. 3 of the Incometax Act also firm is treated as a unit of assessment and as a distinct assessable entity.	None
Though under the partnership law a firm is not a legal entity but only consists of individual partners for the time being, for tax law, incometax as well as salestax, it is a legal entity.	None
If that be so, on dissolution, the firm ceases to be legal entity.	None
Thereafter, on principle, unless there is a statutory provision permitting the assessment of a dissolved firm, there is no longer any scope for assessing the firm which ceased to have a legal existence.	None
As in the present case, admittedly, the firm was dissolved before the order of assessment was made, the said order was bad.9.	None
In this context as we have stated earlier, there cannot be a distinction on principle between an assessment made on a firm under a proceeding initiated before the dissolution and that made in a proceeding started after the dissolution.	None
In earlier case, unless there is an express provision, no assessment can be made on a firm which has lost its character as an assessable entity.10.	None
To get over this legal position, a strong plea was made on the basis of S. 16 of the Act.	None
Section 16, so far relevant to the present enquiry, only says that if a dealer discontinues his business, it shall within the prescribed time inform the prescribed authority accordingly.	None
This section does not expressly state that a dealer, if it happens to be a firm, continues to have legal existence even if it has ceased to be a firm.	None
Nor does the section permit a necessary implication to that effect.	None
It serves only a limited purpose.	None
It is enacted for administrative purposes so that the appropriate authority may take the necessary action.11.	None
Nor does R. 40 of the East Punjab General Sales Tax Rules, 1949, carry the matter further.	None
It only imposes a joint and several liability on the dealer and its partners for the payment of tax penalty or any amount due under the Act or the rules.	None
It does not provide for a case of the dissolution of a firm and the assessment of the dissolved firm.12.	None
Nor the provisions of the Partnership Act can possibly be called in aid to resuscitate a dissolved firm for the purpose of assessment.	None
They deal only with the relationship between the partners and their rights and liabilities.	None
They have no bearing on the question of assessment under a different statute.	None
There is, therefore, a lacuna in the Act, which was filled up later on by an Amending Act but the said Amending Act, it is conceded, is not retrospective in operation.13.	None
The decisions cited at the Bar reflect conflicting views on the question.	None
We have carefully gone through them.	None
It is enough if we briefly touch upon them.14.	None
The Allahabad High Court in Jagat Behari Tandon v. The Sales Tax Officer, Etawah, (1955) 6	Reasoning
STC 125 (AIR 1956 All 23 ), maintained the assessment of a dissolved firm on the ground that it was not a separate entity.	Reasoning
The Madhya Pradesh High Court in Lalji v. Asst.	Reasoning
Commr., Sales Tax, Raipur, (1958) 9 STC 571 (Madh Pra), relied upon S. 17 of the C. P. and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, similar to S. 16 of the present Act to sustain the continuity of a firm as a legal entity till a notice contemplated by that section was given.	Reasoning
The Madras High Court in R. D. Fernandes, In re (1957) 8 STC 365 (Mad) , relied upon the provisions of the Partnership Act to reach the desired end.	Reasoning
The Punjab High Court in Khushi Ram Behari Lal and Co. v. Assessing Authority, Sangrur, (1964) 15 STC 165 (Punj), distinguished the Full Bench decision, which is the subjectmatter of the present appeal before us, on the ground that the dissolution of the firm in the case before it was long after the assessment proceedings were initiated.	Reasoning
It also relied upon S. 16 of the Act to support its conclusion that the liability of the firm continued till the registration was cancelled.	Reasoning
It may also be noticed that the question in that case arose after the amended definition wherein the expression firm was omitted.	Reasoning
The Madras High Court in R. Ponnuswami Gramani v. Collector of Chingleput District, (1960) 11	Reasoning
STC 80 (Mad) , followed the earlier decision of that Court and it does not contain any reasoning on the question.	Reasoning
The Bombay High Court in Bankatlal Badruka v. State of Bombay, (1961) 12	Reasoning
STC 405 (Bom) , based its conclusion only on the circumstance that the notice of dissolution under R. 35 of the Hyderabad General Sales Tax Rules, 1950 was not given before the assessment.	Reasoning
The Orissa High Court in Commr. of Sales Tax, Orissa v. Aurobindo Auto Service, (1963) 14	Reasoning
STC 46 (Orissa), also sustained the assessment after dissolution inter alia, on the ground that on notice of dissolution was given under S. 18 (b) of the Orissa Sales Tax Act, 1947, read with R. 14 of the Orissa Sales Tax Rules, 1947.	Reasoning
But the main reason for that decision was based upon S. 19 (3) of the Orissa Sales Tax Act which is pari materia with S. 44 of the Incometax Act, which has been construed by this Court to confer a power on the assessing authority to make such an assessment.	Reasoning
All these decisions, if we say so with respect, were overburdened with the consequences of a contrary construction on the incidence of taxation and also by their mixing up the question of the statutory power of assessing a dissolved firm with the liability of the partners thereof to pay the tax so assessed on the firm before dissolution.	Reasoning
For the reasons we have already, given earlier, we cannot accept the validity of the reasons given in the said judgment for maintaining an assessment on a dissolved firm, whether the proceedings were initiated before or after the firm was dissolved.15.	Reasoning
Strong reliance was placed upon two judgments of this Court.	Reasoning
The Court in C. A. Abraham v. Incometax Officer, Kottayam, speaking through Shah, J., held that S. 44 of the Incometax Act set up a machinery for assessing the tax liability of firms which have discontinued their business.	Reasoning
This was followed by this Court again in Commr. of Incometax, Madras v. S. V. Angidi Chettiar (1962) 44 ITR 739 (AIR 1962 SC 970 ).	Reasoning
These two decisions are of no help to the Revenue in the present case.	Reasoning
Indeed, in a sense they are against it.	Reasoning
The Incometax Act contains an express provision for assessing a dissolved firm.	Reasoning
Indeed, but for that provision no assessment could be made under that Act on dissolved firms.16.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons we hold that the High Court was right in holding that the assessment order on the dissolved firm could not be supported under the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
The High Court has given a correct answer to the question propounded for its decision.17.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.18.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
