 strongSarkar, J.1.	None
In my opinion this appeal should succeed.2.	None
The respondent landlords demised certain premises to Maneklal Mafatlal for a term of five years from March 5, 1950.	None
The tenant continued in possession after the expiry of the term under the protection from eviction given by the Bombay Rents and Lodging House Rates (Control) Act, 1947, which came into force on February 2, 1948.	None
On April 27, 1956, the landlords filed a suit against him for eviction for nonpayment of rent and obtained a decree on June 22, 1960.	None
While this suit was pending the tenant sublet a part of the demised premises to the appellant.	None
In execution of the decree the landlords got possession of a small part of the premises which was in the actual occupation of the tenant.	None
As to the rest, the subtenants in possession including the appellant resisted eviction.	None
The appellant in fact filed a suit against the landlords claiming that under S. 14 of the Act it had upon the determination of the interest of the tenant in the premises by the decree against him become their direct tenant of the portion sublet to it and asking for a permanent injunction restraining the landlords from evicting it.	None
In that suit the appellant made an application for an interim injunction but the application was rejected by the trial Court and on appeal therefrom by the appellant Court.	None
The appellant then moved the High Court of Gujarat in revision and the High Court confirmed the orders of the Courts below holding that after the expiry of the term, the tenant had no power of subletting and the appellant, therefore, was not a subtenant and it was not entitled to any injunction.	None
The correctness of this judgment of the High Court is challenged in this appeal.3.	None
The protection under which the tenant in this case stayed on after the expiry of his lease was given by subs.	None
(1) of S. 12 of the Act which provides that a landlord shall not be entitled to the recovery of possession of any premises so long as the tenant pays rent and observes and performs the conditions of the tenancy as provided in the section.	None
The tenant contemplated in subs.	None
(1) of S.12 plainly a tenant whose lease had come to an end.	None
The Act at various places uses the word, tenant as including such a person and also defines the word tenant in S. 5(11)(b) as including any person remaining, after the determination of the lease, in possession, with or without the assent of the landlord, of the premises leased to such person Such a person has been called a statutory tenant and I shall also use that description for economy of expression.4.	None
The landlords contend that though by virtue of S. 12(1) of the Act the tenant could not be evicted after the expiry of his lease, yet he had then lost all interest in the demised premises and could not, therefore, sublet the same.	Arguments of Respondent
Now it may be that under the general law of landlord and tenant, a tenant has no right to sublet after the expiry of the lease but we have here a statute which has altered that law in many ways.	None
The power of tenant to sublet cannot therefore be decided by reference to the general law of landlord and tenant but the Act must be examined to see how it effects that power.	None
In my opinion such a power in a statutory tenant is contemplated by the Act and in particular by cl.	None
(e) of subs.	None
(1) of S. 13.	None
That section lays down the circumstances in which a landlord notwithstanding the bar in S. 12(1), can get a decree in ejectment against the tenant and the part of it to which I wish to refer is in these termsS. 13.	None
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act but subject to the provisions of section 15, a landlord shall be entitled to recover possession of any premises if the Court is satisfied (e) that the tenant has, since the coming into operation of this Act, unlawfully sublet the whole or part of the permises or assigned or transferred in any other manner his interest therein.5.	None
This clause plainly contemplates a tenant subletting and this is not in dispute.	None
But it is said that the tenant here referred to is one whose lease has not expired whom I will for short call a contractual tenant  as to whose power to sublet there is no question.	None
The reason given in support of this view is that a statutory tenant having no interest in the premises cannot, certainly assign or transfer his interest in the demised premises and, therefore, the word tenant in cl.	None
(e) of S. 13 (1) must in relation to assignment and transfer by a tenant be understood as a contractual tenant.	None
That being so, and as it is unlikely that the word had been used in different meanings in the same clause, it must mean only a contractual tenant in relation to subletting also.6.	None
I am unable to accept this contention.	None
The word tenant has been given various meanings by the definition clause in the Act.	None
All those meanings must be given to that word wherever it occurs in the Act unless the context otherwise requires.	None
If a statutory tenant cannot transfer or assign his interest  as to which I express no opinion  cl.	None
(e) of S. 13 (1) cannot, of course, be contemplating him as doing so.	None
That, however, would not show that definition of tenant as a statutory tenant would not be available for deciding what kind of tenants were contemplated by cl.	None
(e) when it said that a tenant unlawfully subletting would be liable to eviction.	None
In all other clauses in S. 13 (1) the word tenant clearly includes both a statutory and a contractual tenant and therefore, the section contemplates the word tenant being used in more than one sense.	None
The fact that the clause talks of a contractual tenant alone assigning does not provide a context preventing the word tenant when it talks of the tenant subletting, as being understood in the sense of a statutory tenant.7.	None
Another contention advanced draws its force from the word sublet.	None
It proceeds on the basis that the word sublet can only mean transfer of an estate.	None
It is said that cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(e) by using the word sublet indicated that it did not contemplate a statutory tenant as he could not sublet for he had no interest in the demised premises.	Arguments of Respondent
No authority has been brought to our attention in support of the contention that letting or subletting necessarily means transfer of estate or property and I do not think that it is well founded.	None
Decisions of Courts in England to which I will later refer, have held that a statutory tenant who has no estate or property in the demised premies, can sublet.	None
When the clause talks of a statutory tenant subletting, it may not be contemplating transfer of property.	None
The Act undoubtedly, creates rights in the tenant in respect of the property.	None
He can maintain an action for trespass against any one including the landlord, illegally depriving him of the possession of property.	None
He has at least this interest in the property that he can require possession of it to be delivered to him.	None
It is not as if his right is one only of a personal action in damages.	None
The subletting contemplated in cl.	None
(e) of S. 13 (1) may be of this statutory right in the property.	None
It would be no answer to this to say that the right is personal, for the right would not be personal in the strict sense if it can be sublet.	None
In Baker v. Turner, 1950 AC 401 at p. 416 Lord Porter approved of the observation of Scrutton L. J. in Keeves v. Dean, 19241 KB 685 at p. 694 about a statutory tenant that Parliament has certainly called him a tenant, and he appears to me to have something more than a personal right against his landlord.8.	None
Then it was said that under the clause unlawful subletting as also unlawful assignment and transfer were grounds for eviction and if the clause implied a power in the statutory tenant to lawfully sublet it also must equally imply in him a power to lawfully assign or transfer his interest in the tenancy.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that since it was impossible for a statutory tenant to assign or transfer any interest in the premises as he had none, it would follow that he could not lawfully sublet either.	Arguments of Respondent
In the first place, I do not think that the word unlawfully in the clause applies to assigned or transferred I think as the clause stands it applies only to subletting.	None
The Act furthermore nowhere states what is an unlawful assignment or transfer of a tenants interest.	None
It would undoubtedly have done so if it contemplated unlawful assignment or transfer.	None
It is significant that it specifically talks of lawful and unlawful subletting in Ss. 14 and 15.	None
Nor can it be said that the unlawful assignment or transfer contemplated by cl.	None
(e) is one which is against the terms of the contract of tenancy for it would be unnecessary to provide that an unlawful assignment or transfer by a contractual tenant, that is, an assignment or transfer which is contrary to the terms of the contract of tenancy, would justify an order for possession as in such a case the protection against eviction under S. 12 (1) would have been lost by nonobservance of a condition of the tenancy.	None
Therefore, it seems to me that the present contention of the landlords wholly lacks foundation.9.	None
But assume I am wrong that cl (e) contemplates unlawful assignment or transfer of a tenants interest in the demised premises.	None
A statute can well authorise a statutory tenants to assign or transfer his interest in the demised premises.	None
Indeed S. 17 of the English Rent Act of 1957 provides for the transfer of a statutory tenancy.	None
It cannot be said that assignments or transfers of statutory tenancies are inconceivable.	None
It has to be remembered that there is no authority for the proposition that a statutory tenant has no interest in the demised premises and this is at the basis of the theory, which I think is misconceived, that a statuory tenant cannot transfer his tenancy.	None
It is true that he has no estate or property in the demised premises, but that is a different matter.	None
He has nonetheless an interest, a right in the premises occupied by him, which he may be empowered to transfer.	None
Lastly, I am unable to agree that because a statutory tenant cannot transfer, assuming that to be so, that would show that the word tenant in cl.	None
(e) must be understood as referring to a contractual tenant only.	None
I think the word must have the meanings given in the definition including the meaning of a statutory tenant unless the context otherwise indicates.	None
No such indication can be said to be present merely because the word in one part of the clause refers to a contractual tenant only.10.	None
In Roe v. Russel, 1928 2 KB 117 the Court of appeal in England Held that S. 4 (1) (h) of the Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1923 which provided that no order for ejectment of a tenant from a dwelling house shall be made unless (h) the tenant without the consent of the landlord has  assigned or sublet the whole of the dwellinghouse or sublet part of the dwellinghouse, the remainder being already sublet, indicated that a statutory tenant had the power to sublet a part of the premises.	None
In this case it had been held that the statuory tenant had no estate or property as a tenant at all but had a purely personal right to possess, but that did not create any difficulty in the way of the Court holding that he had power to sublet.	None
All subsequent cases in England have accepted that 19282.	None
KB 117 has laid down the law correctly.	None
I entirely agree with that view.	None
In Campbell v. Lill, (1926) 135 LT 26 which is an earlier case and which took the same view as 19282 KB 117 the argument that S. 4(1) (h) of the English Act of 1923 dealt only with contractual tenants was expressly rejected on the ground that the word meant both contractual and statutory tenants throughout the section and it would be contrary to all canons of interpretation to give it a restricted meaning only in cl.	None
(h).	None
I wish also to observe that the English provision made an assignment by a tenant a ground for eviction but nonetheless the word tenant was mentioned as referring to a statutory tenant.	None
It was not said that since the tenant contemplated was one who could assign, it must have been that a contractual tenant only was contemplated.	None
These arguments, it will be remembered, were also advanced in this case.11.	None
Now the similarity between S. 13 (1) (e) of the Bombay Act and S. 4 (1) (h) of the English Act is obvious.	None
If the English provision implied that a statutory tenant could sublet part of the premises, there would be no reason for saying that S. 13 (1) (e) of the Bombay Act did not imply a power in a statutory tenant to sublet lawfully for what was penalised was only an unlawful subletting.	None
There is, therefore, some support for the view that I have taken.	None
The learned Judge in the High Court did not question the correctness of the decision in 19282 KB 117 but sought to distinguish it from the present case on grounds which I have earlier discussed.	None
I find that case indistinguishable for the purpose of interpreting S. 13 (1) (e) of the Bombay Act.12.	None
Indeed if cl.	None
(e) of S. 13 (1) did not contemplate subletting by a statutory tenant as the landlords contend the result would be most anomalous.	None
Therefore, in my view, the Act provides a context which indicates that the word tenant in that clause had been used as including a statutory tenant.	None
Suppose a statutory tenant does actually sublet and he and his subtenant are content to carry out their bargain, as happened in the present case, then the landlord would not be able to take advantage of S. 13 (1) (e) and evict the tenant if the contention of the landlords in this case is correct, for, ex hypothesi, the subletting by the tenant was ineffective and, therefore, as good as not made at all.	None
The result would be that a contractual tenant subletting would forfeit the protection under s. 12 (1) while a statutory tenant in fact doing so would still be entitled to the protection of the Act.	None
This would put a statutory tenant in a better position than the contractual tenant.	None
An interpretation of the Act which leads to such a result would be most unnatural and it is one that I am unable to accept.13.	None
It is not contended that such an anomalous result was intended but it is said that even if the word tenant in cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(e) of S. 13(1) is understood as referring to a contractual tenant only, there is no anomaly, for the statutory tenant would by subletting render himself liable to eviction under other provisions of the Act though not under S. 13 (1) (e).	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that a statutory tenant is entitled to protection only so long as he remains in possession and, by subletting the statutory tenant would be forfeiting his right to protection under S. 12 (1) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore it was said that a statutory tenant subletting would not be in a better, position than a contractual tenant doing so.14.	Arguments of Respondent
I am unable to accede to the proposition that a statutory tenant subletting a part of the premises has so parted with the possession thereof as to forfeit his claim to protection under S. 12 (1).	None
It has to be remembered that in the present case the tenant had not parted with the entirety of the premises by subletting.	None
In 19282 KB 117 it was said at P. 134.When an individual is placed, as the statutory tenant undoubtedly was, in the position of having an exclusive personal possession of his premises, he is necessarily in a position in which he can place a third person in actual possession of a part of the premises while retaining possession of the remainder, and that totally irrespective of whether his own right to exclusive undisturbed possession is purely personal or amounts to something of the nature of an estate or interest in the premises.	None
In 135 LT 26 it was said,The policy of the statute is to give protection only to persons in occupation within the meaning of the statute and it aimed at persons who had parted with possession and such parting is deemed to have taken place if the tenant assigns or sublets the whole of the premises or sublets part of them, the remainder being already sublet.	None
In the present case the tenant sublet a portion only and remained in possession of the remainder.	None
In these cirumstances, I think the tenant is protected.15.	None
Both these case show that under the English Act, a statutory tenant cannot be said to have parted with possession by subletting of the demised premises.	None
It would appear that under the Bombay Act there is even less reason for saying that a stautory tenant subletting a part of the demised premises has gone out of possession of them, for I find nothing in that Act which justifies the view that in order to be entitled to protection the stautory tenant must himself be in possession of the entire premises.	None
On the other hand the English Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1920 by subs.	None
(1) of S. 15 provided thata tenant who by virtue of the provisions of this Act retains possession of any dwelling  house shall, so long as he retains possession, observe and be entitled to the benefit of all the terms and conditions of the original contract of tenancy.	None
Notwithstanding this the view in England has been that parting with possession of a portion of the demised premises by way of subletting does not deprive a tenant of his protection under the Act.	None
I do not find any such express provision in our Act regarding a statutory tenants possession of the premises.	None
If the Act contemplated a statutory tenant subletting  and that is the basis on which I am examining the effect of subletting under S. 12 (1)  it cannot be providing that by doing so, he would be so far out of possession as to cease to be entitled to the protection of the Act.	None
Such an interpretation of the Act would result in one part of the Act contradicting another and would be wholly unacceptable I find no justification in any case for the view that subletting by a statutory tenant of a part of the demised premises results in a parting with possession of the premises or that such parting deprives him of the protection of the Act.	None
I think that S. 13 (1) (e) clearly in dicates that a statutory tenant has the power to sublet.16.	None
I now set out S. 11 of the Act on which the claim of the appellant is based.	None
S. 14.	None
Where the interest of a tenant of any premises is determined for any reason, and subtenant to whom the premises or any part thereof have been lawfully sublet before the commencement of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959, shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be deemed to become the tenant of the landlord on the same terms and conditions as he would have held from the tanant if the tenancy had continued.	None
It is not in dispute that the subletting took place before the date mentioned in this section.	None
It was contended that the word interest in the section showed that it contemplated only subletting by a contractual tenant.	Arguments of Respondent
I am unable to agree for reasons earlier set out.	None
As I have already said, a statutory tenant has an interest in the premises and when the section talks of the interest of a tenant being determined, it obviously, means in the case of a statutory tenant determined by a decree or by such a tenant giving up the protection of the Act.	None
In this case the interest of the tenant was determined by the decree that was passed against him.	None
I may here state that the Ordinance mentioned in the section came into force on May 21, 1959.17.	None
1, therefore, find that the appellant became a subtenant before the date mentioned in S. 14 and the interest of the tenant who sublet to it had been determined.	None
The appellant has however still to prove that the premises had been lawfully sublet to it.	None
The only provision in the Act which declares a subletting to be unlawful in S. 15.	None
That section is in these termsS. 15 (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law, but subject to any contract to the contrary, it shall not be lawful after the coming into operation of this Act for any tenant to sublet the whole or any part of the premises let to him or to assign or transfer in any other manner his interest thereinProvided that the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, permit in any area the transfer of interest in premises held under such leases or class of leases and to such extent as may be specified in the notification.(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of a Court or any contract, the bar against subletting assignment or transfer of premises, contained in subsection (1) or in any contract shall, in respect of such sublessees, assignees or transferees as have entered into possession despite the bar before the commencement of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959 and continue in possession at such commencement, have no effect and be deemed never to have had any effect.18.	None
It is said that the section is confined only to contractual tenancies.	None
The argument is that subs.	None
(1) makes subletting by contract of tenants after the date mentioned unlawful excepting where the contract otherwise provides and that subs.	None
(2) saves from this illegality certain varieties of sublettings by the tenants.	None
It is however not in dispute that if the section applies to subletting by statutory tenants, then the present subletting to the appellant would be saved by subs.	None
(2).19.	None
It is said that the words but subject to any contract to the contrary in subs.	None
(1) of S. 15 show that that section was intended to refer to sublettings by contractual tenants only.	None
It seems to me that even if those words are applicable only when a contractual tenant sublets, as to which I have some doubts, that would not lead to the conclusion that the tenant there referred to is only a contractual tenant.	None
Those words would only be applicable where a covenant permitting subletting is contained in the lease.	None
Take a case of a contractual tenant where the lease contains no covenant permitting him to sublet.	None
In such a case those words would have no application even though the tenant is a contractual tenant.	None
Therefore where there is no contract about granting of subleases, the section may still be applicable and in such a case there would be no reason to support the view that it is concerned with a contractual tenant only.	None
The section would have to be interpreted in such a case without reference to the words in question.	None
It would then surely apply to a statutory tenant who, as I have said, can sublet.	None
It cannot therefore be said that S. 15 deals only with a contractual tenant.20.	None
But what happens if S. 15 does not apply to a statutory tenant?	Issue
It was said that would then show that statutory tenant cannot at all sublet.	None
If apart from S. 15, the proper reading of the Act is, as I have earlier said, that a statutory tenant has the power to sublet I do not see that this section would provide a ground sufficiently strong to outweigh all the considerations which have led me to that view.	None
The only result then, if S. 15 applies to a contractual tenant alone, would be that a subletting by a tenant would not have been made unlawful by the section.	None
If that is so, then also the appellants claim under S. 14 would become unchallengeable.	None
Whatever view is taken of S. 15, it is impossible to say that the section makes the subletting to the appellant in the present case unlawful.	None
It is unnecessary to go into any question of the Act contemplating a subletting which was unlawful for reasons other than those mentioned in it for it has not been contended that the subletting in the present case was for any such reason unlawful.	None
The result is that the subletting to the appellant must be held to have been lawful.21.	None
One other matter remains to be dealt with.	Arguments of Respondent
It was said, and this is not in dispute, that the subletting to the appellant took place after the landlords had filed their suit against the tenant which resulted in a decree for ejectment to which I have earlier referred.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the appellant was, therefore, bound by the decree in view of S. 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Respondent
On behalf of the appellant it was said that that section was amended so far as Bombay was concerned by Bombay Act 14 of 1939 and the amended section required certain notice to be given before the subletting could be affected by the principle of lis pendens stated in the section.	Arguments of Petitioner
I do not think it necessary to deal with this contention for in my view, even S. 52 as it stands in the Transfer of Property Act without any amendment does not affect the subletting in this case.22.	None
The first thing that I wish to point out is that, that section does not make any transfer of property illegal.	None
Therefore, the section does not justify the view that the subletting to the appellant, assuming it was a transfer of property, as to which doubts may legitimately arise, was in any way unlawful or invalid.	None
If any authority is needed for this proposition, reference may be made to Veyindramuthu Pillai v. Maya Nandan ILR 43 Mad 696 (AIR 1920 Mad 126).	None
All that S. 52 does is to provide that pending a litigation concerning property, the property cannot be transferred so as to affect the rights of any party thereto under the decree that may be passed in the suit.	None
The only effect then of the section, is that the rights of the decreeholder under the decree are not to be affected by the transfer.23.Now the rights of a landlord who gets a decree for possession of property against his tenant are those mentioned in O.21, R. 35 of the Code, namely, to obtain delivery of it if necessary, by removing any person bound by the decree who refuses to vacate the property.	None
It is true that a subtenant under the general law of landlord and tenant is a person bound by the decree obtained by the landlord against the tenant for possession, though he was not made a party to the suit.	None
The reason for this is that the subtenants right to remain in possession came to an end with the determination of the tenancy of the tenant see Yusuf v. Jyotish Chandra, ILR 59 Cal 739 (AIR 1932 Cal 241 ) Where however a statute like the Act in the present case gives the subtenant a right to continue in possession even after the determination of the tenancy of the superior tenant, he would not be a person bound by the decree, for his tenancy has not come to an end with the tenancy of the superior tenant.	None
A subtenant to whom the premises were lawfully sublet, would under S. 14 of the Act be such a person.	None
That being so, a decree obtained by a landlord against his tenant does not give him a right to evict a subtenant who is entitled to the benefit of S. 14.Section 52 could not be resorted to by the landlords in the present case to evict the appellant.	None
I would for these reasons allow the appeal.	None
SHAH, J.(on behalf of Hidayatullah J. and himself.)24.	None
A lease of the ground and the first floors of a building named Anand Bhavan in the town of Ahmedabad was granted by the trustees of the trust named Anand ji Kalyan ji Pedhi to one Maneklal, for five years commencing from March 5, 1950 at a monthly rental of Rs.	Facts
2,000/.	None
A suit instituted by the trustees in the Court of small Causes (which is the Court competent under S. 28 of Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 57 of 1947  hereinafter called the Act  to entertain the suit) against Maneklal after the expiration of the period of the lease for a decree in ejectment and for arrears of rent was decreed on June 22, 1960.	Facts
In execution of the decree the trustees obtained possession of the first floor but were obstructed as to the rest by a private limited company called  Anand Nivas private Ltd.  and two others who claimed to be sublessees from Maneklal and thereby to have acquired rights of tenancy of the ground floor upon the determination of the tenancy of Maneklal.25.	Facts
Anand Nivas Private Ltd.  which will hereinafter be called the Company, filed Suit No. 2814 in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad for a declaration that it was not bound to deliver possession of the premises in its occupation in execution of the decree in the suit filed by the trustees against Maneklal and for an injunction restraining the trustees from enforcing the decree.	Facts
The Companys application for an injunction restraining the trustees from obtaining possession in enforcement of the decree obtained by them against the tenant was dismissed by the Court of First Instance.	Facts
In appeal against that order the District Judge, Ahmedabad refused an interim injunction restraining the trustees from executing the decree pending the hearing and disposal of the appeal.	Facts
The High Court of Gujarat was then moved against that order by a petition invoking its revisional jurisdiction.	Facts
At the hearing, the petition was, by order of the Court, converted into an appeal from order refusing to grant an injunction.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the appeal holding that a statutory tenant remaining in possession after determination of his contractual tenancy was in law not competent to sublet the premises in whole or in part and a person claiming to be a subtenant from a statutory tenant could not effectively plead the protection of S. 14 of the Act as amended by Ordinance III of 1959 or Bombay Act 49 of 1959.	Facts
With special leave, the company has appealed to this court.26.	Facts
The company sets up its claim to protect its possession on the plea that it had acquired the rights of a tenant by virtue of S. 14 of the Act.	None
This plea is supported on two grounds(i) that the contract of tenancy in favour of the tenant expressly authorised him to sublet, and the tenant having lawfully sublet the premises the company acquired on the determination of the interest of the tenant the rights of a tenant under the landlord and(ii)in any event, on the determination of the statutory tenancy of the tenant, by virtue of Ordinance III of 1959 issued by the Governor of Bombay, retrospectively amending S. 15 of the Act the company acquired the rights of a tenant under the landlord.	None
In the view of the High Court clause (i) of the lease restricted the ordinary rights of the tenant to sublet under S. 108 (j) of the Transfer of Property Act, and cannot be interpreted as conferring any right on the tenant to subject, because it postulates the existence of a right to sublet, and provides for restrictions on the exercise of such right.	None
Whether the covenant in the lease authorised or recognised the power of subletting in the tenant before the period of the lease expired, need not be decided in this appeal.	Issue
It is common ground that after the expiration of the period of the lease, no extension of or fresh lease was granted to the tenant, and he could set up only such rights as the Act granted or recognised.27.	Issue
Subsection (1) of S. 12 of the Act providesA landlord shall not be entitled to the recovery of possession of any premises so long as the tenant pays, or is ready and willing to pay, the amount of the standard rent and permitted increases, if any, and observes and performs the other conditions of the tenancy, in so far as they are consistent with the provisions of this Act.	None
For the protection of tenants the clause imposes a prohibition against the landlord against recovery of possession of the premises demised to a tenant so long as he pays or is ready and willing to pay the standard rent and permitted increases and also observes and performs the other conditions of the tenancy consistent with the provisions of the Act.	None
A person remaining in occupation of the premises let to him after the determination of or expiry of the period of the tenancy is commonly though in law not accurately, called a statutory tenant.	Reasoning
Such a person is not a tenant at all he has no estate or interest in the premises occupied by him.	None
He has merely the protection of the statute in that he cannot be turned out so long as he pays the standard rent and permitted increases, if any, and performs the other conditions of the tenancy.	None
His right to remain in possession alter the determination of the contractual tenancy is personal it is not capable of being transferred or assigned, and devolves on his death only in the manner provided by the statute.	None
The right of a lessee from a landlord on the other hand is an estate or interest in the premises and in the absence of a contract to the contrary is transferable and the premises may be sublet by him.	None
But with the determination of the lease, unless the tenant acquires the right of a tenant holding over, by acceptance of rent or by assent to his continuing in possession the landlord, the terms and conditions of the lease are extinguished, and the rights of such a person remaining in possession are governed by the statute alone.	None
Section 12 (1) of the Act merely recognises his right to remain in possession so long as he pays or is ready and willing to pay the standard rent and permitted increases and performs the other conditions of the tenancy, but not the right to enforce the terms and conditions of the original tenancy alter it is determined.	None
On a matter of interpretation of S. 12 (1) the decisions of the Kings Bench Division of the High Court in England viz 19282 KB l17 and Lewis v. Reeves, (1951) 2	None
All ER 855 on which reliance was placed by the appellant are of little assistance.	None
Those cases were decided on the interpretation of the relevant provisions of the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restriction) Act, 1920 (10 and 11, Geo. 5 Ch. 17), and particularly of S. 15(1).28.	None
In 19282 KB 117 the question whether a statutory tenant of a dwellinghouse holding upon terms which do not prohibit subletting, may sublet part of the dwellinghouse.	None
fell to be determined, and the Court held that a right to sublet a part of the premises provided the remainder was not already sublet could be claimed by a statutory tenant relying upon the terms and conditions of the original contract of tenancy.	None
A similar view was also taken in 19512 All ER 855.	None
In that case the widow of a statutory tenant remaining in possession, sublet a part of the premises in her occupation.	None
It was held that on the death of the widow the subtenant became the direct tenant of the landlord, because subletting of a part of the premises by the widow of a statutory tenant who acquired all the rights under S. 12 (1) (g) of the Rent Act (10 and 11 Geo. 5 Ch. 17) was lawful.29.	None
But these cases were decided on the interpretation of S. 15 (1) of the Act of 1920, which in so far as it is relevant, providedA tenant who by virtue of the provisions of this Act retains possession of any dwelling  house to which this Act applies shall, so long as he retains possession, observe and be entitled to the benefit of all the terms and conditions of the original contract of tenancy, so far as the same are consistent with the provisions of this Act, and xxx xxx .The terms of S. 15(1) of the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restriction) Act, 1920, differ materially from subs (1) of S. 12 of Bombay Act 57 of 1947.	None
Whereas a tenant who retains possession, and is protected by virtue of the provisions of the English Rent Act is entitled, so long as he retains possession, to the benefit of all the terms and conditions of the original contract of tenancy so far as they are consistent with the provisions of the Act, the Bombay Act merely grants conditional protection to a statutory tenant and does not invest him with the right to enforce the benefit of any of the terms and conditions of the original tenancy.	Reasoning
This difference in the phraseology of the two enactments is vital to the matter under discussion, andwe are unable to hold  assuming that the tenant was entitled to sublet the premises under the terms of the lease that he could, relying upon S. 12 (1), exercise the right to sublet granted under the lease after he became a statutory tenant.	Reasoning
The first ground on which the claim was founded by the Company must therefore fail.30.	Reasoning
The second ground on which the company claimed to be a lawful tenant of the trustees cannot also be sustained.	Reasoning
In the High Court it was common ground between the parties that the tenant continued to remain in possession after March 5, 1955 of the premises leased to him not because of any renewal or grant of a fresh tenancy, but in virtue of the protection afforded to him by the Act as a statutory tenant.	Reasoning
As a statutory tenant he had no estate or interest capable of being assigned or transferred, and his statutory right to occupy could not in law be sublet, because a lawful subletting postulates a right to enjoy the property and a right to transfer the same to another.	Reasoning
There can be no subletting when there is no right in the premises especially when the statutory tenancy ceases when the tenant parts with possession.	Reasoning
The decision of the Calcutta High Court in Krishna Prosad Bose v. Sm.	Reasoning
Sarajubala Dassi, AIR 1961 Cal 505 on which reliance was placed by the Company in support of its plea that a statutory tenant is entitled to sublet the premises in his occupation does not assist the argument.	Reasoning
The West Bengal Premises Rent Control (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1950, recognises the right of a statutory tenant to sublet.	Reasoning
Section 12(1) of the West Bengal Act provides that notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other Act or law, no order or decree for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be made by any court in favour of the landlord against a tenant, including a tenant whose lease has expired.	Reasoning
By the proviso it is enacted that nothing in the subsection shall apply to any suit for a decree for such recovery of possession against a tenant who has sublet the whole or a major portion of the premises for more than seven consecutive months provided that if a tenant who has sublet the major portion of the premises agrees to possess as a tenant the portion of the premises not sublet on payment of rent fixed by the Court, the Court shall pass a decree for ejectment from only a portion of the premises sublet and fix proportionately fair rent for the portion kept in possession of such tenant.	Reasoning
By subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 13 it is provided, in so far as it is material, that where any premises or any part thereof have been or has been sublet by a tenant of the first degree, if the tenancy of such tenant is lawfully determined otherwise than by virtue of a decree in a suit obtained by the landlord by reason of any of the ground specified in clause (h) of the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 12, the sublessee shall be deemed to be a tenant in respect of such premises or part, as the case may be holding directly under the landlord for the tenant whose tenancy has been determined.	None
In Krishna Prosad Boses case, AIR 1961 Cal 505 Sinha, j., set out certain principles governing the position of a statutory tenant of which the seventh set out below is materialAlthough a statutory tenant has no estate, and although his right is a personal right, he can sublet, provided the right of subletting can be spelt out from the Rent Act in operation, either from its express terms or by necessary implication.	None
The subtenant will get only such rights as are conferred by the statute,and observed that the right of the statutory tenant to sublet was clearly recognized by S. 13(2), and the right of a subtenant to become a direct tenant, under the owner in certain circumstances was expressly provided for.	None
We are not concerned in this case to decide whether the provisions of the Act were correctly interpreted by the Court it may be sufficient to observe in this case that the Court in Krishna Prosads case, AIR 1961 Cal 505 held that the right of a statutory tenant to sublet was recognised by the statute which afforded his protection.31.	None
But it was urged that by Ordinance III of 1959 a right to sublet premises in the occupation of a statutory tenant was invested retrospectively since the commencement of the parent Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is common ground that the tenant purported to sublet a part of the premises in his occupation after the trustees instituted a suit in ejectment against him, and before Ordinance III of 1959 was promulgated.	None
The Company has claimed the right of a subtenant on the second ground relying upon the ordinance, and it would be necessary to consider the material statutory provisions as amended by the Ordinance.32.	Reasoning
Section 5 (ll) as amended defines a tenant as meaningany person by whom or on whose account rent is payable for any premises and includes,(a) such subtenant and other persons as have derived title under a tenant before the commencement of the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959(aa) any person to whom interest in premises has been transferred under the proviso to subsection (1) of Section 15(b) any person remaining, after the determination of the lease, in possession, with or without the assent of the landlord, of the premises to such person or his predecessor who has derived title before the commencement of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959(c) any member of the tenants family reading with him at the time of his death as may be decided in default of agreement by the Court.	None
The expression tenant in the different clauses is defined to mean a contractual tenant or a statutory tenant or both.	None
In the principal definition the expression tenant means only a person who is a contractual tenant because rent is payable by a contractual tenant and not by a statutory tenant.	None
By cl.	None
(a) subtenants and other persons who have derived title under a tenant before the commencement of the Ordinance III of 1959 would be regarded as tenants.	None
These would be sublesses, transferees or assigness of contractual tenants.	None
Similarly by cl.	None
(aa) persons to whom interest in premises has been transferred in virtue of a notification issued by the State Government permitting in any area the transfer of interest in premises held under such leases or class of leases and to such extent as may be specified in notification, would be transferees of contractual tenants.	None
Clause (b) contemplate a tenant holding over and a statutory tenant alike it takes in a person remaining in occupation with or without the assent of the landlord, when the premises were let to him or to his predecessor before the commencement of the Ordinance.	None
Clause (c) includes in the definition the members of the family of a tenant, statutory or contractual residing with him at the time of his death, as may be decided in default by agreement by the Court.	None
Having regard to the plurality of its meaning, the sense in which the expression is used in different sections, and even clauses, must be ascertained from the context of the scheme of the Act the language of the provision and the object intended to be served thereby.33.	None
In subs.	None
(1) of S. 12 which imposes a prohibition against a landlord recovering possession of premises, the expression tenant must of necessity mean a statutory tenant and not a contractual tenant for unless the contractual tenancy is determined, the landlord has no right to recover possession.	None
Section 13 (1) (e), in so far as it is material, provides thatNotwithstanding anything contained in this Act, but subject to the provisions of Section 15, a landlord shall be entitled to recover possession of any premises if the Court is satisfied(e) that the tenant has, since the coming into operation of this Act, unlawfully sublet the whole or part of the premises or assigned or transferred in any other manner his interest thereinIn this clause the expression tenant apparently means a contractual tenant, for it authorises a landlord to recover possession of premises if the tenant has unlawfully assigned, transferred his interest in the premises or has unlawfully sublet the premises.	None
A statutory tenant has no interest in the premises occupied by him, and he has no estate to assign or transfer.	None
To read the clause as meaning that an assignment or transfer of any premises which attracts liability to eviction would be only in respect of a contractual tenancy whereas subletting which invites that penalty may be in respect of tenancies  contractual and statutory alike, would be to attribute to the Legislature an intention to impute two different meanings to the expression tenant in cl.	None
(e) of S. 13 (1).	None
By cl.	None
(e) the Legislature has recognised the right of a landlord to recover possession if the tenant has without being so authorised by contract, sublet in whole or in part the premises, or assigned or transferred in any other manner his interest therein.	None
The adverb unlawfully qualifies all the three verbs  sublet, assigned and transferred.	None
That is clear from the terms of S. 15(1) which prohibits subject to any contract to the contrary subletting of premises or assignment or transfer of interest therein.	None
Section 15(1) providesNotwithstanding anything contained in any law, but subject to any contract to the contrary, it shall not be lawful after the coming into operation of this Act for any tenant to sublet the whole or any part of the premises let to him or to assign or transfer in any other manner his interest thereinProvided that the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, permit in any area the transfer of interest in premises held under such leases or class of leases and to such extent as may be specified in the notification.	None
By cl.	None
(1) of S. 15 all transfers and assignments of interest in the premises, and subletting of premises, by tenants are, subject to any contract to the contrary made unlawful.	None
The clause however saves contracts to the contrary and to be effective can operate only in favour of contractual tenants.	None
A statutory tenant having no interest in the property, it was plainly unnecessary to prohibit transfer of what was ineffective.	None
Nor can there be letting of the premises by a statutory tenant, for letting postulates a transfer of the right to enjoy property made for a certain time, express or implied, in consideration of price paid or promised, and a statutory tenant has merely a personal right to resist eviction.	None
Section 15 (1) therefore applies only to contractual tenants.	None
The proviso to the clause also furnishes an indication to that effect for the exemption which the Provincial Government may grant can only be in respect of leases or a class of leases.	None
Subsection (2) is in terms an exception to subs.	None
(1).	None
It provides thatNotwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of a Court or any contract, the bar against subletting, assignment or transfer of premises contained in subsection (1) or in any contract shall, in respect of such sublessees, assignees or transferees as have entered into possession despite the bar before the commencement of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959 and as continue in possession at such commencement, have no effect and be deemed never to have had any effect.	None
The exception clause could manifestly not apply to statutory tenancies when the principal clause applied only to contractual tenancies.	None
The effect of the clause is to validate averments, transfers and subtenancies granted by contractual tenants, despite the prohibition contained in subs.	None
(1) or even in the contract of tenancy, and this validation is effective, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of a Court.	None
The subsection is plainly retrospective, and protects subtenants of contractual tenants and removes the bar against subletting by subs.	None
(1) as well as by contract, provided that the transferee is in possession at the commencement of the Ordinance.34.	None
The argument that by restricting the operation of S. 13 (1) (e) to contractual tenants subletting by statutory tenants would be protected, is without force.	Reasoning
Sections 12 and 13 (1) have to be read together.	Reasoning
Clause (e) of S. 13 (1) entitles a landlord to obtain possession, where a contractual tenant has during the subsistence of the tenancy sublet the premises or assigned or transferred his interest therein.	Reasoning
Where a statutory tenant has purported to sublet the premises, or has purported to assign or transfer his interest therein, and in pursuance of such a transaction parted with possession, he would forthwith forfeit the protection which the statute accords to him by S. 12 (1).35.	Reasoning
In the light of that legal position the claim of the Company founded on S. 14 may be considered.	None
The section enactsWhere the interest of a tenant of any premises is determined for any reason, any subtenant to whom the premises or any part thereof have been lawfully sublet before the commencement of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959, shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be deemed to become the tenant of the landlord on the same terms and conditions as he would have held from the tenant if the tenancy had continued.	None
There is abundant indication in the section that it applies to contractual tenancies alone.	None
In the first instance it speaks of the interest of the tenant and determination of that interest.	Reasoning
It then invests a subtenant to whom the premises have been lawfully sublet before the date of the Ordinance, with the rights of a tenant of the landlord on the same terms and conditions as he would have held from the tenant if the tenancy had continued.	Reasoning
The subletting to be lawful must be (i) permitted by contract, or (ii) validated by subs.	Reasoning
(2) of S. 15.	Reasoning
The object of S. 14 is to protect subtenants.	Reasoning
By that section forfeiture of the rights of the tenant in any of the contingencies set out in S. 13 does not in all cases destroy the protection to the subtenants.	Reasoning
The protection which a subtenant is entitled to claim against his own landlord (that is the head tenant) becomes on determination of the head tenancy available to him against the head landlord, but the condition on which such claim may be sustained is that there is a lawful subletting.	Reasoning
A statutory tenant is, as we have already observed, a person who on determination of his contractual right, is permitted to remain in occupation so long as he observes and performs the conditions of the tenancy and pays the standard rent and permitted increases.	Reasoning
His personal right of occupation is incapable of being transferred or assigned, and he having no interest in the property there is no estate on which subletting may operate.	Reasoning
If it be assumed that a statutory tenant has the right of subletting, some very surprising consequences may ensue.	Reasoning
A statutory tenant by parting with possession of the premises would forfeit all rights in the premises occupied by him, but he would still if S. 14 is construed as suggested by the Company be able to create an interest in the person inducted in the premises not derivatively but independently, for the statutory tenant had no interest in the premises not derivatively but independently, for the statutory tenant had no interest in the premises and the protection granted by the statute is by the very act of transfer of possession extinguished.	Reasoning
Again even though the subtenant of a statutory tenant may not be protected, because the bar against such subletting is not effectively removed by S. 15(2), he would still be entitled to claim the rights of a tenant under S.14 on determination of the tenancy of the head tenant.	Reasoning
Having regard to these considerations there can be little doubt that a sublessee from a statutory tenant under the Act acquires no right of a tenant in the premises occupied by him.36.	Reasoning
Even under the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restriction) Act, 1920 protection was accorded to the subtenant of a part of the premises occupied by a statutory tenant when the statutory tenant parted with possession of the entirety of the premises occupied by him either by one subletting or more or by subletting of part and surrender of the rest of the premises, the persons claiming a right of occupation derivatively from the statutory tenant had no protection Solomon v. Orwell, 1954  	None
1	None
All ER 874.	None
In that case a statutory tenant of a dwelling house had sublet a part of the house, vacated the premises in her occupation by removing herself therefrom.	None
The landlord then filed a suit against the subtenant who had remained in possession of a part sublet to her.	None
The subtenant submitted that after the surrender of the statutory tenancy, she was entitled to the same rights against the landlord as the statutory tenant had and therefore her tenancy could not be terminated by merely giving a notice to quit.	None
This contention was rejected by the Court holding that a statutory tenant had no interest capable of existing in law as an estate, but merely a statutory right of occupation which could not be the subject of surrender at common law, and, therefore, when the tenant vacated the premises the subtenants right of occupation automatically came to an end.	None
We therefore hold that before the data of the institution of the suit, Maneklal as a statutory tenant had no right to sublet the premises and the company acquired no right of a tenant on the determination of the tenants right by virtue of S. 14 of the Act.37.	None
One more argument remains to be considered.	None
It was urged  on the assumption that a statutory tenant has an interest in the property occupied by him, and that by purporting to sublet he transferred that interest  that the doctrine of ut lite pendente nihil innovetur enunciated in S. 52 of the Transfer of Property Act did not operate against the Company and the.	Arguments of Respondent
Company was not bound by the decree obtained against the tenant,Reliance in support of that plea was placed upon the Transfer of Property and the Indian registration (Bombay Amendment) Act, XIV of 1939.	Arguments of Respondent
By this Act the rule of Lis Pendents applies only when a notice of the pendency of the suit in which any right to immovable property is directly and specifically in question, is registered under S. 18 of the Registration Act.	Reasoning
The Act is somewhat clumsily worded it applies not to proceedings in court but to notices in respect of suits or proceedings.	Reasoning
But the reason for the method of drafting adopted is not far to seek.	Reasoning
Condition of registration of notice relating to the suit is only to apply where the suit is in respect of property situate in the area to which the Act is extended.	Reasoning
A suit relating to immovable property may, in certain circumstances, lie in a Court other than the Court within the territorial jurisdiction whereof it is situate (e. g. under Cl. 12 of the Letters Patent and S. 17 Code of Civil Procedure) and it appears that the Legislature intended to make the Act applicable only to transfers of title to immovables only in areas where the litigants were sufficiently sophisticated to understand the importance of registration.	Reasoning
As Bombay Act XIV of 1939 is intended to apply to the situs of immovable property and not the Court proceeding, application of the rule of Lis Pendens is, in respect of proceedings relatings to immovable properties situate in certain areas, notice conditional upon the registration of the notice of the pendency of the suit.38.	Reasoning
But this Act did not apply to the suit filed by the trustees.	Reasoning
The Act by S. 2 applies only to notices in respect of suits or proceedings which relate to immovable property situate wholly or partly in Greater Bombay.	Reasoning
By the proviso to S. 2 it may be extended by the Provincial Government by notification to notices relating to immovable properties situate wholly or partly in such other areas as may be specified.	Reasoning
The suit was filed by the trustees in the Court of Small Causes at Ahmedabad and our attention has not been invited to any notification, issued by the appropriate Provincial Government extending the Act to notices relating to immovable properties in areas outside Greater Bombay.	Reasoning
Whereas the rule of Lis Pendens under the Transfer of Property Act applies to all suits and proceedings which are not collusive in which the right to immovable property is directly and specifically in question, by virtue of the amended Act the rule applies in proceedings relating to immovable property in the areas notified, only if a notice of suit is registered, and from the date of registration.	Reasoning
The section in terms applies only to notices in respect of suits or proceedings which relate to immovable property in the Greater Bombay Area  it does not apply to any suits in which property in Greater Bombay is not the subjectmatter in dispute.39.	Reasoning
The Transfer of Property (Bombay Provision for Uniformity and Amendment) Act, 57 of 1959, does not also assist the Company.	Reasoning
By that Act, amongst other things, uniformity in the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act as amended in its application to the State of Bombay as it existed after the enactment of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, was sought to be achieved.	Reasoning
Section 3 of the Act enacted that the provisions of Bombay Act XIV of 1939 which amended the Transfer of Property Act in its application to the prereorganized State of Bombay, were extended to and shall apply to that part of the State to which they did not apply immediately before the commencement of that Act.	Reasoning
Enactment of this Act was necessitated because of S. 119 of the States Reorganization Act, 1956, which continued, notwithstanding the formation of the new States, the territorial extent of the laws previously in operation.	Reasoning
It was found expedient to secure uniformity of the laws in the State, and therefore it was enacted by the State Legislature that one of the conditions of the applicability of the rule of Lis Pendens was that notice of a suit or proceeding in which any right to immovable property within the area notified under S. 2 of Act XIV of 1939, is directly and specifically in question, is registered under S. 18 of the Registration Act.	Reasoning
The decree in the suit filed by the trustees against Maneklal was therefore enforceable against the company.40.	Reasoning
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.41.	Decision
ORDER The appeal is dismissed with costs.	Decision
On the appellants undertaking to vacate and deliver possession of the property within one month from today, execution of the decree obtained by the respondent in Suit No. 707 of 1956 against Maneklal Mafatlal, is stayed for that one month.42.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
