 Mitter, J. 1.	None
These two appeals, by special leave, are limited to the question as to whether in dismissing a revision and con firming the order of the State of Andhra Pradesh.	None
the Unions of India was bound to make a speaking order.	Issue
The text of the order is the same in both the cases, the only difference being in the situs and the area in respect of which the lease was applied for.	None
One of the orders runs as followsNew Delhi the 22nd June, 1966 I am directed to refer to your revision application dated 14121964 and letter dated 2811966 on the above subject and to say that after careful consideration of the grounds stated therein, the Central Government have come to the conclusion that there is no valid ground for interfering with the decision of the Government of Andhra Pradesh rejecting your application for grant of mining lease for asbestos over an area of Ac. 113.50 in Brahmanapalli village, Cuddapah District, Andhra Pradesh.	None
Your application for revision is, therefore, rejected.	None
2.	None
The facts leading to the two appeals are as follows  	None
In response to a notification dated January 8, 1964 published in the State Gazette by the Andhra Pradesh government inviting applications under R 58 of the rules framed under the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules and the Act) the appellant submitted two applications in the prescribed form viz., form I for areas aggregating The, Ac. 113 .	Facts
50 in village Brahmanapall and Ac. 13.	Facts
l0 in village Ippatta both .	Facts
in the district of Cuddapah for mining asbestos.	Facts
Respondent No. 3 also made similar applications on the same date.	Facts
According, to the appellant his applications complied with all the requirements of form I while those of respondent No.3 were defective in some respects.	Facts
Besides the appellant and the respondent NO. 3, there was only one other person who applied for a prospecting licence which was rejected off hand.	Facts
As between the appellant and the respondent No. 3, the Government of Andhra Pradesh preferred the latter.	Facts
The relevant portion of the order dated 19th October 1964 in respect of the village Brahmanapa1li under S. 10 (3) of the Act was as followsAs between the other applicants Sri Bhagat Raja and M s. Tiffins Barytes, Abestos and Paints Ltd the Government prefer for M s. Tiffins Barytes, as they are having adequate general experience and technical Knowledge, and are old lessees in the district, without any arrears of mineral dues to the Government.	Facts
The mining lease application of Sri Bhagat Raja for the areas covered by the mining lease application of M s. Tiffins Barytes, Asbestos and Paints Ltd. is rejected.	Facts
The text of the order with regard to village Ippatta is practically the same.	Facts
3.	None
The appellant filed application in revision in the prescribed form i. e. form N. under S.30 of the Act read with R. 54 to the Union of India on December 14 1964.	Facts
The appellant tried to bring out in his revision application that the financial condition of the 3rd respondent was extremely precarious as would be evidenced by the documents, copies whereof were annexed to his petition.	Facts
The 3rd respondent filed a counter statement to the revision application.	Facts
in April 1965 In March 1966 the appellant received the comments of the Andhra Pradesh Government on his revision applications The appellant filed rejoinder to the counter statements of the 3rd respondent in May 1965 and to the comments of the Andhra Pradesh Government in April 1966.	Facts
He also asked for the grant of a personal hearing before the decision of the case which was not given.	Facts
Ultimately his applications were rejected by Orders quoted hereinabove.	Facts
4.	None
Various grounds of appeal were taken in the application for special leave to appeal preferred by the appellant.	None
In attempt has been made therein to show that respondent No. 3 had no experience in asbestos mining, that its financial position was very unsatisfactory and that its application for mining lease was not in proper form.	Arguments of Petitioner
A complaint was also made that in rejecting the applicants revision applications the Union of India was bound to give reasons for its decision as it was exercising quasi judicial powers under S. 90 of the Act read with Rr. 54 and 55, that principles of natural justice and fairplay requiring the divulgence of the grounds were violated and that a personal hearing should have been given to thee appellant before the disposal of the revision applications.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	None
We are not called upon in this case to go into the merits of the case but only to examine the question as to whether fit was necessary for the Government of India to give reasons for its decision in view of the provisions of the Act and the Rules or aliunde because the decision was liable to be questioned in appeal to this Court.	None
It is necessary to take note of a few provisions of the Act and the relevant rules framed thereunder to ascertain the scope of a partys right to apply for a lease and the powers and duties of the Government in accepting or rejecting the same.	None
The preamble to the Act shows that its object was to provide for the regulation of mines and the development of minerals under the control of the Union of India.	None
Under S. 4 (1) no person can undertake any prospecting or mining operations in any area, except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of a prospecting licence or a mining lease granted under the Act and the Rules.	None
Under subs.	None
(2) of the section.	None
No prospecting licence or mining lease shall be granted otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.	None
S. 5 lays down certain conditions which a person desiring to have a raining lease must fulfil.	None
S. 8 provides for the period for which a mining lease may be granted.	None
Under S. 10 (l) an application for a mining lease has to he made to the State Government concerned in the prescribed form.	None
Subs.	None
(3) of S. 10 runs as followsOn receipt of an application under this section, the State Government may, having regard to the provisions of this Act and any rules made thereunder, grant or refuse to gram the licence or lease.	None
Under subs.	None
(2) of S. 11 a person whose application for a licence is received earlier than those of others shall have a preferential right For the grant thereof over the others.	None
The proviso to this subsection enacts that where applications are received on the same day, the State Government, after taking into consideration the matters specified in subs.	None
(3), may grant the mining lease to such one of the applicants as it may deem fit, Subs.	None
(3) specifies the matters referred to in subs.	None
(2) and they are as follows(a) any special knowledge or experience in, prospecting operations or mining operations, as the case may be, possessed by the applicant (b) the financial resources of the applicant (c) the nature and quality of the technical staff employed or to be employed by the applicant, and (d) such other matters as may be prescribed.	None
S. 13 (1) enables the Central Government to melee rules for regulating the grant of prospecting licences and mining leases.	None
Under S.19.	None
in any mining lease granted , renewed or acquire in contravention of the provisions of the Act is to he void and of no effect.	None
Power of revision the order of the State Government is given to tire Central Government in the following termsThe Central Government may, of its own motion or on application made within the prescribed time by the aggrieved party, revise any order made by a. State Government or other authority in exercise of the powers conferred on it by or under this Act.	None
6. Rules were made by the Central Government under S. 13 of the Act known as the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960.	None
R. 22 prescribes that an application for the grant of a mining lease must be made to the State Government in form 1 accompanied by a fee of Rs.	None
200/ a deposit of Rs. 500/ and an incometax an incometax clearance certificate, Under R. 26 the State Government is obligation to give reasons for refusal to grant a mining lease.	None
Any person aggrieved by an order made by the State Govermnent may prefer an application for revision i under R. 54 in form N.	None
In every such application against the order of the State Government refusing to grant a mining lease, a person to whom a lease has been granted must implead as party.	None
R. 55 originally framed in 1960 was amended in July 1965 Under the amended R. 55 the positions is an follows (1) On receipt of an application for revision under R. 54, copies thereof shall be sent to the State Government and to all the impleaded parties calling upon them to make suck comments as they may like to make within three months of the date of issue of the communication and if no comments are received within that period, it is to be presumed that, the party omitting to make such comments has none to make.	None
(2) On receipt of the comments from any party under subrule (1), copies thereof have to be sent to the other parties calling upon them to make further comments as they may like to make within one month from the date of the issue of the communication.	None
(3) The revision application, the communications containing comments and countercomments referred to in subrules (1) and (2) shall constitute the record of the case.	None
(4) After considering the records referred to in subrule (3) the Central Government may confirm, modify or set aside the order or pass such other order in relation thereto as the Central Government may deem just and proper.	None
7.	None
From the above, it will he amply clear that in exercising its powers of revision under R. 55 the Central Government must take into consideration not only the material which was before the State Government but comments and countercomments, if any, which the parties may make regarding the order of the State Government.	Reasoning
In other words, it is open to the parties to show how and where the State Government had gone wrong, or, why the order of the State Government should be confirmed.	Reasoning
A party whose application for a mining lease is turned down by the State Government is therefore given an opportunity of showing that the State Government had taken into consideration irrelevant matters or based its decision on grounds which were not justified.	Reasoning
At the time when applications for a licence are made by different parties to the State Government they tire not given an opportunity of showing any defects or demerits in the applications of the others or why their applications should he preferred to others.	Reasoning
The State Government has to make up its mind by considering the applications before it as to which party is to be preferred to the other or others.	Reasoning
S 11 (3), as already noted prescribes the matters which the State Government must consider before selecting one out of the numerous applicants the possibility of the State Government being misled in its consideration of the matters cannot be ruled out.	Reasoning
It may be that a party to whom a lease is directed to be granted has in fact no special knowledge or experience requisite for the mining operations or it may be that his financial resources have not been properly disclosed, It may also be that the nature and quality of the technical staff employed or to be employed by him is not of the requisite is standard.	Reasoning
In an application for revision under R. 55 it will be open to an aggrieved party to contend that the matters covered by TV subs.	Reasoning
(3) of S. 11 were not properly examined by the State Government, or that the State Government had not before it all the available material to make up its mind with respect thereto before granting a licence.	Reasoning
In a case where complaints of this nature are made off necessity, the central Government has to scrutinise matters which were not canvassed before the State Government	Reasoning
A question may arise in such cases as to whether the order of the Central Government in the form in which it was made in this case would be sufficient, specially in view of the fact that the correctness thereof may be tested in appeal to this Court.	Reasoning
8.	None
It is now well settled that in exercising its powers of revision under R.55 the Central Government discharges functions which are quasi Judicial see Shivi Nathubohai V. Union of India 1960	Reasoning
2 SCR 775 (AIR 1960 SC 606 ) and M.P. Industries v. Union of India, 1966l	None
SCR 466 (AIR 1966 SC 671 ).	None
In the latter case one of us (our present Chief Justice) said (at p. 471 of SCR) (at p.674 of AIR)The entire scheme of the rules posits a judicial procedure and the Central Government is constituted as a tribunal to dispose of the said revision.	None
Indeed this Court in 19602 SCR 775 (AIR 1960 SC) (supra) rules that the Central Government exercising its power of review under R. 54 of the Feral concession Rules, 1949, was acting judicially as a tribunal.	None
The new rule, if at all is clearer in that regard and emphasises the judicial character of the proceeding.	None
If it was a tribunal, this Court under Art 136 of the Constitution can entertain an appeal against the order of the Central Government made in exercise of its revisional powers under R. 55 of the Rules.	None
9. Let us now examine the question as to whether it was incumbent on the Central Government to give any reasons for its decision on review.	None
It was argued that the very exercise of judicial or quasi judicial powers in the case of a tribunal entailed upon it an obligation to give reasons for arriving at a decision for or against a party.	None
The decisions of tribunals in India are subject to the supervisory powers of the High Courts under Art.	None
227 of the Constitution and of appellate powers of this Court under Art.	None
136.	None
It goes without saying that both the High Court and this Court are placed under a great disadvantage if no reasons are given and the revision is dismissed curtly by the use of the single word rejected, or dismissed.	None
In such a case, this Court can probably only exercise its appellate jurisdiction, satisfactorily by examining the entire records of the case and after giving a hearing come to its conclusion on the merits of the appeal.	None
This will certainly be a very unsatisfactory method of dealing with the appeal.	None
Ordinarily, in a case like this, if the State Government gives sufficient reasons for accepting the application of one party and rejecting that of the others, as must, and the Central Government adopts the reasoning of the State Government, this Court may proceed to examine whether the reasons given are .sufficient for the purpose of upholding the decision.	None
But, when the reasons given in the order of the State Government are scrappy or nebulous and the Central Government makes no attempt to clarify the same, this Court, in appeal may have to examine the case de novo without anybody being the wiser for the review by the Central Government If the State Government gives a number of reasons some of which are good and some are not.	None
and the Central Government merely endorses the order of the State Government without specifying those reasons which according to it are sufficient to uphold the order of the State Government, this Court, in appeal, may find it difficult to ascertain which are the grounds which weighed with the central Government in upholding the order of the State Government.	Reasoning
In such circumstances, what is known as a speaking orders is called for.	None
10.	None
The order of the Central Government of June 22, 1966 is so worded as to he open to the construction that the reviewing authority was primarily concerned with finding out whether any grounds had been made out for interfering with the decision of the State Government.	Reasoning
In other words the Central Government was not so much concerned to examine the grounds or the reasons for the decision of the State Government but to find out whether there was any cause for disturbing the same.	Reasoning
Prima facie the order does not show that the reviewing authority had any thought of expressing its own reasons for maintaining the decision arrived at.	Reasoning
If detailed reasons had been given by the State Government and the Central Government had indicated clearly that it was accepting the reasons for the decision of the State Government, one would be in a position to say that the reasons for the grant of a lease to a person other than the appellant were obvious.	Reasoning
But, where as here, the State Government does not find any fault or defect in the application of the unsuccessful applicant and merely prefers another on the ground that he had adequate general experience and technical knowledge and was an old lessee without any arrears of mineral dues it is difficult to say what turned the scale in favour of the successful applicant excepting the fact that he was known to the State Government from before.	Reasoning
We do not want to express any views on this but if this be a proper test, then no new entrant in the field can have any chance of success where there is an old lessee competing with him.	Reasoning
The order of the Central Government does not bring out any reason for its own decision except that no grounds for interference with the decision arrived at was established.	Reasoning
11.	None
Now we propose to examine some decisions of this Court where the question as to whether the reviewing authority should give reasons for its decisions was gone into.	None
In Harinagar Sugar Mills Ltd. v. Shyam Sunder Jhunjhunwala, 19622	None
SCR 339 at p. 357 (AIR 1961 SC 1669 at p. 1678)	None
this Court had to consider whether the Central Government exercising appellate powers under S. 111 of the Companies Act, 1956 before its amendment in 1960 was a tribunal exercising judicial functions and as such subject to the appellate jurisdiction of this Court under Art.	None
136 of the Constitution and whether the Central Government had acted in excess of its jurisdiction, or acted illegally otherwise in directing the company to register the transfer or transfers in favour of the respondents.	None
There, the articles of association of the company concerned gave the directors the right in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason to refuse to register any transfer of shares.	None
The directors declined to register some shares in the name of the transferees who applied to the High Court at Bombay for orders under S. 88 of the Indian (companies Act, 1913 for rectification of the share register on the ground that the board of directors had exercised their right mala fide, arbitrarily and capriciously.	None
The High Court rejected these petitions on the ground that controversia1 questions of law and fact could not be tried in summary proceedings under S. 38.	None
The transferees requested the directors once more to register the shares.	None
On their refusal to do so, appeals were preferred to the Central Government under S. 111 (3) of the Indian Companies Act. 1956 which had since come into operation.	None
The Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance. who heard the appeals declined to order registration of transfers practically on grounds similar to those put forward by the High Court of Bombay.	None
Thereafter the original holder of the shares transferred some shares to his son and some to his daughterinlaw and the transferees requested the company to register the transfers.	None
The directors once more refused.	None
Against the resolution of the directors, separate appeals were preferred by the son and daughterinlaw of the original holder of the shares.	None
The Deputy Secretary to the Government of India set aside the resolution passed by the board of directors and directed the company to register the transfers.	None
No reasons were however given for such order.	None
The company came up in appeal to this Court under Art.	None
136 of the Constitution.	None
According to the judgment of the majority of Judges, the exercise of authority by the Central Government was judicial as it had to adjudicate upon the rights of contesting parties when there was a lis between them.	None
It was observed in that case thatIf the Central Government acts as a tribunal exercising judicial powers and the exercise of that power is subject to the jurisdiction of this court under Art.	None
136 of the Constitution we fail to see how the power of this court can be effectively exercised if reasons are not given by the Central Government in support of its order.	None
This Court furtherheld that there had been no proper trial of the appeals, no reasons having been given in support of the order of the Deputy Secretary who heard them and in the result, the orders were quashed with a direction that the appeals be reheard and disposed of according to law.	None
12.	None
In Govindrao v. State of Madhya Pradesh.	None
19651	None
SCR 678 (AIR 1965 SC 1222 )	None
the appellants who claimed to he descendants of former ruling chiefs in some districts of Madhya Pradesh applied under the Central Provinces and Berar Revocation of Land Revenue Exemptions Act. 1948 for grant of money or pension as suitable maintenance for themselves.	None
They held e states in two districts on favorable terms as jahgirdars, Maufidars and Ubaridars and enjoyed an exemption from payment of land revenue aggregating list 27,82850 per year.	None
On the passing of the Act, the exemption was lost and they claimed to be entitled to grant of money or pension under the provisions of the Act.	None
They applied to the Deputy Commissioner who forwarded their applications to the State Government.	None
These were rejected without any reasons being given therefore.	None
The appellants filed a petition in the High Court of Madhya Pradesh finder Art.	None
226 of the Constitution for a writ of certiorari to quash the order of the State Government.	None
The High Court held that the State Government was not compelled to grant either money or pension because the exercise of the power under S. 5 was discretionary and the petition, therefore was incompetent.	None
S. 5(3) of the C. P. and Berar Act provided as followsThe Provincial Government may make a grant of money or pension (i) for the maintenance or upkeep of any religions, charitable in public institution or service of a like nature, or (ii)for.	None
suitable maintenance of any family of a descendant from a former ruling chief.	None
S. 6 barred the jurisdiction of civil courts.	None
It was observed by this CourtThe Act lays down upon the Government a duty which obviously must be performed in a judicial manner.	None
The appellants did not seem to have been heard at all.	None
The Act bars a suit and there is all the more reason that Government must deal with such case in a quasijudicial manner giving an opportunity to the claimants to state their case in the light of the report of the Deputy Commissioner.	None
The appellants were also entitled to know the reason why their claim for the grant of money or a pension was rejected by Government and how they were considered as not falling within the class of persons who it was clearly intended by the Act to be compensated in this manner .	None
As the order of Government does not fulfill the elementary requirements of a quasi judicial process we do not consider it necessary to order a remit to the High Court.	None
In the result this Court set aside the order of Government and directed the disposal of the case in the light of the remarks made.	None
13.	None
In 19661 SCR 466 (AIR1966 SC 671) (supra) the order of the Central Government rejecting the revision application under R. 55 of the Mineral Concession Rules was couched in exactly the same 1anguage as the order in appeal before us (see at p. 475 of the report).	None
One cannot help feeling that the Ministry concerned have a special form which is to be used whenever a review application is to be rejected.	None
This may easily lead anyone to believe that the review is a sham and nothing but the formal observance of this power granted to the Central Government .	None
In this case all the three learned Judges of this Court who heard the appeal were unanimous in dismissing it some of the observations made bear repetition.	None
It was there argued that if the Central Government had to give reasons when it functioned as a tribunal it would obstruct the work of the Government and lead to unnecessary delays.	None
As to this it was said by our present Chief Justice.	None
The Central Government functions only through different officers and in this case it functioned through an Under Secretary.	None
The condition of giving reasons is only attached to an order made by the Government.	None
when it functions judicially as a tribunal in a comparatively small number of matters not in regard to other administrative orders it passes Our Constitution posits a welfare State	None
In the context of a welfare State, administrative tribunals have come to stay.	None
Indeed they are the necessary concomitants of a welfare State.	None
But arbitrariness in their functioning destroys the concept of a welfare State itself.	None
Selfdiscipline and supervision exclude or at any rate minimise arbitrariness.	None
The least a tribunal can do is to disclose its mind.	None
The compulsion of disclosure guarantees consideration.	None
The condition to give reasons introduces clarity and excludes or at any rate minimises arbitrariness it gives satisfaction to the party against whom the order is made, and it also enables an appellate or supervisory Court to keep the tribunals within bounds.	None
A reasoned order is a desirable condition of judicial disposal.	None
If tribunals can make orders without giving reasons, the said power in the halide of unscrupulous or dishonest officers may turn out to be a potent weapon for abase of power.	None
But if reasons for an order are given, it will be all effective restraint on such abuse, as the order, if it discloses extraneous or irrelevant consideration will be subject to judicial scrutiny and correction.	None
A speaking order will at its best be a reasonable and at its worst be at least a plausible one.	None
The public should not be deprived of this only safeguard.	None
It was further observed in that case that the position of ordinary Courts of law was different from that of tribunals exercising judicial functions and it was saidA Judge is trained to look at things objectively, uninfluenced by considerations of policy or expediency, but, an executive officer generally looks at things from the standpoint of policy and expediency.	None
The habit of mind of an executive officer so formed cannot be expected to change from function to function or from act to act.	None
So it is essential that some restrictions shall be imposed on tribunals in the matter of passing orders affecting the rights of parties, and the least they should do is to give reasons for their orders.	None
Even in the case of appellate Courts invariably reasons are given, except when they dismiss an appeal or revision, in limine and that is because the appellate or revisional Court agrees with the reasoned judgment of the subordinate Court or there are no legally permissible grounds to interfere with it.	None
But the same reasoning cannot apply to an appellate tribunal, for as often as not the order of the first tribunal is laconic and does not give any reasons.	None
That apart, when we insist upon reasons, we do not prescribe any particular form or scale of this reasons.	None
The extent and the nature of the reasons depend upon each case.	None
Ordinarily, the appellate or revisional tribunal shall give it own reasons succinctly but in case of affirmance where the original tribunal gives adequate reasons, the appellate tribunal may dismiss the appeal or the revision, as the case may be ?	None
agreeing with those reasons.	None
What is essential is that reasons shah be given by an appellate or revisional tribunal expressly or by reference to those given by the original tribunal.	None
The nature and the elaboration of reasons necessarily, depend upon the lasts of each case.	None
14.	None
It must be noted, however, that the above view was not shared by the two ether Judges of the Bench constituting this Court.	None
It was said by themFor the purpose of an appeal under Art.	None
136	None
, orders of Courts and tribunals stand the same footing.	None
An order of Court dismissing a revision application often gives no reason, but this is not a sufficient ground for quashing it.	None
Likewise, an order of an administrative tribunal rejecting a revision application cannot be pronounced to be invalid on the sole ground that it does not give reasons for the rejection.	None
They distinguished the case of Harinagar Sugar.	None
Mills Ltd. 19622	None
SCR 339 (AIR 1961 SC 1669 ) (supra) on the ground that the Central Government had reversed the decision appealed without giving any reasons and the latter did not disclose any apparent grounds for reversal and addedThere is a vital difference between the order of reversal by the appellate authority in that case for no reason whatsoever and do order of affirmance by the revising authority in the present case.	None
15.	None
As has already been noted, the board of directors in that case did not give any reasons for the refusal to register and the Central Government adopting the same course reversed the decision of the directors without giving any reasons.	Reasoning
Clearly, the act of the Central Government there savored of arbitrariness.	Reasoning
Under the articles of association of the company the directors were not obliged to give any reasons.	Reasoning
Their power of refusal was unrestricted if they acted bona fide or in the interest of the company.	Reasoning
The reversal of their discretion clearly amounted to a finding that they had acted arbitrarily or mala fide and one was left to guess the reasons of the Central Government for coming to this conclusion.	Reasoning
As has already been said, when the authority whose decision is be owed gives reason for its conclusion and the reviewing authority affirms the decision for the reasons given by the lower authority one can assume that the reviewing authority found the reasons given by the lower authority as acceptable to it	Reasoning
but, where the lower authority itself fails to give any reason other than that the successful applicant was an old lessee and the reviewing authority does not even refer to that ground, this Court has to grope in the dark for finding into reasons for upholding or rejecting the decision of the reviewing authority .	Reasoning
After all a tribunal which exercises judicial or quasi judicial powers can certainly indicate its mind as to why it acts in a particular way and when important rights of parties of farreaching consequence to them are adjudicated upon in a summary fashion.	Reasoning
without giving a personal hearing where proposals and counterproposals are made and examined, the least can be expected is that the tribunal should tell the party why the decision is going against him in all cases where  the law gives a further right of appeal.	None
16.	None
On behalf of the respondents, it was contended that R. .55 which provided for a revision did not envisage the filing of fresh pleadings and fresh material but only invited comments of the parties with regard to the matter before the Central Government.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued that if after going through the comments and countercomments the Central Government found no reason to arrive at a conclusion different from that of the State Government, it was not called upon to disclose any grounds for its decision in review.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was drawn in particular to R. 26 of the Mineral Concession Rules which enjoined upon the State Government to communicate in writing the reasons for any order refusing to grant or renew a mining lease.	None
The absence of any provision in R. 55 for giving such reasons was said to be decisive on the matter as indicative of the view of the legislature that there was no necessity for giving reasons for the order on review.	Reasoning
We find ourselves enable to accept this contention.	Reasoning
Take the case where the Central Government sets aside the order of the State Government without giving any reasons as in Harinagar Sugar Mills case.	Reasoning
The party who loses before the Central Government cannot know why he had lost it and would be in great difficulty in pressing his appeal to the Supreme Court and this Court would have to do the best it could in circumstances which are not conducive to the proper disposal of the appeal.	Reasoning
17.	None
Equally, in a case where the Central Government merely affirms the order of the State Government, it should make it clear in the order itself as to why it is affirming the same.	None
It is not suggested that the Central Government should write out a judgment as Courts of law are wont to do.	Reasoning
But we find no merit in the contention that an authority which is called upon to determine and adjudicate upon the rights of parties subject only to a right of appeal to this Court should not he expected to give all outline of the process of reasoning by which they find themselves in agreement with the decision of the State Government.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact, R. 26 considerably lightens the burden of the Central Government in this respect.	Reasoning
As the State Government has to give reasons, the Central Government after considering the comments and countercomments on the reasons given by the State Government should have no difficulty in making up its mind as to whether the reasoning of the State Government is acceptable and to state as briefly as possible the reasons for its own conclusion.	Reasoning
18.	None
Our attention was drawn to a judgment of this Court in Nandram Hanatram, Calcutta v. Union of India, AIR 1966 SC 1922.	None
There, one of the points made by the appellant in the appeal to this Court was that the order of the Central Government, in review, upholding the action of the State Government cancelling the mining lease granted to the appellant was bad inasmuch as no reasons were given.	None
It was pointed out in the judgment in that case that the facts there were so notorious that the reasons for the action of the State Government and the confirmation of its order by the Central Government were too obvious and could not possibly he questioned be anybody.	None
There the partners of the appellant firm had fallen out among, themselves and none of them was willing to spend money on the colliery with the result that the work came to a standstill and the colliery began to get flooded At this junction, Government stepped in and made a promise to the essential workmen that their wages would be paid and this saved the colliery.	None
Thereafter, the Chief Inspector of Mines was informed by one of the partners of the appellant firm that the other partners were preventing him from making payment for running expenses of the colliery and that he was not in a position to perform his duties as an occupier.	None
He accordingly resigned his office The Manager also resigned and the SubDivisional Officer of the district informed Government that the situation had become so alarming that some action on the part of the Government was absolutely necessary.	None
In spite of notice, the partners refused to take any action with the result that the Government took over to colliery and terminated the lease.	None
The revision application filed before the Central Government under R. 54 of the rules was turned down without giving any reasons.	None
Negativing the contention of the appellant that the order of the Central Government was bad in law because no reasons were given, it was said by this Court thatThe documents on the record quite clearly establish that the colliery was being flooded as the essential services had stopped functioning and but for the timely intervention of the State Government the colliery would have been lost.	None
In these circumstances, it is quite clear that the action of the State Government was not only right but proper and this is hardly a case in which any action other than rejecting the application for revision was called for and a detailed order was really not required because after all the Central Government was merely approving of the action taken in the case by the State Government, which stood completely vindicated.	None
The action of the State Government far from being arbitrary or capricious was perhaps the only one to take and all that the Central Government has done is to approve of it.	None
19.	None
The last portion of the passage was relied by the counsel for the respondents in support of his argument that as the order in review is merely in confirmation of the action of the State Government reasons need not be given.	None
But the above dictum cannot be considered dissociated from the setting of the circumstances in which it was made.	None
There it was plain as a pikestaff that the State Government had no alternative but to cancel the lease the absence of any reasons in the order on review could not possibly leave anybody in doubt as to whether (what the?) reasons were.	None
As a matter of fact in the setting of facts, the reasons were so obvious that it was not necessary to set them out There is nothing in this decision which is contrary to 1966 1 SCR 466 (AIR 1966 SC 671 ) (supra).	None
What the decision says is that the reasons for the action of the State were so obvious that it was not necessary, on the facts of the case, to repeat them in the order of the Central Government.	None
20.	None
Our attention was also drawn to another judgment of this Court in Commissioner of Incometax v. K. V. Pilliah, 196763 ITR 411 (SC).	None
One of the questions in that case before the High Court of Mysore under S. 66 (2) of the Indian Incometax Act was whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Incometax Appellate Tribunal was justified in sustaining both the addition of Rs. 41,142 as income from business and Rs. 7,000 as cash credits, and whether such addition did not result in double taxation.	None
It was held by this Court that the question whether Rs. 41,142 was liable to he text d fell to he determined under the first question.	None
In respect of the Other amount of Rs. 7,000 the IncomeTax Officer had held that the explanation of the assessee was untrue and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the Tribunal had agreed with that view.	None
In this setting of facts.	None
it was said by this Court The Incometax Appellate Tribunal is the final factfinding authority and normally, it should record its conclusion on every disputed question raised before it, setting out its reasons in support of its conclusion.	None
But, in failing to record reasons, when the Appellate Tribunal fully agrees with the view expressed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and has no other ground to record in support of its conclusion, it does not act illegally or irregularly merely because it does not repeat the grounds of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner on which the decision was given against the assessed or the department.	None
The criticism made by the High Court that the Tribunal had failed to perform its duty in merely affirming the conclusion of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner is apparently unmerited.	None
On the merits of the claim for exclusion of the amount of Rs. 7,000, there is no question of law which could be said to arise out of the order of the Tribunal.	None
21.	None
The above observations were sought to be pressed into service by the counsel for the respondents but there is a good dead of difference between that case and the one with which we have to deal.	None
The High Court there was merely called upon to give its opinion on the statement of facts set out by the Appellate Tribunal.	Reasoning
It was for the Incometax Officer in the first instance to accept or reject the explanation with regard to the cash credit.	Reasoning
If the Incometax Officer found the assessees explanation unacceptable, he had to say why he did not accept it.	Reasoning
Unless the assessee in appeal was able to point out to the Appellate authorities some flaw in the reasoning of the Incometax Officer, it is not necessary for the appellate authorities to give their reasons independently.	Reasoning
The explanation of the assessee is either accepted or rejected but in the case which we have before us, the State Government has to consider the merits and demerits of the applications and to give its reasons why it prefers one to the other or others.	Reasoning
There is a dispute between two or more contesting parties and the reasons for preferring one to the other or others may be more than one.	Reasoning
It is not a question of accepting or rejecting an explanation.	Reasoning
In our opinion what was said in the above Incometax case will not apply in the case of a review by the Central Government of a decision of the State Government under the Act and the Rules.	Reasoning
22.	None
It may be of interest to note that in Rex.	None
v. Nortchumberland Compensation Appeal Tribunal Ex parse Shaw, 19511 KB 711, all application was made in the Kings Bench Division in England for an order of certiorari for the quashing of a decision reached by the Compensation Appeal Tribunal dismissing an appeal by Shaw against an award to him of compensation for loss of employment as a clerk to a Hospital Board payable under the National Health Service (Transfer of Officers and Compensation) Regulations, 1948 There the question of the practice and procedure with regard to the issue of a writ of certiorari was gone into at some length.	None
The tribunal in that case had made a speaking order.	None
It was contended by the counsel for the tribunal that the Kings Bench Division had no power to examine the order in the case before it on certiorari on the ground that certiorari went only to defect of jurisdiction.	None
This was turned down and the Divisional Court held that it had jurisdiction to quash by certiorari the decision of ant inferior tribunal when the latter had embodied the reasons for its decision in its order and those reasons are bad in law.	None
For our purpose, wee need only refer to the observations of Lord Goddard C,.	None
J. at p. 724 of the report where he saidI think it is beneficial in this case that we should do so, not merely having regard to the facts of this case, tent because so many tribunals have now been set up, all of whom I am certain, desire to do their duty on the best way, and are often given very difficult sets of regulations and statutes to construe.	None
It certainly must be for their benefit, and I have no doubt but that they will welcome that this Court should be able to give guidance to them if, in making their orders, they make their orders speaking orders, so that this Court can then consider them if they are brought before the Court on certiorari.	None
23.	None
The case for giving reasons or for making a speaking order becomes much stronger when the decision can be challenged not only by the issue of a writ of certiorari but an appeal to this Court.	None
24.	None
Counsel for the respondents referred us to the comment on this case made by Sir C. K. Allen, in his law and Order (Second Edition) at p. 259 to p. 261.	None
According to the learned author, the Northumber land Compensation case might be a greater deterrent than encouragement to speaking orders inasmuch as the prospect of having their mental process set forth in literary form, might be extremely disagreeable to them and up to the year 1956 did not seems to have assisted greatly the means of recourse against decisions of inferior jurisdictions.	None
Speaking for ourselves, with great respect to the learned author, we do not learned that the position of the Central Government as a reviewing authority under the Mineral Concession Rules can be equated with an appellate tribunal of the type whose decision was before the Kings Bench Division in England.	None
If the State Government is enjoined by law to give its reasons, there is no reason why it should he difficult for the appellate authority to do so.	None
The necessity and the desirability of tribunals making speaking orders has been adverted upon by different High Courts in India.	None
Thus in Vedachala Mudaliar v. State of Madras, AIR 1952	None
Mad 276 .	None
where the State Government of Madras set aside the order of the Central Road Traffic Board, without giving any reasons, it was observed thatWhen the policy of the legislature is to confer powers on administrative tribunals with a duty to discharge their elections judicially.	None
I do not see any reason why they should be exempted from all those safeguards inherent in its exercise of that jurisdiction.	None
From the standpoint of fair name of the tribunals and also in the interest of the public they should be expected to give reasons when they set aside an order of inferior tribunal Further, if reasons for an order are given there will be less scope for arbitrary or partial exercise of powers and the order ex facie will indicate whether extraneous circumstances were taken into consideration by the tribunal in passing the order.	None
25.	None
Reference may also be made to Ramayya v. State of Andhra 1LR (1956)	None
Andh 712 (AIR 1956 Andh 217) and Annnamalai v. State of Madras, AIR 1357 Andh Pra 739.	None
To the same effect is the judgment of this Kerala High Court in P. J. Joseph v. Superintendent of Post Offices, Kottayam, ILR(1961) 2 Ker 245 (AIR 1961 Ker 197 ).	None
26.	None
We have already commented that the order ,of the Central Government in this case is couched in the came language as was used in the case before this Court 19661 SCR 466 (AIR 1966 SC, 6711 (supra), in August 1965The old R. 55 was replaced by a new rule which Came into forces on 19th July1965.	Reasoning
Whereas the old rule directed the Central Government to consider comments on the petition of review by the State Government or other authority only the new rule is aimed at calling upon all the parties including the State Government to make their comments in the matter and the parties are given the right to make further comments on those made by the other or others.	Reasoning
In effect, the parties are given a right to bring forth material which was not before the State Government.	Reasoning
It is easy to see that an unsuccessful party may challenge the grant of a lease in favour of another by pointing out defects or demerits which did not come to the knowledge of the State Government.	Reasoning
The order in this case does not even purport to show that the comments and countercomments, which were before the Central Government in this case, had been considered.	Reasoning
It would certainly have been better if the order of 22nd June 1966 had shown that the Central Government had taken into consideration all the fresh material adduced before it and for the reasons formulated they thought that the order of the State Government should not be disturbed.	Reasoning
27.	None
In the result, the appeals are allowed and the orders of the Central Government passed on 22nd June 1966 are set aside.	Decision
The Central Government is directed to decide the review applications afresh in the light of the observations made.	Decision
The appellant will get his costs throughout from the 3rd respondent.	Decision
28.	None
Appeals allowed.	None
