 Ramaswami, J.1.	None
The question of law involved in this appeal is whether the purchaser of business carried on by a dealer as defined in the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Madras Act No. IX of 1939), hereinafter called the Act, can be made liable for arrears of salestax due from the dealer in respect of transactions of sale which took place before the transfer of the business under Rule 21A of the Rules framed in exercise of the powers conferred on the State Government by Section 19 of the Act.2.	Issue
The respondent purchased, by a registered instrument dated October 5, 1966, the business carried on by one Purushottam Raju under the nameAll India Trading Company.	Facts
Purushottam Raju was the sole proprietor of the business and had been assessed to sales tax in respect of his turnover for the years 194849 and 194950.	Facts
The assessee paid some amounts towards sales tax thus determined, but there remained some arrears of salestax i. e., Rs. 383640 for 194849 and Rs. 121819 for 194950.	Facts
The Salestax authorities attempted to recover the arrears of tax from the respondent as the purchaser of the business.	Facts
The respondent denied liability to pay salestax but his contention was overruled by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer.	Facts
The respondent appealed to the Commercial Tax Officer as well as to the Board of Revenue, but the appeals were dismissed.	Facts
The respondent thereafter moved the Madras High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution for the issue of a writ in the nature of certiorari to quash the orders of the Commercial Tax Officer and the Board of Revenue.	Facts
Ganapatia Pillai, G. who heard the petition dismissed it.	Facts
The respondent took the matter in appeal under the Letters Patent.	Facts
The Division Bench consisting of S. Ramachandra Iyer, C. J. and Ramakrishnan, G. reversed the judgment of the Single Judge, holding that Rule 21A of the Sales Tax Rules was illegal and ultra vires and the respondent was not liable to pay the salestax due from his predecessorintitle, Purushottam Raju.3.	Facts
This appeal is brought, by special leave, from the judgment of the Division Bench of the Madras High Court dated September 13, 1963 in Writ Appeal No. 10 of 1962 (AIR 1965 Mad 137 ).4.	None
Rule 21A was framed by the State Government under the rulemaking power granted to it under Section 19 (1) and (2) of the Act.	None
Rule 21A reads as follows When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay the tax under the Act is entirely transferred, any tax payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer shall be recoverable from the transferor or the transferee as if they were the dealers liable to pay such tax, provided that the recovery from the transferee of the arrears of taxes due prior to the date of the transfer shall be only to the extent of the value of the business he obtained by transfer.	None
The transferee shall also be liable to pay tax under the Act on the sales of goods effected by him with effect from the date of such transfer and shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration or licence, as the case may be, unless he already holds a certificate of registration or licence, as the case may be.	None
Sections 19 (1) and 19 (2) (c) are to the following effect19.	None
(1) The State Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.(2)	None
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for (c) the assessment to tax under this Act of business which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.5.	None
The first question to be considered in this appeal is whether Rule 21A is intra vires of the power of the State Government under Section 19 (1) and (2) of the Act.	None
Section 3 (1) of the Act is the charging Section.	None
It imposes a liability to pay sales tax on every dealer for each year, and the tax is to be calculated on his total turnover for that year.	None
Section 2 (b) of the Act defines a dealer as a person who carries on the business of buying, selling goods.	None
The word turnover is defined in Section 2 (i) of the Act to mean the aggregate amount for which goods are either bought or sold by a dealer whether for cash or for deferred payment or other valuable consideration It is manifest that a person who purchases a business as a dealer can be assessed to sales tax only in respect of his turnover and under the scheme of the charging provision of the Act the purchaser of the business has nothing to do with the sales effected by the seller of the business.	None
The turnover in respect of such sales remains therefore the turnover of the transferor and not of the transferee.	None
By the amending Act of 1959 (Act I of 1959) an express provision was inserted by which the transferee of the business was made liable for the arrears of salestax due from the transferor.	None
But there is no such provision in the Act for the period with which we are concerned in the present case.	Reasoning
The question is whether the State Government has authority under its rulemaking power under Section 19 of the Act to create a legal fiction by which the transferee of the business is constituted as the dealer liable to pay the tax in respect of the turnover of the transferor.	None
On behalf of the appellants, Mr. Rama Reddy suggested that the State Government has power under Sections 19 (1) and 19 (2) (c) of the Act to frame the impugned rule.	None
We are unable to accept this argument as correct.	None
Section 19 (1) of the Act empowers the State Government to make rules to carry out the purposes of the Act,but the Section cannot be utilised to enlarge the scope of Section 10 regarding recovery and payment of tax from some other person other than a dealer under the Act.	Reasoning
We also consider that the State Government has no authority under Section 19 (2) (c) of the Act to enact the rule.	Reasoning
Section 19 (2) (c) deals with the assessment to tax of business which are discontinued or the ownership of which has changed.	Reasoning
It is true that the word assessment in the scheme of salestax and income tax legislation is a term of varying import.	Reasoning
The word is used sometimes to mean the computation of income, sometimes the determination of the amount of tax payable, and sometimes the whole procedure laid down in the Incometax Act for imposing liability on the taxpayers.	Reasoning
As the Judicial Committee, however, said in Badridas Daga v. Commr. of I.T Central and U. P. Lucknow (1949) 17 ITR 209 at p. 211 (AIR 1949 PC 159 at p. 160), the words assess and assessment refer primarily to the computation of the amount of income.	None
In Chatturam v. C. I. T., Bihar, 1947 FCR 116 (AIR 1947 FC 32) the Federal Court pointed out, relying upon the decision of the House of Lords in Whitney v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue 1926 AC 37 that the liability to tax does not depend upon assessment.	None
The liability is definitely created by Sections 3 and 4 of the Incometax Act which are the charging Sections and the assessment order under Section 23 only quantifies the liability which has already been definitely and finally created by the charging Sections and the provision in regard to assessment relates only to the machinery of taxation.	None
In our opinion, the principle of these decisions applies to the interpretation of the Act in the present caseWe consider that, in the context and background of other Sections of the Act, the word assessment used in Section.	None
19 (2) (c) does not include the power of recovering tax assessed from a person other than the assessee.	Reasoning
It follows therefore that Rule 21A is beyond the rulemaking power of the State Government either under Section 19 (1) or Section 19 (2) (c) of the Act.	Reasoning
It was then submitted by Mr. Rama Reddy that Rule 21A may be supported by the language of Section 10 (1) of the Act which states 10.	None
Payment and recovery of tax.(1)	None
The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.	None
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this ActIt was contended that under this Section the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default is charged on the property of the person liable to pay the tax.	None
In the present case, the business which was transferred to the respondent was hence charged with the payment of sales tax and it was open to sales tax authorities to proceed against the assets of the business for realising the amount of sales tax due.	None
In our opinion there is no justification for this argument.	None
Section 10 of the Act as it stood before the Madras General Salestax (3rd Amendment) Act, 1956 (Act No. XV of 1956) read as follows The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.	None
In default of such payment, the whole of the amount then remaining due may be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.	None
This Section was amended by Section 8 of the Madras General Sales Tax (3rd Amendment) Act, 1956 which reads as follows.	None
Substitution of new Section for Section 10 in Madras Act IX of 1939.For Section 10 of the principal Act, the following Section shall be substituted, namely 10.	None
Payment and recovery of tax.	None
(1) The tax assessed under this Act shall be paid in such manner and in such instalments, if any, and within such time, as may be specified in the notice of assessment, not being less than fifteen days from the date of service of the notice.	None
If default is made in paying according to the notice of assessment, the whole of the amount outstanding on the date of default shall become immediately due and shall be a charge on the properties of the person or persons liable to pay the tax under this ActThe 3rd Amendment Act, 1956 received the assent of the President on October 1, 1956 but it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8, 1956.	None
Section 5 of the Madras General Clauses Act (Madras Act No. 1 of 1891) provides as follows 5.	None
(1) Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation, on a particular day, then it shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor, the GovernorGeneral or the President, as the case may require, is first published in the Official Gazette.	None
In the present case, the Act is not expressed to come into operation on any particular date, but as it was published in the Madras Gazette on October 8, 1956, the Act came into operation on that date and not before.	Reasoning
In the present case, the registered instrument by which the business was transferred to the respondent is dated October 5, l956 and the amending Act has therefore no application.	Reasoning
We accordingly reject the argument of the appellants on this aspect of the case and hold that Rule 21A is ultra vires of therulemaking power of the State Government under the Act.6.	None
It was next argued on behalf of the appellants that upon a true construction of the registered instrument dated October 5, l956 the respondent undertook to pay not only Sch.	None
I liabilities but also other liabilities like sales tax imposed in regard to the business.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, however, disputed by Mr. Ganapathy Iyer on behalf of the respondent that there was any undertaking on the part of the respondent to discharge the liabilities in regard to arrears of salestax.	Arguments of Respondent
But even on the assumption that the respondent undertook to pay the arrears of sales tax due by the transferor, it does not follow that there is a liability created inter se between the State Government on the one hand and the transferee on the other hand.	None
To put it differently, it is not open to the State Government to rely on the instrument inter vivos between the transferor and the transferee and to contend that there is any contractual obligation between the transferee and the State Government who is not a party to the instrument.	Reasoning
We accordingly reject the argument of the appellants on this aspect of the case also.7.	Reasoning
For these reasons we hold that the judgment of the Division Bench of the High Court dated September 13, 1963 is correct and this appeal must be dismissed with costs.8.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
