 Shivaraj V. Patil, J. Leave granted.	None
The short and straight question, which arises for consideration is whether a dispute is said to be pending before an Industrial Tribunal for the purpose of proviso to Section 33(2)(b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (for short the Act) during the period when operation of the order of reference of disputed itself remained stayed.	Issue
In each one of these appeals appellant No.1 is a company and appellant No.2 is one of its shareholders.	Facts
The BPL Group of Companies Karmikara Sangha (Union) had raised certain disputes on behalf of the workmen of the appellant companies.	Facts
On failure of conciliation of disputes came to be referred by the Government for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Bangalore (for short the Tribunal).	Facts
By order dated 26.2.1999 the aforesaid union, not being fully satisfied with the order of reference, filed writ petition No. 7355/99 in the High Court seeking a mandamus to the State Government for referring some more points disputes raised by them.	Facts
A learned single Judge of the High Court on 11.3.1999, at the stage of issuing notice for admission, passed the interim order in the following terms The operation of the order dated 26.2.1999 bearing No. KAE 117 KA KY VI 99 No. KAE  117, KA KY VI 99 passed by R1 (Annexure A and B to the writ petition respectively) be and the same is hereby stayed for a period of two weeks from 11.3.1999.	Facts
During the course of hearing the learned counsel for the parties submitted that this interim order, having been continued, was in operation till the writ petition was finally disposed of on 12.4.1999.	Facts
During the pendency of the said writ petition the workmen were dismissed from the service on 31.3.1999 on the ground of serious misconduct.	Facts
The aggrieved workmen (respondents herein) filed a complaint under Section 33A of the Act before the Tribunal complaining that they have been dismissed from service in contravention of the provisions contained in Section 33(2) of the Act and, therefore, they were entitled to be reinstated.	Facts
The Management of the appellant companies resisted the complaint raising a preliminary objection to the effect that the orders of dismissal were passed during the period when the order of stay passed by the learned single Judge in the aforesaid writ petition No. 7355/99 was in operation and as such there was no violation of Section 33(2)(6) of the Act.	Facts
It was urged that when the appellant companies took action in accordance with law no proceedings were pending before the Tribunal as the operation of the very order of reference had been stayed by the High Court.	Facts
The Tribunal, by its order dated 19.5.2000, rejected the preliminary objection.	Facts
The appellant companies filed writ petition Nos. 2837728378, 2844628450, 28452 and 2845428458 of 2001 challenging the correctness and validity of the aforementioned order of the Tribunal rejecting the preliminary objection.	Facts
The learned single Judge of the High Court dismissed the writ petitions upholding the view taken by the Tribunal.	Facts
Aggrieved by and not satisfied with the order of the learned single Judge of the High Court the appellant companies filed writ appeals before the Division Bench of the High Court.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court, fully concurring with the conclusion arrived at by the learned single Judge, dismissed the writ appeals by the common order under challenge in these appeals.	Facts
5.	None
Mr. R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel in support of the appeals, urged that the High Court proceeded on a wrong footing that staying the operation of the order of reference made by the Government did not wipe out the proceedings instead of considering whether on the relevant date proceedings were pending before the Tribunal or not on account of the stay order the learned single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court did not appreciate that the Tribunal being a creature of statute derived its jurisdiction only upon an order of reference being made by the Government under Section 10 of the Act such being the legal position the proceedings could not be deemed to have been pending as on 31.3.1999 when the workmen were dismissed from service during the period when the operation of the order of reference itself remained stayed by the High Court the High Court has failed to distinguished the difference between stay further proceedings and stay of reference itself stay of operation of the order of reference being in force, the proceedings could not be deemed to have commenced as the Tribunal could not enter upon the reference itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that the Division Bench of the High Court committed a grave error in applying the decision of this Court in Shree Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. vs. Church of South India Trust Assn.	Arguments of Petitioner
CSI Cinod Secretariat, Madras 1992 (2) SCR 999 , to the facts of the case and the real question that was required to be resolved.	Arguments of Petitioner
The said case has no bearing on the question to be decided.	Arguments of Petitioner
In opposition, Mr. S.R. Bhat, learned advocate for the respondents, made submissions supporting the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
He drew our attention to Section 20(3), 23 and 33(1) of the Act in support of his submissions.	Arguments of Respondent
He placed reliance on decisions of this Court in Kanoria Chemicals and Industries Ltd. and others vs. U.P. State Electricity Board and others 1997(5)	Arguments of Respondent
SCC 772 and Tukaram G. Gaokar vs. R.N. Shukla and others AIR 1968 SC 1050 .	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that merely because the operation of the order of reference was stayed it could not be said that the proceedings before the Tribunal were wiped out.	Arguments of Respondent
On facts there is no dispute or debate between the parties.	None
Section 33 of the Act, to the extent it is relevant, reads Conditions of service, etc. to remain unchanged under certain circumstances during pendency of proceedings.	None
(1) During the pendency of any conciliation proceedings before a conciliation officer or a Board or of any proceeding before an arbitrator or a Labour Court or Tribunal or National Tribunal in respect of an industrial dispute, no employer shall  (a) in regard to any matter connected with the dispute, alter, to the prejudice of the workmen concerned in such dispute, the conditions of service applicable to them immediately before the commencement of such proceeding or (b) for any misconduct connected with the dispute, discharge or punish, whether by dismissal or otherwise, any workman concerned in such dispute.	None
save with the express permission in writing of the authority before which the proceedings is pending.	None
During the pendency of any such proceeding in respect of an industrial dispute, the employer may, in accordance with standing orders applicable to a workman concerned, in such dispute or, where there are no such standing order, in accordance with the terms of the contract whether express or implied, between him and the workman  (a) alter, in regard to any matter not connected with the dispute, the conditions of service applicable to that workman immediately before the commencement of such proceeding or (b) for any misconduct not connected with the dispute, discharge or punish, whether by dismissal or otherwise, that workman Provided that no such workman shall be discharged or dismissed, unless he has been paid wages for one month and an application has been made by the employer to the authority before which the proceedings is pending for approval of the action taken by the employer.	None
It is to be stated here itself that in writ petition No. 7534 of 1999, filed by the union on behalf of the workmen interim order was sought by themselves to stay the operation of the order of reference.	None
It is at the instance of the union that interim order was passed by the learned single Judge, which is already extracted above.	None
Under subSection (2) of the Section 33 of the Act during pendency of proceeding in respect of an industrial dispute, the employer may, in accordance with standing orders applicable to a workman concerned in such dispute or, where are no such standing orders, in accordance with the terms of the contract, whether express or implied between him and the workman for any misconduct not connected with the dispute, discharge or punish, whether by dismissal or otherwise, that workman, provided no such workman shall be discharged or dismissed unless he has been paid wages for one month and an application has been made by the employer to the authority before which the proceeding is pending for approval of the action taken by the employer.	None
From this provision it is clear that for seeking an approval for discharge or dismissal of a workman from service by the employer essentially proceedings in respect of an industrial dispute must be pending.	None
In the present case the respondentworkmen were dismissed from service on account of misconduct during the period when operation of the order of reference remained stayed.	Reasoning
Compliance of proviso to Section 33(2)(b) would be required if the dispute was pending on the date when the workmen were dismissed from service.	Reasoning
The Tribunal held that the dispute was pending before it notwithstanding stay of the operation of the order of reference by the Government.	None
The said view was upheld by the learned single Judge of the High Court following the decision of this Court in Shree Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. case (supra).	None
In the impugned order the Division Bench of the High Court observed that the learned single Judge rightly relied on the said decision and dismissed the writ appeals.	Facts
Hence it is necessary to have a closer look at the facts of Shri Chamundi Mopeds and the Ratio.	None
The appellant in that case was a public limited company.	None
It had taken on rent the premises belonging to the respondent  Church of South Indian Trust Association.	None
The appellant company committed default in payment of rent.	None
The respondent issued the legal notice dated 1.4.1987 calling upon the appellant company to pay the said amount.	None
While admitting the liability to pay the appellant company stated that it was expecting certain sums of money towards developmental loan from the Government of Karnataka and as soon as the same was received it would pay the outstanding amount.	None
Since the amount was not paid respondent issued a notice under Section 434 of the Companies Act and, thereafter, a petition was filed in the High Court under Section 433(e) of the Companies Act for winding up of the appellant company.	Reasoning
During the pendency of that petition the appellant company claiming that it had become a sick industrial company, filed a reference under Section 15(1) of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provision) Act, 1985 (for short the SICA), before the Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction.	None
After publication of general notice in newspapers and on intimation to the concerned parties the Board concluded that the appellant company should be wound up.	None
The appeal filed by the appellant company against the order of the Board to the Appellate Authority for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction was dismissed on 7.1.1991.	Reasoning
The appellant company filed writ petition in the High Court of Delhi challenging the order passed by the appellate authority.	None
The High Court on 21.2.1991 issued notice in the writ petition returnable on 10.5.1991.	None
On the stay petition filed in the writ petition notice was issued for 10.5.1991 and in the meanwhile operation of the order of the appellate authority dated 7.1.1991 was stayed.	None
After dismissal of the appeal of the appellant company by the appellate authority, the winding up petition was taken up for consideration and it was allowed by a learned single Judge of the Karnataka High Court by order dated 14.8.1991.	None
The learned single Judge of the Karnataka High Court took the view that the pendency of the writ petition in the High Court of Delhi and stay of the operation of the order of the appellate authority did not stand in the way of the court of proceed with the matter.	None
The appellant companys appeal filed against this order of the learned single Judge was dismissed by the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court by order dated 6.11.1991.	None
On 26.2.1988 the respondent filed a petition seeking eviction of the appellant company from the demised premises under Section 21(1) of the Karnataka Rent Control Act, 1961 on the ground that the appellant company was a chronic defaulter in payment of rent.	None
In those proceedings the appellant company moved an application under Section 151 of Civil Procedure Code read with Section 22 of the SICA for stay of the said proceedings on the ground that the appellant company had been declared a sick industrial company.	None
The said application was rejected by the Small Causes Court by order dated 14.9.1989 taking the view that Section 22 of the SICA had no application inasmuch as proceedings instituted by the landlord for recovery of possession of the premises of which a sick industrial company is a tenant is not included among the proceedings which are required to be suspended under Section 22(1) of the SICA.	None
Thereafter, eviction petition was allowed by order dated 30.9.1989.	None
The appellant company filed a writ petition challenging the order of eviction, which was later converted into revision petition under Section 50 of the Karnataka Rent Control Act.	None
The said revision petition was dismissed rejecting claim for exemption from the applicability of Section 29(1) of the Karnataka Rent Control Act stating that no inquiry under Section 16 was pending nor any scheme referred under Section 17 of SICA was under preparation or consideration.	None
It was held that the stay order passed by the Delhi High Court in the writ petition did not entitle the appellant company to invoke the protection of Section 22 of the SICA, as if appeal was pending.	None
On these facts following two questions arose for consideration before this Court	None
What is the effect of the order passed by Delhi High Court dated February 21, 1991 staying the operation of the order dated January, 7, 1991 passed by the Appellate Authority?	Issue
Does it mean that after the passing of the said order by the High Court, the proceedings under the Act should be treated as pending and, if so, before which authority?	Issue
Are the proceedings instituted by landlord for eviction of a tenant who is a sick company from the premises let out to it, required to be suspended under Section 22(1) of the Act?	Issue
We are concerned only with question number one.	Reasoning
The proceedings before the Board under Sections 15 and 16 of the SICA had been terminated on 26.4.1990.	Reasoning
The appeal filed by the appellant company before the appellate authority had been dismissed on 7.1.1991.	Reasoning
As a result of these orders no proceeding under the Act was pending either before the Board or before the appellate authority on 21.2.1991 when the Delhi High Court passed the interim order staying the operation of the order of appellate authority dated 7.1.1991.	Reasoning
This Court held that the said stay order could not have the effect of reviving the proceedings, which had been disposed of by the appellate authority by its order dated 7.1.1991 observing that While considering the effect of an interim order staying the operation of the order under challenge, a distinction has to be made between quashing of an order and stay of operation of an order.	Reasoning
Quashing of an order results in restoration of the position as it stood on the date of passing of the order which has been quashed.	Reasoning
The stay of operation of an order does not, however, lead to such a result.	Reasoning
It only means that the order which has been stayed would not be operative from the date of passing of the stay order and it does not mean that the said order has been wiped out from existence.	Reasoning
This means that if an order passed by the appellate authority is quashed and the matter is remanded, the result would be that the appeal which had been disposed of by the said order of the appellate authority would be restored and it can be said to be pending before the appellate authority after the quashing of the order of the appellate authority.	Reasoning
The same cannot be said with regard to an order staying the operation of the order of the appellate authority because in spite of the said order, the order of the appellate authority continues to exist in law and so long as it exists it cannot be said that the appeal, which has been disposed of by the said order has not been disposed of and is still pending.	Reasoning
In that view this Court held that it cannot be said that any proceedings under the Act were pending before the Board or the appellate authority on the date of passing the order dated 14.8.1991 by the learned single Judge of the Karnataka High Court for winding up of the company or on 6.1.1991 when the Division Bench passed the order dismissing OSA No. 16 of 1991 filed by the company and, therefore, there was no impediment in the High Court dealing with the winding up petition filed by the respondents.	Reasoning
In the case on hand the situation is entirely different.	Reasoning
The Tribunal gets jurisdiction only on reference made by the Government.	Reasoning
When the operation of the very order of reference was stayed the question of dispute pending before the Tribunal did not arise inasmuch as the reference order itself stood suspended.	Reasoning
So long as stay order was operating it could not be said that the dispute was pending before the Tribunal.	Reasoning
Admittedly, when workmen were dismissed from service stay order was operating.	Reasoning
Learned single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court have proceeded on wrong footing relying upon the decision of this Court in Shri Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. (supra), that the order of the reference was not wiped out by virtue of staying of the operation of order of reference.	Reasoning
It is not the question as to whether the order of the reference is wiped out but the question is what is the effect of the staying of the operation of order of reference itself.	Reasoning
Once the operation of order of reference is stayed there is no question of dispute pending before the Tribunal so long as the said order remains in operation because reference precedes dispute.	Reasoning
To put it differently, dispute could come up for adjudication by the Tribunal pursuant to the order of reference only.	Reasoning
If in a pending proceeding operation of order is stayed pending disposal of the main matter such as an appeal or revision, obviously the impugned order does not get quashed or wiped out.	Reasoning
It only remains suspended.	Reasoning
But the position is different in this case, as already stated above.	Reasoning
It was not a case where the dispute was pending and only further proceedings were stayed.	Reasoning
When the order of reference itself was stayed the Tribunal did not have the jurisdiction to pass any further order.	Reasoning
As such the question of either management making an application under the proviso to Section 33(2)(b) or the Tribunal passing an order of such application would not arise.	Reasoning
In case any tribunal proceeds to pass an order in spite of stay of the operation of the order of reference by the High Court it may amount to contempt of the order of the High Court.	Reasoning
In case of some grave misconduct the management cannot afford to sit idle or simply wait to take action, particularly, when stay of the operation of the order of reference is obtained at the instance of union on behalf of the workmen.	Reasoning
The case of Shri Chamundi Mopeds Ltd. is quite distinguishable and it is on the facts of that case.	Reasoning
Even in that case it is stated that the order of stay did not amount to revival of appeal or proceedings.	Reasoning
In Ravi S. Naik vs. Union of India and others 1994 Supp.(2) SCC 641, dealing with the staying of the operation of the order of disqualification, passed by the Speaker of the Assembly in regard to two members of the House, this Court held that the order of disqualification made by the Speaker dated 13.12.1990 was not operative and consequently it could not be said that they were not members of Goa Assembly.	None
The Court, looking to the terms of the interim order and its effect on the disqualification of the members of the relevant date, held, it is settled law that an order, even though interim in nature, is binding till it is set aside by a competent court.	None
Similarly, in the present case also looking to the terms of the interim order granted by the High Court staying the very operation of order of reference it could not be said that dispute was pending before the Tribunal on the relevant date, viz., the date on which the workmen were dismissed from service.	None
In the case of Kanoria Chemicals (supra), the notification of the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Board enhancing the electricity rates was under challenge.	None
The High Court had granted interim order staying the operation of the said notification.	None
Dealing with the contention that since the notification had been stayed the petitioners could not be compelled to pay the enhanced electricity rates after the dismissal of the writ petition, this Court, in view of what is stated in Shree Chamundi Mopeds, took the view that the stay of operation of the notification only meant that it would not be operative from the date of passing such order and it did not mean that the notification itself had been wiped out from the existence.	None
Obviously after the dismissal of the writ petition the notification, which stood suspended during period of stay, became operative.	None
The Court held that by virtue of the stay order even after dismissal of the writ petition the petitioners could not be relieved of their obligation to pay late payment surcharge interest on the amount withheld by them.	None
Again, Style (Dress Land) vs. Union Territory, Chandigarh and another (1997) 7 SCC 89 , was also a case where the High Court granted stay order in writ petitions filed challenging the increase in the rent of lease in commercial premises.	None
Those writ petitions were ultimately dismissed directing the petitioners to pay the interest 18 per annum for the period during which the payment of rent at the new rates remained stayed by the High Court.	None
Dealing with the contention that during the period when the stay was operative the petitioners could not be directed to pay interest, the Court held that mere passing of an order of stay could not be presumed to a conferment of an additional right upon the litigating party.	None
Referring to Shree Chamundi Mopeds the Court stated that the stay only meant that it would not be operative from the date of its passing till the writ petitions were dismissed and it did not mean the demand had been wiped out.	None
These two decisions, in our view, do not help respondent  workmen, having regard to the terms of the interim order and in the context of the facts of those cases.	None
The effect of grant of stay of operation of the order of industrial reference was that the Industrial Tribunal could not take up the reference for adjudication.	Reasoning
Consequently, no action based on such reference could be taken by the Tribunal including grant or refusal of approval to the disciplinary action under Section 33(2) of the Act.	Reasoning
The employer could not have, therefore, approached the Tribunal for seeking approval to its disciplinary action so long as the order of reference remained stayed by the order of the High Court.	Reasoning
The industrial reference stood revived, only when the writ petition against the industrial reference was finally disposed of by the High Court on 12.4.1999.	Reasoning
The industrial reference would be said to be pending only from 12.4.1999.	Reasoning
The action of dismissal of the services of the workmen was taken on 31.3.1999.	Reasoning
On that date, as a result of the order of the stay of the operation of reference by the High Court on 11.3.1999, no reference was pending for adjudication before the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The provisions of Section 33 of the Act are attracted only when an industrial dispute is pending for adjudication and not merely when an order of reference is made by the Government.	Reasoning
In the present case, proceedings were not pending before the Tribunal because of the stay of the order of reference itself.	Reasoning
Both suchsection (1) and subsection (2) of Section 33 employ the language during the pendency of any proceeding which clearly convey that obligation on the part of the employer under the said Section of seeking express permission for the purpose of subsection (1) or approval for the purpose of subsection (2) arises only when there are proceedings pending on industrial dispute before the Tribunal or other specified statutory adjudicatory authorities under the Act.	Reasoning
In the present case as on date of dismissal of workmen from service the interim order staying the operation of the order of reference was operative.	Reasoning
Hence the question of dispute being pending on that day did not arise.	Reasoning
As already stated above, in order to make an application under proviso to Section 33(2)(b) of the Act, pendency of the proceeding was essential.	Reasoning
In this view the appellant companies did not contravene the provisions of Section 33(2)(b) of the Act.	None
Under proviso to Section 33(2)(b) one of the essential conditions for making an application for approval of action is pendency of an industrial dispute.	None
It is true that, as held in Shree Chamundi Mopeds case (supra), a distinction has to be drawn between the stay of an order and quashing of an order.	None
In the instant case when the High Court stayed the operation of the order of reference itself either pendency of dispute or proceeding to adjudicate the dispute did not arise.	Reasoning
In other words, the interim order of stay worked as a threshold bar for proceeding with the dispute.	None
So long as interim order of stay continued, it could not be said that the dispute was pending.	Reasoning
The High Court relied on the decision of this Court in Shree Chamundi Mopeds and emphasised that grant of interim order did not wipe out the existence of order of reference.	None
But it did not focus its attention to the actual terms of the stay order and their effect in deciding the question as to pendency of proceedings before the Tribunal.	None
What an interim order means or what is its effect and or consequences of it depend upon its own terms.	None
In case of some ambiguity or difficulty in understanding an interim order, which rarely happens, one has to understand the interim order looking to the prayer made for interim relief, facts of a given case and the terms of the interim order.	None
In the case on hand we should first look at the terms of the interim order in order to judge whether a dispute was pending before the Tribunal or not.	None
The interim order is plain in its terms, viz.	None
the operation of the order of reference was itself stayed.	None
As already noticed above, the effect of this interim order was that no proceedings could commence or were pending before the Tribunal at the material and relevant time.	None
In this case whether the order of reference was wiped out or not by the interim order of stay was not relevant.	None
It is not a case of staying an impugned order in appeal or revision.	None
But the very order of reference is itself stayed.	None
In the very nature of things interim order and final order are distinct and they serve different purposes.	None
Interim order operates during the pendency of the proceedings and final order results in adjudication of a dispute finally.	None
May be in some cases final order may be passed in terms of the interim order, but then interim order merges in final order and it gets elevated to the status of final order.	None
One more factor to be kept in mind is that it not that the workmen do not have remedy to challenge the order of dismissal.	None
They can raise dispute challenging the said order of dismissal by initiating separate proceedings.	None
Even if the an application was to be made under proviso to Section 33(2)(b), the Tribunal could not have proceeded to pass any order because of the interim order passed by the High Court staying the operation of the order of reference.	None
If the Tribunal were to proceed to pass any order there would have been a possibility of it committing contempt of the order passed by the High Court.	None
This Court in Baradakanta Mishra, ExCommissioner of Endowments vs. Bhimsen	None
Dixit 1973 (2) SCR 495 , dealing with the case that where the authority did not follow a binding precedent of the High Court and tried to justify not following it on some grounds, observed thus Contempt of Court is disobedience to the court, by acting in opposition to the authority, justice and dignity thereof.	None
It signifies a willful disregard or disobedience of the courts order, it also signifies such conduct as tends to bring the authority of the court and the administration of law into disrepute.	None
(Vide 17 Corpus Juris Secundum pages 5 and 6 Contempt by Edward N. Dangel (1939 Edn.)	None
page 14.	None
Oswalds Contempt of Court (1910 Edn.)	None
pages 5 and 6).	None
It is a commonplace that where the superior courts order staying proceedings is disobeyed by the inferior court to whom it is addressed, the latter court commits contempt of court for it acts in disobedience to the authority of the former court.	None
The act of disobedience is calculated to undermine public respect for the superior court and jeopardize the preservations of the law and order.	None
The appellants case is to be examined in the light of the foregoing principles and analogy That was a case where binding precedent of High Court was not followed, but in the present case the Tribunal, if was to proceed with an application under Section 33(2)(b) of the Act, it would have been direct disobedience of the interim order of stay passed by the High Court.	None
A situation may arise where workman commits a grave misconduct and situation does not allow any delay in taking action against such workman and the interim order staying operation of order of reference is operative and if it was to prolong for a long time, it would lead to anomalous situation.	None
The case of the appellantcompanies, as can be seen from paragraph 3 of the Counter Statement filed by them in reply to the complaint made by the workmen under Section 33A of the Act, reads It is submitted that the services of the First Party was terminated on 31.3.1999 for his involvement in the barbaric incident of setting fire to a bus carrying workmen resulting in the death of TWO women workers and critically injuring six others besides injuring Several Others.	None
The Second Party, in the normal course, would have held inquiries before taking any action but the fear psychosis generated in the minds of the workmen by the said act of First Party necessitated the Second Party apprehended that the situation may go out of control and the delinquents may be emboldened to indulge in further acts of violence.	None
Therefore, the Second Party had no other option other than to dispense with the services of the First Party in order to ensure that the services of the other employees were protected and that further acts of violence, if contemplated upon, could be curbed.	None
Considering the gravity of the situation and in view of the apprehension expressed by the witnesses of their safety and security, the Second Party felt that holding an enquiry was neither possible nor was it just and expedient.	None
Hence, the services of the First Party was terminated for indulging in serious acts of violence and this was strictly in accordance with the standing order.	None
The Second Party will lead evidence on the acts of misconduct for which the First Party was dismissed from service and will justify its order of dismissal before this Honble Court in the event of this Honble court holding the complaint as maintainable.	None
No doubt, the object of Section 33 of the Act is to protect the workman concerned during pendency of the proceedings in a dispute against victimization by the employer for having raised industrial dispute or his continuing the pending proceedings.	Reasoning
Further it is to ensure that the proceedings in connection with the industrial disputes already pending should be concluded in a peaceful atmosphere and to say that no employer should, during pendency of the proceedings, take action of any kind mentioned in this said Section, giving rise to fresh disputes leading to straining the relations between the employer and the workman.	Reasoning
But, then, the requirements of the said Section are to be satisfied in order to invoke the jurisdiction of the Tribunal under the said provision.	Reasoning
For the purpose of the present case pendency of the proceedings before the Tribunal was prerequisite condition for making an application under the proviso to Section 33(2)(b) of the Act.	Reasoning
Since the proceedings were not pending at the relevant time, i.e. on the date of dismissal of the workmen by virtue of the interim order granted by the High Court, the preliminary objection raised by the appellant Companies as to the very maintainability of complaint under Section 33A is valid and sustainable.	Reasoning
The question set out above in the beginning of this judgment is answered in the negative.	Reasoning
Thus, viewed from any angle in our considered opinion the impugned order cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
The preliminary objection raised by the appellant companies is upheld and consequently the complaint made by the respondentworkmen is dismissed as not maintainable.	Reasoning
We must, however, make it clear that this order does not prejudice or preclude the respondent workmen from questioning the validity and correctness of the order of their dismissal from service by raising appropriate dispute in accordance with law.	Reasoning
The appeals are accordingly allowed.	Decision
No costs.	None
