 Ayyangar, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave filed by a defendant whose application under O. IX.	Issue
R. 13, Civil Procedure Code to set aside an ex parte decree passed against him has been dismissed as barred by res judicata.2.	Facts
To appreciate the points arising in the appeal it would be necessary to narrate the proceedings in three litigations between the parties.	Facts
The ex parte decree that was passed against the defendant  who will hereafter be referred to as the appellant  and which he sought to be set aside in the proceedings which are the subject of the present appeal, was in suit 134 of 1956 on the file of the Court of Second Civil Judge, Kanpur.	Facts
But long before this suit was filed, the two other proceedings were already pending.	Facts
The first of them was a Small Cause suit by one Phula Kuer who sought to recover from the appellant Rs. 750/ on the basis that she and the appellant were partners and by an arrangement between them he agreed to pay her Rs. 150/ per month for her share of the profits which he had failed to pay.	Facts
This was suit 1023 of 1951 on the file of the Small Cause Court, Kanpur.	Facts
The appellant entered on his defence and denied the partnership and his liability to pay the sum claimed.	Facts
While this suit was pending, the appellant in his turn filed suit No. 20 of 1953 against Phula Kuer for fixing the fair rent of the premises in which he was carrying on the business, which Phula Kuer alleged was a partnership business, it being common ground that Phula Kuer was the owner thereof.	Facts
While there two suits were pending Phula Kuer died on July 13, 1953 and thereafter one Rup Chand Jain filed suit 134 of 1956 already referred to.	Facts
Rup Chand Jain died pending the appeal in the High Court and is now represented by his heirs who have been brought on record.	Facts
It would however be convenient to refer to the respondents as the plaintiffs.3.	Facts
Suit 134 of 1956 which was filed on May 19, 1956 repeated the allegation that Phula Kuer had entered into the partnership with the appellant under which she was entitled to get for her share Rs. 150/ per month.	Facts
This share of profits it was alleged, had been paid to her up to October 14, 1950 and that thereafter the appellant failed to pay the same.	Facts
The plaintiff claimed to be the next reversioner of Phula Kuer and on that basis claimed that a sum of Rs. 4,200/ was due to him.	Facts
Besides this, he alleged that the appellant had been using the building belonging to Phula Kuer in regard to which he was liable to pay rent which was claimed at Rs. 150/ per mensem.	Facts
The plaintiff also claimed that he was entitled to evict the appellant from the premises.	Facts
In the result, the reliefs claimed in the suit were a moneydecree for Rs. 9,390/ on account of the items we have set out, and (2) eviction from the premises where the business was being carried on.	Facts
Having regard to the contentions of the parties in the three suits, all of them were transferred by the District Judge, to the Court of the Second Civil Judge, Kanpur on August 4, 1956, and on August 23, 1956 the Civil Judge passed an order directing that the suits 20 of 1953 and 134 of 1956 be consolidated for joint hearing, the evidence led in suit 134 of 1956 being treated as evidence in the other suit as well.	Facts
On October 10, 1956 the appellant filed his Written Statement to suit 134 of 1956 in which he put forward the case in which he had already been asserting viz., (1) absence of any partnership relationship between himself and Phula Kuer, and (2) that he was in possession as a tenant and could not be evicted because the requisite statutory conditions to enable the plaintiff to claim eviction, were not satisfied.	Facts
Needless to add that there were several other defences which he urged to which it is unnecessary to refer.	Facts
Thereafter there were questions raised as regards the adequacy of the courtfee paid by the plaintiff in suit 134 of 1956, applications by the plaintiff to amend the plaint etc.	Facts
These took place during the year 1957.	Facts
The issues were settled on February 28, 1958.	Facts
We can pass over what transpired in the early part of 1958.	Facts
Both the parties were attempting to effect a compromise and for that purpose the hearing was adjourned but the compromise was not finalised, and finally, on May 24, 1958 a joint application was made by the plaintiff and the appellant that two months time may be granted to them to arrive at a settlement and that the trial which was fixed for May 28, 1958 may be adjourned for that purpose.	Facts
The Court, however, refused this application for the reason that the suit for the fixation of rent was of the year 1953.	Facts
On the 28th there was again another application for adjournment and the Court adjourned the trial by one day and fixed it for May 29, 1958, the order stating If no compromise is filed the case would be taken up for final hearing.	Facts
On 29th the plaintiff was present but the appellant was absent and the latters Counsel who was present reported that they had no instructions to conduct the case.	Facts
Thereupon the court passed an order in suit 134 of 1956 in these terms The plaintiff is present.	Facts
Defendant is absent, Counsel for the defendants have no instructions.	Facts
Case proceeds ex parte.	Facts
Plaintiff examined Mohinder Kumar and closed.	None
The order concluded with the words Judgment reserved.	None
In the suit for the fixation of rent which was taken up for trial on the same date the order of the Court ran Plaintiff is absent.	None
Defendant with his Counsel is present.	Facts
Counsel for the plaintiff has no instructions.	Facts
Suit is dismissed as per orders passed separately.	None
It is only necessary to add that the third suit  1023 of 1951  was on the same day also decreed ex parte.4.	None
On May 31, 1958 the appellant filed three applications in the three suits for setting aside the ex parte orders passed against him.	Facts
The application in suit 134 of 1956 was treated as the primary one and in support of it an affidavit was filed in which the appellant stated that after the talks for compromise had reached a decisive stage and when the appellant was making arrangements to implement that decision he got an attack of heatstroke and was, therefore, unable to be present in Court when the case was called on the 29th  i.e. the day fixed for hearing.	Facts
He therefore, prayed that the order or direction to proceed ex parte passed against him in the two suits in which he was defendant may be set aside and he be given an opportunity to context the suits.	Facts
Needless to add that in suit 20 of 1953 which had been dismissed for default, the prayer was to set aside that dismissal.	Facts
Notices were issued on these applications and the plaintiff filed a counteraffidavit in which he disputed the truth of the statement regarding the appellants illness and prayed that the applications may be dismissed.	Facts
He also suggested that if they were to be ordered it should be on certain terms.	Facts
We should mention even at this stage that though the application filed on the 31st did not specify the particular provision of law under which the jurisdiction of the Court was invoked, the parties and the court proceeded on the basis that in relation to suits 1023 of 1951 and 134 of 1956 they were applications under O. IX R. 7 of the Civil Procedure Code.	Facts
So far as the other proceeding was concerned  O. S. 20 of 1953  it was undoubtedly an application for setting aside the dismissal of the plaintiffs suit for default and was filed under O. IX R. 9.	Facts
These three applications were disposed of by a common judgment of the Civil Judge on August 23, 1958 and the learned Civil Judge held that the story of the illness of the appellant which had been put forward as affording sufficient reason for not being present in Court on May 29, 1958 was false.	Facts
For this reason he refused to set aside the order dismissing the suit for default of suit 20 of 1953 in which judgment had already been delivered.	Facts
In the other two suits 1023 of 1951 and 134 of 1956 he ordered the direction for the reservation of judgments to stand and fixed August 25, 1958 for the delivery of the judgments.5.	Facts
The appellant thereupon moved the High Court of Allahabad in revision against the order passed against the refusal of his application in suit 134 of 1956 alone and apparently obtained a stay of delivery of the judgment.	Facts
This application was disposed of by the High Court on September 4, 1958 when the following order was passed It was conceded that no ex parte decree has yet been passed.	Facts
The only order passed is that the case shall proceed ex parte against the appellant.	Facts
In view of the fact that no decree has yet been passed, the setting aside of the ex parte order was not absolutely necessary.	None
After referring to the decision of this Court in Sangam Singh v. Election Tribunal, (1955) 2	None
SCR 1 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 425 ) the learned Judge added It follows that, even though the ex parte order had been passed, the applicant could appear and take part in the case from the stage at which the ex parte order had been passed.	Facts
The only thing he could not claim was to be relegated back to the old position as if he had not absented himself on the date fixed.	Facts
In these circumstances, I think, no interference is called for with the order of the learned Civil Judge refusing to set aside the ex parte order.	Facts
It will be open to the applicant to present himself on the date to which the case now stands adjourned and request the learned Civil Judge to allow him to participate in the proceedings from that state.	Facts
There is therefore no force in this application.	Facts
It is rejected.	None
We are making this extract from the order for emphasising the fact that it appears to have been the common case before the High Court that the application of the appellant in suit 134 of 1956 was under O. IX R. 7 of the Civil Procedure Code and it was on that basis that the High Court approached the question and decided the revision petition.6.	Facts
Within 4 days of this order of the High Court and obviously acting in pursuance of the direction of the learned Judge the appellant made an application to the Civil Judge drawing his attention to the observations we have quoted and prayed That your Honour be pleased to hear the application and take the evidence of the applicant.	Facts
Applications of the same type were filed in the other suit  1023 of 1951  also.	None
He dismissed the applications for the reason that since the appellants prayer for being relegated to the original position had been rejected by him and also by the High Court in revision, it must be taken to have been finally settled that the appellant could not lead evidence the final hearing of the two suits was over.	Facts
The only proceeding in which the appellant could participate was in hearing the judgment and therefore, he added, the applicant is now entitled only to hear the judgment.	Facts
On the same day  September 25, 1958  the judgment which had already been prepared was delivered.	Facts
The judgment read Both the suits are decreed with costs ex parte with interest at 6 etc.7.	None
To set aside this ex parte decree thus passed against him on September 25, 1958 the defendant filed an application under O. IX, R. 13.	Facts
Obviously, the factual ground upon which the relief was sought, viz., that there was reasonable or sufficient cause for the appellants absence from Court on May 29, 1958 was the same as had been set out by him in the application which he had filed on May 31, 1958.	Facts
This was opposed by the plaintiff who, besides repeating the challenge regarding the truth of the illness, raised three legal objections of a preliminary nature.	Facts
Some of these have been upheld by the Civil Judge and the High Court but each one of them was sought to be supported before us by Mr. Pathak for the respondents.	Facts
They were (1) that the finding recorded in the earlier application filed on May 31, 1958 in suit 134 of 1956 that there was not sufficient cause for nonappearance on May 29, 1958 operated as res judicata in the petition filed under O. IX.	Facts
R. 13 and was a bar to the reinquiry of the same question on the merits, (2) the finding in the application to set aside the dismissal for default of suit 20 of 1953 which had become final operated as a bar to the trial of the same question in the application under Order IX, Rule 13 in suit 134 of 1956, and (3) that the decree in suit 134 of 1956 was not in reality an ex parte decree but was a decree on the merits within O. XVII, R. 3, Civil Procedure Code and hence the remedy of the appellant was only by way of an appeal against the decree and he could not come in by way of an application under O. IX, R. 13.	Facts
The learned Civil Judge upheld the first preliminary ground of objection and dismissed the application.	Facts
The appellant thereupon filed an appeal to the High Court and the learned Judges likewise held that any inquiry, into the question whether that appellant had sufficient cause for nonappearance on May 29, 1958 was barred by re judicata by reason of the decision of the same matter in the earlier proceeding under O. IX, R. 7.	Facts
It is from this judgment of the High Court that the present appeal has been brought by special leave under Art.	Facts
136 of the Constitution.8.	Facts
Before proceeding to deal with the arguments addressed to us by Mr. Setalvad, learned Counsel for the appellant, it would be convenient to mention a point, not seriously pressed before us, but which at earlier stages was thought to have considerable significance for the decision of this question viz., the difference between the words good cause for nonappearance in O. IX, R. 7 and sufficient cause for the same purpose in O. IX, R. 13 as pointing to different criteria of goodness or sufficiency for succeeding in the two proceedings and as therefore furnishing a ground for the inapplicability of the rule of res judicata.	Arguments of Petitioner
As this ground was not seriously mentioned before us, we need not examine it in any detail but we might observe that we do not see any material difference between the facts to be established for satisfying the two tests of good cause and sufficient cause.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to conceive of a good cause which is not sufficient as affording an explanation for nonappearance, nor conversely of a sufficient cause which is not a good one and we would add that either of these is not different good and sufficient cause which is used in this context in other statutes.	Arguments of Petitioner
If, on the other hand, there is any difference between the two it can only be that the requirement of a good cause is complied with on a lesser degree of proof than that of sufficient cause and if so, this cannot help the appellant, since assuming the applicability of the principle of res judicata to the decisions in the two proceedings, if the Court finds in the first proceeding, the lighter burden not discharged, it must a fortiori bar the consideration of the same matter in the later where the standard of proof of that matter is, if anything, higher.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
As it is the first of the preliminary objections which we have set out earlier that has formed the basis of the decision against the appellant, both by the learned Civil Judge as well as by the High Court, we shall first take that up for consideration.	None
The Courts below have approached this question in this form.	None
Order IX, R. 7 reads 7.	None
Where the Court has adjourned the hearing of the suit ex parte, and the defendant at or before such hearing, appears and assigns good cause for his previous nonappearance, he may, upon such terms as the Court directs as to costs, or otherwise, be heard in answer to the suit as if he had appeared on the day fixed for his appearance.	None
If an application is made under this provision and the Court consider that there is not any good cause for the previous nonappearance and proceeds further with the suit and ultimately it results in an ex parte decree can the Court in dealing with the application to set aside the ex parte decree under O. IX.	None
R. 13 reconsider the question as to whether the defendant had a sufficient cause for nonappearance on the day in regard to which the application under O. IX, R. 7 had been filed?10.	None
That the question of fact which arose in the two proceedings was identical would not be in doubt.	None
Of course, they were not in successive suits so to make the provisions of S. 11 of the Civil Procedure Code applicable in terms.	None
That the scope of the principle of resjudicata is not confined to what is contained in S. 11 but is of more general application is also not in dispute.	None
Again, res judicata could be as much applicable to different stages of the same suit as to findings on issues in different suits.	None
In this connection we were referred to what this Court said in Satyandhan Ghosal v. Sm.	None
Deorajin Debi, (1960) 3 SCR 590 (AIR 1960 SC 941 ) where Das Gupta, J., speaking for the Court expressed himself thus The principle of res judicata is based on the need of giving a finality to judicial decisions.	None
What it says is that once a res is judicata, it shall not be adjudged again.	None
Primarily it applies as between past litigation and future litigation.	None
When a matter  whether on a question of fact or on a question of law  has been decided between two parties in one suit or proceeding and the decision is final, either because no appeal was taken to a higher Court or because the appeal was dismissed, or no appeal lies, neither party will be allowed in a future suit or proceeding between the same parties to canvass the matter again . . . .	None
The principle of res judicata applies also as between the two stages in the same litigation to this extent that a court, whether the trial Court or a higher Court having at an earlier stage decided a matter in one may not allow the parties to reagitate the matter again at a subsequent stage of the same proceedings.	None
Mr. Pathak laid great stress on this passage as supporting him in the two submissions that he made (1) that an issue of fact or law decided even in an interlocutory proceeding could operate as res judicata in a later proceeding, and next (2) that in order to attract the principle of res judicat the order or decision first rendered and which is pleaded as res judicata need not be capable of being appealed against.11.	Arguments of Respondent
We agree that generally speaking these propositions are not open to objection.	Reasoning
If the court which rendered the first decision was competent to entertain the suit or other proceeding, and had therefore competency to decide the issue or matter, the circumstance that it is a tribunal of exclusive jurisdiction or one from whose decision no appeal lay would not by themselves negative the finding on the issue by it being res judicata in later proceedings.	Reasoning
Similarly, as stated already, though S. 11 of the Civil Procedure Code clearly contemplates the existence of two suits and the findings in the first being res judicata in the later suit, it is well established that the principle underlying it is equally applicable to the case of decisions rendered at successive stages of the same suit or proceeding.	None
But where the principle of res judicata is invoked in the case of the different stages of proceedings in the same suit, the nature of the proceedings, the scope of the enquiry which the adjectival law provides for the decision being reached, as well as the specific provisions made on matters touching such decision are some of the material and relevant factors to be considered before the principle is held applicable.	None
One aspect of this question is that which is dealt with in a provision like S. 105 of the Civil Procedure Code which enacts 105.	None
(1) Save as otherwise expressly provided, no appeal shall lie from any order made by a Court in the exercise of its original or appellate jurisdiction but, where a decree is appealed from, any error, defect or regularity in any order, affecting the decision of the case, may be set forth as a ground of objection in the memorandum of appeal.(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), where any party aggrieved by an order of remand made after the commencement of this Code from which an appeal lies does not appeal therefrom, he shall thereafter be precluded from disputing its correctness.	None
It was this which was explained by Das Gupta, J., in Satyadhan Ghosals case, (1960)	None
3 SCR 590 (AIR 1960 SC 941 ) already referred to Does this, however, mean that because at an earlier stage of the litigation a court had decided an interlocutory matter in one way and no appeal has been taken therefrom or no appeal did lie, a higher court cannot at a later stage of the same litigation consider the matter again? . . . .	None
It is clear therefore than an interlocutory order which had not been appealed from either because no appeal lay or even through an appeal lay an appeal was not taken could be challenged in an appeal from the final decree or order.12.	None
If the correctness of the order of the Civil Judge in disposing of the application filed by the appellant on May 31, 1958 were questioned in an appeal against the decree in the suit, these principles and the observations would have immediate relevance.	None
But it is not as if the distinction here drawn between the type of interlocutory orders which attain finality and those that do not, is of no materiality in considering whether a particular interlocutory order is of a king which would preclude the agitation of the same question before the same court in further stages of the same proceeding.	None
Dealing with the decision of the Privy Council in Ram Kirpal Shukul v. Rup Kuari, 11 Ind App 37 (PC), Bani Ram v. Nanhu Mal, 11 Ind App. 181 (PC) and Hook v. Administrator General of Bengal, 48 Ind App 187 (AIR 1921 PC 11) which are the leading cases in which the principle of res judicata was held applicable to different stages of the same proceedings, Das Gupta, J. observed at pp.	None
602603 (of SCR) (at p. 947 of AIR).It will be noticed that in all these three cases, viz., Ram Kirpal Shukul case, 11 Ind App 37 (PC) Bani Rams case, 11 Ind App 181 (PC) and Hooks case, 48 Ind App 187 (AIR 1921 PC 11) the previous decision which was found to be res judicata was part of a decree.	None
Therefore though in form the later proceeding in which the question was sought to be raised again was a continuation of the previous proceeding, it was in substance, an independent subsequent proceeding.	None
The decision of a dispute as regards execution it is hardly necessary to mention was a decree under the Code of Civil Procedure and so in Ram Kirpals case, 11 Ind App 37 (PC) and Bani Rams case, 11 Ind App 181 (PC) such a decision being a decree really terminated the previous proceedings.	None
The fact therefore that the Privy Council in Ram Kirpal Shukuls case, 11 Ind App 37 (PC) described Mr. Probyns order as an interlocutory judgment, does not justify the learned counsels contention that all kinds of interlocutory judgments not appealed from become res judicata.	None
Interlocutory judgments which have the force of a decree must be distinguished from other interlocutory judgment which are a step towards the decision of the dispute between parties by way of a decree or a final order.13.	None
It is needless to point out that interlocutory orders are of various kinds some like orders of stay, injunction or receiver are designed to preserve the status quo pending the litigation and to ensure that the parties might not be prejudiced by the normal delay which the proceeding before the court usually take.	None
They do not in that sense decide in any manner the merits of the controversy in issue in the suit and do not, of course, put an end to it even in part.	None
Such orders are certainly capable of being altered or varied by subsequent applications for the same relief, though normally only on proof of new facts or new situations which subsequently emerge.	None
As they do not impinge upon the legal rights of parties to the litigation the principle of res judicata does not apply to the findings on which these orders are based, though if applications were made for relief on the same basis after the same has once been disposed of the Court would be justified in rejecting the same as an abuse of the process of Court.	None
There are other orders which are also interlocutory, but would fall into a different category.	None
The difference from the ones just now referred to lies in the fact that they are not directed to maintaining the status quo, or to preserve the property pending the final adjudication, but are designed to ensure the just, smooth, orderly and expeditious disposal of the suit.	None
They are interlocutory in the sense that they do not decide any matter in issue arising in the suit, nor put an end to the litigation.	None
The case of an application under O.IX, R.7, would be an illustration of this type.	None
If an application made under the provisions of that rule is dismissed and an appeal were filed against the decree in the suit in which such application were made, there can be no doubt that the propriety of the order rejecting the reopening of the proceeding and the refusal to relegate the party to an earlier stage might be canvassed in the appeal and dealt with by the appellate Court.	None
In that sense, the refusal of the Court to permit the defendant to set the clock back does not attain finality.	None
But what we are concerned with is slightly different and that is whether the same Court is finally bound by that order at later stages, so as to preclude its being reconsidered.	None
Even if the rule of res judicata does not apply, it would not follow that on every subsequent day on which the suit stands adjourned for further hearing, the petition could be repeated and fresh orders sought on the basis of identical facts.	None
The principle that repeated applications based on the same facts and seeking the same reliefs might be disallowed by the Court does not however necessarily rest on the principle of res judicata.	None
Thus if an application for the adjournment of a suit is rejected, a subsequent application for the same purpose even if based on the same facts, is not barred on the application of any rule of res judicata, but would be rejected for the same grounds on which the original application was refused.	None
The principle underlying the distinction between the rule of res judicata and a rejection on the ground that no new facts have been adduced to justify a different order is vital.	None
If the principle of res judicata is applicable to the decision on a particular issue of fact, even if fresh facts were placed before the Court, the bar would continue to operate and preclude a fresh investigation of the issues, whereas in the other case, on proof of fresh facts, the court would be competent, nay would be bound to take those into account and make an order conformably to the facts freshly brought before the Court.14.	None
This leads us to the consideration of the nature of the Courts direction under O.IX, R .7  the nature of that interlocutory proceeding with a view to ascertain whether the decision of the Court under that provision decides anything finally so as to constitute the bar of res judicata when dealing with an application under O.IX, R.13, Civil Procedure Code.	None
To sum up the relevant facts, it is common ground that the suit 134 of 1956 had passed the stages up to R. 5 of O.IX Order IX, R.6 applies to a case where a plaintiff appears and the defendant does not appear when the suit is called on for hearing.	None
Order IX, rule 6 provides, to quote the material part Where the plaintiff appears and the defendant does not appear when the suit is called on for hearing then (a) if it is proved that the summons was duly served, the Court may proceed ex parteThis is the provision under which the Civil Judge purported to act on the 29th of May.	None
And then comes O.IX, R.7 which reads Where the Court has adjourned the hearing of the suit ex parte and the defendant, at or before such hearing, appears and assigns good cause for his previous nonappearance, he may, upon such terms as the Court directs as to costs or otherwise be heard in answer to the suit as if he had appeared on the day fixed for his appearance.	None
On that very date the Court took evidence of the plaintiff and reserved judgment.	None
In other words, the hearing had been completed and the only part of the case that remained thereafter was the pronouncing of the judgment.	None
Order XX, R.1 provides for this contingency and it reads The Court, after the case has been heard, shall pronounce judgment in open Court, either at once or, as soon thereafter as may be practicable, on some future day and when the judgment is to be pronounced on some future day, the Court shall fix a day for that purpose, of which due notice shall be given to the parties or their pleaders.	None
Two days after the hearing was completed and judgment was reserved the defendant appeared and made the application purporting to be under O.IX, R.7.	None
And it is the dismissal of this application that has been held to constitute a bar to the hearing of the application under O.IX, R.13 on the merits.15.	None
The scope of a proceeding under O.IX, R.7 and its place in the scheme of the provisions of the Code relating to the trial of suits was the subject of consideration in (1955) 2	None
SCR 1 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 425 ).	None
Dealing with the meaning of the words The Court may proceed ex parte in O.IX, R. 6(1) (a) Bose, J. speaking for the Court said When the defendant has been served and has been afforded an opportunity of appearing, then if he does not appear, the Court may proceed in his absence.	None
But, be it noted, the Court is not directed to make an ex parte order.	None
Of course the fact it is proceeding ex parte will be recorded in the minutes of its proceedings but that is merely a statement of the fact and is not an order made against the defendant in the sense of an ex parte decree or other ex parte order which the Court is authorised to make.	None
All that rule 6 (1) (a) does is to remove a bar and no more.	None
It merely authorises the Court to do that which it could not have done without this authority, namely to proceed in the absence of one of the parties.	None
Dealing next with the scheme of the Code, the learned Judge pointed out that the manner in which the Court could thereafter proceed i.e. after R.6 (1) (a) was passed would depend upon the purpose for which the suit stood adjourned and proceeded If it is for final hearing, an ex parte decree can be passed, and if it is passed, then O.IX, R. 13 comes into play and before the decree is set aside the Court is required to make make an order to set it aside.	None
Contrast this with R.7 which does not require the setting aside of what is commonly, though erroneously, known as the ex parte order.	None
No order is contemplated by the Code and therefore no order to set aside the order is contemplated by either (Italics (here into) ours).and referring to the effect of the rejection of application made under O.IX, R.7, he added If a party does appear on the day to which the hearing of the suit is adjourned, he cannot be stopped from participating in the proceedings, simply because he did not appear on the first or some other hearing.	None
But though he has a right to appear at an adjourned hearing, he has no right to set back the hands of the clock.	None
Order IX, R.7 makes that clear.	None
Therefore, unless he can show good cause, he must accept all that has gone before and be content to proceed from the stage at which he comes in.	None
That being the effect of the proceedings, the question next arises what is the nature of the order if it can be called an order or the nature of the adjudication which the Court makes under Order IX, Rule 7?	None
In its essence it is directed to ensure the orderly conduct of the proceedings by penalising improper dilatoriness calculated merely to prolong the litigation.	None
It does not put an end to the litigation nor does it involve the determination of any issue in controversy in the suit.	None
Besides it is obvious that the proceeding is of a very summary nature and this is evident from the fact that as contrasted with O. IX, R.9 or O.IX, R.13, no appeal is provided against action of the Court under O.IX, R.7, refusing to set back the Clock .	None
It is, therefore, manifest that the Code proceeds upon the view not imparting any finality to the determination of any issues of fact on which the Courts action under that provision is based.	None
In this connection reference may be made to a decision of Division Bench of the Madras High Court in Sankaralinga v. Ratnasabhapati, ILR 21 Mad 324.	None
The question arose on an appeal to the High Court by the defendants against whom an ex parte decree had been passed on March 30, 1895.	None
Previous thereto they had put in petitions supported by affidavits under S. 101 of the Civil Procedure Code of 1882 corresponding to O.IX, R.7 to set aside an ex parte order , accept their written statements, and proceed with the suit on the merits.	None
The ground alleged for the relief sought was that they were not duly served with summons.	None
This application was rejected by the Court.	None
Thereafter, after an ex parte decree was passed, they again filed another application under S. 108 under the then code, corresponding to the present O.IX, R.13.	None
The ground put forward was again the same, namely that the summons was not properly served.	None
The District Judge having dismissed the application under S. 108 (O.IX R.13) the defendants preferred an appeal to the High Court.	None
On behalf of the plaintiffsrespondents the contention was raised by Mr. Bhashyam Ayyangar , learned Counsel, that the application to set aside the ex parte decree under S. 108 was incompetent because the same question had already been decided against the defendant when he filed the application under S.101.	None
The Court composed of Subramania Iyer and Benson, JJ. said,the contention at first sight may seem to be reasonable, but having regard to the very wide words in any case used in S. 108 we are unable to hold that the defendant was not entitled to make an application under section 108.There have been other decisions in which a similar view has been held and though the provisions of the Code corresponding to O. IX, R.7 and O.IX, R.13 have been in force for over a century from 1859, there has not been a single case in which the plea of res judicata such as has been urged in the appeal before us has been upheld.	None
On the other hand, we might point out that an exactly similar objection of res judicata was expressly raised and repelled in Bhaoo Patel v. Naroo, 10 CPLR 45 and in a decision rendered in 1896 in which reliance was placed on a case reported in Ashruffunnissa v. Lehareau , ILR 8 Cal 272.16.	None
In the circumstances we consider that a decision or direction in an interlocutory proceeding of the type provided for by O.IX, R.7, is not of the kind which can operate as res judicata so as to bar the hearing on the merits of an application under O.IX R.13.	None
The latter is a specific statutory remedy provided by the Code for the setting aside of ex parte decrees, and it is not without significance that under O. XLIII, R.1(d) an appeal lies not against orders setting aside a decree passed ex parte but against orders rejecting such an application unmistakably pointing to the policy of the Code being that subject to securing due diligence on the part of the parties to the suit, the Code as far as possible makes provision for decisions in suits after a hearing afforded to the parties.17.	None
So far as the case before us is concerned the order under appeal cannot be sustained even on the basis that the finding recorded in disposing of an application under O.IX R. 7 would operate as res judicata when the same question of fact is raised in a subsequent application to set aside an ex parte decree under O.IX R.13.	None
This is because it is not disputed that in order to operate as res judicata, the Court dealing with the first matter must have had jurisdiction and competency to entertain and decide the issue.	None
Adverting to the facts of the present appeal, this would primarily turn upon the proper construction of the terms of O.IX R.7.The opening words of that rule are, as already seen, Where the Court has adjourned the hearing of the suit ex parte.	None
Now, what do these words mean?	None
Obviously they assume that there is to be a hearing on the date to which the suit stands adjourned.	None
If the entirety of the hearing of the suit has been completed and the Court being competent to pronounce the judgment then and there, adjourns the suit merely for the purpose of pronouncing judgment under O.XX R. 1, there is clearly no adjournment of the hearing of the suit, for, there is nothing more to be heard in the suit.	None
It was precisely this idea that was expressed by the learned Civil Judge when he stated that having regard to the stage which the suit had reached the only proceeding in which the appellant could participate was to hear the judgment pronounced and that on the terms of rules 6 and 7 he would permit him to do that.	None
If, therefore the hearing was completed and the suit was not adjourned for hearing, O.IX R. 7 could have no application and the matter would stand at the stage of O.IX R.6 to be followed up by the passing of an ex parte decree making R.13 the only provision in order IX applicable.	None
If this were the correct position, it would automatically follow that the learned Civil Judge would have no jurisdiction to entertain the application dated May 31,1958 purporting to be under O.IX R.7, or pass any order thereon the merits.	None
This in its turn would lead to the result that the application under O.IX R.13 was not only competent but had to be heard on the merits without reference to the findings contained in the previous order.18.	None
Mr. Pathak while not disputing that if the application filed on May 31,1958 was incompetent at the stage it was filed, the order passed by the Civil Judge would not bar the consideration on the merits of the later application to set aside the ex parte decrees, sought to get over this obvious situation by a submission that even if O.IX R.7 was inapplicable the Court had an inherent jurisdiction saved by S.151, Civil P.C. to entertain the application outside the specific statutory provision and that it must be taken that the appellant invoked that jurisdiction and that Court being thus competent to grant or refuse the relief followed the latter alternative in the circumstances of the case and that consequently the proceedings before the Court were not incompetent and that the order passed on the application dated May 31, 1958 was therefore with jurisdiction.19.	None
On this submission, which we might mention has been urged for first time in this Court, the first question that arises is whether the Court has inherent jurisdiction which learned Counsel contends that it has.	None
For the purpose of the discussion of the question in the context of the relevant provisions of the Code, it is unnecessary to embark on any detailed or exhaustive examination of the circumstances and situations in which it could be predicated that a Court has the inherent jurisdiction which is saved by S.151 of the Civil Procedure Code.	None
It is sufficient if we proceed on the accepted and admitted limitations to the existence of such a jurisdiction.	None
It is common ground that the inherent power of the Court cannot override the express provisions of the law.	None
In other words if there are specific provisions of the Code dealing with a particular topic and they expressly or by necessary implication exhaust the scope of the powers of the Court or the jurisdiction that may be exercised in relation to a matter the inherent power of the Court cannot be invoked in order to cut across the powers conferred by the Code.	None
The prohibition contained in the Code need not be express but may be implied or be implicit from the very nature of the provisions that it makes for covering the contingencies to which it relates.	None
We shall confine our attention to the topic on hand namely applications by defendants to set aside ex parte orders passed against them and reopen the proceedings which had been conducted in their absence.	None
Order IX, R.1 requires the parties to attend on the day fixed for their appearance to answer the claim of the defendant.	None
Rule 2 deals with a case where the defendant is absent but the Court from its own record is apprised of the fact that the summons has not been duly served on the defendant in order to acquaint him with the proceedings before the Court, Rule 2 contains a proviso applicable to cases where notwithstanding the absence of service of summons, the defendant appears.	None
Rule 3 deals with a case where the plaintiff along with the defendant is absent when the suit is called on and empowers the Court to dismiss the suit.	None
Rule 5 deals with a case where the defendant is not served properly and there is default on the part of the plaintiff having this done.	None
Having thus exhausted the cases where the defendant is not properly served R. 6(1) (a) enables the Court to proceed ex parte where the defendant is absent even after due service.	None
Rule 6 contemplates two cases (1) the day on which the defendant fails to appear is one of which the defendant has no intimation that the suit will be taken up for final hearing for example, where the hearing is only the first hearing of the suit, and (2) where the stage of the first hearing is passed and the hearing which is fixed is for the disposal of the suit and the defendant is not present on such a day.	None
The effect of proceeding ex parte in the two sets of cases would obviously mean a great difference in the result.	None
So far as the first type of cases is concerned it has to be adjourned for final disposal and, as already seen, it would be open to the defendant to appear on that date and defend the suit.	None
In the second type of cases, however, one of two things might happen.	None
The evidence of the plaintiff might be taken then and there and judgment might be pronounced.	None
In that case O. IX R. 13 would come in.	None
The defendant can, besides filing an appeal or an application for review have recourse to an application under O. IX R. 13 to set aside the ex parte decree.	None
The entirety of the evidence of the plaintiff might not be concluded on the hearing day on which the defendant is absent and something might remain so far as the trial of the suit is concerned for which purpose there might be a hearing on an adjourned date.	None
On the terms of O. IX R. 7 if the defendant appears on such adjourned date and satisfies the Court by showing good cause for his nonappearance on the previous day or days he might have the earlier proceedings recalled  set the clock back and have the suit heard in his presence.	None
On the other hand, he might fail in showing good cause.	None
Even in such a case he is not penalised in the sense of being forbidden to take part in the further proceedings of the suit or whatever might still remain of the trial, only he cannot claim to be relegated to the position that he occupied at the commencement of the trial.	None
Thus every contingency which is likely to happen in the trial visavis the nonappearance of the defendant at the hearing of a suit has been provided for and O. IX R. 7 and O. IX R. 13 between them exhaust the whole gamut of situations that might arise during the course of the trial.	None
If, thus provision has been made for every contingency, it stands to reason that there is no scope for the invocation of the inherent powers of the Court to make an order necessary for the ends of justice.	None
Mr. Pathak, however, strenuously contended that a case of the sort now on hand where a defendant appeared after the conclusion of the hearing but before the pronouncing of the judgment had not been provided for.	None
We consider that the suggestion that there is such a stage is, on the scheme of the Code, wholly unrealistic.	None
In the present context when once the hearing starts, the Code contemplates only two stages in the trial of the suit (1) where the hearing is adjourned or (2) where the hearing is completed.	None
Where the hearing is completed the parties have no further rights or privileges in the matter and it is only for the convenience of the Court that O. XX R. 1 permits, judgment to be delivered after an interval after the hearing is completed.	None
It would, therefore, follow that after the stage contemplated by O. IX, R. 7 is passed the next stage is only the passing of a decree which on the terms of O. IX R. 6 the Court is competent to pass.	None
And then follows the remedy of the party to have that decree set aside by application under O. IX R. 13.	None
There is thus no hiatus between the two stages of reservation of judgment and pronouncing the judgment so as to make it necessary for the Court to afford to the party the remedy of getting orders passed on the lines of O. IX R. 7.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the Civil Judge was not competent to entertain the application dated May 31, 1958 purporting to be under O. IX R. 7 and that consequently the reasons given in the order passed would not be res judicata to bar the hearing of the petition under O. IX R. 13 filed by the appellant.20.	None
There is one other aspect from which the same question could be viewed.	None
O. IX R. 7 prescribes the conditions subject to which alone an application competent under the opening words of that rule ought to be dealt with.	None
Now, the submission of Mr. Pathak if accepted, would mean to ignore the opening words and say that though specific power is conferred when a suit is adjourned for hearing, the Court has an inherent power even when (a) it is not adjourned for that purpose, and (b) and this is of some importance, when the suit is not adjourned at all, having regard to the terms of O. XX R. 1.The main part of O. IX R. 7 speaks of good cause being shown for nonappearance on a previous day.	None
Now what are the criteria to be applied by the Court when the supposed inherent jurisdiction of the Court is invoked?	None
Nonconstant it need not be identical with what is statutorily provided in R. 7.	None
All this only shows that there is really no scope for invoking the inherent powers of the Court.	None
Lastly, that power is to be exercised to secure the ends of justice.	None
If at the stage of R. 7 power is vested in the Court and after the decree is passed O. IX R. 13 becomes applicable and the party can avail himself of that remedy, it is very difficult to appreciate the ends of justice which are supposed to be served by the Court being held to have the power which the learned Counsel says must inhere in it.	None
In this view it is unnecessary to consider whether to sustain the present submission the respondent must establish that the Court was conscious that it lacked specific statutory power and intended to exercise an inherent power that it believed it possessed to make such orders as may be necessary for the ends of justice.21.	None
It was next urged that even if the application under O. IX R. 7 in respect of suit 134 of 1956 was incompetent having regard to the stage which the hearing of that suit reached when that application was made, still the order passed in suit 20 of 1953 in the application made for the restoration of that suit under O. IX R. 9 was competent and that the order passed on that application operated as res judicata to the maintainability of the application under O. IX R. 13 in respect of suit 134 of 1956.We consider that there is no substance in this submission.	Arguments of Respondent
The ground urged for applying the rule of res judicata was that the Court had, at an earlier stage ordered the joint trial of the three suits  1043 of 1951, 20 of 1953 and 134 of 1956 and that as the three suits were thus linked together, the application made for the restoration of suit 20 of 1953 constituted a finding by a competent Court that there was no good or sufficient cause for the nonappearance of the appellant in Court for any suit on May 29, 1958.	None
The suits were, no doubt, ordered to be tried jointly in the sense that the evidence recorded in one suit was to be treated as evidence in the other suits also, suit 134 of 1956 being treated as the main suit in which evidence was recorded, but that affords no basis for the contention that every application made in one suit for the relief which is pertinent only to that suit must be treated as an application made in every other suit.	None
Thus, for instance, in the present case if no application were made for the restoration of suit 20 of 1953 which had been dismissed for default it could hardly be contended that because of the application made in suit 134 of 1956 it wold serve the purpose of an application for the restoration of that other suit.	None
Similarly, if an application had been made for the restoration of suit 20 of 1953 and the Court found that there was sufficient cause for setting the dismissal aside that would by itself hardly be a ground for setting aside the ex parte decree in suit 134 of 1956.	None
These features are sufficient to demonstrate that the circumstances that the suits were being tried jointly has no bearing on the matter now in controversy and that so far as regards the ex parte orders in the three suits each had to be considered independently and had to be disposed of also independently notwithstanding that the same grounds might have sufficed for the relief prayed for in the independent applications.	None
There is another aspect from which this matter could be viewed.	None
The point at issue in the application under O IX R. 9 filed to set aside the dismissal for default in suit 20 of 1953 was whether the plaintiff had sufficient cause for his nonappearance when the suit was called on for hearing (vide O. IX R. 9).	None
The suit called on for hearing in that rule obviously refers to suit 20 of 1953.	None
A decision, therefore, that there was no sufficient cause for the nonappearance of the plaintiff in that suit would not be eadem questio with the matter which arose for decision when the application under O. IX R. 7 was made in suit 134 of 1956 notwithstanding that the facts upon which the issue depended was similar and possibly identical.	None
This is a further reason why we are unable to accept the submission of learned Counsel.22.	None
The last of the points that was urged by Mr. Pathak was that the decree that was actually passed in suit 134 of 1956 was not in reality an ex parte decree but one on the merits.	None
It was urged that the proceeding on May 29, 1958 satisfied the conditions of O. XVII R. 3 and not O. XVII R. 2.	Arguments of Respondent
There are several reasons why this submission is entirely without substance.	Arguments of Respondent
In the first place during the entire proceeding right up to the hearing of the present application which was made under O. IX R. 13 the Court as well as both the parties proceeded on the basis that the decree was passed ex parte.	None
The order sheet on May 29, 1958 we have extracted earlier contained a direction by the Court that the case will proceed ex parte for the reason that Counsel for the defendant reported no instructions.	Reasoning
And it must be noticed that by that date the entire hearing was over.	Reasoning
The application that was made to set aside this order to proceed ex parte was filed on the basis that the previous hearing was ex parte and contested by the respondent on the same basis.	Reasoning
The order of the High Court is revision on September 4, 1958 proceeds on the same basis.	Reasoning
When finally judgment was pronounced by the Civil Judge in suit 134 of 1956 it expressly stated that it was a decree ex parte.	Reasoning
In the face of these circumstances there should be overwhelming evidence of the proceedings not being ex parte if the respondent is to succeed in his present plea.	Reasoning
In order that the decree passed was one under O. XVII R. 3 which is the submission of Mr. Pathak the opening words of that rule must be satisfied.	Reasoning
That rule reads Where any party to a suit to whom time has been granted fails to produce his evidence, or to cause the attendance of his witnesses, or to perform any other act necessary to the further progress of the suit, for which time has been allowed, the Court may, notwithstanding such default, proceed to decide the suit forthwith.	Reasoning
In regard to this the Civil Judge statedThe ground on which this objection is based is that 29558 was the date adjourned at the instance of the defendantapplicant.	None
I do not think that this ground has any force.	Reasoning
It appears from the record that on 28558 the cases were adjourned to 29558 on a joint application of the parties to the effect that a compromise would be filed.	Reasoning
It was not, therefore, an adjournment sought by the defendant alone, moreover, that application was made by him in his own suit No. 20 of 1953 and the other two suits had also naturally to be adjourned as all the three of them were consolidated.	Reasoning
The adjournment of those two suits, therefore, cannot be said to be at the instance of the defendant.	None
Learned Counsel was unable to point any flaw in the facts here stated.	None
It would, therefore, follow that the terms of O. XVII R. 3 were not attracted at all and that suit 134 of 1956 was decreed not on merits but really ex parte as had been expressly stated by the learned Civil Judge when he passed that decree.23.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed and the application, filed by the appellant under O. IX R. 13 for setting aside the ex parte decree passed in suit 134 of 1956 is remanded to the trial Judge for disposal on the merits in accordance with law.	Decision
The appellant will be entitled to his costs throughtout.	Decision
The costs incurred after this remand will be provided for by the Courts below.24.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
