 Khanna, J.1.	None
This appeal on certificate by the Lt. Governor, Delhi and two others is directed against the judgment of Delhi High Court whereby it accepted the petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India filed by the respondent company and directed the appellants to decide the respondents application for amendment of registration certificate in the light of observations made by the Court.2.	Issue
The respondent company is a registered dealer under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and deals mainly in vegetable products (vanaspati).	Facts
The respondent was granted registration certificate under the Central Sales Tax (Registration and Turnover) Rules, 1957.	Facts
On December 11, 1958 the respondent applied to the Sales Tax Officer for amendment of the registration certificate so as to include therein tin plates or tin sheets under subsection (3) of Section 8 of the Act on the allegation that those goods were used by the respondent for packing its vegetable products for sale.	Facts
The said application was rejected by the Sales Tax Officer on the ground that the goods in question were declared goods and, as such, their purchase on the strength of registration certificate could be allowed only if they were to be resold in the form in which they had been purchased.	Facts
Revision petition filed by the respondent against the order of the Sales Tax Officer was dismissed by the Commissioner of Sales Tax on the ground that tin plates or tin sheets were not declared goods or goods of special importance.	Facts
On the other hand, according to the Commissioner, those goods could fall in the category mentioned in Cl.	Facts
(c) of subsection (3) of Section 8 of the Act provided they were either containers or materials used for packing of goods for sale.	Facts
The Commissioner further held that the goods in question were not containers as they had to under go manufacturing process before they could be used as containers.	Facts
The goods were also held not to fall in the second category of being materials used for packing vegetable oil because, according to him, the word packing was invariably used for holding solid contents.	Facts
He, therefore, held that tin plates or tin sheets did not constitute packing material.	Facts
Further revision filed by the respondent was dismissed by the Chief Commissioner who agreed with the opinion of the Commissioner.	Facts
An application was thereafter filed by the respondent for making a reference to the High Court of the question of law arising from the order of the Chief Commissioner.	Facts
This application too was rejected by the Chief Commissioner on the ground of being barred by time.	Facts
The respondent thereafter moved the High Court for a direction to the Chief Commissioner to refer the question of law formulated by the respondent to the High Court.	Facts
In addition to that, the respondent filed a petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India for a direction to the appellants to decide the respondents application for amendment of the registration certificate in accordance with law.3.	Facts
The writ petition was resisted by the appellants.	Facts
The High Court accepted the writ petition and held that the words of clause (c) of subsection (3) of Section 8 of the Act were wide enough to cover the goods in question.	Facts
According to the High Court, it was not necessary that those goods should be capable of being used directly for the purpose of packing.	Facts
It was quite enough if the intention of the dealer was to acquire them in order that they might be used for packing of goods for sale even if in that process of adapting them for such use, they had to undergo some change in shape or form.	Facts
It was further observed that the respondents object was to convert the tin sheets and tin plates into tin containers with a view that the same might be filled with the vegetable oil products to be sold to different parties.4.	Facts
Before proceeding further, we may set out subsection (1) and clause (c) of subsection (3) of S. 8 of the Act (1) Every dealer, who in the course of interState trade or commerce (a) sells to the Government any goods or(b) sells to a registered dealer other than the Government goods of a description referred to in subsection (3)shall be liable to pay tax under this Act, which shall be three per cent of his turnover.(3)	None
The goods referred to in cl.	None
(b) of subsection (1) (b) (c) are containers or other materials specified in the certificate of registration of the registered dealer purchasing the goods being containers or materials intended for being used for the packing of goods for sale 5.	None
Mr. Aiyar on behalf of the appellants has argued that tin sheets and tin plates are not covered by clause (c) of subsection (3) of S. 8 of the Act reproduced above as those goods constitute neither containers nor materials intended for being used for packing of goods for sale.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Rameshwar Nath on behalf of the respondent has not disputed that tin sheets and tin plates do not constitute containers, but, according to him, they fall in the category of materials intended for being used for packing of goods for sale.	Arguments of Respondent
There is, in our opinion, considerable force in this submission of Mr. Rameshwar Nath.	Reasoning
The materials referred to in clause (c) according to its plain language should be such as are intended for being used for the packing of goods for sale.	Reasoning
Once the intention of using the materials for packing of goods for sale is proved, the requirements of the clause would be satisfied.	Reasoning
The High Court has found that the respondent purchased tin sheets and tin plates from dealers in Bihar and elsewhere with a view to convert those sheets and plates into tin containers in order to fill the same with vegetable oil products for being sold to different parties.	Reasoning
This finding of the High Court has not been questioned before us.	None
It has, however, been urged on behalf of the appellants that as tin sheets and tin plates cannot be used by the respondent unless they are converted into containers, the respondent cannot invoke the benefit of clause (c) of subsection (3) of Section 8 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
We find it difficult to accept this contention.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fact that the sheets and tin plates have to be subjected by the respondent to the process of cutting and moulding into tin containers would not take them out of the category of materials intended for being used for the packing of goods for sale.	None
The cutting and moulding is essential for putting the tin sheets and tin plates into shape with a view to adapt them for actual user.	Reasoning
The process of cutting and moulding does not alter the nature of the materials intended for being used for packing of goods for sale it only facilitates the actual user for packing.6.	Reasoning
We are also of the view that packing materials are necessary not only for solid articles but also for those in liquid and semiliquid form.	Reasoning
According to observations on page 22 of Encylopaedia Britannica, Vol. 17, 1968 Edition, in a society that produces foodstuffs and manufactured articles in one locality and uses them in another, a wrapping or container is necessary during storage, transport and sale.	Reasoning
The functions of a package are (1) to contain a convenientseized unit or amount of a product (2) to protect it in transit (3) to aid its safe delivery to the consumers and (4) in some cases to display the product and promote its sale or to act as a dispenser of it.	Reasoning
Originally instituted to produce simple containers, the packaging industry has expanded to meet the demands for processed and preserved foods, rather than seasonal crops, and to distribute increased varieties of manufactured items.	Reasoning
Packaging reflects developments in other industries, especially petrochemicals and plastics, whereby new materials and methods of construction have been provided for containers.	Reasoning
It has further been observed that cans, both tin and aluminium, are now used for ready cooked products, brewery products, soft drinks, and many oils and semisolids.	Reasoning
Where a reclosable pack is needed, leverlid or sliplid cans are used instead of sealed cans.7.	Reasoning
As the tin sheets and tin plates purchased by the respondent were intended to be used for packing of vegetable products sold by the respondent, the respondent in our opinion, was entitled to invoke the benefit of clause (c) reproduced above.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.8.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
