 C. AGRAWAL J. The common question which arises for consideration in these appeals, by special leave, and the writ petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution is, whether a person who was inducted as a tenant in premises, which are public premises for the purpose of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the Public Premises Act ), and whose tenancy has expired or has been terminated, can be evicted from the said premises as being a person in unauthorised occupation of the premises under the provisions of the Public Premises Act and whether such a person can invoke the protection of the Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as the Rent Control Act ).	Issue
In short, the question is, whether the provisions of the Public Premises Act would override the provisions of the Rent Control Act in relation to premises which fall within the ambit of both the enactments.	Reasoning
Civil Appeals Nos. 2368 and 2369 of 1986 relate to the premises which are part of a building situated at 5, Parliament Street, New Delhi.	Facts
The said building originally belonged to the Punjab National Bank Ltd., a banking company.	Facts
Ashoka Marketing Ltd. (Appellant No. 1 in Civil Appeal No. 2368 of 1986) and Sahu Jain Services Ltd. (appellant No. 1 in Civil Appeal No. 2369 of 1986) were tenants of premises located in the said building since July 1, 1958.	Facts
As a result of the enactment of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (hereinafter referred to as the Banks Nationalisation Act ), the undertaking of the Punjab National Bank Ltd. was transferred and vested in Punjab National Bank, a body corporate constituted under the provisions of the said Act and the aforesaid appellants became the tenants of the Punjab National Bank.	Facts
By notices dated May 18, 1971, issued under section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act, the tenancies of both the appellants were terminated by Punjab National Bank, with effect from November 30, 1971.	Facts
Thereafter, the said bank initiated proceedings under the Rent Control Act against both the appellants.	Facts
In those proceedings an objection was raised by the said appellants that proceedings for eviction under the Rent Control Act were not maintainable in view of the provisions contained in the Public Premises Act.	Facts
During the pendency of the said proceedings under the Rent Control Act, proceedings were initiated by the Estate Officer against the appellants under the provisions of the Public Premises Act and while the said proceedings under the Public Premises Act were pending, the earlier proceedings initiated under the Rent Control Act were dismissed by the Additional Rent Controller, Delhi, by orders dated August 6, 1979.	Facts
In the proceedings under the Public Premises Act, the Estate Officer passed orders for eviction against the appellants and the appeals filed by the appellants against the said orders of the Estate Officer were dismissed by the Additional District Judge, Delhi.	Facts
The appellants filed writ petitions under article 226 of the Constitution in the Delhi High Court.	Facts
The said writ petitions were dismissed by the High Court by orders dated May 30, 1986.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said orders of the High Court, the appellants have filed these appeals after obtaining special leave to appeal.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 3725 of 1986 relates to an office room in the Allahabad Bank building situated at 17, Parliament Street, New Delhi.	Facts
The said building belongs to Allahabad Bank, a body corporate constituted under the provisions of the Banks Nationalisation Act.	Facts
The said premises were let out to Pt. K. B. Parsai, the appellant in this Appeal, for a period of three years with effect from February 1, 1982.	Facts
After the expiry of the said period eviction proceedings under the provisions of the Public Premises Act were initiated to evict the appellant and in those proceedings the Estate Officer passed an order dated March 29, 1986.	Facts
The appellant filed a writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution, wherein he challenged the validity of the order passed by the Estate Officer.	Facts
The said writ petition was dismissed by the Delhi High Court by order dated August, 7, 1986.	Facts
The appellant has filed this appeal against the said decision of the Delhi High Court after obtaining special leave to appeal.2.	Facts
Writ Petition No. 864 of 1985 relates to premises in the building located at 10, Darya Ganj, New Delhi.	Facts
The said building originally belonged to Bharat Insurance Co. Ltd., an insurance company which was carrying on life insurance business.	Facts
Bennett Coleman and Co. Ltd. (petitioner No. 1 in the writ petition) was in occupation of a part of the said property as a tenant under Bharat Insurance Co. Ltd. since 1948.	Facts
The life insurance business was nationalised under the Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956, whereby the Life Insurance Corporation was established and the life insurance business carried on by the various insurance companies, including Bharat Insurance Company Ltd., was nationalised and vested in the Life Insurance Corporation.	Facts
As a result, petitioner No. 1 became a tenant of the Life Insurance Corporation.	Facts
The Life Insurance Corporation gave a notice under section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act terminating the tenancy of petitioner No. 1 with effect from August 31, 1953, and thereafter proceedings for eviction were initiated against petitioner No. 1 under the provisions of the Public Premises Act and notices dated December 15, 1984, were issued by the Estate Officer under section 4(1) and section 7(3) of the Public Premises Act.	Facts
Feeling aggrieved by these notices the petitioners have filed the writ petition.	Facts
Before we proceed to deal with the submissions of learned counsel for the appellants in the appeals and for the petitioners in the writ petition (hereinafter referred to as the petitioners ), it would be relevant to advert to the legislative history of the Public Premises Act.	None
The Public Premises Act was preceded by two such enactments.	None
The first enactment was the Government Premises (Eviction) Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as the 1950 Act ), which was enacted by Parliament to provide for the eviction of certain persons from Government premises and for certain matters connected therewith.	None
It was confined, in its application, to premises (a building or a part of a building) belonging to or taken on lease or requisitioned by the Central Government and it empowered the competent authority to evict a person in unauthorised occupation of such premises after issuing a notice to such person.	None
The 1950 Act did not define the expression unauthorised occupation and it also did not prescribe the procedure to be followed by the competent authority before passing the order of eviction.	None
There was a provision for appeal to the Central Government against the order of the competent authority.	None
The 1950 Act was declared unconstitutional by the Calcutta High Court in Jagu Singh v. M. Shaukat Ali 1954 58 Cal WN 1066 and by the Punjab High Court in Satish Chander v. Delhi Improvement Trust, 1958 AIR(Punj) 1, on the ground that it imposed an unreasonable restriction on the right of the citizens to acquire, hold and dispose of property guaranteed under article 19(1)(f) of the Constitution, and by the Allahabad High Court in Brigade Commander, Meerut Sub Area v. Ganga Prasad, 1956 AIR(All) 507, on the ground that it was violative of the rights to equality guaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution.	None
Thereupon, Parliament enacted the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as the 1958 Act ).	None
In the 1958 Act, the definition of public premises was enlarged to include, in relation to the Union Territory of Delhi, premises belonging to the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, or any municipal committee or notified area committee and premises belonging to the Delhi Development Authority.	None
In the 1958 Act, the expression unauthorised occupation was defined.	None
It also laid down the procedure to be followed by the Estate Officer for evicting a person in unauthorised occupation of public premises and it made provision for filing an appeal against every order of the Estate Officer before the District Judge or such other Judicial Officer in that district of not less than ten years standing as the District Judge may designate in that behalf.	None
In Northern India Caterers P. Ltd. v. State of Punjab 1967 (3) SCR 399 , section 5 of the Punjab Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery) Act, 1959, was held to be void by this court on the ground that the said provision conferred an additional remedy over and above the remedy by way of a suit and that by providing two alternative remedies to the Government and in leaving it to the unguided discretion of the Collector to resort to one or the other and to pick and choose some of those in occupation of public properties and premises for the application of the more drastic procedure under section 5, the said provision was violative of article 14 of the Constitution.	None
The provisions contained in the Punjab Act were similar to those contained in the 1958 Act.	None
Keeping in view the decision of this court in Northern India Caterers P. Ltd. v. State of Punjab 1967 (3) SCR 399, Parliament enacted the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Act, 1968, whereby the 1958 Act was amended and section 10E was introduced and a bar was created to the jurisdiction of the civil court to entertain any suitor proceeding in respect of eviction of any person in unauthorised occupation of any public premises or the recovery of the arrears of rent or damages payable under the provisions of the 1958 Act.	None
The Delhi High Court in P. L. Mehra v. D. R. Khanna, 1971 AIR(Delhi) 1, held that the whole of the 1958 Act was void under article 15(2) being violative of the provisions of article 14 of the Constitution and the amendment of 1968 was ineffective.	None
This led to the enactment of the Public Premises Act by Parliament in 1971.	None
It was brought into effect from September 16, 1958, the date on which the 1958 Act came into force.	None
The provisions of the Public Premises Act are similar to those contained in the 1958 Act.	None
The definition of public premises contained in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act has been widened so as to include premises belonging to or taken on lease by or on behalf of a company, as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956, in which not less than fiftyone per cent.	Reasoning
of the paidup capital is held by the Central Government as well as premises belonging to or taken on lease by or on behalf of any corporation (not being a company, as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956, or a local authority) established by or under a Central Act and owned and controlled by the Central Government.	None
It contains certain additional provisions, providing for offences and penalties (section 11), liability of heirs and representatives (section 13) recovery of rent, etc., as arrears of land revenue (section 14) and bar of jurisdiction of cqurts (section 15).	None
The validity of the Public Premises Act was upheld by this court in Hari Singh v. Military Estate Officer 1973 (1) SCR 515.	None
The Public Premises Act was amended in 1980 by the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Act, 1980, whereby the definition of public premises in section 2(e) was amended to include premises belonging to or taken on lease by or on behalf of certain autonomous and statutory organisations, viz., any University established or incorporated by any Central Act, any institute incorporated by the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961, any board of trustees constituted under the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963, and the Bhakra Management Board and as well as premises belonging to or taken on lease by any company which is a subsidiary of a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956, in which not less than fiftyone per cent.	None
of the paidup capital is held by the Central Government.	Reasoning
By the said Amending Act of 1980, the total period taken in eviction proceedings was also sought to be curtailed by reducing the period for showing cause against notice of eviction, the period within which an unauthorised occupant should vacate the premises after the eviction order has been passed and the period for filing an appeal against the order of an Estate Officer.	None
By the said Amending Act of 1980 provisions were also made, by inserting sections 5A, 5B and 5C, to deal with the squatting or spreading of goods on or against or in front of any public premises and removal of unauthorised constructions or encroachments on public premises.	None
The Public Premises Act was further amended in 1984 by the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Act, 1984, whereby certain further amendments were made to provide for increased penalties and making the offences under the Act cognisable and to enable the Estate Officers to exercise their powers under the Act effectively.	None
As stated in the preamble, the Public Premises Act has been enacted to provide for the eviction of unauthorised occupants from public premises and for certain incidental matters.	Reasoning
In section 2, various expressions have been defined.	None
The definitions of the following expressions which are of relevance are reproduced as under (c) premises means any land or any building or part of a building and includes(i) the garden, grounds and outhouses, if any, appertaining to such building or part of a building, and(ii) any fittings affixed to such building or part of a building for the more beneficial enjoyment thereof (e) public premises means(1) any premises belonging to, or taken on lease or requisitioned by, or on behalf of, the Central Government, and includes any such premises which have been placed by that Government, whether before or after the commencement of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Amendment Act, 1980, under the control of Secretariat of either House of Parliament for providing residential accommodation to any member of the staff of that Secretariat (2) any premises belonging to, or taken on lease by, or on behalf of, (i) any company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), in which not less than fiftyone per cent.	Reasoning
of the paidup share capital is held by the Central Government or any company which is a subsidiary (within the meaning of the Act) of the first mentioned company(ii) any corporation (not being a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or a local authority) established by or under a Central Act and owned or controlled by the Central Government(iii) any university established or incorporated by any Central Act(iv) any institute incorporated by the Institutes of Technology Act, 1961 (59 of 1961)(v) any board of trustees constituted under the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (38 of 1963)(vi) the Bhakra Management Board constituted under section 79 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 (31 of 1966) and that Board as and when renamed as the BhakraBeas Management Board under subsection (6) of section 80 of that Act and(3) in relation to the Union Territory of Delhi(i) any premises belonging to the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, or any municipal committee or notified area committee, and(ii) any premises belonging to the Delhi Development Authority, whether such premises are in the possession of, or leased out by, the said authority.	None
(g) unauthorised occupation, in relation to any public premises, means the occupation by any person of the public premises without authority for such occupation, and includes the continuance in occupation by any person of the public premises after the authority (whether by way of grant or any other mode of transfer) under which he was allowed to occupy the premises has expired or has been determined for any reason whatsoever.	Reasoning
Section 3 makes provision for appointment by Central Government of gazetted officers of Government or officers of equal rank of the statutory authority as Estate Officers.	None
Section 4 relates to issue of show cause notice against an order of eviction and provides as under If the Estate Officer is of opinion that any persons are in unauthorised occupation of any public premises and that they should be evicted, the Estate Officer shall issue in the manner hereinafter provided a notice in writing calling upon all persons concerned to show cause why an order of eviction should not be made.(2) The notice shall(a) specify the grounds on which the order of eviction is proposed to be made and(b) require all persons concerned, that is to say, all persons who are, or may be, in occupation of, or claim interest in, the public premises, (i) to show cause, if any, against the proposed order on or before such date as is specified in the notice, being a date not earlier than seven days from the date of issue thereof and(ii) to appear before the Estate Officer on the date specified in the notice along with the evidence which they intend to produce in support of the cause shown, and also for personal hearing, if such hearing is desired.(3)	None
The Estate Officer shall cause the notice to be served by having it affixed on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of the public premises and in such other manner as may be prescribed, whereupon the notice shall be deemed to have been duly given to all persons concerned.(4) Where the Estate Officer knows or has reasons to believe that any persons are in occupation of the public pemises, then, without prejudice to the provisions of subsection (3), he shall cause a copy of the notice to be served on every such person by post or by delivering or tendering it to that person or in such other manner as may be prescribed.	None
Section 5 retates to eviction of unauthorised occupants and provides as under If, after considering the cause, if any, shown by any person in pursuance of a notice under section 4 and any evidence produced by him in support of the same and after personal hearing, if any, given under clause (b) of subsection (2) of section 4, the estate officer is satisfied that occupation of public premises is unauthorised, the estate officer may make an order of eviction, for reasons to be recorded therein, directing that the public premises shall be vacated on such date as may be specified in the order, by all persons who may be in occupation thereof or any part thereof, and cause a copy of the order to be affixed on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of the public premises.(2)	None
If any person refuses or fails to comply with the order of eviction on or before the date specified in the said order or within fifteen days of the date of its publication under subsection (1) whichever is later, the estate officer or any other officer duly authorised by the estate officer in this behalf may after the date so specified or after the expiry of the period aforesaid, whichever is later, evict that person from, and take possession of the public premises and may, for that purpose, use such force as may be necessary.	None
Section 5A provides for removal of unauthorised constructions structures or fixtures, cattle or other animal from public premises.	None
Section 5B deals with demolition of unauthorised constructions.	None
Section 5C empowers the Estate Officer to seal unauthorised constructions.	None
Section 6 provides for disposal of property left on public premises by unauthorised occupants.	None
Section 7 empowers the Estate Officer to require payment of rent or damages on account of use and occupation of public premises along with interest by the person found in unauthorised occupation.	None
Section 8 lays down that an Estate Officer shall, for the purpose of holding any inquiry under the Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, when trying a suit in respect of certain matters, viz., summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath, requiring discovery and production of documents and any other matter which may be prescribed.	None
Section 9 provides for an appeal from every order of the Estate Officer in respect of any public premises passed under sections 5, 5B, 5C and 7 to an appellate officer who shall be a district judge of the district in which the public premises are situate or such other judicial officer in the district of not less than ten years standing as the district judge may designate in this behalf.	None
It also prescribes the period of limitation for filing such appeals and also lays down that the appeal shall be disposed of by the appellate officer as expeditiously as possible.	None
Section 10 attaches finality to the orders made by an Estate Officer or appellate officer and provides that the said orders shall not be called in question in any original suit, application or execution proceeding and no injunction shall be granted by any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or under the Act.	None
Section 11 provides for offences and penalties and section 11A lays down that the offences under section 11 would be treated as cognizable offences under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.	None
Section 15 relates to bar of jurisdiction and it provides as under No court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of(a) the eviction of any person who is in unauthorized occupation of any such public premises, or(b) the removal of any building, structure or fixture or goods, cattle or other animal from any public premises under section 5A, or(c) the demolition of any building or other structure made, or ordered to be made, under section 5B, or(cc) the sealing of any erection or work or of any public premises under section 5C(d) the arrears of rent payable under subsection (1) of section 7 or damages payable under subsection (2), or interest payable under subsection (2A) of that section(e) the recovery of(i) costs of removal of any building, structure or fixture or goods, cattle or other animal under section 5A, or(ii) expenses of demolition under section 5B, or(iii) costs awarded to the Central Government or statutory authority under subsection (5) of section 9, or(iv) any portion of such rent, damages, cost of removal, expenses of demolition or costs awarded to the Central Government or the statutory authority.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 of the Public Premises Act, the Central Government has made the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Rules, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the Public Premises Rules ).	None
Rule 5 of said Rules relates to holding of inquiries and rule 9 relates to procedure in appeals.	None
We will first deal with the contentions urged by learned counsel for the petitioners with regard to the scope of the definition of the expression public premises contained in section 2(e) and unauthorised occupation , contained in section 2(g) of the Public Premises Act.	None
As mentioned earlier, the appeals relate to premises belonging to nationalised banks, viz., Punjab National Bank and Allahabad Bank, constituted under the provisions of the Banks Nationalisation Act.	None
It has been urged by Shri Yogeshwar Prasad that the premises belonging to a nationalised bank do not fall within the ambit of the definition of public premises contained in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act, for the reason that a nationalised bank is not a company as defined in section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956, and it is also not a corporation established by or under a Central Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission of learned counsel for the respondent banks is that the nationalised bank is a corporation established by a Central Act, viz., the Banks Nationalisation Act, and the premises belonging to a nationalised bank are public premises under section 2(e) (2)(ii) of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
The question which, therefore, is required to be considered is whether a nationalised bank is a corporation established by or under a Central Act and is owned or controlled by the Central Government.	Reasoning
The nationalised banks have been established under the Banks Nationalisation Act, wherein the nationalised banks have been described as corresponding new banks .	Reasoning
In subsection (1) of section 3 of the Banks Nationalisation Act, it has been provided that on the commencement of the said Act, there shall be constituted such corresponding new banks as are specified in the First Schedule.	Reasoning
In subsection (2) of section 3, it is laid down that the paidup capital of every corresponding new bank constituted under subsection (1) shall, until any provision is made in this behalf in any scheme made under section 9, be equal to the paidup capital of the existing bank in relation to which it is the corresponding new bank.	Reasoning
Subsection (3) of section 3 provides that the entire capital of the new bank shall stand vested in, and allotted to the Central Government.	Reasoning
Subsection (4) of section 3 lays down that every corresponding new bank shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of the said Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property, and to contract, and may sue and be sued in its name.	Reasoning
From the aforesaid provisions contained in section 3 of the Banks Nationalisation Act it is evident that the nationalised banks have been established under the provisions of the said Act and the same are distinct juristic persons with perpetual succession and the power to acquire, hold and dispose of property and to contract and having the right to sue and be sued in their own name and further that the entire capital of the said banks is vested in the Central Government, meaning thereby, that the said banks are owned by the Central Government.	Reasoning
Shri Yogeshwar Prasad has pointed out that, in view of section 3(4) of the Banks Nationalisation Act, the nationalised bank is a body corporate and not a corporation and that there is a distinction between a body corporate and a corporation inasmuch as a body corporate includes bodies, such as companies, cooperative societies, etc., which are not corporations.	Reasoning
Reliance has been placed in this regard on the decision of the Delhi High Court in Oriental Bank of Commerce v. Delhi Development Authority 1985 (55) CC 81.	Arguments of Petitioner
We find no substance in this contention.	None
In English law a corporation has been defined as a body of persons or an office which is recognised by the law as having a personality which is distinct from the separate personalities of the members of the body or the personality of the individual holder for the time being of the office in question.	None
(See Halsburys Laws of England, fourth edition, volume 9, para 1201).	None
Generally speaking, corporations are of two kinds corporation aggregate and corporation sole.	None
A corporation aggregate has been described as an incorporated group of coexisting persons and a corporation sole as an incorporated series of successive persons, (Salmond on Jurisprudence, 12th edition, page 308).	None
The distinctive features of a corporation are that it has the capacity of continuous existence and succession, notwithstanding changes in its membership and it possesses the capacity of taking, holding and conveying property, entering into contracts, suing and being sued, and exercising such other powers and privileges conferred on it by the law of its creation just as a natural person may (See S. S. Dhanoa v. Municipal Corporation, Delhi 1981 (3) SCR 864 ).	None
Corporations aggregate may be public or private.	None
A public corporation is a corporation formed for a public purpose, e.g., local Government authorities, and it is usually incorporated by a public general Act of Parliament.	None
A private corporation is a corporation formed for profit, e.g., a limited company, and it is usually incorporated under a statutory enactment.	None
After the Second World War there has been development of a new pattern of public corporations in England as an instrument of planning in the mixed economy.	None
The general characteristics of such a public corporation is that it is normally created by a special statute it has no shares and no shareholders either private or public, and its shareholder, in a symbolic sense, is the nation represented through Government and Parliament the responsibility of the public corporation is to the Government, represented by the competent Minister and through the Minister to Parliament the administration of the public corporation is entirely in the hands of a board which is appointed by the competent Minister and it has the legal status of a corporate body with independent legal personality.	None
(See W. Friedman The New Public Corporations and the Law) 1947 12 Mod LR 234236.	None
There is a similar growth of this type of public corporation in other countries.	None
This trend is also evident in our country since independence and a number of such public corporations have been constituted by Acts of Parliament.	None
The distinction between such a public corporation and a corporation generally known in law has been explained in the following observations of Denning L. J., as he then was The Transport Act, 1947, brings into being the British Transport Commission, which is a statutory corporation of a kind comparatively new to English law.	None
It has many of the qualities which belong to corporations of other kinds to which we have been, accustomed.	None
It has, for instance, defined powers which it cannot exceed and it is directed by a group of men whose duty it is to see that those powers are properly used.	None
It may own property, carry on business, borrow and lend money, just as any other corporation may do, so long as it keeps within the bounds which Parliament has set.	None
But the significant difference in this corporation is that there are no shareholders to subscribe the capital or to have any voice in its affairs.	None
The money which the Corporation needs is not raised by the issue of shares but by borrowings and its borrowing is not served by debentures but is guaranteed by the Treasury.	None
If it cannot repay, the loss falls on the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom that is to say, on the taxpayer.	None
There are no shareholders to elect the directors or to fix their remuneration.	None
There are no profits to be made or distributed.	None
(Tamlin v. Hannaford, 1950 (1) KB 18).	None
Reference has already been made to the provisions of the Banks Nationalisation Act which shows that the nationalised bank has been constituted as a distinct juristic person by the Act and it is owned by the Central Government.	Reasoning
There are other provisions in the Banks Nationalisation Act which show that the general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs of the business of the bank is vested in a board of directors constituted by the Central Government and the Central Government has the power to remove a person from the membership of the board of directors (sections 7(2) and 7(3))	Reasoning
and in the discharge of its functions the bank is to be guided by such directions in regard to matters of policy involving public interest as the Central Government may, after consultation with the Governor of the Reserve Bank, give (section 8).	Reasoning
This indicates that the nationalised bank has all the attributes of the new pattern of public corporation.	Reasoning
Merely because the expression body corporate has been used in relation to the nationalised banks in section 3(4) of the Banks Nationalisation Act and the expression corporation has not been used, this does not mean that the nationalised bank is not a corporation.	Reasoning
The expression body corporate is used in legal parlance to mean a public or private corporation (Blacks Law Dictionary, page 159).	Reasoning
Shri Yogeshwar Prasad has urged that in order to constitute a corporation there must exist persons, i.e., members, composing it, and that this element is missing in the nationalised banks inasmuch as the Banks Nationalisation Act does not provide for any membership to these banks.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention is without any merit because, as noticed earlier, in the new pattern of public corporations which have developed, there are no shares and no shareholders, either public or private, and its shareholder, in the symbolic sense, is the nation represented through Government and Parliament.	None
A similar contention was raised before the High Court of Australia in Bank of New South Wales v. Commonwealth 1948 (76) CLR 1, in relation to the Commonwealth Bank established as a body corporate by the Commonwealth Bank Act, 1945.	None
While rejecting this contention, Latham C. J. has observed The Commonwealth Parliament has declared that the bank is a corporation and the court must on this, as on many previous occasions, accept that the bank (though it has no corporators) exists as a new kind of juristic person.	None
(page 227)	None
Similarly, Dixon J. has observed Although the Commonwealth Bank is declared to be a body corporate there are no corporators.	None
I see no reason to doubt the constitutional power of the Federal Parliament, for a purpose within its competence, to create a juristic person without identifying an individual or a group of natural persons with it, as the living constituent or constituents of the corporation.	None
In other legal systems an abstraction or even an inanimate physical thing has been made an artificial person as the object of rights and duties.	None
(page 361)It may also be mentioned that in R. C. Cooper v. Union of India 1970 (40) CC 325 3 SCR 530 , this court, while referring to nationalised banks constituted under the provisions of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance, 1969, has treated the nationalised banks as corporations.	None
While construing the expression corporation in section 2(e)(2)(ii) of the Public Premises Act, it cannot be ignored that the object of the legislation in enlarging the definition of public premises in section 2(e) is to make available the machinery of the Act for evicting unauthorised occupants not only from the premises belonging to the Central Government but also from premises belonging to companies, corporations and statutory bodies in which the Central Government has a substantial interest.	Reasoning
Under section 2(e)(2)(i) premises belonging to a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956, in which not less than fifty one per cent.	Reasoning
of the paidup capital is held by the Central Government, are to be treated as public premises.	Reasoning
It could not be the intention of Parliament that premises belonging to public corporations whose entire paidup capital vests in the Central Government and who are the instrumentalities of State would be excluded from the ambit of the definition of public premises .	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, the expression corporation in section 2(e)(2)(ii) of the Public Premises Act would include public corporations of the new pattern constituted under the Central Acts wherein the entire paidup capital vests in the Central Government.	Reasoning
Shri Yogeshwar Prasad has placed reliance on the decision of this court In S. S. Dhanoas case wherein this court has considered the question whether the Cooperative Store Ltd., a cooperative society registered under the Bombay Cooperative Societies Act, 1925, is a corporation established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act, for the purposes of clause Twelfth of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
This court has observed that a corporation established by or under an Act of Legislature could only mean a body corporate which owes its existence and not merely its corporate status to the Act and a distinction has been drawn between a corporation established by or under an Act and a body incorporated under an Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been held that the Cooperative Store Ltd., which is a society registered under the Bombay Cooperative Societies Act, 1925, is not a statutory body because it is not created by a statute and that it is a body created by an Act of a group of individuals in accordance with the provisions of a statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
This decision does not lend any assistance to the contention of Shri Yogeshwar Prasad.	None
In Oriental Bank of Commerces case 1985 (55) CC 81 (Delhi), the question for consideration was, whether the chairman of a nationalised bank is a public servant and sanction under section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was necessary to prosecute him.	Reasoning
M. L. Jain J., has held that the nationalised bank is a body corporate and not a corporation within the meaning of clause Twelfth of section 21, Indian Penal Code, and, therefore, the chairman of the nationalised bank is not a public servant under section 21, Indian Penal Code.	Reasoning
The learned judge has further held that even if the nationalised bank is a corporation, the chairman of the said bank is not in the service or pay of the bank and further (in the facts of the case) it could not be said that the chairman was acting or purporting to act in the discharge of official duty.	Reasoning
Sachar J. did not consider it necessary to deal with the question, as to whether the nationalised bank is a corporation because he was of the view that section 197, Criminal Procedure Code, was not attracted.	Reasoning
For the reasons mentioned earlier, the judgment of Jain J., insofar as it draws a distinction between a body corporate and a corporation and lays down that the nationalised bank, though a body corporate is not a corporation, cannot be upheld.	Reasoning
The other reason given by Jain J. is that the nationalised bank is merely a personified institution having no members and is, therefore, not a corporation.	Reasoning
This view also cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that in order to constitute a corporation it is not necessary that there should be shareholders or members and that in the new pattern of public corporation that has developed there are no shareholders or members.13.	Reasoning
Keeping in view the provisions of the Banks Nationalisation Act we are of the opinion that the nationalised bank is a corporation established by a Central Act and it is owned and controlled by the Central Government.	Reasoning
The premises belonging to a nationalised bank are public premises under section 2(e)(2)(ii) of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to accept the contention of Shri Yogeshwar Prasad that premises belonging to a nationalised bank do not fall within the ambit of the definition of public premises contained in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
Shri Yogeshwar Prasad has also urged that public premises as defined in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act, must be confined to premises let out for residential purposes only and should not cover premises let out for commercial purposes and that if premises let out for commercial purposes are included, section 2(e) would be rendered unconstitutional as being violative of the provisions of articles 14, 19(1)(g) and 21 read with articles 39 and 41 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The submission of Shri Yogeshwar Prasad is that a construction which would sustain the constitutionality of the provisions of section 2(e) should be preferred over a construction which would render them unconstitutional.	Reasoning
We find no force in this contention.	Reasoning
There is no warrant for confining the scope of the definition of public premises contained in section 2(e) to premises used for residential purposes only and to exclude premises used for commercial purposes from its ambit.	None
In Hari Singh v. Military Estate Officer 1973 (1) SCR 515 , a similar contention was advanced and it was argued that the expression premises in Public Premises Act would not apply to agricultural land.	None
This court rejected that contention with the observation (at P. 528)	None
The word premises is defined to mean any land.	None
Any land will include agricultural land.	None
There is nothing in the Act to exclude the applicability of the Act to agricultural land.	None
We are also unable to hold that the inclusion of premises used for commercial purposes within the ambit of the definition of public premises , would render the Public Premises Act violative of the right to equality guaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution or the right to freedom to carry on any occupation, trade or business guaranteed under article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution or the right to liberty guaranteed under article 21 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is difficult to appreciate how a person in unauthorised occupation of a public premises used for commercial purposes, can invoke the Directive Principles under articles 39 and 41 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
As indicated in the Statement of Objects and Reasons, the Public Premises Act has been enacted to provide for a speedy machinery for the eviction of unauthorised occupants of public premises.	Reasoning
It serves a public purpose, viz., making available, for use, public premises after eviction of persons in unauthorised occupation.	Reasoning
The need to provide a speedy machinery for eviction of persons in unauthorised occupation cannot be confined to premises used for residential purposes.	Reasoning
There is no reason to assume that such a need will not be there in respect of premises used for commercial purposes.	Reasoning
No distinction can, therefore, be made between premises used for residential purposes and premises used for commercial purposes in the matter of eviction of unauthorised occupants of public premises and the considerations which necessitate providing a speedy machinery for eviction of persons in unauthorised occupation of public premises apply equally to both the types of public premises.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to accept the contention of Shri Yogeshwar Prasad that the definition of public premises contained in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act should be so construed as to exclude premises used for commercial purposes from its ambit.	Reasoning
Shri A. K. Ganguli, has urged that a person who was put in occupation of the premises as a tenant and who has continued in such occupation after the expiry or the termination of his tenancy cannot be regarded as a person in unauthorised occupation under section 2(g) of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
The submission of Shri Ganguli is that, the occupation of a person who was put in possession as a tenant is juridical possession and such an occupation cannot be regarded as unauthorised occupation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this submission, Shri Ganguli has placed reliance on the decision of the Bombay High Court in Brigadier K. K. Verma v. Union of India, 1954 AIR(Bom) 358, which has been approved by this court in Lallu Yeshwant Singh v. Rao Jagdish Singh 1968 (2) SCR 203.	None
The definition of the expression unauthorised occupation contained in section 2(g) of the Public Premises Act is in two parts.	Reasoning
In the first part, the said expression has been defined to mean the occupation by any person of public premises without authority for such occupation.	Reasoning
It implies occupation by a person who has entered into occupation of any public premises without lawful authority as well as occupation which was permissive at the inception but has ceased to be so.	Reasoning
The second part of the definition is inclusive in nature and it expressly covers continuance in occupation by any person of the public premises after the authority (whether by way of grant or any other mode of transfer) under which he was allowed to occupy the premises has expired or has been determined for any reason whatsoever.	Reasoning
This part covers a case where a person had entered into occupation legally under valid authority but who continues in occupation after the authority under which he was put in occupation has expired or has been determined.	Reasoning
The words whether by way of grant or any other mode of transfer in this part of the definition are wide in amplitude and would cover a lease because lease is a mode of transfer under the Transfer of Property Act.	Reasoning
The definition of unauthorised occupation contained in section 2(g) of the Public Premises Act would, therefore, cover a case where a person has entered into occupation of the public premises legally as a tenant under a lease but whose tenancy has expired or has been determined in accordance with law.	Reasoning
Brigadier K. K. Verma v. Union of India, 1954 AIR(Bom) 358 was decided under the provisions of the Government Premises (Eviction) Act, 1950, which did not contain the definition of the expression unauthorised occupation .	Reasoning
In that case, it has been held that under the Indian law, the possession of a tenant who has ceased to be a tenant is protected by law and although he may not have the right to continue in possession, after the termination of the tenancy, his possession is juridical and that posses sion is protected by statute, and, therefore, an erstwhile tenant can never become a trespasser and his possession cannot be regarded as unauthorised occupation.	Reasoning
The learned judges have also observed that unless the Legislature had given indication of a clear intention that by the expression unauthorised occupation it meant not only persons who had no title at all but also persons who had title at the inception and whose title came to an end, it would not be proper to give an interpretation to the expres sion unauthorised occupation which would run counter to the principles of law which have been accepted in this country.	Reasoning
After this decision the Legislature intervened and introduced the definition of the expression unauthorised occupation in the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1958, which definition has been reproduced in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act and in the said definition the Legislature has taken care to make an express provision indicating that the expression unauthorised occupation includes the continuance in occupation by any person of the public premises after the authority (whether by way of grant or any other mode of transfer) under which he was allowed to occupy the premises has expired or has been determined for any reason whatsoever.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the petitioners cannot derive any assistance from the decision of the Bombay High Court in Brigadier K. K. Vermas case, 1954 AIR(Bom)	None
358.Shri Ganguli has placed reliance on the decision of A. P. Sen J. in Express Newspapers P. Ltd. v. Union of India 1985 (S3)	None
SCR 382 and has submitted that in that case the learned judge has held that cases involving relationship between the lessor and lessee fall outside the purview of the Public Premises Act.	None
We have carefully perused the said decision and we are unable to agree with Shri Ganguli.	None
In that case, A. P. Sen J. has observed that the new building had been constructed by the Express Newspapers Pvt.	None
Ltd.	None
after the grant of permission by the lessor, and, therefore, the Express Newspapers P. Ltd. was not in unauthorised occupation of the same within the meaning of section 2(g) of the Public Premises Act.	None
It was also held by the learned judge that the Express Building constructed by the Express Newspapers Ltd. with the sanction of the lessor on plots Nos. 9 and 10 demised on perpetual lease can, by no process of reasoning, be regarded as public premises belonging to the Central Government under section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act, and, therefore, there was no question of the lessor applying for eviction of the Express Newspapers Pvt.	None
Ltd. under the provisions of the Public Premises Act.	None
The aforesaid observations indicate that the learned judge did not proceed on the basis that cases involving a relationship of lessor and lessee fall outside the purivew of the Public Premises Act.	None
On the other hand, the said observations show that the learned judge has held that the provisions of the Public Premises Act could not be invoked in the facts of that case.	None
Another submission that has been urged by Shri Ganguli is that the question whether a lease has been determined or not involves complicated questions of law and the Estate Officer, who is not required to be an officer well versed in law, cannot be expected to decide such questions and, therefore, it must be held that the provisions of the Public Premises Act have no application to a case when the person sought to be evicted had obtained possession of the premises as a lessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true that there is no requirement in the Public Premises Act that the Estate Officer must be a person well versed in law.	None
But, that, by itself, cannot be a ground for excluding from the ambit of the said Act premises in unauthorised occupation of persons who obtained possession of the said premises under a lease.	Reasoning
Section 4 of the Public Premises Act requires issuing of a notice to the person in unauthorised occupation of any public premises requiring him to show cause why an order of eviction should not be made.	Reasoning
Section 5 makes provisions for production of evidence in support of the cause shown by the person who has been served with a notice under section 4 and giving of a personal hearing by the Estate Officer.	None
Section 8 provides that an Estate Officer shall, for the purpose of holding any enquiry under the said Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, when trying a suit in respect of the matters specified therein, namely (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath (b) requiring discovery and production of documents and(c) any other matters which may be prescribed.	None
Rule 5(2) of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Rules, 1971, requires the Estate Officer to record the summary of evidence tendered before him.	None
Moreover, section 9 confers a right of appeal against an order of the Estate Officer and the said appeal has to be heard either by the district judge of the district in which the public premises are situate or such other judicial officer in that district of not less than ten years standing as the district judge may designate in that behalf.	None
It shows that the final order that is passed is by a judicial officer in the rank of a district judge.	None
A similar contention was raised before this court in Maganlal Chhagganlal P. Ltd. v. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay 1975 (1) SCR 1 wherein the validity of the provisions of Chapter VA of the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, and the Bombay Government Premises (Eviction) Act, 1955, were challenged before this court and the said contention was negatived.	Reasoning
Alagiriswami J., speaking for the majority, has observed as under (at p. 2023)	Reasoning
Even though the officers deciding these questions would be administrative officers there is provision in these Acts for giving notice to the party affected, to inform him of the grounds on which the order of eviction is proposed to be made, for the party affected to file a written statement and produce documents and be represented by lawyers.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Civil Procedure Code regarding summoning and enforcing attendance of persons and examining them on oath, and requiring the discovery and production of documents are a valuable safeguard for the person affected.	Reasoning
So is the provision for appeal to the principal judge of the city civil court in the city of Bombay, or to a District Judge in the district who has got to deal with the matter as expeditiously as possible, also a sufficient safeguard as was recognised in Suraj Mall Mohtas case, 1954 AIR(SC) 545.	Reasoning
Having dealt with the submissions of learned counsel for the petitioners on the applicability of the provisions of the Public Premises Act, we may come to the main question involved in these matters, namely, whether the provisions of the Public Premises Act override the provisions of the Rent Control Act.	Issue
For appreciating the submissions of learned counsel on this question, it is necessary to examine the provisions of both the enactments.	None
The relevant provisions of the Public Premises Act have already been set out.	None
We may briefly refer to the provisions of the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
The Rent Control Act has been enacted by Parliament to provide for the control of rents and evictions and of rates of hotels and lodging houses and for the lease of vacant premises to the Government, in certain areas in the Union Territory of Delhi.	Reasoning
It extends to the areas included within the limits of the New Delhi Municipal Committee and the Delhi Cantonment Board and to such urban areas within the limits of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi as are specified in the First Schedule to the Act (section 1(2)).	None
The expression premises is defined in section 2(i) as under Premises means any building or part of a building which is or, is intended to be, let separately for use as a residence or for commercial use or for any other purpose, and includes(i) the garden, grounds and outhouses, if any, appertaining to such building or part of the building (ii) any furniture supplied by the landlord for use in such building or part of the building but does not include a room in a hotel or lodging house.	None
Section 3, which excludes the applicability of the Act to certain premises, provides as under Nothing in this Act shall apply (a) to any premises belonging to the Government (b) to any tenancy or other like relationship created by a grant from the Government in respect of the premises taken on lease, or requisitioned, by the Government Provided that where any premises belonging to the Government have been or are lawfully let by any person by virtue of an agreement with the Government or otherwise, then, notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or other authority, the provisions of this Act shall apply to such tenancy.(c) to any premises, whether residential or not, whose monthly rent exceeds three thousand and five hundred rupees or(d) to any premises constructed on or after the commencement of the Delhi Rent Control (Amendment) Act, 1988, for a period of ten years from the date of completion of such construction.	Reasoning
Chapter II (sections 4 to 13) contains provisions regarding rent including fixation of standard rent.	None
Chapter III (sections 14 to 25) contains provisions for control of eviction of tenants.	None
Section 14 gives protection to tenants against eviction and provides that an order for eviction of a tenant can be passed only on one or more of the grounds mentioned in clauses (a) to (1) of subsection (1).	None
Special provisions have been made for recovery of immediate possession of premises in sections 14A to 14D in respect of certain classes of landlords.	None
Section 22 contains a special provision for recovery of possession of premises where the landlord is a company or a body corporate or a local authority or a public institution if the premises are required for the use of employees of such landlord or, in the case of a public institution, for the furtherance of its activities.	None
In Chapter IIIA (sections 25A to 25C) provisions have been made for summary trial of certain applications for eviction on the ground of bona fide requirement of the landlord.	None
Chapter IV (sections 26 to 29) contains provisions relating to deposit of rent.	None
Chapter V (sections 30 to 34) contains provisions relating to hotels and lodging houses.	None
Chapter VI (sections 35 to 43) contains provisions relating to appointment of controllers and their powers and functions and appeals.	None
Section 42 makes provisions for execution of orders passed by the Controller or in appeal, as a decree of civil court.	None
Section 43 attaches finality to the order passed by the Controller and the order passed in appeal.	None
Chapter VII (sections 44 to 49) contains provisions regarding special obligations of landlords and penalties.	None
Chapter VIII (sections 50 to 57) contains miscellaneous provisions.	None
Under section 50 jurisdiction of the civil court is barred in respect of matters specified therein.	None
Section 54 saves the operation of certain enactments, namely, Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950, the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1956, and the Delhi Tenants (Temporary Protection) Act, 1956.On a comparison of the provisions of the Public Premises Act and the Rent Control Act, it will be found that By virtue of section 1(2) of the Public Premises Act, the said Act is applicable throughout the territory of India, whereas, in view of section 1(2) of the Rent Control Act, the said Act is confined in its application to areas included within the limits of the New Delhi Municipal Committee and the Delhi Cantonment Board and to such urban areas within the limits of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi as are specified in the First Schedule and any other urban area included within the limits of the municipal corporation of Delhi to which the provisions of the said Act are extended by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette.2.	Reasoning
Under clause (c) of section 2 of the Public Premises Act, the expression premises has a wider connotation and it includes open land as well as building or part of a building.	Reasoning
Under the Rent Control Act the expression premises as defined in clause (i) of section 2 has a narrower connotation to mean any building or a part of building and it does not cover open land.3.	Reasoning
In view of the definition of the expression public premises contained in clause (e) of section 2 of the Public Premises Act, the said Act, in addition to the premises belonging to or taken on lease or requisitioned by, or on behalf of, the Central Government, is applicable to premises belonging to or taken on lease by or on behalf of the companies and statutory bodies mentioned in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e).	Reasoning
The Rent Control Act, on the other hand, is applicable to all premises except premises belonging to the Government or to any tenancy or other like relationship created by a grant from the Government in respect of the premises taken on lease, or requisitioned, by the Government (section 3).	Reasoning
In view of the amendment introduced in section 3, the Delhi Rent Control Act is not applicable to premises, whether residential or not, whose monthly rent exceeds three thousand and five hundred rupees and premises constructed on or after the commencement of the said Amendment Act, for a period of ten years from the date of completion of such construction.4.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Public Premises Act are applicable to public premises in the occupation of a person having no authority for such occupation, including a person who was allowed to occupy the public premises under a grant or any other mode of transfer and who has continued in occupation after the authority under which he was allowed to occupy those premises has expired or has been terminated.	Reasoning
The provisions of the Delhi Rent Control Act are applicable only to persons who have obtained possession of the premises as tenants and whose tenancy is continuing as well as persons who after the expiration or termination of the tenancy have continued in occupation of the premises.	Reasoning
As a result of this comparison it can be said that certain premises, viz., buildings or parts of buildings lying within the limits of the New Delhi Municipal Committee and the Delhi Cantonment Board and in urban areas within the limits of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, which belong to or are taken on lease by any of the companies or statutory bodies mentioned in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act and which are in the occupation of a person who obtained possession of the said premises as a tenant and whose tenancy has expired or has been terminated but who is continuing in occupation of the same, would ex facie fall within the purview of both the enactments.	Reasoning
The question which, therefore, arises is whether the occupant of such premises can seek the protection available under the provisions of the Rent Control Act and he can be evicted from the premises only in accordance with the said provisions and proceedings for eviction of such a person cannot be initiated under the provisions of the Public Premises Act.	Issue
Shri Venugopal and other learned counsel representing the petitioners have urged that the Rent Control Act is a selfcontained code providing for regulating the relationship of landlords and tenants and it makes comprehensive provisions with regard to control of rents as well as eviction of tenants and that the provision of the Rent Control Act, being special in nature insofar as leasehold properties in Delhi are concerned, would prevail over the provisions of the Public Premises Act which are in the nature of general provisions relating to eviction of unauthorised occupants from Government premises in the whole country.	None
In support of this submission learned counsel for the petitioners have placed reliance on sections 22 and 54 and the non obstante clause contained in section 14(1) of the Rent Control Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has also been urged by learned counsel for the petitioners that the Public Premises Act does not contain any machinery for the termination of the tenancy and that in view of the decision of this court in V. Dhanapal Chettiar v. Yesodai Ammal 1980 (1) SCR 334 , the jural relationship of landlord and tenant can come to an end only on the passing of an order of eviction by a competent court in accordance with the provisions of the Rent Control Act and that in the absence of an order of eviction under the provisions of the Rent Control Act, no proceedings can be initiated against a person who came into occupation of the premises as a tenant and who is continuing in occupation of the said premises after the contractual tenancy has expired or has been terminated.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Attorney General and Shri G. L. Sanghi, appearing on behalf of the respondents in the appeals, have urged that the Public Premises Act is in the nature of a special enactment making provision for speedy and expeditious recovery of possession of public premises from persons in unauthorised occupation of the same whereas the Rent Control Act is a general enactment regulating the relationship of landlord and tenant and since the Public Premises Act is a special enactment, it would override the provisions of the Rent Control Act.	None
It has also been urged that the Public Premises Act is a later enactment, having been enacted in 1971, whereas the Rent Control Act was enacted in 1958, and, therefore, the Public Premises Act would prevail over the Rent Control Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been urged that section 15 of the Public Premises Act which bars the jurisdiction of other courts is in the nature of a nonobstante clause which gives overriding effect to the provisions of the Public Premises Act.23.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional SolicitorGeneral, appearing for the respondents in the writ petition, has adopted a different line of argument.	Arguments of Respondent
He has contended that the Public Premises Act has been enacted by Parliament in exercise of its legislative power under article 246(1) read with entries 32, 95 and 97 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution whereas the Rent Control Act has been enacted by Parliament in exercise of its legislative power under article 246(4) read with entries 6, 7 and 13 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and since the Public Premises Act has been enacted in exercise of the legislative power under article 246(1) of the Constitution, it would prevail over the Rent Control Act enacted in exercise of legislative power under article 246(4) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
At this stage, it may be mentioned that in Jain Ink Manufacturing Co. v. Life Insurance Corporation of India 1981 (1) SCR 498 , decided by a Bench of three judges, it has been held that the Public Premises Act overrides the provisions of the Delhi Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
In that case it has been observed that the scope and object of the Public Premises Act is quite different from that of the Rent Control Act and while the Public Premises Act operates in a very limited field in that it applies only to a limited nature of premises belonging only to particular sets of individuals, a particular set of juristic persons like companies, corporations or the Central Government, whereas the Rent Control Act is of much wider application and it applies to all private premises which do not fall within the limited exceptions indicated in section 2 of the Public Premises Act and the object of the Rent Control Act is to afford special protection to all the tenants or private landlords or landlords who are neither a corporation nor Government or corporate bodies.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, held that the Public Premises Act is a special Act as compared to the Rent Control Act and it overrides the provisions of the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the petitioners have assailed the correctness of the said decision and have submitted that it needs reconsideration.24.	Reasoning
As regards rent control legislation enacted by the State Legislatures, the position is well settled that such legislation falls within the ambit of entries 6, 7 and 13 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution (see	Reasoning
Indu Bhushan Bose v. Rama Sundari Debi 1970 (1) SCR 443 V. Dhanpal Chettiars case 1980 (1) SCR 334 Jai Singh Jairam Tyagi v. Maman Chand Ratilal Agarwal 1980 (3) SCR 224 and Accountant and Secretarial Services P. Ltd. v. Union of India 1988 (4) SCC 324 ).The	Reasoning
Rent Control Act has been enacted by Parliament in relation to the Union Territory of Delhi in exercise of the legislative power conferred under article 246(4) of the Constitution which empowers Parliament to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.25.	Reasoning
The Public Premises Act deals with Government property as well as property belonging to other legal entities mentioned in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
In so far as it relates to eviction of unauthorised occupants from premises belonging to or taken on lease or requisitioned by or on behalf of the Central Government the Public Premises Act would fall within entry 32 of List I being law with respect to a property of the Union.	Reasoning
The property belonging to the various legal entities mentioned in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act cannot be regarded as property of the Union and the Public Premises Act cannot be held to have been enacted under entry 32 of List I in respect of the said properties.	Reasoning
In Accountant and Secretarial Services P. Ltd. v. Union of India 1988 (4) SCC 324, this court has held that the Public Premises Act, in relation to properties other than the properties belonging to the Central Government, has been enacted under the concurrent list.	Reasoning
The learned Additional SolicitorGeneral has placed reliance on the decision of this court in Saiyada Mossarrat v. Hindustan Steel Ltd. 1989 (1) SCC 272 , wherein it has been held that with regard to the subjectmatter of speedy eviction of unauthorised occupants from properties belonging to a Government company, wherein the Central Government has more than fifty one per cent.	Reasoning
of the paidup capital, the source of authority can be traced to entry 97 read with entry 95 of the Union List (List I).	Reasoning
This court has, however, affirmed the decision of the Division Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in L. S. Nair v. Hindustan Steel Ltd., 1980 AIR(MP) 106, wherein it has been held that in so far as the Public Premises Act deals with a lessee or licensee of premises belonging to a Government company, the subjectmatter of the Act would be covered by entries 6, 7 and 46 of List III.	Reasoning
After quoting the observations of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in this regard, this court has observed Learned counsel for the petitioner has not been able to show that there is any infirmity in the reasoning of the High Court.26.	Reasoning
This shows that the decision of this court is founded on the view mentioned above.	Reasoning
Since the Act was held to be covered by entries 6, 7 and 46 of List III, it was not necessary to invoke the residuary power of legislation under entry 97 of List I.	Reasoning
The observations made by this court that the source of authority in the matter of speedy eviction of unauthorised occupants from properties belonging to a Government company wherein the Central Government has more than fifty one per cent.	Reasoning
of the paidup share capital can, in any case, be traced to entry 97 read with entry 95 of List	Reasoning
I are obiter in nature only.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no inconsistency between the decisions of this court in Accountant and Secretarial Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India 1988 (4) SCC 324 and Smt.	Reasoning
Saiyada Mossarrats case 1989 (1) SCC 272 , inasmuch as in both the decisions	Reasoning
it is held that the Public Premises Act in so far as it deals with a lessee or licensee of premises other than premises belonging to the Central Government has been enacted in exercise of the legislative powers in respect of matters enumerated in the Concurrent List.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with this view.27.	Reasoning
This means that both the statutes, viz., the Public Premises Act and the Rent Control Act, have been enacted by the same Legislature, Parliament, in exercise of the legislative powers in respect of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to accept the contention of the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral that the Public Premises Act, having been enacted by Parliament in exercise of legislative powers in respect of matters enumerated in the Union List would ipso facto override the provisions of the Rent Control Act enacted in exercise of the legislative powers in respect of matters enumerated in the Concurrent List.	Reasoning
In our opinion the question as to whether the provisions of the Public Premises Act override the provisions of the Rent Control Act will have to be considered in the light of the principles of statutory interpretation applicable to laws made by the same Legislature.	Reasoning
One such principle of statutory interpretation which is applied is contained in the latin maxim leges posteriores priores contrarias abrogant (later laws abrogate earlier contrary laws).	Reasoning
This principle is subject to the exception embodied in the maxim generalia specialibus non derogant (a general provision does not derogate from a special one).	Reasoning
This means that where the literal meaning of the general enactment covers a situation for which specific provision is made by another enactment contained in an earlier Act, it is presumed that the situation was intended to continue to be dealt with by the specific provision rather than the later general one (Bennion Statutory Interpretation, pages 43334).	None
The rationale of this rule is thus explained by this court in J. K. Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh 1961 (3) SCR 185 ( at page 194)	None
The rule that general provisions should yield to specific provisions is not an arbitrary principle made by lawyers and judges but springs from the common understanding of men and women that when the same person gives two directions one covering a large number of matters in general and another to only some of them his intention is that these latter directions should prevail as regards these while as regards all the rest the earlier directions should have effect.	None
In U. P. State Electricity Board v. Hari Shankar Jain 1979 (1) SCR 355 , this court has observed (at page 366)	None
In passing a special Act, Parliament devotes its entire consideration to a particular subject.	None
When a general Act is subsequently passed, it is logical to presume that Parliament has not repealed or modified the former special Act unless it appears that the special Act again received consideration from Parliament.	None
In Life Insurance Corporation v. D. J. Bahadur 1981 (1) SCR 1083	None
Krishna Iyer J. has pointed out (at page 1127)	None
In determining whether a statute is a special or a general one, the focus must be on the principal subjectmatter plus the particular perspective.	None
For certain purposes, an Act may be general and for certain other purposes it may be special and we cannot blur distinctions when dealing with finer points of law.	None
The Public Premises Act is a later enactment, having been enacted on 23rd August, 1971, whereas the Rent Control Act was enacted on 31st December, 1958.	Arguments of Respondent
It represents the later will of Parliament and should prevail over the Rent Control Act unless it can be said that the Public Premises Act is a general enactment, whereas the Rent Control Act is a special enactment and being a special enactment the Rent Control Act should prevail over the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
The submission of learned counsel for the petitioners is that the Rent Control Act is a special enactment dealing with premises in occupation of tenants, whereas the Public Premises Act is a general enactment dealing with the occupants of public premises and that in so far as public premises in occupation of tenants are concerned the provisions of the Rent Control Act would continue to apply and to that extent the provisions of the Public Premises Act would not be applicable.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this submission, reliance has been placed on the non obstante clauses contained in sections 14 and 22 of the Rent Control Act as well as the provisions contained in sections 50 and 54 of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondents have urged that the Rent Control Act is a general enactment dealing with the relationship of landlord and tenant generally, whereas the Public Premises Act is a special enactment making provision for speedy recovery of possession of public premises in unauthorised occupation and that the provisions of the Public Premises Act, a later special Act, will, therefore, override the provisions of the Rent Control Act in so far as they are applicable to public premises in the occupation of persons who have continued in occupation after the lease has expired or has been determined.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondents has placed reliance on section 15 of the Public Premises Act which bars the jurisdiction of all courts in respect of the eviction of any person who is in unauthorised occupation of any public premises and other matters specified therein.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been submitted that the said provision is also in the nature of a non obstante clause which gives overriding effect to the provisions of the Public Premises Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, each side claims that the enactment relied upon by it is a special statute and the other enactment is general and also invokes the non obstante clause contained in the enactment relied upon.	Reasoning
The Rent Control Act makes a departure from the general law regulating the relationship of landlord and tenant contained in the Transfer of Property Act inasmuch as it makes provision for determination of standard rent, it specifies the grounds on which a landlord can seek the eviction of a tenant, it prescribes the forum for, adjudication of disputes between landlords and tenants and the procedure which has to be followed in such proceedings.	Reasoning
The Rent Control Act can, therefore, be said to be a special statute regulating the relationship of landlord and tenant in the Union Territory of Delhi.	Reasoning
The Public Premises Act makes provision for a speedy machinery to secure eviction of unauthorised occupants from public premises.	Reasoning
As opposed to the general law which provides for filing of a regular suit for recovery of possession of property in a competent court and for trial of such a suit in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, the Public Premises Act confers the power to pass an order for eviction of an unauthorised occupant in public premises on a designated officer and prescribes the procedure to be followed by the said officer before passing such an order.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Public Premises Act is also a special statute relating to eviction of unauthorised occupants from public premises.	Reasoning
In other words, both the enactments, namely, the Rent Control Act and the Public Premises Act, are special statutes in relation to the matters dealt with therein.	Reasoning
Since the Public Premises Act is a special statute and not a general enactment the exception contained in the principle that a subsequent general law cannot derogate from an earlier special law cannot be invoked and in accordance with the principle that the later laws abrogate earlier contrary laws, the Public Premises Act must prevail over the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
We arrive at the same conclusion by applying the principle which is followed for resolving a conflict between the provisions of two special enactments made by the same Legislature.	Reasoning
We may in this context refer to some of the cases which have come before this court where the provisions of two enactments made by the same Legislature were found to be inconsistent and each enactment was claimed to be a special enactment and had a non obstante clause giving overriding effect to its provisions.	Reasoning
In Shri Ram Narain v. Simla Banking and Industrial Co. Ltd. 1956 (26) CC 280, this court was considering the provisions contained in the Banking Companies Act, 1949, and the Displaced Persons (Debts Adjustment) Act, 1951.	None
Both the enactments contained provisions giving overriding effect to the provisions of the enactment over any other law.	None
This court has observed (pages 289, 290) Each enactment being a special Act, the ordinary principle that a special law overrides a general law does not afford any clear solution in this case.	None
It is, therefore, desirable to determine the overriding effect of one or the other of the relevant provisions in these two Acts, in a given case, on much broader considerations of the purpose and policy underlying the two Acts and the clear intendment conveyed by the language of the relevant provisions therein.	None
Similarly in Kumaon Motor Owners Union Ltd. v. State of Uttar Pradesh 1966 (2) SCR 121 , there was conflict between the provisions contained in rule 131(2)(gg) and (i) of the Defence of India Rules, 1962, and Chapter IVA of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939.	None
Section 68B gave overriding effect to the provisions of Chapter IVA of the Motor Vehicles Act whereas section 43 of the Defence of India Act, 1962, gave overriding effect to the provisions contained in the Defence of India Rules.	None
This court held that the Defence of India Act was later than the Motor Vehicles Act and, therefore, if there was anything repugnant, the provisions of the later Act should prevail.	None
This court also looked into the object behind the two statutes, namely, the Defence of India Act and the Motor Vehicles Act, and on that basis also it was held that the provisions contained in the Defence of India Rules would have overriding effect over the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
In Sarwan Singh v. Kasturi Lal 1977 (2) SCR 421 , the question for consideration was, whether the provisions of section 14A and Chapter IIIA of the Rent Control Act will prevail over those contained in sections 19 and 39 of the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1956.	None
Sections 14A and 25A of the Rent Control Act contained non obstante clauses but in section 54 of the Rent Control Act it was expressly provided that nothing in the said Act shall affect the provisions of the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1956.	None
Moreover, in section 19 of the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1956, there was a non obstante clause and section 39 of the said Act gave overriding effect to the provisions of the said enactment over any other law.	None
This court has observed (page 433) When two or more laws operate in the same field and each contains a non obstante clause stating that its provisions will override those of any other law, stimulating and incisive problems of interpretation arise.	None
Since statutory interpretation has no conventional protocol, cases of such conflict have to be decided in reference to the object and purpose of the laws under consideration.	None
After examining the special and specific purpose underlying the enactment of section 14A and Chapter IIIA of the Rent Control Act and the fact that the Rent Control Act was a later enactment, this court held that the provisions of the Rent Control Act would prevail over those contained in the Slum Areas (Improvement And Clearance) Act, 1956.	None
The principle which emerges from these decisions is that in the case of inconsistency between the provisions of two enactments, both of which can be regarded as special in nature, the conflict has to be resolved by reference to the purpose and policy underlying the two enactments and the clear intendment conveyed by the language of the relevant provisions therein.	Reasoning
We propose to consider this matter in the light of this principle.	Reasoning
The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the enactment of the Rent Control Act indicates that it has been enacted with a view (a) to devise a suitable machinery for expeditious adjudication of proceedings between landlords and tenants (b) to provide for the determination of the standard rent payable by tenants of the various categories of premises which should be fair to the tenants, and at the same time, provide incentive for keeping the existing houses in good repairs, and for further investment in house construction and(c) to give tenants a larger measure of protection against eviction.	Reasoning
This indicates that the object underlying the Rent Control Act is to make provisions for expeditious adjudication of disputes between landlords and tenants, determination of standard rent payable by tenants and giving protection against eviction to tenants.	Reasoning
The premises belonging to the Government are excluded from the ambit of the Rent Control Act which means that the Act has been enacted primarily to regulate the private relationship between landlords and tenants with a view to confer certain benefits on the tenants and at the same time to balance the interest of the landlords by providing for expeditious adjudication of proceedings between landlords and tenants.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier, the Public Premises Act has been enacted with a view to provide for eviction of unauthorised occupants from public premises.	Reasoning
In the Statement of Objects and Reasons for this enactment reference has been made to the judicial decisions whereby the 1958 Act was declared as unconstitutional and it has been mentioned The court decisions, referred to above, have created serious difficulties for the Government inasmuch as the proceedings taken by the various Estate Officers appointed under the Act either for the eviction of persons who are in unauthorised occupation of public premises or for the recovery of rent or damages from such persons stand null and void.	None
It has become impossible for the Government to take expeditious action even in flagrant cases of unauthorised occupation of public premises and recovery of rent or damages for such unauthorised occupation.	None
It is, therefore, considered imperative to restore a speedy machinery for the eviction of persons who are in unauthorised occupation of public premises keeping in view at the same time the necessity of complying with the provision of the Constitution and the judicial pronouncements, referred to above.	None
This shows that the Public Premises Act has been enacted to deal with the mischief of rampant unauthorised occupation of public premises by providing a speedy machinery for the eviction of persons in unauthorised occupation.	Reasoning
In order to secure this object the said Act prescribes the time period for the various steps which are required to be taken for securing eviction of the persons in unauthorised occupation.	None
The object underlying the enactment is to safeguard public interest by making available for public use premises belonging to the Central Government, companies in which the Central Government has substantial interest, corporations owned or controlled by the Central Government and certain autonomous bodies and to prevent misuse of such premises.	None
It would thus appear that, while the Rent Control Act is intended to deal with the general relationship of landlords and tenants in respect of premises other than Government premises, the Public Premises Act is intended to deal with speedy recovery of possession of premises of public nature, i.e., property belonging to the Central Government, or companies in which the Central Government has substantial interest or corporations owned or controlled by the Central Government and certain corporations, institutions, autonomous bodies and local authorities.	Reasoning
The effect of giving overriding effect to the provisions of the Public Premises Act over the Rent Control Act, would be that buildings belonging to companies, corporations and autonomous bodies referred to in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act would be excluded from the ambit of the Rent Control Act in the same manner as properties belonging to the Central Government.	Reasoning
The reason underlying the exclusion of property belonging to the Government from the ambit of the Rent Control Act, is that the Government while dealing with the citizens in respect of property belonging to it would not act for its own purpose as a private landlord but would act in public interest.	Reasoning
What can be said with regard to the Government in relation to property belonging to it can also be said with regard to companies, corporations and other statutory bodies mentioned in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
In our opinion, therefore, keeping in view the object and purpose underlying both the enactments, viz., the Rent Control Act and the Public Premises Act, the provisions of the Public Premises Act have to be construed as overriding the provisions contained in the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
As regards the non obstante clauses contained in sections 14 and 22 and the provisions contained in sections 50 and 54 of the Rent Control Act, it may be stated that Parliament was aware of these provisions when it enacted the Public Premises Act containing a specific provision in section 15 barring jurisdiction of all courts (which would include the Rent Controller under the Rent Control Act).	Reasoning
This indicates that Parliament intended that the provisions of the Public Premises Act would prevail over the provisions of the Rent Control Act in spite of the abovementioned provisions contained in the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
It has been urged by learned counsel for the petitioner that there is no conflict between the provisions of the Rent Control Act and the Public Premises Act and that both the provisions can be given effect to without one overriding the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this regard, it has been pointed out that since no provisions have been made in the Public Premises Act for the termination of the lease, the provisions of the Rent Control Act can be held applicable up to the stage of termination of the lease, and thereafter, proceedings can be initiated for eviction under the provisions of the Public Premises Act.	None
In support of this submission, reliance has been placed on Dhanapal Chettiars case, 1979 AIR(SC) 1745, wherein it has been held that in view of the special provisions contained in the State Rent Control Acts, it is no longer necessary to issue a notice under section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act to terminate the tenancy because in spite of the said notice the tenant is entitled to continue in occupation by virtue of the provisions of the said Acts.	Reasoning
In the said case, it has been further laid down that the relationship between the landlord and tenant continues till the passing of the order of eviction in accordance with the provisions of the Rent Act, and, therefore, for the eviction of the tenant in accordance with the law, an order of the competent court under the Rent Control Act is necessary.	None
This would mean that in order to evict a person who is continuing in occupation after the expiration or termination of his contractual tenancy in accordance with law, two proceedings will have to be initiated.	Reasoning
First, there will be proceedings under the Rent Control Act before the Rent Controller followed by appeal before the Rent Control Tribunal and revision before the High Court.	Reasoning
After these proceedings have ended they would be followed by proceedings under the Public Premises Act, before the Estate Officer and the appellate authority.	Reasoning
In other words, persons in occupation of public premises would receive greater protection than tenants in premises owned by private persons.	Reasoning
It could not be the intention of Parliament to confer this dual benefit on persons in occupation of public premises.	None
It has also been urged that in section 22 of the Rent Control Act, special provision has been made for recovery of possession of premises belonging to a company or other body corporate or any local authority or any public institution and that premises belonging to companies, corporations and autonomous bodies mentioned in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act would be covered by the said provision and that in view of this special provision it is not necessary to have a further provision in the Public Premises Act for the recovery of possession belonging to those bodies, and, therefore, the provisions of the Public Premises Act should be confined in their application to premises other than premises covered by the Rent Control Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 22 of the Rent Control Act provides as under Where the landlord in respect of any premises is any company or other body corporate or any local authority or any public institution and the premises are required for the use of employees of such landlord or in the case of a public institution for the furtherance of its activities, then, notwithstanding anything contained in section 14 or any other law, the Controller may, on an application made to him in this behalf by such landlord, place the landlord in vacant possession of such premises by evicting the tenant and every other person who may be in occupation thereof, if the Controller is satisfied(a) that the tenant to whom such premises were let for use as a residence at a time when he was in the service or employment of the landlord, has ceased to be in such service or employment or(b) that the tenant has acted in contravention of the terms, express or implied, under which he was authorised to occupy such premises or(c) that any other person is in unauthorised occupation of such premises or(d) that the premises are required bona fide by the public institution for the furtherance of its activities.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purpose of this section, public institution includes any educational institution, library, hospital and charitable dispensary but does not include any such institution set up by any private trust.	None
The said special provision shows that it enables recovery of possession of premises of which the landlord is a company or other body corporate or any local authority or any public institution in certain circumstances, viz., if the premises are required for the use of the employees or such landlord.	None
In the case of public institutions, possession can also be obtained under this provision if the premises are required for the furtherance of its activities.	Reasoning
In other words, recovery of possession is permissible under this provision only in certain circumstances and for certain purposes.	Reasoning
In spite of this provision Parliament has considered it necessary to extend the Public Premises Act to premises belonging to companies, corporations and statutory bodies mentioned in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e) by widening the definition of the expression public premises in section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
The scope and ambit of the aforesaid power conferred under the Public Premises Act cannot be restricted by reference to the provision contained in section 22 of the Rent Control Act.40.	Reasoning
It has been urged by learned counsel for the petitioners that many of the corporations referred to in section 2(e)(2)(ii) of the Public Premises Act, like the nationalised banks and the Life Insurance Corporation, are trading corporations and under the provisions of the enactments whereby they are constituted these corporations are required to carry on their business with a view to earn profit, and that there is nothing to preclude these corporations to buy property in possession of tenants at a low price and after buying such property evict the tenants after terminating the tenancy and thereafter sell the said property at a much higher value because the value of property in possession of tenants is much less as compared to vacant property.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to cut down the scope of the provisions of the Public Premises Act on the basis of such an apprehension because as pointed out by this court in Dwarkadas Marfatia and Sons v. Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay 1989 (3) SCC 293 , 306 Every activity of a public authority especially in the background of the assumption on which such authority enjoys immunity from the rigour of the Rent Control Act, must be informed by reason and guided by public interest.	Reasoning
All exercise of discretion or power by public authorities as the respondent, in respect of dealing with tenants in respect of which they have been treated separately and distinctly from other landlords on the assumption that they would not act as private landlords, must be judged by that standard.	Reasoning
These observations were made in the context of the provisions of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging Houses Rates (Control) Act, 1947, whereby exemption from the provisions of the Act has been granted to premises belonging to the Bombay Port Trust.	Reasoning
The consequence of giving overriding effect to the provisions of the Public Premises Act is that premises belonging to companies and statutory bodies referred to in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act would be exempted from the provisions of the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
The actions of the companies and statutory bodies mentioned in clauses (2) and (3) of section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act while dealing with their properties under the Public Premises Act will, therefore, have to be judged by the same standard.42.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforesaid, we are unable to accept the contention of learned counsel for the petitioners that the provisions contained in the Public Premises Act cannot be applied to premises which fall within the ambit of the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the provisions of the Public Premises Act, to the extent they cover premises falling within the ambit of the Rent Control Act, override the provisions of the Rent Control Act and a person in unauthorised occupation of public premises under section 2(e) of the Act cannot invoke the protection of the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
In Civil Appeal No. 3725 of 1968, Shri Yogeshwar Prasad sought to raise contentions relating to the particular facts of that case, namely, that the termination of the lease of the appellant is vitiated by mala fides and that the said appellant could not be held to be a person in unauthorised occupation of the premises and further that the proceedings have not been taken in accordance with the provisions of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
We find that in this case the appellant filed a writ petition in the High Court directly against the order passed by the Estate Officer without filing an appeal against the said order before the appellate authority.	Reasoning
The High Court has held that the question of mala fides is a disputed question of fact and the same could not be gone into in proceedings under article 226 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with the said view of the High Court.	Reasoning
As regards the other contentions we are of the view that the appellant cannot be permitted to agitate matters which could be agitated by him in appeal before the appellate authority.	None
In Civil Appeals Nos. 2368 and 2369 of 1986, learned counsel for the respondents have raised a preliminary objection with regard to the maintainability of these appeals on the ground that the appellants, on account of their conduct, are not entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of this court under article 136 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The submission of learned counsel is that before initiating proceedings under the provisions of the Public Premises Act the respondentbank, viz., the Punjab National Bank, had initiated proceedings under the Rent Control Act for the eviction of the appellants and in those proceedings the appellants had filed an objection with regard to the maintainability of the eviction proceedings under the Rent Control Act before the Additional Rent Controller and thereupon the respondent bank initiated proceedings for eviction of the appellants under the Public Premises Act and thereafter the proceedings initiated by the respondent bank under the Rent Control Act were dismissed by the Additional Rent Controller by orders dated August 6, 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondents have urged that the appellants, having raised the objection against the maintainability of the proceedings for eviction under the Rent Control Act on the ground that proceedings could only be maintained under the provisions of the Public Premises Act and having got them dismissed, cannot turn round and raise an objection that the proceedings for eviction under the Public Premises Act are not maintainable and the proceedings can only be taken under the Rent Control Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the appellants have submitted that special leave to appeal was granted by this court after notice to the respondents and at that stage the respondents had raised this objection but this court granted special leave and it is not permissible for the respondents to agitate this question now.	None
The orders dated August 6, 1989, which were passed by the Additional Rent Controller in the proceedings for eviction initiated by the respondentbank under the Rent Control Act against the appellants in these appeals have been placed on record by the respondents and from the said orders it appears that in the proceedings initiated under the Rent Control Act the appellants had raised a plea that the premises in question had been declared public premises under the Public Premises Act and in view of that the proceedings under the Rent Control Act were not competent.	Reasoning
The said orders also show that the Additional Rent Controller dismissed the proceedings for eviction under the Rent Control Act on the view that the Public Premises Act is applicable to premises in question and his jurisdiction was excluded.	Reasoning
This would show that the proceedings which were initiated by the respondent bank for the eviction of the appellants under the Rent Control Act were dismissed as not maintainable on the ground that the Rent Control Act was not applicable to the premises and the premises are governed by the provisions of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
This finding was recorded by the Additional Rent Controller in view of the objection raised by the appellants with regard to the maintainability of those proceedings.	Reasoning
In other words, the appellants succeeded in those proceedings on the basis of their plea that the premises were not governed by the Rent Control Act and were governed by the provisions of the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
Having got the proceedings under the Rent Control Act dismissed the appellants are now raising the plea that the proceedings under the Public Premises Act are not maintainable and that the only remedy available is under the Rent Control Act.	Reasoning
This conduct of the appellants would have disentitled them from invoking the jurisdiction of this court under article 136 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Since we are of the view that the appellants cannot succeed on the merits, we do not propose to dismiss the appeals on this preliminary ground.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeals and the writ petition are dismissed.	Decision
There will be no order as to costs.44.	Decision
The appellants in Civil Appeals Nos. 2368 and 2369 of 1986 had been dispossessed from the premises in their occupation after the dismissal of their appeals by the Additional District judge.	Decision
During the pendency of these appeals, interim orders were passed by this court whereunder possession of a part of the premises was restored to the appellants.	Decision
Since these appeals have been dismissed the appellants in both the appeals are directed to hand over possession of the portion of the premises in their occupation to the respondent bank within one month.45.	Decision
In Civil Appeal No. 3725 of 1986 and Writ Petition No. 864 of 1985, this court had passed interim orders staying the eviction of the petitioners in those matters.	Decision
Since the appeal and the writ petition are being dismissed the said interim orders shall stand vacated.46.	Decision
Appeals and petitions dismissed.	Decision
