 	Reasoning
This appeal is directed against the judgment of the learned Single Judge of the Gujarat High Court whereby he allowed the appeal filed by respondent No. 1 under Section 173 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for short, the Act), set aside award dated 24.10.1997 passed by Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (Main), Nadiad (for short, the Tribunal) in MACP No. 215/1987 and declared that liability of respondent No. 1 would be limited to Rs. 30,000/ and the said respondent is entitled to refund of the amount paid in excess of Rs. 30,000/ with interest at the rate of 12 per annum and proportionate costs.	Issue
In an accident which occurred on 23.10.1986 involving the taxi owned by respondent No. 3, the appellant suffered grievous injuries.	Facts
He filed claim under Section 166 of the Act for award of compensation to the tune of Rs. 2,50,000/ by asserting that the accident was caused due to rash and negligent driving of the taxi by respondent No. 2.	Facts
He further pleaded that due to accident he had suffered grievous injuries and was treated for compound fracture in the right hand and as a result of that he suffered permanent disability.	Facts
Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 contested the claim and denied the allegation of rash and negligent driving of taxi.	Facts
They pleaded that the accident occurred when a truck dashed on the right side of the taxi and the appellants hand was injured because it was kept outside the window.	Facts
Respondent No. 1 also contested the claim and pleaded that it was not liable because the driver was not holding valid driving licence.	Facts
On the pleadings of the parties the Tribunal framed the following issued Whether the applicant proves that he sustained injuries because of the rash and negligent driving of the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident?	None
Whether the applicant is entitled to compensation?	None
If yes, what amount and from whom?	None
What award and order?	None
After considering the evidence produced by the parties the Tribunal held that the accident was caused due to rash and negligent driving of the taxi.	Facts
The Tribunal then considered the issue relating to quantum of compensation and held that the appellant is entitled to total amount of Rs. 1,46,000/ with running interest at the rate of 12 per annum from the date of filing the claim petition with proportionate costs.	Facts
The Tribunal ordained payment of compensation by respondent Nos. 1 to 3.	Facts
The appeal filed by respondent No. 1 was allowed by the learned Single Judge by relying upon Section 95(2) of the Act and the judgment of this Court in New India Assurance Company Ltd. v. C.M. Jaya and Others, I (2002)	Facts
SLT 29095 (2002) DLT 500 (SC)I (2002) ACC 299 (SC)(2002) 2 SCC 278.	Facts
5.	None
Mr. Haresh Raichura, learned Counsel for the appellant argued that in view of the law laid down by the Constitution Bench in New India Assurance Company Ltd. v. C.M. Jaya and Others (supra) the liability of respondent No. 1 may be limited, but the learned Single Judge of the High Court committed serious error by giving an option to the said respondent to recover the amount from the appellant and or respondent No. 3.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the appellant cannot be made to refund the amount paid after a gap of 24 years.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel for respondent No. 1 fairly stated that his client should be given liberty to recover the excess amount from respondent No. 3.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions of the learned Counsel for the parties and are convinced that the learned Single Judge committed serious error by not specifying the person from whom respondent No.1 may recover the amount paid to the appellant.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that respondent No. 3 had not questioned the award of the Tribunal by filing an appeal under Section 173 of the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, he shall be deemed to have admitted his liability and the mere fact that the Tribunal had fastened liability to pay compensation on respondent No. 1, along with respondent Nos. 2 and 3, the owner cannot be absolved of the responsibility to refund the excess amount paid by respondent No. 1 to the appellant.	Reasoning
In the result the appeal is allowed, the operative portion of the impugned judgment is set aside and it is declared that respondent No. 1 shall be entitled to recover the amount paid to the appellant in excess of Rs. 30,000/ from respondent No. 3 along with interest and proportionate costs.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
