 Hemant Gupta J. The challenge in Civil Appeal No. 2628 of 2017 is to an order dated 19.04.2007 passed by the learned Single Bench of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, whereby an order dated 08.12.2006 passed by the Controlling Authority, Kanpur under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 Act was not interfered with.2.	Issue
Civil Appeal No. 2629 of 2017 has also been taken up along with present appeal wherein the challenge is to an order dated 02.05.2007 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad upholding an order dated 29.04.2006 of Controlling Authority (Additional Labour Commissioner, Gorakhpur, U.P .)	Issue
passed under the Act allowing the petition for gratuity in favour of the respondent herein.	Issue
The appellant, the Municipal Corporation, Kanpur is governed by the Uttar Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1959 1959 Act whereas, the respondent is an employee of the appellant.	Facts
The employees in both cases claimed gratuity by invoking the jurisdiction of the Controlling Authorities under the Act.	Facts
The argument of the appellant before the learned Single Bench was that the gratuity is payable in accordance with the Retirement Benefits and General Provident Fund Regulations, 1962 1962 Regulations framed under Section 548 of the 1959 Act as amended on 11/01/1988.	Facts
Such Regulations contemplate payment of gratuity at the rate of 15 days salary per month for 16.5 months.	Facts
It was found by the High Court that it is the Act which is applicable, whereby, gratuity calculated at the rate of 15 days salary for every completed year without any ceiling of months or part thereof.4.	Facts
The argument raised by the appellant before the High Court is, that the gratuity is payable in terms of Rule 4(1) of the 1962 Regulations published under Section 548 (1) of the 1959 Act as amended on 11.01.1988.	Facts
Therefore, the employees of the Municipalities are entitled to gratuity only in terms of such Regulations and not under the Act.5.	Facts
The High Court relied upon a judgment reported as Municipal Corporation of Delhi vs Dharam Prakash Sharma and another AIR 1999 SC 293 to hold that only employees of Central Government or the State Government are exempt from the applicability of the Act, therefore, the employees of the Appellants would be governed by the Act and are entitled to gratuity in terms of the scale mentioned therein.	Facts
It was held that the Act is not applicable only to the Central Government or State Governments in terms of definition of an employee under Section 2 (e) of the Act.	Facts
Therefore, the employees of the Municipalities are entitled to the gratuity in terms of the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The appellant relies upon Section 3 of the U.P Dookan Aur Vanijya Adhishthan Adhiniyam, 1962 1962 Act which is to the effect that such Act will have no application to the office of Government or Local Bodies.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, on the strength of such statutory provision, it was argued that the Act would not be applicable in respect of the Municipalities.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant is not a factory, mine, oilfield, plantation, port and railway company and that there is no notification as stipulated under Clause (c) of Section 1(3) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, the employees of the Municipalities are entitled to the gratuity in terms of the Regulations framed in exercise of powers of Section 548 of the 1959 Act and not under the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent pointed out that the Central Government has published a notification in terms of Section 1(3)(c) of the Act on 08.01.1982 to extend the applicability of the Act to the Municipalities.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, the Act is applicable to the Municipalities.	Arguments of Respondent
The relevant provisions of the Act read as under Short title, extent, application and commencement.	None
(1) This Act may be called the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972.(2)	Arguments of Respondent
It extends to the whole of India Provided that in so far as it relates to plantations or ports, it shall not extend to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.(3)	Arguments of Respondent
It shall apply to (a) every factory, mine, oilfield, plantation, port and railway company(b) every shop or establishment within the meaning of any law for the time being in force in relation to shops and establishments in a State, in which ten or more persons are employed, or were employed, on any day of the preceding twelve months(c) such other establishments or class of establishments, in which ten or more employees are employed, or were employed, on any day of the preceding twelve months, as the Central Government may, by notification, specify in this behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
A perusal of the above provisions would show that the Act is applicable to (1) every factory, mine, oilfield, plantation, port and railway company (2) every shop or establishment within the meaning of any law for the time being in force in relation to shops and establishments in a State, in which ten or more persons are employed, the said provision has two conditions, viz.	Reasoning
(i) a shop or establishments within the meaning of a State law and (ii) in which ten or more persons are employed and (3) the establishments or class of establishments which Central Government may notify.9.	Reasoning
The appellant is not covered by clauses (a) and (b) of Section 1(3) of the Act.	Reasoning
Clause (a) is not applicable on the face of the provisions, but even clause (b) is not applicable in view of Section 3 (c) of the 1962 Act as such Act is not applicable to the offices of the Government or local authorities.	Reasoning
The Local Authorities means a municipal committee, district board etc or entrusted with the control or management of a municipal or local fund in terms of Section 3(31) of the General Clauses Act, 1897.10.	Reasoning
In terms of the above said Section 1(3)(c) of the Act, the Central Government has published a notification on 08.01.1982 and specified Local Bodies in which ten or more persons are employed, or were employed, on any day of the preceding twelve months as a class of establishment to which this Act shall apply.	Reasoning
The said notification dated 08.01.1982 reads as under New Delhi, the 8 th January, 1982 NOTIFICATION O. No. 239.In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of subsection (3) of section 1 of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (39 of 1972), the Central Government hereby specified local bodies in which ten or more persons are employed, or were employed, on any day preceding twelve months, as a class of establishments to which the said Act shall apply with effect from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette.	None
Sd .	None
K. A. Subrahmanya)	None
Additional Secretary (F .	None
No.	None
S70020/16/77FPG)	None
We find that the notification dated 08.01.1982 was not referred to before the High Court.	Reasoning
Such notification makes it abundantly clear that the Act is applicable to the local bodies i.e., the Municipalities.	Reasoning
Section 14 of the Act has given an overriding effect over any other inconsistent provision in any other enactment.	Reasoning
The said provision reads as under Act to override other enactments, etc.	None
The provisions of this Act or any rule made thereunder shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any enactment other than this Act or in any instrument or contract having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.	None
In view of Section 14 of the Act, the provision in the State Act contemplating payment of Gratuity will be inapplicable in respect of the employees of the local bodies.13.	Reasoning
Section 2(e) of the Act alone was referred to in the judgment reported as Municipal Corporation of Delhi (supra).	Reasoning
The said judgment is in the context of CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972 1972 Rules which specifically provides for payment of Pension and Gratuity.	Reasoning
The Act is applicable to the Municipalities, therefore, it is wholly inconsequential even if there is no reference to the notification dated 08.01.1982.14.	None
The entire argument of the appellant is that the State Act confers restrictive benefit of gratuity than what is conferred under the Central Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such argument is not tenable in view of Section 14 of the Act and that liberal payment of gratuity is in fact in the interest of the employees.	Reasoning
Thus, the gratuity would be payable under the Act.	Reasoning
Such is the view taken by the Controlling Authority.15.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid, we find that there is no error in the orders passed by the Controlling Authorities under the Act and as maintained by the High Court.	Reasoning
Consequently, the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
