 B. SINHA, J. Leave granted.	None
These two appeals arising out of a judgment and order dated 2.11.2007 rendered by the High Court of Jharkhand at Ranchi in Writ Petition (T) No. 4693 of 2005 were taken up for hearing together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	None
The factual matrix involved is not in dispute.	None
M s Tata Iron Steel Company Limited (TISCO) produces steel.	Facts
For the said purpose, it purchases oxygen gas from M s B.O.C. India Ltd. (BOC), the producer and supplier, for industrial and medical use.	Facts
BOC began supply of oxygen gas to TISCO from the year 1993.Indisputably, TISCO applied for and was granted a registration certificate in terms of the provisions of Section 13(1)(b) of the Bihar Finance Act, 1981 (hereinafter called and referred to as, the Act).	Facts
The said certificate originally was granted on 16.3.1983.	Facts
Indisputably, it was renewed from time to time it covered the period in question, namely, 200102, having been renewed till 31.5.2004.Indisputably, in terms of the provisions of the Act and the rules framed thereunder, a dealer is required to show the list of goods which were taxable at 1 as also the list of those goods which were taxable at 3.	Facts
Oxygen was shown in the list of goods taxable at 3 as specified in Annexure B appended to the registration certificate.	Facts
4.	Facts
We may at this stage notice the relevant statutory provisions, namely, Sections 13(1)(b), 14 (2) and 54 of the Act, which read as under Special rate of tax on certain sales or purchases.	Facts
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this part but subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed.(a) (b) Sales to or purchases by a registered dealer of goods required by him directly for use in the manufacture or processing of any goods for sale.14.	Facts
Registration of dealers.	Facts
(1) (2) Every dealer required by subsection (1) to be in possession of a registration certificate shall apply for the same in the prescribed manner to the prescribed authority, and the said authority shall, on being satisfied that the application is in order, register the applicant and grant him a registration certificate within prescribed time in the prescribed manner and in the prescribed form specifying therein the goods or class or description of goods which the dealer sells or purchase and such other particulars as may be prescribed.	Facts
Provided that no application referred to in this subsection shall be considered and be deemed valid, unless the applicant furnishes correctly all the prescribed particulars and, such other particulars as may be required by the prescribed authority in this behalfProvided further that where a dealer required by subsection (1) to be in possession of a registration certificate applies for such a certificate within the prescribed timelimit and in the prescribed manner and the application is otherwise valid in accordance with the first proviso of this subsection, he shall be deemed to be in possession of a valid registration certificate from the date he so applied for the purposes of exercising all the rights and performing all the duties and bearing all the liabilities under this part and the rules made thereunderProvided also that where a dealer carries on any business of sale or purchase of goods, in violation of the express and specific provisions of any law of the State or the Union, then notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this part and without prejudice to his liability to pay tax, the prescribed authority shall refuse to grant him a registration certificate.54.	Facts
Furnishing of information by dealers.	Facts
If any dealer liable to pay tax under this part(a) disposes of his business or any part of his business, whether by sale or otherwise, or(b) acquires any business or part of any business, whether by purchase or otherwise, or(c) effects any other change in the ownership or constitution of the business, or(d) discontinues his business or shifts his place of business, or(e) changes the name, style or nature of his business or effects any change in the class or description of goods which he sells, or(f) starts a new business or joins another business either singly or jointly with other persons, or(g) effects any change in the particulars furnished in an application made under Section 14 or declaration furnished under Section 15, He shall, within seven days of the occurring of any of the events aforesaid inform the prescribed authority accordingly, and, if any such dealer dies without doing so, his executor, administrator, successorininterest or legal representative, as the case may be, shall within fifteen days of the dealers death, inform the said authority accordingly.	Facts
The State in exercise of its rule making power made rules known as Bihar Sales Tax Rules, 1983.	Facts
Rules 3(9), 6(1)(b), 6(4) thereof read as under 3(9) (a) Every dealer to whom the provisions of section 54 apply shall inform, in writing, the appropriate authority prescribed in subrule (3) about the complete details necessitating action under Section 54.(b) Where the information furnished by a dealer under section 54 or otherwise received by the authority prescribed under subrule (3) necessitates amendment of the registration certificate of the dealer the said authority shall, where the dealer has not submitted the certificate for amendment, direct him to produce the certificate and he shall comply with such direction.	Facts
On receipt of the certificate the said authority shall, after such verification as may be necessary, amend the certificate suitably.(c) Where the information furnished by a dealer under Section 54 or otherwise received by the authority prescribed in subrule (3) necessitates amendment in a declaration furnished under Section 15 the dealer shall furnish to the said authority a revised declaration until such revised declaration is furnished to the said authority the original declaration shall continue to be deemed valid and binding.6.	Facts
Certificate under section 13.	Facts
(1) An application for certificate under subsection (1) of Section 13 shall be made(a) (b) In Form III, where the certificate is required for making purchases covered by clause (b) or (c) of the said subsection, such application shall be made separately in respect of every place of business(2) (3) (4) (a) On receipt of an application in Form II or III if the appropriate authority prescribed in clause (a) or (b) of subrule (3), as the case may be, after verification of the particulars furnished by the applicant or after making or causing to be made such enquiry as it may deem necessary, is satisfied that the application is in order, it shall grant a certificate in Form VIA or VIB, as the case may be.(b) On receipt of an application in Form IV, if the Joint Commissioner of the Division, after verification of the particulars furnished by the applicant, or after making or causing to be made such enquiry as he may deem necessary, is satisfied that the application is in order he shall, subject to the provisions of clause (a) of subrule (6), grant to the applicant a certificate in Form VIC.	Facts
A copy of the certificate so granted shall also be sent forthwith to the Commercial Taxes Officer incharge of the subcircle, if the business is intended to be established within the local limits of a subcircle, and to the Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner or Commercial Taxes officer in charge of the Circle in other cases.	Facts
In terms of the said rules, application for grant of certificate is to be filed in Form III wherein inter alia particulars of the goods which the dealer may be permitted to purchase at special rate of tax in terms of clause (b) or (c) of subSection (1) of Section 13 of the Act are required to be shown.	Facts
A registration certificate is granted in terms of Form VIB.	Facts
Clause (3) whereof reads as under(3)	Facts
Particulars of the goods which the holder of the certificate is permitted to purchase at special rate of tax, under clause (b) or (c) of subsection (1) of section 13.Description of goods.	Facts
Particular purpose forwhich Required27.	Facts
Indisputably, the State from time to time issued several notifications, one of such notification being dated 15.12.1976 in terms whereof tax at the rate of three per centum was prescribed in respect of the goods required directly for use in manufacture.	Facts
However, by reason of S.O. No. 604 dated 12.4.1982, the rate of sales tax on Industrial raw materials (inputs) payable under Section 13(1)(b) of the Act was fixed at one per centum.	Facts
By a Notification being S.O. 1096 dated 9.9.1983, it was providedS.O. 1096 the 9th September, 1983In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1) of Section 13 of the Bihar Finance Act, 1981 Part 1 (Bihar Act No. 5, 1981) and in supersession of Finance (Commercial Taxes) Department notification No.	Facts
S.O. 604, dated the 12th April, 1982, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to direct that the rate of sales tax payable under clause (b) of subsection (1) of Section 13 of the said Act on the raw materials required directly for use in the manufacture or processing of goods for sale in the State or in course if interstate trade or commerce, excluding such raw materials which have already undergone any manufacturing or production process and which are required for further assembly therewith shall be at the rate of two per centum.8.	Facts
Yet again, by reason of S.O. 154 dated 3.2.1986 sales tax on sale of the raw materials required directly for use in the manufacture or processing of goods for sale excluding such raw materials which have already undergone any manufacturing or production process and which are required for further assembly therewith shall be at the rate of two per centum.9.	Facts
Concededly, TISCO never applied for amendment or modification of the Registration Certificate.	Facts
Oxygen gas continued to be allowed to remain in Annexure B of the Registration Certificate wherefor sales tax was payable at the rate of three per centum.	Facts
Indisputably again, till the Assessment Year 20022003 for supply of oxygen gas to TISCO, BOC also used to charge sales tax at the rate of three per centum.	Facts
However, the said purported mistake was sought to be rectified by BOC in terms of the said Notification dated 3.2.1986 charging two per centum sales tax on the supplies of oxygen gas made to TISCO.	Facts
TISCO issued a declaration in terms of Form IX of the Rules.	Facts
BOC also deposited tax at the rate of two per cent on the sale of industrial gases to TISCO.10.	Facts
The Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Tax issued a notice to BOC on or about 20.4.2005, statingIt is informed that you have deposited tax 2 on the sale of industrial gases to M s TISCO Ltd.	Facts
Because the Honble Supreme Court has dismissed the SLP) No. 15419/2004, filed on your behalf, vide order dated 30.3.2005.Hence, you are directed to produce the evidence before the undersigned of deposit of the balance admitted tax of Rs.1,02,45,572/ by 20.5.2005, otherwise the proceedings for imposition of penalty will be initiated against you u s 16(9) of Bihar Finance Act, 1981 as adopted by JharkhandAnother notice dated 29.6.2005 was also issued, statingIn spite of informing you by this offices letter No. 188 dated 20.4.2005 the balance amount of Rs.1,02,45,572/ being admitted tax has not been deposited by you till date.	Facts
Again, you are directed to produce the evidence before the undersigned of deposit of the balance admitted tax of Rs.1,02,45,572/ by 15.7.2005, otherwise the proceedings for imposition of penalty will be initiated against you u s 16 (9) of Bihar Finance Act, 1981 as adopted by Jharkhand.11.	Facts
BOC in its letter dated dated 15.7.2005, addressed to the Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Jamshedpur Circule, Jamshedpur, statedAfter receiving the said letter notice dated 29.06.05, we had taken up the matter with Tata Steel i.e. our purchaser who is the registered dealer for purchasing of the said Industrial Gases including Oxygen.	Facts
It has been informed by Tata Steel that the Tata Steel is using those industrial gases including oxygen as their raw material for manufacturing of steel products and is covered under Notification S.O. No.1096 dated 09.09.83, hence the concessional rate of sales tax 2 is applicable.	Facts
This has already been informed earlier by them vide their letter No. ACCTS ST/990/115/05 dated 31.05.05 (copy enclosed) explaining the matter in this context.	Facts
For paying the concessional rate of sales tax against supply sale of Industrial Gases including Oxygen to Tata Steel, Tata Steel has submitted Form IX for availing the concessional rate of sales tax against supply of such industrial gases including oxygen, a copy of which is enclosed herewith.	Facts
In view of the above, we request you to withdraw your letter No. 2137 dated 29.06.05 demanding differential rate of tax 1 totaling to Rs.1,02,45,572/ and drop the case accordingly.	Facts
The demand was again raised on BOC by the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Jamshedpur Circle, Jamshedpur by its letter dated 22.7.2005 opining that TISCO was liable to pay concessional purchase tax at the rate of three per cent on Oxygen gas.	Facts
BOC was, therefore, directed to produce the evidence of deposit of the balance differential amount of Rs.1,02,45,572/ by 18.8.2005 failing which other modes of recovery would be adopted.12.	Facts
Questioning the validity and or legality of the said notice, a Writ Petition was filed before the High Court of Jharkhad at Ranchi, which by reason of the impugned judgment has been dismissed, holding that BOC has no locus standi to file writ petition as admittedly tax was payable by TISCO being authorized to purchase at the concessional rate of three per cent and not at the rate of two per cent and, thus, the demand made by the respondent was unassailable, the selling dealer being bound by the certificate granted to it under Section 13(1)(b) of the Act.	Facts
It was also held that whether oxygen gas is a raw material or not cannot be decided determined in writ application filed by BOC as TISCO alone is competent to explain to the prescribed authority as to how, which had all along treated and mentioned as goods as per Annexure B, could be treated as raw material.	Facts
In view of the order of this Court in the case of Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd. vs. State of Jharkhand ors.	Facts
(2005) 4 SCC 272 , the writ petition was also held to be not maintainable as TISCO cannot take a different stand to the effect that oxygen gas was used by it as a raw material.	Facts
It was furthermore heldAs per the registration certificate issued under Section 13(1)(b) of the Act, Oxygen Gas was treated as goods as mentioned in Annexure  B. Endorsing the same, the purchasing dealer has been paying the tax at the concessional rate of 3 for a long number of years treating Oxygen Gas as goods.	Facts
The selling dealer is bound by the said certificate.	Facts
Accordingly, he has been collecting sales tax 3 from the beginning till 2000 and thereafter he started collecting sales tax 2 treating the same as raw material.	Facts
Neither the purchasing dealer, nor the selling dealer can decide the nature of the goods on their own, unless the certificate is modified by the prescribed authority to that effect, treating Oxygen Gas as raw material, on being approached by purchasing dealer.	Facts
The purchasing dealer has to pay sales tax 3 treating Oxygen Gas as goods mentioned in Annexure  B and the selling dealer has to merely collect and deposit the same as per the certificate with the Government.	Facts
Unless it is established before the prescribed authority, which, in turn, will decide the nature of the goods, the purchasing dealer cannot claim payment of sales tax at the concessional rate of 2 treating Oxygen Gas as raw material under the garb of the two notifications dated 9.9.1983 and 3.2.1986.	Facts
Therefore, demand notices are perfectly justified.	Facts
Mr. S. Ganesh, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of BOC and Mr. Shyam Divan, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of TISCO would contendi.	Arguments of Petitioner
As oxygen gas is injected to the furnace through lance directly as would appear from diagram mentioned in Encyclopaedia Britannica, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that it is used as a raw material for the purpose of manufacture of steel.ii.	Arguments of Petitioner
Basic Oxygen Steelmaking (BOS) being a method of steelmaking in which carbonrich molten iron is made into steel as by blowing oxygen through molten pig iron, the carbon content of the alloy is lowered and changes the material into lowcarbon steel as would appear from the Wikipedia, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.iii.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the purpose of arriving at a finding as to whether a material used for a finished product would be a raw material or not, it is not necessary that the item should continue to remain a part of the finished product as even in a case where it has been burnt down in the chemical process required for manufacturing the end product, the same would continue to be a raw material.iv.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 13(1)(b) of the Act read with the notification providing only for the conditions that the assessee must sell raw material to a registered dealer and it must be used for processing manufacturing of goods meant for sale BOC, being the assessee, is not concerned as to whether in the registration certificate issued to TISCO, oxygen gas has been shown in Annexure A or Annexure Bv.	Arguments of Petitioner
BOC being an assessee having been made liable to pay tax had the requisite locus standi to maintain the writ application.vi.	Arguments of Petitioner
Special Leave Petition filed by TISCO questioning the applicability of industrial policy, the decision of this Court in Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd. vs. State of Jharkhand ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
supra cannot have any application in the instant case as payment of tax being governed by notification, the principles of res judicata and or estoppel would not apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. B.B. Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, would contendi.	Arguments of Respondent
The procedure for claiming special rate of tax on all materials and or on raw materials having been provided for in the Act and or Rules framed thereunder, the same were required to be complied with by the assessee for claiming the benefit thereof.ii.	Arguments of Respondent
TISCO which is a consumer of oxygen gas having never raised any contention that the rate of tax in respect of oxygen would be two per cent and not three per cent, BOC cannot be said to have any locus standi to plead the case of TISCO as ultimately the liability would be that of latter.iii.	Arguments of Respondent
The procedure laid down in the Act as also the rules framed thereunder being mandatory in nature, it was obligatory on the part of the TISCO to comply with requirements of the provisions thereof scrupulously.iv. TISCO having not challenged the demand made by the authorities by way of a writ petition, the Special Leave Petition filed by it is not maintainable.	Arguments of Respondent
We may, at the outset, place on record that since Mr. B.B. Singh conceded that the decision of this Court in Tata Iron Steel Co. Ltd. vs. State of Jharkhand ors.	None
supra has no application to the issues involved herein, we are not called upon to deal therewith.	None
BOC admittedly is the manufacturer of oxygen gas.	Reasoning
It is a dealer within the meaning of the provisions of the Act being a supplier of its product.	Reasoning
It, thus, comes within the purview of dealer as contained in Section 2(e) of the Act as it carries on the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods for cash or for deferred payment or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration.	Reasoning
It is an assessee.	Reasoning
It even as an agent of the State is bound to collect taxes on its behalf and deposit the same in accordance with law.	Reasoning
Noncompliance thereof would lead to penal actions.	Reasoning
Even in the demand made by the Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Jamshedpur Circle, Jamshedpur dated 22.7.2005	Reasoning
it was threatened with proceedings for recovery of the differential amount unless it produced the evidence of deposit thereof.17.	Reasoning
Thus, a demand has been made on BOC.	Reasoning
Hence, the opinion of the High Court that it did not have any locus standi to maintain the writ application cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
It may be true that the consumer of oxygen gas is TISCO.	Reasoning
It was also entitled to purchase the said goods at a concessional rate.	Reasoning
If the material is used for manufacture, the rate of tax is three per cent whereas if the material is used as raw material for processing and or manufacturing of the end product, indisputably, the rate of tax would be two per cent.	Reasoning
Ultimately, BOC may be entitled to recover the differential amount of tax from TISCO, but, the same by itself would not mean that it is a busybody.	Reasoning
Not only the penal proceedings but also other proceedings could be initiated against it for nondeposit of the aggregate amount of tax within the prescribed period.	Reasoning
If an order of assessment is passed against the assessee, the only remedy before it is to prefer an appeal revision in terms of the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Thus, in our opinion, it was a person aggrieved to maintain a writ application.	Reasoning
In the matter of The Trade Mark No. 70,078 of Wright, Crossley, and Co. (1898) 15 RPC 131, it was stated I think, notwithstanding what was said in that case, and has been said in other cases dealing with Trade Marks , that an applicant in order to show that he is a person aggrieved, must show that in some possible way he may be damaged or injured if the Trade Mark is allowed to stand and by possible	None
I mean possible in a practical sense, and not merely in a fantastic view.	None
See Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba vs. TOSIBA Appliances Co. and Ors. 2008	None
(8) SCALE 354	None
If it is to be held that the assessee is a person aggrieved to question the validity of the demand raised on it, it will have the locus standi to maintain a writ petition.	None
The expression raw material is not defined.	None
It has to be given its meaning as is understood in the common parlance of those who deal with the matter.	None
Oxygen gas when used would admittedly be burnt up.	None
Would it mean that it ceases to be a raw material is the question?	None
In Collector of Central Excise, New Delhi vs. M s Ballarpur Industries Ltd. (1989) 4 SCC 566 on which reliance has been placed upon, Venkatachaliah, J. (as His Lordship then was) speaking for a bench was considering a case where the input of sodium sulphate in the manufacture of paper was held to continue to be a raw material by reason of the fact that in the course of the chemical reactions this ingredient is consumed and burnt up, holding The ingredients, used in the chemical technology of manufacture of any endproduct might comprise, amongst others, of those which may retain their dominant individual identity and character throughout the process and also in the endproduct those which, as a result of interaction with other chemicals or ingredients, might themselves undergo chemical or qualitative changes and in such altered form find themselves in the endproduct those which, like catalytic agents, while influencing and accelerating the chemical reactions, however, may themselves remain uninfluenced and unaltered and remain independent of and outside the endproducts and those, as here, which might be burntup or consumed in the chemical reactions.	None
The question in the present case i whether the ingredients of the last mentioned class qualify themselves as and are eligible to be called RawMaterial for the end product.	None
One of the valid tests, in our opinion, could be that the ingredient should be so essential for the chemical processes culminating in the emergence of the desired endproduct, that having regard to its importance in and indispensability for the process, it could be said that its very consumption on burningup is its quality and value as rawmaterials.	None
In such a case, the relevant test is not its absence in the endproduct, but the dependence of the endproduct for its essential presence at the delivery end of the process.	None
The ingredient goes into the making of the endproduct in the sense that without its absence the presence of the endproduct, as such, is rendered impossible.	None
This quality should coalesce with the requirement that its utilisation is in the manufacturing process as distinct from the manufacturing apparatus.	None
Yet again, in the case of Tata Engineering Locomotive Company Limited vs. State of Bihar Anr.	None
(1994) 6 SCC 479 , this Court while interpreting the provisions of Section 13(1)(b) of the Act itself, held that batteries, tyres and tubes which are by themselves finished products would be rawmaterial when they are fitted in a vehicle, stating What requires consideration, therefore, is whether items such as tyres, tubes, batteries etc. purchased by the appellant for use in the manufacture of vehicles which are otherwise finished products could avail of concessional rate of tax at 1.	None
That would depend on the construction and understanding of the expression industrial rawmaterial (inputs) used in the Notification.	None
The word rawmaterial has not been defined in the Act.	None
It has, therefore, to be understood in the ordinary and well accepted connotation of it in the common parlance of the persons who deal with it.	None
According to dictionary, it means something which is used for manufacturing or producing the good.	None
The ordinary common sense understanding of it is that it is something from which another new or distinct commodity can be produced.	None
Mr. B.B. Singh, however, rightly pointed out that the question as to whether the oxygen gas is a raw material or not had not been raised before the Assessing Authority.	Reasoning
For the first time, before this Court, a question of fact has been raised.	Reasoning
We cannot, for arriving at such a finding as to whether the same is correct or not, rely on Wikipedia alone, on which reliance has been placed.	Reasoning
See Commissioner of Customs, Bangalore vs. ACER India (P) Ltd. (2008) 1 SCC 382 and Ponds India Limited vs. Commissioner of Trade Tax, Lucknow (2008) 8 SCC 369	None
We do not know what are the manufacturing processes involved and what role oxygen gas has to play in the matter of manufacturing of steel.	Reasoning
It is also not possible for us to base our decision solely on the basis of a diagram contained in Encyclopaedia Britannica.	Reasoning
Whether oxygen gas can be considered to be a raw material is essentially a question of fact.	Reasoning
Evidence is required to be adduced.	Reasoning
Such evidence although may be in possession of TISCO.	Reasoning
In the event, such a question is raised by the assessee, namely, BOC, the Assessing Authority must go therein.	Reasoning
For the purpose of claiming exemption from payment of tax and or special rate of tax applicable to a particular gas or commodity or goods, the assessee itself must bring on record sufficient materials to show that it comes within the purview of the notification.	Reasoning
Both in M s Ballarpur Industries Ltd (supra) and Tata Engineering Locomotive Company Limited supra, the question as to whether sodium sulphate and or batteries, tyres, tubes were raw materials or not could be determined by this Court as such a question had been raised by the Assessing Authority.24.	Reasoning
We may, however, must place on record that we do not agree with Mr. B.B. Singh that the principle that as a procedure has been prescribed in the statute, the same must be followed or no benefit would be available to the assessee as is said to have been held by this Court in Narbada Prasad vs. Chhagan Lal Ors.	Reasoning
(1969) 1	Reasoning
SCR 499 and in Kunwar Pal Singh (dead) by L.Rs. etc. etc. vs. State of U.P. ors.	Reasoning
(2007) 5 SCC 85 .	Reasoning
The said decisions cannot have any application in the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
In Narbada Prasad vs. Chhagan Lal Ors supra, this Court was dealing with a matter concerning Representation of the People Act in regard to filing of an election petition as in the election petition essential facts as specified therein was required to be pleaded in the manner laid down therein.	Reasoning
In Kunwar Pal Singh (dead) by L.Rs. etc. etc. vs. State of U.P. ors.	None
(2007) 5 SCC 85 , this Court was dealing with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act.	None
Keeping in view the fact that the same was barred by limitation, this Court held The principle is well settled that where any statutory provision provides a particular manner for doing a particular act, then, theat thing or act must be done in accordance with the manner prescribed therefor in the Act.	None
For the self same reasons, we are of the opinion, that it is not necessary to go into the question as to whether a person even if he proves that he inadvertently did not claim the benefit of a notification would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case as no such rule in absolute terms can be laid down therefor.	Reasoning
We may, however, notice that this Court in Share Medical Care vs. Union of India ors.	None
(2007) 4 SCC 573 has opined as under From the above decisions, it is clear that even if an applicant does not claim benefit under a particular notification at the initial stage, he is not debarred, prohibited or estopped from claiming such benefit at a later stage.	None
For the reasons aforementioned, the impugned judgment cannot be sustained.	Decision
It is set aside accordingly.	Decision
The appeals are allowed.	Decision
The demand made on the appellant is also set aside.	Decision
The question, as to whether the oxygen gas is a raw material for the manufacture of steel or not may be determined by the Assessing Authority on the basis of the material(s), which may be brought on record by the parties.	Decision
All contentions raised by the parties on the said question shall remain open.	Decision
The Assessing Authority is hereby directed to give an opportunity to the parties to adduce evidence in this behalf.	Decision
All other consequential proceedings may follow on the basis of the determination on the said question.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
