 Subba Rao, J. 1.	None
The appellant, Ellerman Bucknall Steamship Company Ltd. hereinafter called the shipowners, are a limited liability company incorporated under the law in the United Kingdom carrying on business as common carriers by sea.	Facts
They own a ship named City of Lucknow.	Facts
Messrs, Best and Co. Ltd., having their office at Madras, are the local agents of the shipowners.	Facts
2. Sha Misrimal Bherajee, the respondent herein, hereinafter called the buyer, entered into two contracts with the British Mercantile Company Limited.	Facts
New York, hereinafter called the seller, for the purchase of Fresh Monsanto Polystyrene Injection Moulding Powder (not reground) in granules manufactured by Monsanto Chemical of New York.	Facts
In respect of the first contract, the purchaser placed two indents dated December 26, 1950, and December 27, 1950, for the said stuff of value Rs. 13,500 and Rs. 6,750 respectively.	Facts
The buyer entered into a second contract with the seller for the purchase of 24 drums of the same material of the value of Rs. 16,000 under an indent dated January 23, 1951.	Facts
In respect of the first contract and indents the buyer opened and confirmed an irrevocable Letter of Credit No. 4748 dated December 28, 1950, for U. S. 4535 plus war risk with the Eastern Bank Limited.	Facts
In regard to the second contract he opened another irrevocable Letter of Credit No. 5012 dated January 31, 1951, for U. S. 3330.	Facts
As the said Bank had no branch of its own at New York, it arranged with the Marine Midland Trust Company of New York for payment of the bills that might be presented by the seller in New York.	Facts
Pursuant to the said contracts, the seller delivered to the shipowners certain consignments in reused fibre drums.	Facts
The bills of lading issued by the shipowners described the drums simply as drums.	Facts
After taking a letter of indemnity to cover against any loss, the shipowners issued clean bills of lading.	Facts
The seller negotiated the bills of lading with the Marine Midland Trust Company, New York, and obtained payment of U. S. 6998.75 under the letters of credit.	Facts
Thereafter, the bills of lading were forwarded to the Eastern Bank Limited, Madras, and buyer paid to the said Bank a sum of Rs. 33,01259 against the said letters of credit.	Facts
When the shipment arrived it was discovered that the goods sought to be delivered did not answer the description given in the documents.	Facts
Indeed, the drums contained only coal dust and factory shavings.	Facts
The buyer took appropriate proceedings against the seller in the American Courts and realized a sum of Rs. 13,60490.	Facts
Thereafter, he instituted the present suit in the City Civil Court, Madras, for the recovery of a sum of Rs. 23,760156 against the Bank as well as the shipowners.	Facts
To that suit the Bank was made the 1st defendant and the shipowners, the 2nd defendant.	Facts
Broadly stated, the basis of the claim against the Bank was that, though under the letters of credit the Bank had the authority to pay only against clean bills of lading, it paid against unclean bills of lading.	Facts
The cause of action against the shipowners was that they made a misrepresentation that the bills of lading were clean whereas in fact they were not so, with the result, acting on that misrepresentation, the agent of the Bank paid against the said bills of lading which it would not have done had it known the real facts.	Facts
3.	None
The learned City Civil Judge held that the bills of lading were clean ones but in respect of one of the letters of credit the Bank should not have accepted the shipping documents which related only to a part of the goods contracted for.	Facts
On that finding the learned Judge held that the Bank was liable to refund the amount paid only under one of the letters of credit.	Facts
As against the shipowners he came to the conclusion that even if the bills were not clean, the Bank would nevertheless have paid the amount, as the terms of the letters of credit were comprehensive enough to authorize such payments.	Facts
In the result, he dismissed the suit against the shipowners but decreed it in part against the Bank.	Facts
The Bank and the shipowners preferred appeals to the High Court against the said decree insofar as it went against each of them.	Facts
4.	None
The appeals were heard by a division Bench of the Madras High Court.	Facts
The learned Judges of the High Court came to the conclusion that the shipowners with the knowledge that the bills of lading would be negotiated gave, at the request of the seller, clean bills of lading while as a matter of fact only unclean bills of lading should have been given.	Facts
They further held that the purchaser was damnified, as on the basis of the misrepresentation found in the bills of lading the Bank paid the amount against the shipping documents which it would not have done if it had known that the bills of lading were unclean.	Facts
In the result, they gave a decree for the entire suit claim against the shipowners.	Facts
They allowed C. C. C. A. No. 61 of 1957 against the shipowners but dismissed it against the Bank.	Facts
C. C. C. A. No. 54 of 1957, the appeal filed by the Bank, was allowed.	None
The shipowners have preferred the present appeal against the decree given by the High Court against them.	Facts
5.	None
The argument of Mr. A. K. Sen, learned counsel for the appellant, may broadly be placed under the following three heads(1)	Arguments of Petitioner
While the respondent based his cause of action on a breach of contract, the High Court gave the relief founded on deceit (2) under common law or contract the appellant had no duty or obligation to make a statement in the bills of lading that the drums were old ones and, therefore, the nonmention of that fact could not have misled the Bank into paying against the shipping documents under the letters of credit and (3) the bills of lading were clean ones, for the oldness or newness of drums had no real impact on the contents thereof, for both were equally suitable containers of the articles to be supplied.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel for the respondent, while made a faint attempt to sustain the decree of the High Court on the basis of the breach of contract, seriously sought to support it on the doctrine of deceit.	Arguments of Respondent
He argued that there was a frandulent misrepresentation by the appellant in collusion with the seller to the effect that the bills of lading were clean while in fact they were not and that, acting on that misrepresentation, the Bank, through its agent at New York, paid the amount to the seller under the letters of credit against the shipping documents, which it would not have done if such a misrepresentation had not been made.	Arguments of Respondent
He countered the contentions of the learned counsel for the appellant that the High Court gave a decree on a cause of action different from that on which the plaint was based.	Arguments of Respondent
7.	None
The first contention turns, upon the pleadings as well as on the conduct of the parties during the trail and the appeal.	None
8.	None
A perusal of the plaint discloses that the 2nd defendant was sought to be made liable both in contract and in tort.	None
Paragraph 9 of the plaint reads thusIf the first defendants state that they acted on the terms of the bills of lading and are therefore protected, the plaintiffs also charge that in any event the second defendants are liable, for issuing the bills of lading without disclosing the true state of facts and for inserting statements in the bills of lading which are now admitted to be untrue.	None
The plaintiffs also charge that the defendants are precluded form denying the correctness of the statement in the bills of lading as regards the apparent good order and condition as mentioned in the bills of lading.	None
The plaintiffs charge that the second defendants and the shippers acted collusively with a view to enable if possible the shippers to obtain moneys against goods which were not the goods agreed to be sold and which were not consigned according to the contract.	None
The very fact that the second defendants have obtained an indemnity for issuing the bills of lading without disclosing the real state of facts, would show their consciousness that they were not right in issuing the bills of lading in the terms of they did and whatever their rights as against the shippers may be on the indemnity, the plaintiffs are not concerned with the same, but the second defendants are liable to the plaintiffs to make good the loss resulting by reason of a representation acted on by which the plaintiffs have been damnified.	None
This passage in the plaint contains all the necessary allegations to sustain a claim in tort.	Reasoning
It is clear, therefore, that the claim of the buyer against the shipowners was also based upon the misrepresentation made by the latter in the bills of lading.	Reasoning
In the written statement the appellant denied the allegations in para.	Reasoning
9 of the plaint	Reasoning
and stated that there was no secret arrangement between them and the seller in regard to the goods or the containers.	Reasoning
The shipowners also denied that they inserted any untrue statement in the bills of lading acting in collusion with the seller to enable the latter to obtain money against the bills of lading.	None
Issue 6 framed by the learned City Civil Judge readsDid the second defendant act bona fide throughout in issuing the bills of lading and in taking an indemnity from the shippers?	None
The judgment of the learned City Civil Judge discloses that the question of misrepresentation by collusion was argued and the learned Judge held that the Bank was not misled, as under the letters of credit it had to pay the amount against the bills of lading, whether clean or unclean.	Reasoning
Before the High Court also the question of misrepresentation by the shipowners was expressly raised and was accepted by it.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, agree with the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant that the High Court had made out a new case which was not raised in the plaint indeed, the claim on the basis of misrepresentation was made in the plaint, denied by the appellant in the writtenstatement and argued in both the Courts below.	Reasoning
There are, therefore, no merits in the first contention.	Reasoning
9.	None
On the question of the appellants liability to the buyer in contract, we are satisfied that there is no basis for it.	None
Indeed, learned counsel for the respondent did not seriously press the point, though he did not give it up altogether.	None
10.	None
A bill of lading serves three purposes, viz., (I) it is receipt for the goods shipped containing the terms on which they have been received (ii) it is evidence of the contract for carriage of goods and (iii) it is a document of title for the goods specified therein.	Reasoning
The contract of the shipowners in the bill of lading is that they will deliver the goods at their destination in the like good order condition in which they were when shipped.	Reasoning
In terms of the contract the shipowners delivered the goods to the buyer in the drums.	Reasoning
The consignee incurred damages not because of any defect in the drums but because the seller sent goods different form those he had agreed to sell to him.	Reasoning
Therefore, the shipowners were not to liable for any damages to the purchaser on the basis of breach of any of the terms of the contract.	Reasoning
No further elaboration on this point is called for, as finally this point was not seriously pressed by the learned counsel for the respondent.	Reasoning
11.	None
Now we shall consider the main point raised in the appeal, namely, the liability of the appellant in tort.	Issue
Before, we advert to the question of law it would be convenient to notice the relevant facts.	None
12.	None
Exhibit A1 dated December 26, 1950, the indent placed by the buyer with the seller in respect of Fresh Monsanto Polystyrene Injection Moulding Powder of value of Rs. 13,500.	None
The packing was to be in new fibre drums each containing 250 lbs.	None
nett.	None
Exhibit A2 is another indent dated December 27, 1950 placed by the buyer with the seller.	None
The quantity required thereunder was of the value of Rs. 6,750 and the packing was to be in new fibre drums each containing 250 lbs.	None
nett.	None
Exhibit A5 is the third indent dated January 23, 1951, for the same goods worth Rs. 16,500 with similar terms.	None
The buyer opened two letters of credit, Exs. B1 and B2, with the Eastern Bank Limited, Madras for U. S. 7,625.	None
Exhibits B  28 and B29 are the written by the Eastern Bank Limited, Madras, to the Marine Midland Trust Company, New York, to open letters of credit for payment of the bills that might be presented by the seller.	None
13.	None
Exhibit B1 readsWe hereby authorise and request you and or your Agents and or Representatives at New York to open a confirmed and irrevocable bank credit in favour of Messr.	None
British Mercantile Company Limited etc., and to make payment or payments thereunder on our behalf against documents purporting to be invoices, shipping specifications.	None
Bills of Lading and Policies and or Certificates of Insurance covering Marine and War Risks We agree that this credit is subject to U. S. A. regulations and practice.	None
Exhibit B2 is also a similar letter of credit.	None
Clause 3 of Ex. 28 readsClean on Board Bills of lading in complete sets of at least two signed copies to be made out to the order of the Eastern Bank Limited, or to order blank endorsed and marked by the shipping company Freight paid.	None
Exhibits B29 also contains similar recitals.	None
It will be seen that though the words clean on board bills of lading are not found in Exs. B1 and B2, but in the directions given to the Marine Midland Trust Company, New York, the said words are clearly found.	None
The following relevant recitals are found in a sample of the bills of landingReceived in apparent good order and condition from British Mercantile Company, Limited, City of Lucknow, to be transported by the good Vessel City of Lucknow to said from the Port of New York for the East Indies.	None
Total 21 packages, said to weight 9,920 lbs.	None
said to be marked and numbered as below (weight, gauge, measurement, contents, conditions, quality and value unknown, statements of same herein being made solely on shippers declaration and this bill of lading not to be deemed any evidence thereof) to be delivered as provided hereunder (liability as carrier to end without notice) in like good order and condition at Madras or so near thereto as vessel may safely get unto order of the Mercantile Bank of India, Limited, or to his or their Assigns.	None
The bill of lading gives the number of packages as 21 drums and under the column description of goods it states Polystyrene Powder The Mates receipt given to the seller on the arrival of the goods at the whart for being carried by S. S. City of Lucknow describes them as being packed in reused drums.	None
The seller gave an indemnity bond to the shipowners and the material part of it readsWe shall be obliged by your granting us Clean Bills of Lading for the under mentioned goods, Mates receipt being claused Reused Drums  and in consideration of your so doing we undertake to pay on demand all freight and or General and particular Average and or charges there may be thereon, to indemnify you and each of you against all claims and or demands which may be made against you or any of you in respect of the under mentioned goods and to hold you harmless form any and all consequences that may arise by your granting such clean B L and acting thereon including losses, damages, costs or any other expenses which you or any of you may sustain or incur by reason of the premises or in any way relating thereto.	None
After obtaining the said indemnity bond, the shipowners issued the bill of lading wherein instead of reused drums, only drums was mentioned.	None
It will be seen from the said documents that according to the indent the seller had to pack the goods in new fibre drums, that the Bank opened letters of credit for payment against bills of lading, that the Marine Midland Trust Company of New York, the agent of the Eastern Bank Limited, Madras, .	None
opened letters of credit whereunder payments could be made only against clean bills of lading, that in the Mates receipt given to the seller on the arrival of the goods at the wharf for being carried S. S. City of Lucknow the drums were described as reused drums and that thereafter, after giving indemnity against any loss to the shipowners, in the Bill of lading the drums were not described as reused drums but only as drums.	None
The learned City Civil Judge on the said documents gave the following findingThus, if the Bills of Lading were unclean certainly the banks would not have paid the money to the shippers.	Facts
In fact it was for the very purpose of enabling the shippers to obtain monies from the banks that they wanted clean Bills of Lading and were prepared to give letters of indemnity to the shipping company.	None
With such description in the Bills of Lading it is extremely doubtful whether even the underwriters would have insured the goods as required under the letters of credit.	None
If the shippers had not produced either clean Bills of Lading or Certificates of Insurance as required under the letters of credit then certainly the shippers could not have realised the money from the bank.	None
Thus the second defendants have certainly helped the shippers in this matter by suppressing the real condition of the goods from the Bills of Lading.	None
The High Court, agreeing with that finding, held the shipowner with the knowledge that the bills of lading would be negotiated, gave at the request of the seller clean bills of lading, while as a matter of fact only unclean bills of lading should have been given.	Facts
The question is whether on the said facts and the findings given by the Courts below the purchaser could maintain an action for deceit against the shipowners.	Issue
14.Deceit is a false statement of a fact made by a person knowingly or recklessly with the intent that it shall be acted upon by another who does act upon it and thereby, suffers damage see A Textbook of the Law of Tort by Winfield, 5th Edn., at p. 379.	None
In order to make the shipowners liable for deceit, the first ingredient to be satisfied is that they knowingly issued a clean bill of lading, when it should not have been given with intent that on that basis payment would be made to the holder of the bill under the letters of credit.	None
In order to come to a correct conclusion whether the ingredients of the definition of deceit have been satisfied in the present case, it is necessary to know the exact scope of the following three terms letters of credit, bill of lading , and clean bill of lading.	None
The said three expressions are evolved in the law of merchant to facilitate international trade.	None
The origin and importance of letters of credit in the international commerce has been stated by Denning, L. J., in Pavia and Co., S. P. A. v. Thurmann Neilsen, (1952) 2 QB 84 at p. 88, as followsThe sale of goods across the world is now usually arranged by means of confirmed credits.	None
The buyer requests his bankers to open a credit in favour of the seller and in pursuance of that request the banker, or his foreign agent, issues a confirmed credit in favour of the seller.	None
This credit is a promise by the banker to pay money to the seller in return for the shipping documents.	None
Then the seller, when he presents the documents, gets paid the contract price.	None
The conditions of the credit must be strictly fulfilled, otherwise, the seller would not be entitled to draw on it.	None
15.	None
But when issuing banker has no branch in the relevant country where the beneficiary operates, the services of an intermediary banker may be requisitioned.	Reasoning
The intermediary banker may be asked to advise the beneficiary of the credit or may be asked to add his confirmatory undertaking to it.	Reasoning
In the latter event the beneficiary has the promise of both the bankers.	Reasoning
16.	None
As letters of credit are issued or opened on conditions on which the request is made, the banker can only negotiate the shipping documents if the conditions are strictly complied with.	Reasoning
If for instance, the mandate of the buyer is that the banker shall pay on a clean bill of lading, the banker can only honour a clean bill and not an unclean one.	Reasoning
When a purchaser specifically directs the banker to pay against a clean bill of lading, the condition for payment is an obvious one.	Reasoning
But, when a credit for bills of lading without any qualification, in normal circumstances it means clean bills of lading see British Imex Industries Ltd. v. Midland Bank Ltd., (1958) 1 QB 542 at p. 551.	None
17.	None
A clean bill of lading is defined in Halsburrys Laws of England, 3rd End., Vol. 2, at p. 218, as one which does not contain any reservation as to the apparent good order and condition of the goods or the packing Carver in his book British Shipping Laws, Vol. 2, Part I, in Para, 82, explains the expression good order and condition thusThe general statement in the bill of lading that the goods have been shipped in good under and condition amounts (if it is unqualified) to an admission by the shipowner that, so far as he and his agents had the opportunity of judging, the goods were so shipped.	None
If there is no clause or notation in the bill of lading modifying or qualifying the statement that the goods were shipped in good order and condition the bill is known as a clean bill of lading.	None
Decisions have held that the condition refers to external and apparent condition, and quality, to something which is usually not apparent at all events to an unskilled person See Compania Naviera Vasconzada v. Churchill and Sim, (1906) 1 KB 237.	None
The words like quality and measure unknown found in (1906) 1 KB 237, weight, contents and value unknown in The Peter der Grosse (1875) 1 PD 414 weight, quality, condition and measure unknown in The Tromp (1921)	None
P. 337 were held to be not qualifying words.	None
In Restitution Steamship Co., Ltd. v. Sir John Pire and Co., (1889) 5 TLR 641, it was held if you insert in the margin of a bill of lading weights, quantities, or anything that is not contained in the bill of lading itself, that is not a clean bill of lading.	None
If such words found a place in the body of a bill of lading, they would not have the effect of making the bill an unclean one we do not see how their mention in the margin would make a difference.	Reasoning
But we need not express out final opinion thereon, as in the present case the words are found in the body of the bill itself.	Reasoning
18.	None
But it is said that the omission of the adjective new qualifying the word drums or indeed the addition of the adjective old to qualify the same would not necessarily make the bill any the less a clean bill, if old drums were suitable vehicles for conveying the articles supplied therein.	Reasoning
The newness or the oldness of the container, the argument proceeded, was not decisive of its suitability, for in the main it depended upon its condition and contents.	Reasoning
This argument as a proposition of law appears to be sound.	None
In (1921)	None
P. 337, potatoes, to the knowledge of the defendants master who signed the bill of lading, were shipped in wet bags and in a damaged condition.	None
The Court held that as in the bill of lading the potatoes were described as shipped in good order and condition which represented the external condition of the bags, the defendants were estopped from denying that the bags were dry when shipped.	None
But it would be noticed that the packing in that case was defective and that was the main cause for the rotting of the potatoes and, therefore, the bill of lading was not a clean one.	None
In Silver v. Ocean Steamship Co., Ltd. (1930) 1 KB 416, damage was caused to frozen eggs as the cans wherein they were packed were gashed, perforated or punctured and the eggs were insufficiently packed.	None
So the Court held that having given a clean bill of lading the shipowner was estopped from proving that the cans were not in apparent good order and condition.	None
In Brown Jenkison and Co., Ltd. v. Percy Dalton (Landon) Ltd., (1957) 2 QB 621, Orange juice was shipped in barrels.	None
Some of the barrels were old and frail and some were leaking.	None
Yet the shipowners gave a clean bill of lading.	None
They were estopped form denying that the barrels were in apparent good order and condition.	None
19.	None
These decisions establish that good order and condition of packages depends upon the suitability of the packages for the particular goods or articles packed therein and other relevant circumstances of each case.	None
20.	None
What is the real scope and legal effect of the statement in the bill of lading that the goods were shipped in good order and condition?	Issue
We have already noticed that a bill of lading with such a statement, which does not contain any further reservation or qualification, is known as a clean bill of lading.	None
The said words are affirmation of a fact.	Reasoning
It is an admission creating an estoppel as between the shipowners and an endorsee, who on the faith of that admission has become endorsee for value of the bill of lading.	Reasoning
The shipowners are estopped from denying that the goods and the packages were not in good order and condition.	Reasoning
The estoppel, applies only where the bad condition is discernible on a reasonable examination of the containers, having regard to their contents.	Reasoning
Any qualification of the said affirmation must only refer to the external and apparent condition of the containers See The Skarp (1935)	None
P. 134, Silver v. Ocean, (1930) 1 KB 416, (1906) 1 KB 237, and (1921) p. 337.	None
It is not necessary to consider the said decision in detail as the principle is well settled.	None
21.	None
Now let us look at the relevant facts of the present case.	Reasoning
It was one of the terms of the contract between the seller and the buyer that the goods should be packed in new fibre drums.	Reasoning
The standard of good order and condition of the packages was agreed upon by the parties to the contract.	Reasoning
The shipowners knew that condition as the Mates receipt disclosed the same.	Reasoning
If the drums had been mentioned as old in the bill of lading, the said bill would not have been a clean bill.	Reasoning
Though the apparent condition of the drums was old, the shipowners made an assertion that they were not old drums,.	Reasoning
i.e., they gave a clean bill.	Reasoning
This representation was obviously intended, in collusion with the seller, to enable him to operate upon the credit with the bank.	Reasoning
This collusion is also apparent from the indemnity bond they took from the seller to guard themselves against the consequences of the said representation.	Reasoning
All the elements of deceit are present.	Reasoning
22.	None
The decision in (1957) 2 QB 621, is apposite.	Reasoning
There, the defendants had a quantity of orange juice which they wished to ship Hamburg.	Reasoning
The plaintiffs, as agents of the owners of the vessel on which the orange juice was to be shipped, informed the defendants that the barrels containing the orange juice were old and frail and that some of them were leaking and that a claused bill of lading should be granted.	Reasoning
The defendants required a clean bill of lading, and the shipowners, at the defendants request and on a promise that the defendants would give to them an indemnity, signed bills of lading stating that the barrels wee shipped in apparent good order and condition.	Reasoning
The defendants, pursuant to their promise, entered into an indemnity whereby they undertook unconditionally to indemnify the master and the owners of the vessel against all losses which might arise from the issue of clean bills of lading in respect of the goods.	Reasoning
The barrel when delivered at Hamburg, were leaking and the shipowners had to make good the loss.	Reasoning
The plaintiffs sued the defendants under the indemnity, the benefit of which had been assigned to them.	Reasoning
The defendants refused to pay alleging that the contract of indemnity was illegal, because it had as its object the making by the shipowners of a fraudulent misrepresentation.	Reasoning
The court held that the shipowners by making in the bill of lading a representation of fact that they knew to be false with intent that it should be acted upon were committing the tort of deceit, and that the defendants promise to indemnify the shipowners against loss resulting from the making of that representation was accordingly unenforceable.	Reasoning
The only difference on facts between that case and the present one is that in that case the barrel were not only old and frail but also some of them were leaking.	Reasoning
But there, as here, the shipowners made a representation of fact which they knew to be false with intent that it should be acted upon.	Reasoning
If so, it follows that the High Court was right in holding that the appellant was liable in damages for the loss incurred by the respondent.	Reasoning
23.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant sought to raise three further points, namely, (i) the shipowners were not bound by the representation made by the ships mate (ii) the bill of lading was governed by the American Law and not by common law and (iii) the plaintiff buyer, having obtained a decree against the seller in the American Court, could not maintain the present suit for damages.	Arguments of Petitioner
24.	None
The first point was not raised till now and, therefore, we cannot permit the learned counsel to raise it for the first time before us.	Reasoning
25.	None
The second point, namely, what is the American law ? is a question of fact.	Reasoning
We have not got sufficient material on the record to know what is the American law on the subject.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, permit the appellant to raise this point either.	Reasoning
26.	None
The third point is also one not pressed in the Courts below and, therefore, does not call for our decision.	Reasoning
27.	None
In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
28.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
