 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
These appeals raise, though not the same but a similar question on which we have given a decision in Commr. of Incometax, Ahmedabad v. M s. Abdul Rahim and Co., Civil Appeal No. 982 of 1963, dated 4111964 (AIR 1965 SC 1703).	Facts
The assessee firm was the Managing Agents of Palani Andavar Mills Ltd., Udamlpet.	Facts
It was originally constituted by a deed of partnership dated June 1, 1934.	Facts
The following 6 persons were the partners(1)	Facts
G. Venkataswami Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
2.(2)	Facts
G. T. Narayanaswamy Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
2.(3)	Facts
G. T. Krishnaswamy Naidu . .	Facts
As. 2.(4)	Facts
M. A. Palaniappa Chettiar . .	Facts
As. 5.(5) R. Guruswamy Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
2 1/2.(6) K. Venkatasubba Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
2 1/2.By subsequent transactions the share of G. Venkataswami Naidu was transferred to his son Vidyasagar and the share of M. A. Palaniappa Chettiar was purchased by R. Guruswamy Naidu, with the result that the 5th Partner.	Facts
G. Guruswamy, had 71/2 annas share in the partnership instead of 2 1/2 annas share which he held earlier.	Facts
Guruswamy Naidu and Venkatasubba Naidu, the 5th and 6th partners, belonged to a Hindu undivided family and the beneficial interest of their shares belonged to that family indeed during the previous years the joint family was assessed in respect of the income pertaining to the said shares.	Facts
On August 24, 1950, the said Hindu undivided family was divided and a partition deed was executed between the members thereof.	Facts
Under the deed the ten annas share held by the family was divided as follows(1)	Facts
R. Guruswami Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
2.(2) Rudrappa (Minor son of No. 1) . .	Facts
As.	Facts
1.(3)	Facts
Venkaturamana (Minor son of No. 1) . .	Facts
As. 1.(4)	Facts
Subba Naidu . .	Facts
As. 2.(5)	Facts
Venkatasubba Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
14.(6)	Facts
Rudrappa Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
14.(7)	Facts
Jagannatha Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
14.After	Facts
the said partition, on November 30, 1950, a new partnership deed was executed between the partners of the assesseefirm.	Facts
Under the said partnership deed the following shares were allotted to each of the partners(1) R. Guruswamy Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
7 1/2.(2) R. Venkatasubba Naidu . .	Facts
As.	Facts
2 1/2.(3)	Facts
G. T. Narayanaswamy Naidu . .	Facts
As. 2.(4)	Facts
G. T. Krishnaswamy Naidu . .	Facts
As. 2.(5) Vidyasagar . .	Facts
As.	Facts
2.The point to be noticed is that the beneficial interest in 10 annas share originally belonged to the Hindu undivided family of which Guruswamy Naidu and Venkatasubba Naidu were members.	Facts
But before and after the partition of the joint family the said two persons, namely, Guruswamy Naidu and Venkatasubba Naidu, were partners of the firm before the partition the beneficial interest in the 10 annas share was in the undivided family, but after partition the beneficial interest in the partnership was in the divided members of the family including the said two partners.	Facts
The assesseefirm presented the deed of partnership dated November 30, 1950, before the Incometax Officer for registration for the assessment years 195253, 195354 and 195455 and was duly registered under S. 26A of the Indian Incometax Act 1922, hereinafter called the Act.	Facts
In due course Guruswamy Naidu and Venkatasubba Naidu were assessed as partners of the assesseefirm on their respective shares as shown in the partnership deed.	Facts
But the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, in respect of two of the assessments made on them, accepted their contention and held that they were liable only to pay tax in respect of the shares shown in the partition deed.	Facts
After the decision of the Tribunal, the Commissioner of Incometax acting under S. 33B of the Act cancelled the registration of the partnership on the ground that the partnership deed did not show the correct shares of the partners in the partnership.	Facts
On appeal, the Appellate Tribunal confirmed the order of the Commissioner in respect of the 3 assessment years.	Facts
At the instance of the assessee firm the following questions of law were referred to the High Court.(1) Whether the aforesaid order of the Commissioner under S. 33B cancelling the registration of the firm for the three years 195253, 195354 and 195455 is lawful.(2) If the answer to the above question is in the affirmative, whether the firm is registrable under S. 26A for the aforesaid assessment years.	Facts
A Division Bench of the Madras High Court, which heard the reference, came to the conclusion that the partnership was a genuine one, that the partition in the joint Hindu family allotting specific shares to the members of the family might have affected the accountability of the two partners of the firm to the other members of the family, but qua the partnership their relationship with the other partners had not in any way been affected and, therefore, the Tribunal went wrong in holding that the registration of the said partnership was rightly refused.	Facts
In the result, it answered the first question in the negative and the second question in the affirmative.	Issue
Hence the appeals.2.	Issue
Learned AttorneyGeneral, appearing for the Revenue, contended that as the partnership deed did not specify the correct shares of Guruswamy Naidu and Venkatasubba Naidu in that while they were entitled only to 2 annas and 1 anna 4 pies share in accordance with the partition deed, they were shown in the partnership deed as holding 7 1/2 annas and 1/2 annas shares, respectively, and, therefore, the Tribunal rightly held that the said partnership could not be registered under S. 26A of the Act.3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Swaminathan, learned counsel for the respondent, contended that the partition of the familys beneficial interest in the partnership business has no relevance to the question of registration of the partnership under the Act, for, according to him, the Incometax authorities are only concerned with the validity and genuineness of the partnership deed executed by the partners thereof and not with the dealings of any one of the partners in respect of his share with third parties.4.	Arguments of Respondent
We have held in Civil Appeal No. 982 of 1963, dated 4111964 (AIR 1965 SC 1703), that the Incometax Officer can reject the registration of a firm if it is not genuine or valid and if the application for registration has not complied with the rules made under the Act.	Reasoning
Here we have admittedly a genuine partnership.	Reasoning
It cannot even be suggested that it is invalid.	Reasoning
The only objection is that Guruswamy Naidu and Venkatasubba Naidu have less shares in the partition deed than those shown in the partnership deed.	Reasoning
If the distinction between three concepts is borne in mind much of the confusion disappears.	Reasoning
A partnership is a creature of contract.	Reasoning
Under Hindu law a joint family is one of status and right to partition is one of its incidents.	Reasoning
The Incometax law gives the Incometax Officer a power to assess the income of a person in the manner provided by the Act.	Reasoning
Except where there is a specific provision of the Incometax Act which derogates from any other statutory law or personal law, the provision will have to be considered in the light of the relevant branches of law.	Reasoning
A contract of partnership has no concern with the obligation of the partners to others in respect of their shares of profit in the partnership.	Reasoning
It only regulates the rights and liabilities of the partners.	Reasoning
A partner may be the karta of a joint Hindu family he may be a trustee he may enter into a subpartnership with others he may, under an agreement, express or implied, be the representative of a group of persons he may be a benamidar for another.	Reasoning
In all such cases he occupies a dual position.	Reasoning
Qua the partnership he functions in his personal capacity qua the third parties, in his representative capacity.	Reasoning
The third parties, whom one of the partners represents, cannot enforce their rights against the other partners nor the other partners can do so against the said third parties.	Reasoning
Their right is only to a share in the profits of their partnerrepresentative in accordance with law or in accordance with the terms of the agreement, as the case may be.	Reasoning
If that be so, Guruswamy Naidu could have validly entered into a genuine partnership with others taking a 10 annas share in the business, though in fact as between the members of the family he has only a 2 annas share therein, he would have been answerable for the profits pertaining to his share to be divided members of the family, but it would not have affected the validity or genuineness of the partnership.	Reasoning
So much is conceded by the learned AttorneyGeneral.	Reasoning
If so, we do not see why a different result should flow if instead of one member of the divided family two members thereof under some arrangement between the said members of the family took 10 annas share in the partnership.	Reasoning
If the contention of the Revenue was of no avail in the case of representation by a single member, it could not also have any validity in the case where two members represented the divided members of the family in the partnership.	Reasoning
As the partnership deed was genuine, it must be held that the shares given to Guruswamy Naidu and Venkatasubba Naidu in the laid partnership are correct in accordance with the terms of the partnership deed.5.	Reasoning
This Court in Charandas Haridas v. Commr. of Incometax, Bombay (1960) 39 ITR 202 at p. 208 (AIR 1960 SC 910 at p. 913), had to consider a converse position.	None
There a karta of a Hindu undivided family was a partner in 6 managing agency firms and the share of the managing agency commission received by him as such partner was being assessed as the income of the family.	None
Thereafter, there was a partial partition in the family by which he gave his daughter a one pie share of the commission from each of two of the managing agencies and the balance in those agencies and the commission in the other four managing agencies were divided into five equal shares between himself, his wife and three minor sons.	None
The memorandum of partition recited that the parties had decided that commission which accrued from January 1, 1946, ceased to be joint family property and that each became absolute owner of his share.	None
Notwithstanding the partition, the Incometax authorities assessed the said total income as the income of the joint family.	None
The Bombay High Court agreed with that view.	None
But this Court held that as the partition document was a genuine one, it was fully effective between the members of the family and, therefore, the income in respect of the divided property was not the income of the Hindu joint family.	None
In that context Hidayatullah, J., speaking for the Court, made the following observations The fact of a partition in the Hindu law may have no effect upon the position of the partner, in so far as the law of partnership is concerned but it has full effect upon the family in so far as the Hindu law is concerned.	None
Just as the fact of a karta becoming a partner does not introduce the members of the undivided family into the partnership, the division of the family does not change the position of the partner visavis the other partner or partners.	Reasoning
The Incometax law before the partition takes note, factually, of the position of the karta, and assesses not him qua partner but as representing the Hindu undivided family.	None
In doing so, the Incometax law looks not to the provisions of the Partnership Act, but to the provisions of Hindu law.	None
When once the family has disrupted, the position under the partnership continues as before but the position under the Hindu law changes.	None
There is then no Hindu undivided family as a unit of assessment in point of fact, and the income which accrues cannot be said to be of a Hindu undivided family.	None
There is nothing in the Indian Incometax law or the law of partnership which prevents the members of a Hindu joint family from dividing any asset.	None
These observations support the conclusion we have arrived at.	None
The division in the joint family does not change the position of the karta as a partner visavis the other partner or partners in a preexisting partnership, because the law of partnership and Hindu law function in different fields.	Reasoning
if so, on the same principle a divided member or some of the divided members of an erstwhile joint family can certainly enter into a partnership with third parties under some arrangement among the members of the divided family.	Reasoning
That shares in the partnership depend upon the terms of the partnership the shares of the members of the divided family in the interest of their representative in the partnership depend upon the terms of the partition deed.6.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, we hold that the High Court has given correct answers to the questions propounded.7.	Decision
In the result, the appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.8.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
