 Hidayatullah, J.1.	None
These appeals with special leave were filed by one Kanhaiyalal Lohia, who died during the pendency of the appeals, and who is now represented by the executors appointed under his will.	Facts
By these appeals, which are consolidated, the appellants question an order dated January 8, 1953, of the Incometax Appellate Tribunal (Calcutta Bench) in appeals filed by the Department against the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
The Tribunal reversed the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and restored that of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
Kanhaiyalal Lohia made petitions under S. 66(1) to the Tribunal, setting out a number of questions of which the following was referred to the High Court Whether in the circumstances of this case where the Incometax Officer, District III(2), separately assessed the business run in the name of Brijlal Nandkishore as belonging to a partnership firm consisting of Brijlal and Nandkishore, the Incometax Officer, NonCompanies E. P. T. District can assess the income from the same business in the hands of the assessee?This question was answered against him.	Issue
Kanhaiyalal Lohia also applied under S. 66 (2) to the High Court of Calcutta for reference of the other questions, but failed.	Facts
No appeal has been filed by him against the order of the High Court refusing to direct the Tribunal to state a case or against the decision on the question referred, and the present appeals have been filed against the decision of the Tribunal.2.	None
At the hearing of these appeals, we asked counsel for the appellants how, in view of the recent decisions of this Court in Chandi Prasad v. State of Bihar, Civil Appeals Nos. 170 to 172 of 1959, D  244 1961 (AIR 1961 SC 1708 ) and Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, Civil Appeal No. 176 of 1959, D 2441961 (SC) these appeals were maintainable if the two decisions of the High Court had become final.	None
Mr. A. V. Viswanatha Sastri relied upon the decisions in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Commr. of Incometax, West Bengal, 19551 SCR 941 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 65 ) and Baldev Singh v. Commr. of Incometax, Civil Appeal No. 317 of 1955, D  291960 (AIR 1961 SC 736 ) and pointed out that in those cases, appeals were entertained from the Tribunals order, though he conceded with his usual frankness that special circumstances must exist He contended that this was a case in which such circumstances existed.	Arguments of Petitioner
We shall deal with the appeals from that point of view, because unless special circumstances exist, the appeals must be regarded as not competent, in view of our recent rulings above mentioned.3.	None
Kanhaiyalal Lohia, who was a prosperous dealer in jute had his head office in Calcutta.	Facts
He had no issue, and his family consisted of his wife, his brother, Brijlal Lohia, and Brijlals son, Nandkishore Lohia.	Facts
The properties of Kanhaiyalal Lohia were selfacquired, and he was always assessed as an individual.	Facts
He maintained accounts according to the Ramnavami year.	Facts
In his return for the account year, April 14, 1943 to April 1, 1944 (corresponding to the assessment year, 194445), he indicated that he had closed down in the middle of 1943 his purchasing centres in East Bengal, which stood in the name of Nandkishore, and that he had gifted to his brother Rs.	Facts
5,11,101 on July 12, 1943, and to his nephew, Rs. 2,50,000 on September 30, 1943.	Facts
He showed income of his East Bengal business only up to the closure of that business.4.	Facts
Brijlal and Nandkishore entered into partnership between themselves, and started a business under the name and style of Brijlal Nandkishore.	Facts
They took over the purchasing centres in East Bengal.	Facts
They opened accounts in banks in the name of Brijlal Nandkishore, and became members of the Baled Jute Association and the Jute Balers Association, and traded in their own names.	Facts
A deed of partnership between them was also executed on August 5, 1953.	Facts
The business of Kanhaiyala Lohia and of Brijlal Nandkishore was within the jurisdiction of the same Incometax Officer.	Facts
In the assessment of the partnership firm, notices were issued to the partnership both under S. 22(2) and S. 34, and the partnership also applied for registration under S. 26A of the Incometax Act, which was granted.	Facts
The partnership was also assessed for the years, 194546 and 194647.	Facts
The assessment of Kanhaiyalal Lohia was completed by the Incometax Officer.	Facts
NonCompanies Incometax cum Excess Profits Tax District, and during the assessment for the year, 194546, a notice was issued under S. 22 (4) of the Incometax Act on August 24, 1949, calling for accounts of the head office at Calcutta and also the branches including the business being carried on as Brijlal Nandkishore.	Facts
Kanhaiyalal Lohia proved the above facts, producing the books of account, bank statements, registration certificate of Brijlal Nandkishore and evidence showing the membership of Brijlal Nandkishore of the two Associations.	Facts
He also produced letters from four persons including one Sri A. L. Mazumdar who was questioned by the Incometax Officer without notice to Kanhaiyalal Lohia and whose statement was also recorded.	Facts
Kanhaiyalal Lohia objected to this procedure, but the Incometax Officer, it is alleged, paid no heed to his protests, and on March 31,1950, the assessment was completed, and the income of the branches under the direct control of Brijlal Nandkishore was pooled with the income of Kanhaiyalal Lohia.	Facts
The Incometax Officer held that the gifts were not bona fide, and were colourable transactions.	Facts
He relied upon the statement of Sri A. L. Mazumdar, which was recorded when Kanhaiyalal Lohia was not present5.	Facts
Against the assessment Kanhaiyalal Lohia appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, before whom two more letters from leading businessmen were field.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner accepted the letters which were filed, and held that the gifts were proved and were bona fide and directed the exclusion of the income of Brijlal Nandkishore from the assessment of Kanhaiyalal Lohia.	Facts
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was pronounced on December 27, 1951.	Facts
The Department appealed to the Appellate Incometax Tribunal, Calcutta Bench.	Facts
The Tribunal disagreed with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, and held on 811953 that the gifts were not proved by the assessee by unimpeachable evidence, and that the income of Brijlal Nandkishore was rightly included in the assessment.	Facts
As stated already, applications under S. 66(1) and S. 66(2) were made to the Tribunal and the High Court respectively.	Facts
The Tribunal referred one question, but declined to refer the other questions.	Facts
The High Court was then moved under S. 66(2) but without success.	Facts
The High Court agreed with the Tribunal, and answered the question which was referred, against Kanhaiyalal Lohia.	Facts
Before the High Court, Kanhaiyalals counsel, Dr. Pal, admitted that he could not persuade the Court to answer the referred question against the Department, and it appears that it was conceded by the Department before the High Court that the assessment of Brijlal Nandkishore would be cancelled.	Facts
Kanhaiyalal Lohia then filed the present appeals against the order of the Tribunal dated January 8, 1953.6.	Facts
This Court has pointed out in AIR 1961 SC 1708 and C. A. No. 176 of 1959, D  2441961(SC) that the two cases in which this Court interfered with appellate orders of a Tribunal and relied upon before us, were of a special kind.	None
In Dakheswari Cotton Mills case, 19551 SCR 941 ((S).	None
AIR 1955 SC 65 ) there was a breach of the principles of natural justice, and that was held sufficient to entitle an aggrieved party to come to this Court against the appellate order of the Tribunal under Art.	None
136.	None
In Baldev Singhs case, AIR 1961 SC 736 , this Court entertained an appeal against the appellate order of the Tribunal, because limitation to take other remedies was barred without any fault of the assessee concerned.	None
The ratio in each of these cases is that a circumstance which cannot be corrected by the procedure of a stated question of law on a statement of the case may afford a ground for invoking the jurisdiction of this Court under Art.	None
136.	None
That ratio does not apply, where a question of law can be raised and is capable of being answered by the High Court or on appeal, by this Court.	None
An appeal against an order of the High Court deciding a question referred or against a refusal to call for a statement can be brought before this Court under S. 66A, if the High Court decides the question referred and under Art. 136, if the High Court refuses to call for a statement.7.	None
In the present case, the order of the High Court on the question referred was not brought before this Court by the ordinary mode indicated in the Indian Incometax Act, presumably because of the concession of counsel that he could not claim that the question be answered infavour of the assessee and the attitude of the Department that the assessment of Brijlal Nandkishore would be cancelled.	Reasoning
The order refusing to call for a statement on questions other than the one referred is also not questioned before us.	None
The attempt is to bring this case within the ratio of Dakheswari Cotton Mills case, 19551 SCR 941 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 65 ), and in support, it has been pointed out mainly that the examination of Sri A. L. Mazumdar in the absence of Kanhaiyalal Lohia was against the principles of natural justice.	None
The statement of Sri A. L. Mazumdar was taken on March 28, 1950, and it is recorded as follows Mr. Mazumdar is questioned by me as to what he knows regarding the alleged gift as recorded in the books of Kanailal Lohia in favour of BrijLal and NandKishore.	None
He says that I dont remember things very distinctly but I can say that the gifts to BrijLal or NandKishore were not made in my presence as alleged.	None
Mr. Kanhaiyalal Lohia used to tell me that his brother and nephew are idling away their time hence I shall give them a gift and make them work by that money.	None
The partnership deed was most probably drawn up by me.	None
The gift was reported to have been made to BrijLal and NandKishore before I should have taken up the drafting of the deed.	None
Kanhaiyalal told me several times that he wanted to separate his brother and nephew.	None
When the firm was started then Brijlalji came to me and asked me if father and sons partnership deed could be drawn up.	None
I dont know anything else than this in the matter.8.	None
The lie given by Sri Mazumdar to the statement of Kanhaiyalal Lohia has affected its credibility.	None
The order sheet shows that Mr. B. Sen Gupta took a copy of Sri Mazumdars statement and expressed a desire to crossexamine him but when the opportunity was given, he failed to appear.	None
It is impossible to think in these circumstances that there has been any breach of the principles of natural justice.	None
The order sheets of March 29 and 30, 1950 clearly record the absence of Mr. B. Sen Gupta.	None
In our opinion, there is no breach of the principles of natural justice in this case to entitle the appellants to invoke the ruling in Dakheswari Cotton Mills case, 19551 SCR 941 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 65 ).9.	None
It was contended before us that the finding of the Tribunal was perverse, and that on an examination of the total circumstances, it is quite clear that the gifts were not only real, but were acted upon.	Arguments of Respondent
This was a matter within the jurisdiction of the Appellate Tribunal as the final factfinding authority.	None
The Tribunal acted within, its powers in refusing to accept the evidence tendered, and looking at the circumstances of the case we cannot say that the finding has been perversely reached.	Reasoning
For a number of years, the brother and the nephew were supported by Kanhaiyalal Lohia, and it does not appear that a gift of even a small sum was made to them to put them on their legs.	Reasoning
Suddenly in the year 1943 Kanhaiyalal Lohia made up his mind to put them in business with a gift of the order of Rs. 7,60,000 odd.	Reasoning
For this purpose, he had to overdraw his accounts with the Bank and to pay interest to the Bank.	Reasoning
It does not appear why he felt that the establishment of his brother and nephew in business should be made on such a grand scale, which invoked him in debt.	Reasoning
This circumstance, taken with the fact that Mr. Mazumdar stated that he had always complained that they were good for nothing and were idlers, makes the transactions suspicious.	Reasoning
It was presumably done with a view to reduce the assessable profits in the hands of Kanhaiyalal Lohia, and on the evidence, the Tribunal was entitled to hold, as it did, that this was a sham transaction.	Reasoning
In our opinion, no special circumstances exist, on which the appellants can claim to come to this Court against the decision of the Tribunal, by passing the decision of the High Court on the question referred and the refusal of the High Court to call for a statement of the case from the Tribunal on questions which the Tribunal refused to refer to the High Court.	Reasoning
The appeals are, therefore, within the rulings of this Court in AIR 1961 SC 1708 and Civil Appeal No. 176 of 1959, D  2441961 (SC) and must be regarded as incompetent.10.	Reasoning
The appeals are dismissed with costs, one set11.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	None
