 RANGANATHAN,	None
J. These are appeals by the Revenue arising out of proceedings under the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959 (hereinafter called the Act).	Facts
The respondents, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (in C.A. No. 1031 of 1979) and Phulgaon Cotton Mills Ltd. (in the four other appeals) are assessees to sales tax.	Issue
They claimed a setoff, against the sales tax payable by them for the years in question, of certain sums, invoking the provisions of Rules 41 and 41A framed under the Act, as they stood at the relevant time.	Facts
As the wording of these rules, insofar as it is material for our present purposes, is identical and the basis of the claim was also common, it will be convenient to dispose of both sets of appeals by a common judgment and we proceed to do so.	Facts
The setoff claimed by the assessees was in terms of Section 42 and Rules 41 and 41A, which may now be referred to Section 42 reads thus.	Facts
Drawback, setoff, refund etc.  	Facts
The State Government may by rules provide that  (a) in such circumstances and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the rules a drawback, setoff or refund of the whole or any part of the tax  (i) (ii) paid or levied or leviable in respect of any earlier sale, or purchase of goods under this Act or any earlier law, be granted to the purchasing dealer (b) The State Government has notified various rule from time to time in exercise of this power which are collected in Chapter VII of the Rules.	Facts
Of these we are concerned with Rules 41 and 41A Rule 41 (omitted w.e.f.	Facts
June 24, 1981) was a very long containing several clauses.	Facts
Insofar as is relevant for our present purposes, it was in the following terms Drawback, setoff etc. of tax paid by a manufacturer  	None
In assessing the amount of tax payable in respect of any period by a Registered dealer, who manufactures taxable goods for sate (hereinafter in this rule referred to as the Manufacturing dealer), the Commissioner shall grant to him a drawback, setoff or as the case may be, a refund of the aggregate of the following sums, that is to say(e) a sum recovered from the Manufacturing dealer by another Registered dealer by way of sales tax or general sales tax or both, as the case may be, on the purchase by him, of goods from such Registered dealer, being goods specified in Schedule C to the Act other than in Entries 1 to 11 (both inclusive) and	Facts
15 therein and in Schedule D other than in Entice 1 to 4 (both inclusive) therein and in Schedule E other than in Entries 1 to and 2 therein, when the purchasing dealer did not hold a Recognition, or when the dealer held a Recognition but effected the purchase otherwise than against a certificate under Section 12 of the Act provided that such goods are used by him in the manufacture of taxable goods for sale or in the packing of taxable goods manufactured by him for sale Explanation (material portions italicised)	Facts
The relevant portion of Rule 41A, which has been invoked in the case of Phulgaon Cotton Mills Ltd., reads thus 41A Drawback, setoff etc. of tax paid by a manufacturer in respect of purchases made on or after July 13, 1962  	Facts
In assessing the amount of tax payable in respect of any period by a Registered dealer who manufacture taxable goods for sale or export (The words or export were inserted by a notification dated August 31, 1970) (hereinafter in this rule referred to as the Manufacturing dealer) the Commissioner shall, in respect of the purchases made by such dealer on or after July 15, 1962 of any goods specified in Schedule B, C, D, or E and used by him within the State in the manufacturer of taxable goods (The words which have in fact so manufactured were substituted by a notification dated January 15, 1976 for the words for sale or export or in the packing of goods so manufactured for sale or exports.) which have in fact been sold by him (and not given away as samples or otherwise) or which have been exported by him or used by him in the packing of goods so manufactured grant him a drawback, setoff or, as the case may be, a refund of the aggregate of the following sums, that is to say(a) a sum recovered from the Manufacturing dealer by other Registered dealers by way of sales tax, or general sales tax, as the case may be both on the purchase by him from such Registered dealers when the Manufacturing dealer did not hold a Recognition or when he held a Recognition but effected the purchase otherwise than against a certificate under Section 11 of the Act (b) to (d) (material portions italicised)	Facts
There was also a claim under Rule 43B but we are not concerned with that in the present appeals.	Facts
Now to turn to the facts which give rise to these appeals.	None
A Burmah Shell.	None
The Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. is before us as the successorininterest of the Burmah Shell Refinery Ltd., which is the assessee with which we are concerned.	Facts
We shall refer to it as the refinery to distinguish it from the Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distributing Company of India Ltd., which will be briefly referred to hereinafter as the marketing company We are concerned with the period from January 1, 1061 to December 31, 1961.	None
The refinery registered itself as a dealer under the Act and possessed a recognition certificate under Section 25, after having failed in a plea, raised in earlier assessment years, that it was not a dealer and was not required to be registered as such.	Facts
It has entered into a contract with the marketing company under which it agreed to process and refine crude oil belonging to the marketing company and manufacture kerosene for it.	Facts
This contract was in the nature of a bailment by the marketing company to the refinery, the refinery taking the crude oil and returning it after purification, as refined kerosene.	Facts
For the performance of this task it received payments form the manufacturing (sic marketing) company by way of refining charges on the basis of the jobwork done from time to time.	Facts
The refined kerosene was eventually sold by the marketing company and the refinery had nothing to do with the sales.	Facts
It may be mentioned here that there was no sales tax payable on sales of kerosene till March 31, 1961 but it became liable to sales tax thereafter.	Facts
For the above purification process, the refinery needed to use sulphuric acid.	Facts
During the calendar year 1961, it purchased 3048.760 MT of acid for Rs. 3, 52, 742 from Dharmsi Morarji Chemical Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as Dharmsis) under an agreement dated June 9, 1955 which was to remain to force for a period of ten years from January 1, 1966 (Sic).	Facts
On the sulphuric acid it so purchased, a sales tax of Rs. 13, 421.15 (Rs. 15, 107.72, according to the High Court) was recovered from it by the Dharmsis, as the refinery did not purchase it on the strength of the recognition certificate held by it as the certificate could have been utilised only if the goods purchased had been intended to be used by it in the manufacture of goods for sale itself whereas the manufactured kerosene was sold by the marketing company.	Facts
When the sulphuric acid was used in the refining process, the crude oil got refined and purified but the impurities therein precipitated into the acid and yielded acid sludge.	Facts
The refinerys contract with the Dharmsis provided that the acid sludge should be sold by the refinery to the Dharmsis which apparently, had its own used for the sludge.	Facts
Accordingly the refinery sold 3541.985 MT of the acid sludge, during the relevant period, for Rs. 68, 108  the correctness of this figure was unsuccessfully contested before the High Court  and on this amount it paid sales tax.	Facts
The record does not show the amount of sales tax paid by the refinery on this account, but having regard to the nature of the commodity and turnover involved, it must admittedly have been a very small amount.	Facts
Having done this, the refinery claimed that, as against the sales tax paid by it for the period in question (including the tax paid on the acid sludge), it was entitled to a setoff (and a refund, it need be) of the amount of Rs. 13, 421.15 paid by it as sales tax on its purchase of sulphuric acid.	Facts
Its argument is that it is entitled to this refund a all the conditions set out in clause (e) of Rule 41 were fulfilled thiswise(a) It is a manufacturer as the process of refining carried out by it falls within the wide definition of manufacture contained in Section 2(17) of the Act, viz.	Facts
2(17) manufacture with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means producing, making extracting, altering, ornamenting, finishing or otherwise treating, or adapting any goods, but does not include such manufacturers or manufacturing processes as may be prescribed.	None
It is also a registered dealer.	None
It manufactured taxable goods for sale.	None
The acid sludge manufactured by it was taxable throughout the year the and the pure kerosene manufactured by it was taxable w.e.f.	Facts
April 1, 1961 onwards.	None
Tax had been recovered from it on its purchases of sulphuric acid from the Dharmsi who are registered dealers as the purchases and not been effected on the basis of a recognition certificate.	Facts
The Sales Tax Officer allowed the setoff only to the extent of Rs. 1101.40 without giving any details as to the manner in which this figure had been arrived at.	Facts
On appeal, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner held that the assessee was entitled to no setoff at all under Rule 41 as what was manufactured by the assessee was kerosene and not acid sludge and the kerosene was sold not by the assesseemanufacturer but by some other company.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal, however, allowed the assessees claim in full and its view was upheld, on reference, by the High Court, Hence the present appeal.	Facts
Phulgaon Cotton.	None
In the case of Phulgaon Cotton Mills, are we are concerned with four accounting periods July 1, 1973 to June 30, 1974, July 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975, July 1, 1975 to June 30, 1976 and July 1, 1976 to June 30, 1977.	Facts
The issue as to the application of Rule 41A arises in the following circumstances.	Facts
The assessee purchased raw unginned cotton from agriculturists and unregistered dealers.	Facts
The cotton was ginned, yielding ginned cotton and cotton seeds.	Facts
On the issues raised in the assessments was as to whether purchase tax should be paid on the total value of the raw cotton purchased or on the said purchase price less the value of the cotton seeds obtained therefrom.	Facts
This question was answered against the assessee and is no more issue before us.	Facts
The assessee manufactured, yarn and cloth form the ginned cotton.	Facts
Besides cotton and yarn, cotton waste and yarn waste were also obtained in the course of the manufacture and these were also sold by the assessee.	Facts
Some quantity of the fabrics produced by the assessee were also exported.	Facts
During the period July 1, 1973 to June 30, 1974 and July 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975, the assessee had paid sales tax on the purchase value of the entire raw cotton purchased by it.	Facts
It therefore, claimed a setoff under Rule 43AB in respect of the three periods other than between July 1, 1974 and June 30, 1975 but we are not concerned with this claim.	Facts
The Sales Tax Officer allowed only partial relief to the assessee under Rule 41A. He permitted a setoff not of the entire purchase tax paid by the assessee on the raw cotton purchased by it but only of a part thereof proportionate to the extent of yarn sales.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal however upheld the contention of the assessee.	Facts
It allowed a setoff of the entire purchase tax paid by the assessee on the raw cotton, machinery and other purchases which had been used in the process of manufacture of cotton waste.	Facts
In doing so it followed the principle of the decision of the High Court in the case of Burmah Shell Refineries (C. S. T. v. Burmah Shell Refineries Ltd., 1978 (41) STC 337 (Bom HC))	Facts
It observed.	None
21.	None
When the raw cotton is ginned or ginned cotton is used in the process of manufacturing yarn, there is bound to be cotton waste.	Facts
In view of these facts, the appellant will also be entitled to full setoff so far as the purchase of cotton are concerned, which have resulted in the production of taxable commodity i.e. cotton waste.	Facts
Each and every ounce of cotton is used in the manufacture of cotton waste which is a taxable commodity.	Facts
The question of therefore allowing proportionate setoff far as the purchases of cotton or machinery which are used in manufacturing of cotton waster does not arise.	Facts
The appellant is entitled to full setoff so far as purchases of cotton machinery and other purchases.	Facts
Which are used in the manufacture of cotton waste, a taxable commodity.	Facts
There is no conflict in the decisions given by the Tribunal in earlier rulings given in the appellants own cases.	Facts
No such argument of production of cotton waster by product simultaneously was canvassed.	Facts
All that was canvassed was that yarn waste was taxable byproduct.	Facts
Hence, full setoff on purchase of cotton be allowed.	Facts
Tribunal negatived this contention by pointing out that there is no simultaneous production of yarn and cloth.	Facts
first yarn is manufactured and then cloth.	Facts
Thus question of referring this issue to larger bench does not arise.	Facts
The cases will have, therefore, to go back to the Assistant Commissioner for deciding the quantum of setoff admissible under Rule 41A on these bases for all the periods.	Facts
The Tribunal, however directed that the deductions should be so allowed as not to result in double deduction of the same amount of purchase tax.	Facts
Aggrieved by the order of the Tribunal, the Commissioner of Sales Tax filed petitions for special leave to appeal to this Court therefrom as no useful purpose would be served by approaching the High Court on reference in view of the decision of that Court in the Burmah Shell Refineries case (C. S. T. v. Burmah Shell Refineries Ltd., 1978 (41) STC 337 (Bom HC) on the point at issue having gone against the revenue.	Facts
Leave was granted by this Court on September 3, 1990 and hence the four civil appeals by the Revenue in the case of Phulgaon Cotton Mills Limited.	Facts
Before dealing with the issue on the interpretation of Rules 41 and 41A which has been debated before us, we wish to point out the difficulties encountered by us as the facts in the case of Phulgaon Cotton Mills are not quite clear from the record.	None
From the Tribunals order, it is seen that, during the periods July 1, 1975 to June 30, 1976 and July 1, 1976 to June 30, 1977 the assessee purchased no raw cotton from unregistered dealers and no purchase tax was levied thereon.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, some relief under Rule 41A was allowed by the officer in the assessments for these periods as well.	Reasoning
The basis on which a claim was made, and partially allowed under Rule 41A in respect of these periods is not know.	Reasoning
Also, the Tribunal has allowed full relief on the basis that since cotton was used in the manufacture of cotton waste, the assessee was entitled to relief in respect of purchase tax paid on raw cotton though for these years there was on such tax.	Reasoning
But the order of the Tribunal refers to setoff so far as purchases of machinery and other purchase indicating that perhaps some purchase tax had been paid in respect of those purchases and setoff had been sought in respect thereof.	Reasoning
But even assuming this, the discussion regarding cotton waste appears to be pointless since, admittedly, the yarn manufactured was liable to sales tax and on the Tribunals reasoning, this was sufficient to enable the assessee to claim setoff of the purchase tax paid on cotton, machinery and other materials used in the manufacture.	Reasoning
But these aspects have not been touched upon before us.	Reasoning
The arguments before us as we shall refer presently revolved round a very simple issue.	Reasoning
We shall discuss this issue and leave the other aspects touched upon above to be clarified, if need be when the assessment is finally redone in the light of our judgment.	None
Shri Dholakia, learned counsel for the State of Maharashtra, submits that the issue in these appeals is a very simple one.	Arguments of Petitioner
Rules 41 and 41A are intended to give relief to a dealer in respect of purchase of goods which are used in the manufacture of taxable goods for sale, the clear idea being that where the manufactured goods will also be liable to sales tax in the hands of the manufacture there should be a relied of the taxes paid by him on the goods purchased by him for use in such manufacture, so as to avoid double taxation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the Bharat Petroleum case (The words or exports were inserted by a notification dated August 31, 1970) the manufactured goods viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
, pure kerosene were neither sold by the respondent so as to attract sales tax in his hands nor, indeed, liable to sales tax at all for the first there months.	Arguments of Petitioner
So also, in the case of Phulgaon cotton Mills, the cotton purchased on payment of tax was used for the manufacture of cloth which was not liable to sales tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
A setoff cannot be allowed merely because a byproduct or waste product (viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
the acid sludge in the one case and the cotton waste in the other) was sold for a nominal turnover which was subject to tax.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even assuming that the sulphuric acid or cotton purchased can be said to have been used for the manufacture of two commodities (viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
kerosene and acid sludge in the one case and cloth and cotton waste in the other), the setoff under the rules relied upon should be split up proportionately and allowed only to a proportionate extent, the proportion being decided on the basis of the respective turnovers of the taxable and nontaxable goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that though the rules do not specifically provide for such a bifurcation, an apportionment of such nature is almost invariably implicit in a tax law and is also consonant with the object and purpose of the rules.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, therefore, submits that the High Court and Tribunal ought to have restricted the relief only to a proportionate extent as done by the sales tax officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that the basis on which the apportionment was made by the officer had been specifically challenged before the appellate authorities and is not in issue before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Sri Bobde, learned counsel appearing for Bharat Petroleum laid stress on two aspects of the rule.	Arguments of Respondent
First, he points out that, under the rule, it is not a requirement that the manufactured good have to be said by the manufacturing dealer himself.	Arguments of Respondent
The fact is that the kerosene constituted taxable goods after April 1, 1961 and was sold by the marketing company.	Arguments of Respondent
The second aspect of the rule is that, admittedly, the sulphuric acid purchased was wholly used in the manufactured of two items  kerosene and acid sludge  one of which viz, the sludge was taxable and also subjected to tax.	Arguments of Respondent
Once this condition is fulfilled, the amount of setoff is specified in the rule itself as the amount of purchase tax paid on the goods so sued and cannot be scaled down proportionately merely because, according to the department, the turnover of the taxable goods is insignificant, Sri Rana, learned counsel appearing for the Phulgaon Cotton Mills, adopts this argument mutatis mutandis.	Arguments of Respondent
We have given deep though to these contentions and we have come to the conclusion that plausible and attractive as the argument urged on behalf of the State is, the conclusion arrived at by the High Court and the Appellate Tribunal has to be upheld.	Reasoning
But before dealing with this aspect, we may dispose of two minor questions.	None
The first which arises in the Bharat Petroleum case is whether Rule 41 contemplates that the goods purchased by the dealer should be used for manufacture of taxable goods for sale by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has given good reasons, with which we are inclined to agree, for holding that no such restrictions can be read into this rule but this contention is of no significance in view of our conclusion that the assessee would be entitled to the setoff claimed even on the basis of the taxable sales of acid sludge effected by it.	Reasoning
The other point is whether the assessees can be said to manufacture acid sludge and cotton waste respectively.	None
It is suggested for the State that the assessees are purchasing acid and cotton for the manufacture of kerosene and yarn cloth respectively and it is ludicrous to suggest that the assesses are purchasing sulphuric acid and cotton for manufacturing acid sludge and and cotton waste.	None
Put like that the assessees contention seems a little artificial.	None
But the contention is not really absurd.	Reasoning
For, the assessees do purchase sulphuric acid and cotton for use in a manufacturing process which yields not only kerosene and yarn cloth but also acid sludge and cotton waste.	Reasoning
As pointed out in State of Gujarat v. Raipur Manufacturing Co. Ltd. ( 1967 (19) STC 1 1967 AIR(SC) 1066 1967 (1) SCR 618 ) where a subsidiary product is turned out regularly and continuously in the course of a manufacturing business and is also sold regularly from time to time, an intention can be attributed to the manufacturer to manufacture, and sell not merely the main item manufactured but also the subsidiary products.	None
There is also no evidence on record to suggest, at least so far as acid sludge is concerned, that it is not a commercial commodity with a market but an item of waste.	None
The contract with the Dharmsi speaks to the contrary and moreover, as pointed out by the High Court, the assessee had been practically compelled by the department to apply for and obtain a recognition certificate for the manufacture of sludge and it has also paid tax as dealers in acid sludge.	Reasoning
These two contentions have, therefore, to be rejected.	None
Turning now to the main question, we are inclined to agree with respondents counsel that they are entitled to a setoff of the entire tax paid by them on the purchases of sulphuric acid and cotton respectively.	None
The only condition under the rule is that the goods purchased on payment of tax should have been used in the manufacture of taxable goods for sale.	None
Their concurrent user for the manufacture of another item of goods which may or may not be taxable is immaterial though we may point out that in the Bharat Petroleum case, the kerosene was also taxable for nine months in the year and in the case of Phulgaon Cotton Mills, yarn was also manufactured and it was subject to tax.	Reasoning
Sri Dholakia contends for an implicit principle of apportionment on the basis of turnovers of various items of goods manufactured and restriction of the quantum of setoff to a proportion based on the turnover of taxable goods to the total turnover.	Arguments of Petitioner
He cited certain decisions under the Income Tax and Sales Tax Acts in support of this contention.	Arguments of Petitioner
AngloFrench Textiles Co. Ltd. v. CIT ( 1954 (25) ITR 27 1954 AIR(SC) 198), Tata Iron Steel Co. v. State of Bihar 1963 AIR(SC) 577 1963 (S1)	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 199 1963 (48) ITR 123 ) and CIT v. Best Co.	Arguments of Petitioner
( 1966 (60) ITR 11 1966 AIR(SC) 1325 1966 (2) SCR 480 )	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think these cases are of assistance.	None
The first two cases dealt with the question as to when profits and gains can be said to accrue or arise to a manufacturing business and the third held that when a receipt is a composite one of capital and revenue nature, it is open to the revenue to apportion the same and bring the latter to tax.	Reasoning
These are situations in which the taxable element is severable.	Reasoning
Under the rules presently under consideration also, situation are conceivable where such severance is implicit.	Reasoning
For instance, suppose the cotton purchased is utilised partly for manufacture of cloth that is taxable and partly for manufacture of cloth that is not taxable or partly for the manufacture of yarn which is taxable and is sold and partly for manufacture of cloth which is not taxable, it is clear that only some of the is utilised fort he first purpose and some for the second purpose and so only the purchase tax paid in respect of the quantity utilised for the first purpose will be eligible for setoff.	Reasoning
But the type of user with the which we are concerned is a composite one in which it is not possible to the correlate any part of the purchased goods as having gone in for the purpose of manufacture of taxable goods.	Reasoning
The position in pictures duly brought out in the case of Bharat Petroleum.	Reasoning
The entire sulphuric acid purchased has no doubt been used in the manufacture of kerosene though the perhaps not a drop of acid clings to the kerosene manufactured.	Reasoning
Equally the entire sulphuric acid has gone into the composition of the acid sludge.	Reasoning
The 3048.760 MT of acid have dissolved the impurities in the crude oil an conglomerated with them to constitute 3541.485 MT of acid sludge.	Reasoning
Having regard to the nature of interactions here, it is incontrovertible that the entire the sulphuric acid purchased has gone into the manufacture of the sludge.	Reasoning
The rules do not require that the purchased goods must have been used only for the manufacture of taxable goods for sale.	Reasoning
In this situation, it is not possible to cut down the quantum of relief clearly outlined in the rule on the basis for the relief provided is not very clear cut.	Reasoning
Various reliefs have been provided in a group of rules which come in for application in various situations.	Reasoning
The relief may be based on the principle that the manufactured product is taxed either in the hands of the same assessee or in some one else hands, or that the manufactured goods are exports which may yield no tax but earn foreign exchange, or even that the purchases are utilised for the manufacturer of goods in the State thus contributing to the industrial development of the State.	Reasoning
It is, therefore difficult to read into the provision a quantitative correlation of the goods resulting in a taxable turnover and the purchases of raw materials on the which tax has been paid.	Reasoning
In this background the straight forward answer to the question raised lies in the literal interpretation of the language of the rules without straining to discover some doubtful principle for denying relief.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, we agree with the view taken by the High Court and followed by the Tribunal and dismiss these appeals.	Decision
We, however, make no order regarding costs.	Decision
