SMT.	None
SUJATA V. MANOHAR, J. Civil Appeal Nos. 254445 of 1988 pertain to Assesment Year 197273 while Civil Appeal Nos. 64248 of 1989 pertain to Assesment Years 196566 to 197172.	Facts
The Tribunal had referred the following questions to the High Court for determination under s. 256(1) of the IT Act, 1961.	None
At the instance of the Revenue.	None
Assesment Year 196566.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the hire charges of Rs. 56 received by the assesseecompany for letting out the plant and machinery to the contractors were not taxable?.	Facts
Assesment Year 196667.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the hire charges of Rs. 7, 224 received by the assesseecompany for letting out of the plant and machinery to the contractors were not taxable?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in holding that the royalty of Rs. 8, 530 received from the contractor was not taxable as it was of capital nature and not revenue?	Facts
Assesment Year 196768 Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the hire charges of Rs. 12, 195 received by the assesseecompany for letting out of the plant and machinery to the contractors were not taxable?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in holding that the royalty of Rs. 1, 22, 902 received from the contractors was not taxable as it was capital in nature and not revenue?	Facts
Assesment Year 196869	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the hire charges of Rs. 17, 913 received by the assesseecompany for letting out of the plant and machinery to the contractors were not taxable?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in holding that the royalty of Rs. 65, 799 received from the contractor was not taxable as it was of capital in nature and not revenue?	Facts
Assesment Year 196970	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the hire charges amounting to Rs. 46, 342 received by the assesseecompany for letting out of the plant and machinery to the contractors were not taxable?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the royalty of Rs. 25, 928 received from the contractors was not taxable as it was of capital nature and not revenue?	Facts
Assesment Year 197071 Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the interest received by the assesseecompany on the amount of Rs. 7, 50, 502 advanced to the contractors was not taxable?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the hire charges of Rs. 182 received by the assesseecompany for letting out the plant and machinery to the contractors were not taxable?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in holding that the royalty of Rs. 13, 052 received from contractors is not taxable as it is of capital nature and not revenue?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding miscellaneous of Rs. 49 as not taxable?	None
Assesment Year 197172 Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the interest received by the assesseecompany on the amount of Rs. 14, 98, 993 advanced to the contractor was not taxable?(2)	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the hire charges of Rs. 3, 68, 442 received by the assesseecompany for letting out the plant and machinery to the contractors were not taxable?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in holding that the royalty of Rs. 6, 504 received from the contractors is not taxable as it is capital in nature and not revenue?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in holding that the interest received amounting to Rs. 7, 39, 332 by the assesseecompany on the amount advanced to Hindustan Steel Ltd. is not taxable?	Facts
For the Assesment Year 197273 a consolidated reference was made at the instance of the Revenue as well as the assessee and the following questions were referred Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the receipts arising from the letting out of the quarters to the outsiders, such as employees of the contractors engaged in the construction of the plant can be treated as the income of the assessee and or, in any event, should be adjusted against the cost of construction so as to reduce such cost?	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the receipts from the letting out of the properties to outsiders, such as the employees of the contractors engaged in the construction of the plant are to be assessed as income from property under s. 22 of the IT Act, 1961, or the said income should be assessed under s. 28 of the IT Act, 1961, as business income or in any event, under s. 56 of the IT Act, 1961, as income from other sources?	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the receipts arising from the letting out of the quarters to the outsiders, such as employees of the contractors engaged in the construction of the plant can be treated as the income of the assessee and or, in any event, should be adjusted against the cost of construction so as to reduce such cost?(4) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the interest received from the bank on shortterm deposits is liable to be assessed as the income of the assessee or such interest should reduce the cost of construction of the assessee and, therefore, would not constitute the income of the assessee?	Facts
The assessee is a corporation wholly owned by the Government of India.	Facts
It was assessed in the status of a company.	Facts
The assesseecompany, Bokaro Steel Ltd., was incorporated in January, 1964.	Facts
Its object was to construct and own an integral iron and steel works.	Facts
During the assessment years under consideration, the work of construction of the companys factory and installation of the plant was in the process of completion.	Facts
The company had not started any business during the assessment years in question.	None
During this period the company had given to the contractors quarters for the residence of the staff and workers employed by the contractors who had been engaged by the assesseerespondent for carrying out the work of construction.	None
The assessee charged the contractors for the use of the quarters so given to the contractors for the residence of his workmen who were engaged in the construction activity of the assessees plant.	Facts
Secondly, during the assessment years in question the assessee had entered into supplementary agreements with its contractors under which the assessee had made certain advances to the contractors to enable them to execute the large scale construction work smoothly.	Facts
The assessee had agreed to advance these advances to the contractors on payment of interest.	Facts
The contractors thus did not have to raise funds from outside agencies.	Facts
For the assesseecompany, this arrangement primarily meant payment in advance of the amounts of the contractors bills for which the assesseecompany had charged interest.	Facts
This interest was later adjusted against the dues of the contractors(3)	Facts
For the purpose of the construction work the assessee had given on hire certain plant and machinery to the contractors.	Facts
Against the letting of plant and machinery the assessee received from the contractors income in the form of hire charges.	Facts
It was not the business of the assesseecompany to let out plant and machinery to others.	Facts
The assesseecompany permitted its use only to its own contractors for the construction work done by the contractors for the assesseecompany.	Facts
The Tribunal has found that the assesseecompany charged hire charges for such use of plant and machinery in order to cover the maintenance and wear and tear of the plant and machinery belonging to the assessee	Facts
The assesseecompany allowed the contractors to use the stones lying on the assessees land for construction work.	Facts
The stones lying on the assessees companys land were the capital assets of the assesseecompany.	Facts
The assessee charged the contractor a certain amount by way of royalty for excavation and use of these stones for construction work The assessee had, during the asst.	Facts
yr. 197172 shown in its accounts as income from interest a certain sum said to have been accrued to the assessee from Hindustan Steel Ltd. for eight locomotives supplied by the assesseecompany to Hindustan Steel Ltd.	Facts
The assesseecompany, however, reversed this entry in the next year because eight new locomotives were supplied by Hindustan Steel Ltd. to the assessee and no interest income actually accrued to the assessee We have to consider whether the amounts received by the assessee under these five heads can be treated as income of the assessee for the relevant assessment years.	Facts
The Tribunal has held that all these amounts (under items 1 to 4) received by the assessee have gone to reduce the cost of construction.	None
These are in the nature of capital receipts which can be set off against the capital expenditure incurred by the assessee during the relevant assessment years.	Facts
This view has been upheld by the High Court and, hence the Department has come by way of the present appeals.	Facts
During these assessment years, the respondentassessee had invested the amounts borrowed by it for the construction work which were not immediately required, in shortterm deposits and earned interest.	Reasoning
It has been held in these proceedings that the receipt of interest amounts to income of the assessee from other sources.	Reasoning
The assessee has not filed any appeal from this finding which is given against it.	Reasoning
In any case, this question is now concluded by a decision of this Court in Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals Fertilisers Ltd. vs. CIT (SC).	Reasoning
Hence, we are not called upon to examine that issue.	Reasoning
We will take the first three heads under which the assessee has received certain amounts.	Reasoning
These are, the rent charged by the assessee to its contractors for housing workers and staff employed by the contractor for the construction work of the assessee including certain amenities granted to the staff by the assessee.	Reasoning
Secondly, hire charges for plant and machinery which was given to the contractors by the assessee for use in the construction work of the assessee and thirdly, interest from advances made to the contractors by the assessee for the purpose of facilitating the work of construction.	Reasoning
The activities of the assessee in connection with all these three receipts are directly connected with or are incidental to the work of construction of its plant undertaken by the assessee.	Reasoning
Broadly speaking, these pertain to the arrangements made by the assessee with its contractors pertaining to the work of construction.	Reasoning
To facilitate the work of the contractor, the assessee permitted the contractor to use the premises of the assessee for housing its staff and workers engaged in the construction activity of the assessees plant.	Reasoning
This was clearly to facilitate the work of construction.	Reasoning
Had this facility not been provided by the assessee, the contractors would have had to make their own arrangements and this would have been reflected in the charges of the contractors for the construction work.	Reasoning
Instead, the assessee has provided these facilities.	Reasoning
The same is true of the hire charges for plant and machinery which was given by the assessee to the contractor for the assessees construction work.	Reasoning
The receipts in this connection also go to compensate the assessee for the wear and tear on the machinery.	Reasoning
The advances which the assessee made to the contractor to facilitate the construction activity of putting together a very large project was as much to ensure that the work of the contractors proceeded without any financial hitches as to help the contractors.	Reasoning
The arrangements which were made between the assesseecompany and the contractors pertaining to these three receipts are arrangements which are intrinsically connected with the construction of its steel plant.	Reasoning
The receipts have been adjusted against the charges payable to the contractors and have gone to reduce the cost of construction.	Reasoning
They have, therefore, been rightly held as capital receipts and not income of the assessee from any independent source.	Reasoning
In the case of Addl.	None
CIT vs. Indian Drugs Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (Del), the Delhi High Court considered a case where the work of construction of the factory of the assessee was in progress and production had not commenced.	None
Receipts from sale of tender forms and supply of water and electricity to the contractors engaged in construction as also receipts on account of sale of stones, boulders, grass and trees were held to be receipts not from independent sources but were considered as inextricably linked with the process of setting up of business.	None
These were directly related to the capital structure of business and were held to be capital in nature.	None
We agree with this view taken by the Delhi High Court.	None
The appellant, however, relied upon the decision of this Court in Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals Fertilisers Ltd. vs. CIT (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
That case dealt with the question whether investment of borrowed funds prior to commencement of business, resulting in earning of interest by the assessee would amount to the assessee earning any income.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court held that if a person borrows money for business purposes, but utilises that money to earn interest, however temporarily, the interest so generated will be his income.	Arguments of Petitioner
This income can be utilised by the assessee whichever way he likes.	None
Merely because he utilised it to repay the interest on the loan taken, will not make the interest income as a capital receipt.	None
The Department relied upon the observations made in that judgment (at p. 179) to the effect that if the company, even before it commences business, invests surplus funds in its hands for purchase of land or house property and later sells it at profit, the gain made by the company will be assessable under the head capital gains.	None
Similarly, if a company purchases rented house and gets rent, such rent will be assessable to tax under s. 22 as income from house property.	None
Likewise, the company may have income from other sources.	None
The company may also, as in that case, keep the surplus funds in shortterm deposits in order to earn interest.	None
Such interest will be chargeable under s. 56 of the IT Act.	None
This Court also emphasised the fact that the company was not bound to utilise the interest so earned to adjust it against the interest paid on borrowed capital.	None
The company was free to use this income in any manner it liked.	None
However, while interest earned by investing borrowed capital in shortterm deposits is an independent source of income not connected with the construction activities or business activities of the assessee, the same cannot be said in the present case where the utilisation of various assets of the company and the payments received for such utilisation are directly linked with the activity of setting up the steel plant of the assessee.	Reasoning
These receipts are inextricably linked with the setting up of the capital structure of the assesseecompany.	Reasoning
They must, therefore, be viewed as capital receipts going to reduce the cost of construction.	Reasoning
In the case of Challapalli Sugars Ltd. vs. CIT (SC) TC 17R.834, this Court examined the question whether interest paid before the commencement of production by a company on amounts borrowed for the acquisition and installation of plant and machinery would form a part of the actual cost of the asset to the assessee within the meaning of that expression in s. 10(5) of the Indian IT Act, 1922, and whether the assessee will be entitled to depreciation allowances and development rebate with reference to such interest also.	Reasoning
The Court held that the accepted accountancy rule for determining cost of fixed assets is to include all expenditure necessary to bring such assets into existence and to put them in working condition.	Reasoning
In case money is borrowed by a newly started company which is in the process of constructing and erecting its plant, the interest incurred before the commencement of production on such borrowed money can be capitalised and added to the cost of the fixed assets created as a result of such expenditure.	Reasoning
By the same reasoning if the assessee receives any amounts which are inextricably linked with the process of setting up its plant and machinery, such receipts will go to reduce the cost of its assets.	Reasoning
These are receipts of a capital nature and cannot be taxed as income.	Reasoning
The same reasoning would apply to royalty received by the assesseecompany for stone, etc. excavated from the assesseecompanys land.	Reasoning
The land had been allowed to be utilised by the contractors for the purpose of excavating stones to be used in the construction work of assessees steel plant.	Reasoning
The cost of the plant to the extent of such royalty received, is reduced for the assessee.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, rightly taken as a capital receipt.	Reasoning
In the asst.	Reasoning
yr. 197172, the assessee had shown in its books of accounts a sum of Rs. 7, 39, 232 as income from interest received from Hindustan Steel Ltd. for the eight locomotives supplied by the assesseecompany to them.	Reasoning
The entry in this regard was reversed in the next year since Hindustan Steel Ltd. had replaced the eight locomotives lent by the assesseecompany to it by new ones.	Reasoning
The entire nature of the transaction was changed between the parties.	Reasoning
There was a resolution of the assesseecompany in this regard and the income from interest did not result at all as the original agreement ceased to be operative ab initio.	Reasoning
The entry in the books which was made was about a hypothetical income which did not materialise and the entry was reversed in the next year.	Reasoning
Both the Tribunal as well as the High Court have held that since this entry reflected only hypothetical income, it could not be brought to tax as income.	Reasoning
Only real income can be brought to tax.	Reasoning
In support of this finding, the assessee has drawn our attention to a decision of this Court in Godhra Electricity Co. Ltd. vs. CIT (SC) where the Court, inter alia, examined the cash system and the mercantile system of accounting in the context of hypothetical income.	Arguments of Respondent
The computation of income is made in accordance with the method of accounting regularly employed by the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
It may be either the cash system where entries are made on the basis of actual receipts and actual outgoings or disbursements or it may be the mercantile system where entries are made on accrual basis, that is to say, accrual of the right to receive payment and the accrual of the liability to disburse or pay.	Arguments of Respondent
However, in both cases unless there is real income, there cannot be any incometax.	Arguments of Respondent
Considering the facts before it, the Court said that although the assesseecompany was following the mercantile system of accounting and had made entries in the books regarding enhanced charges for the supply of electricity made to its consumers, no real income had accrued to the assesseecompany in respect of those enhanced charges in view of the fact that soon after the assesseecompany decided to enhance the rate, representative suits were filed by the consumers which were decreed by the Court and ultimately, after various proceedings which took place, the assesseecompany was not able to realise the enhanced charges.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court held that no real income had accrued to assesseecompany and hence the entries in respect of enhanced charges did not reflect the real income of the assessee and could not be brought to tax by the ITO. 11.	Arguments of Respondent
In the present case also the entry which was initially made as interest was reversed the next year because in fact the nature of the transaction was changed and the assessee did not receive any real income.	Reasoning
The High Court has, therefore, rightly held this entry as not reflecting the real income of the assessee and hence not exigible to incometax.	Reasoning
In the premises, the appeals are dismissed.	Decision
There will, however, be no order as to costs.	Decision
