 Krishna Iyer, J.1.	None
Industrial law in India has many twilight patches, illustrated by the present appeal which projects the problem of an employee whose services have been terminated simpliciter by the Management, a pump manufacturing enterprise, issuing a notice ending the employment and offering one months pay as authorised by the relevant Standing Orders.	None
The thorny legal issue is whether the ipse dixit of the employer that he has lost confidence in the employee is sufficient justification to jettison the latter without levelling and proving the objectionable conduct which has undermined his confidence so that the tribunal may be satisfied about the bona fides of the firing as contrasted with the colourable exercise of power hiding a notsoinnocuous purpose2.	Issue
The backdrop.	Facts
The facts and circumstances become decisive of the fate of the case even where the law is simplistic or fair in its face.	Facts
Here, what are the events end environments of employment reading to the worker being given the boot ?	Facts
Is the order an innocent and therefore, legal quit notice sanctioned by the Standing Orders which does not stigmatise the worker but merely bids him goodbye ?	Facts
Or is it a sinister intent to punish masked as a guideless order based on loss of confidence, an alibi which on a certain reading of this Courts rulings, is also a protective armour against judicial probe and setting aside ?	Facts
3. Michael, a permanent employee of proved efficiency and six years standing, was appreciatively given two merit increments.	Facts
But a letter of September 2, 1970 told him off service giving him one months noticepay discharging him without damning, as distinguished from dismissing him for misconduct.4.	Facts
The rival versions illumine the factual confrontation, the resolution of which is no easy legal essay.	Facts
The worker, Michael, through his Union, protested against the sack order as victimisation of a Trade Union activist but the Management was heedless, conciliation was fruitless and the dispute between the Union and the Management was eventually referred by the Delhi Administration to the Labour Court for adjudication.	Facts
The reference ran thusWhether the termination of services of Shri L. Michael is illegal and or unjustified and, if so, to what relief is he entitled and what directions are necessary in this respect ?	Facts
Both sides stated their cases in their pleadings and the true nature of the conflict emerges from them.5.	Facts
The story set out by the employee in his statement before the Labour Court was that although he was efficient, appreciated and awarded merit increments, the Management was antagonised by his active part in the formation of an Employees Union, especially because oral warnings by the Regional Manager against his Unionist proclivity was ignored.	Facts
Michael became the treasurer of the Union.	Facts
This Union chapter claimed its price, for the Management quietly terminated his services by a simple letter which readsWe are sorry to advise that your services are no longer required by the Company.	Facts
As such, this letter may be treated as a notice for the termination of your services with immediate effect.	Facts
As for the terms of your employment letter, on termination of services you will be paid one months salary extra.	Facts
You may please call on the undersigned and have your accounts settled.	Facts
This act, claims the worker, was in flagrant violation of elementary principles of natural justice without assigning any reason and without giving him an opportunity to defend himself.	Facts
This, in his statement, he challenged the termination as wrongful, male fide, illegal, and an act of victimisation.	Facts
The counter case of the management set up in its statement, as is apparent from the discharge order is that no dismissal is involved, no enquiry necessary and no illegality invalidates.6.	Facts
The management claimed that the alleged annoyance with the workman for union activity was a concoction in selfdefence, as the Management had not even knowledge of the formation of the Union.	Facts
This latter limb of the plea is a little too naive.	Facts
The warning by the Regional Manager was denied and the reference to trade union activities by the worker was more to create a ground for the workmens claim and has been levelled as a matter of habit and routine.	Facts
The basic plea of the management was that the action being a simple termination without a sting, the process and consequence of a disciplinary action were not attracted.7.	Facts
The Management, however, took the Court into confidence to explain why the employee was discharged.	Facts
He was employed a Receipt and Despatch Clerk in the office upto 103l970.	Facts
As an insider with access to office correspondence the employee misused his position by passing on very important and secret information about the affairs of the company to certain outsiders.	Facts
He was consequentially shifted to the post of clerk handling posting of bills and collection of payments but the workman, although denied direct access to correspondence in the Receipt and Despatch section made attempt to elicit information from the section with a view to pass it on to outsiders.	Facts
The upshot of these activities of which the management was alerted was a loss of confidence in the employee.	Facts
This unreliability was visited with noninjurious termination of service by a bona fide order.	Facts
Therefore, the action was claimed to be legal and immune to judicial interference.8.	Facts
Two socially vital factors must inform the understanding and application of Industrial jurisprudence.	Facts
The first is the constitutional mandate of Part IV obligating the State to make Provision for securing just and humane conditions of work,.	Facts
Security of employment is the first requisite of a workers life.	Facts
The second equally axiomatic consideration is that a worker who willfully or antisocially holds up the wheels of production or undermines the success of the business is a high risk and deserves, in industrial interest, to be removed without tears.	Facts
Legislation and judicial interpretation have woven the legal fabric.	Facts
We have to see whether on the facts of the present case what the relevant law is, whether it has been applied by the Labour Court rightly and whether the appellant has merit on his side, judged by the social conscience and judicial construction of the law in this branch of discharge simpliciter versus disguised dismissal.9.	Facts
A few salient facts need emphasis before the principles of law are applied.	Facts
The workman in his statement stressed the case of malus animus due to his union activities, although he did vaguely refer to the termination of service as wrongful and male fide.	Facts
From this it cannot be argued, as the Management sought to make out, that his denial of leaking out office secrets was an afterthought pleaded only in the rejoinder and therefore liable to be discredited.	Facts
How could the worker have a hunch about the managements undisclosed ground for dismissal ?	Facts
When the latter stated the reason which prompted this action for the first time before the Labour Court, the workman in his reply refuted this case.	Facts
It is noteworthy that there is no speck of record or any hint of written material in support of the story that the management had credible information of the appellant betraying sensitive secrets of business.	Facts
The letters sent by the Union and the worker requesting for reinstatement were being ignored.	Facts
The management could well have disclosed their suspicion in reply and told the Union and the workman that they resorted to an innocuous discharge to avoid punitive trauma.	Facts
The management could have divulged in writing to the Conciliation Officer their legitimate fears about the workers integrity and their considerate action of simple termination.	Facts
This too they failed to do.	Facts
In their written statement in Court the Management asserted for the first time that the employee was an intractable smuggler of inside information.	Facts
The statement winds up with the legalistic plea the management had, in the meanwhile lost confidence in the workman.	Facts
This culminating collapse of trust is alleged to be the primary cause for the discharge from employment.10.	Facts
At the time of the evidence, M. W.1, a former Regional Manager swore that the workman joined as a pump operator in 1963, was promoted as clerk in 1967, that the suspicion of disloyal communication arose for the first time in 1968 and yet thereafter he was giventwo increments extra in addition to normal increments.	Facts
He was a hard working man and has a very good memory but the suspicion was there.11.	Facts
These are the facts and the evidence in the case and it has been fairly conceded before the Labour Court by the Managements representative that were the action regarded as punitive it was bad, there having been no enquiry whatever with liberty to the employee to meet the charge.	Facts
But the single slender stand on which the discharge was suspended was loss of confidence of the management in the employee.	Facts
The Labour Court argued According to the management, as there was no proof with it for this suspicion it could not proceed against him departmentally and, in the circumstances, it was considered desirable to terminate his services by passing an order of discharge without any stigma attached to it.	Facts
While on all hands it was agreed that the employee was efficient, the Court took the view that the motivation for the termination was the suspicion which lurked in the mind of the Regional Manager that information regarding tenders was being passed on by the workman.	Facts
We have to find out whether the holding in the award that on the materials above placed, the action could be called colourable or saved as bona fide, could be castigated as achieving an illegitimate end or supported as a premature but straightforward and harmless farewell.	None
In short, was loss of confidence a legal label affixed by the management to eject the workman, there being no other legal method of accomplishing their wish to remove him for misconduct ?12.	None
Two questions, therefore, fall for decision.	None
Can a person, reasonably instructed in the law and scrutinising with critical faculties the facts on record, come to the conclusion that the snapping of the tie of master and servant in the present case was innocuous and bona fide or oblique circumvention of the processual protection the law provides before a workman is dismissed for misconduct ?13.	None
We can discern harmony and consistency in case law from Chartered Blank (1960) 3	None
SCR 441 (AIR 1960 SC 9l9) and Murugen, (1965) a SCR 148 (AIR 1965 SC 1496 ) through Sudder Office (1971) 2 Lab LJ 620 (1972 Lab IC 1262) (SC) and Air India Corporation, (1972) 3	None
SCR 606 (AIR 1972 SC 1343 ).	None
The social justice perspective and particular facts are important, though.	None
The plethora of precedents need not be covered in extenso as the law laid down is the same except that judicial response to each case situation leads to emphasis on different facets of the principle.	None
Even so some milestone decisions if we may say so, may be considered.14.	None
In Murugan Mills case (1965) 2 SCR 148 (AIR 1965 SC 1496 )	None
Wanchoo, J. (as he then was), speaking for the Court made the following observations The right of the employer to terminate the services of his workman under a Standing Order like clause 17 (a) in the present case, which amounts to a claim to hire and fire an employee as the employer pleases and thus completely negatives security of service which has been secured to industrial employees through industrial adjudication, came up for consideration before the Labour Appellate Tribunal in Buckingham and Carnatic Co. Ltd. v. Workers of the Company, 1952 Lab AC 490.	None
The matter then came up before this Court also in Chartered Bank v. Chartered Bank Employees Union, (1960) 3	None
SCR 441 (AIR 1960 SC 919 ) and the Management of U. B. Dutt and Co, v. Workmen of U. B. Dutt and Co., 1962 Supp (2) SCR 822 (AIR 1963 SC 411 ) wherein the view taken by the Labour Appellate Tribunal was approved and it was held that even in a case like the present the requirement of bona fides was essential and if the termination of service was a colourable exercise of the power or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour practice the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.	None
The form of the order in such a case is not conclusive and the tribunal can go behind the order to find the reasons which led to the order and then consider for itself whether the termination was a colourable exercise of unfair labour practice.	None
If it came to the conclusion that the termination was a colourable exercise of the Dower or was a result of victmisation or unfair labour practice, it would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.	None
In that case the form of the order had no foul trace, but before the Tribunal dereliction of duty and goslow tactics were disclosed as the inarticulate reasons.	None
This Court ruled This clearly amounted to punishment for misconduct and therefore to pass an order under cl.	None
17 (a) of the Standing Orders in such circumstances was clearly a colourable exercise of the power to terminate the services of a workman under the provisions of the Standing Orders.15.	None
Shri M. K. Ramamurthy, Counsel for the appellants, contended for the proposition that even where a management had the power to terminate the services of its employee without reasons but with notice pay only, thecolourable exerciseof that power invalidated it, and the Court could probe beneath the surface to check upon the bona fides behind the exercise of the power.	Arguments of Petitioner
If the reasons including the termination were victimisation unfair labour practice or misconduct, it was foul play to avoid a fair enquiry and fall back upon the power to terminate simpliciter.	Arguments of Petitioner
There are myriad situations where an employer may, in good faith, have to reduce his staff even though he may have only a good word for his employees.	Arguments of Petitioner
Simple termination is a weapon useable on such occasions and not when the master is willing to strike but afraid to wound.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have been referred to the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation Case (1970) 3	None
SCR 708 (AIR 1970 SC 1217 ).	None
The power of the Court to go behind the language of the order is reaffirmed there.	None
In Suddar Office (1971) 2 Lab LJ 620 (1972 Lab IC 1262) (SC) the Court apparently laid stress on the Managements right to terminate the servicessimpliciter under the terms of contract, where there was no lack of bona fides, unfair labour practice or victimisation.	None
It is significant that this Court used language and laid down law very much like in the earlier cases and did refer to the precedents on the point.	None
For instance, Vaidialingam, J., there observed It is needless to point out that it has been held by this Court in the Chartered Bank, Bombay v. The Chartered Bank Employees Union, (1960) 2 Lab LJ 222 (AIR 1960 SC 919 ) that if the termination of service is a colourable exercise of the power vested in the management or as a result of victimisation or unfair labour practice the Industrial Tribunal would have jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termination.	None
In order to find out whether the order of termination is one of termination simpliciter under the provisions of contract or of Standing Orders, the Tribunal has ample jurisdiction to go into all the circumstances which led to the termination simpliciter.16.	None
The manner of dressing up an order does not matter.	None
The Court will lift the veil to view the reality or substance of the order.	None
The Court, in that case, examined the circumstances in detail to see whether a dismissal for misconduct was being masked as a simple send off with a months pay, and held ultimately We are satisfied that the management has passed the order of termination simpliciter and the order does not amount to one of dismissal as and by way of punishment.	None
Of course, loss of confidence in the work man was alleged by the management and the Court found that it was not a camouflage.	None
It may be noticed that in that cast the workman was being entrusted with stores worth several lakhs of rupees, some goods were lost from the stores and the Union was informed by the management that it had lost confidence in the workman.	None
In the written statement before the Labour Court the management alleged that the workman was the head godownclerk who was the custodian of the companys property, the post being one of trust and confidence.	None
It is noteworthy that in the High Court the workman did not even file a counteraffidavit and the counsel for the Union and the workman agreed that the order of termination was not a camouflage to cover up what really was an order of dismissal.	None
He merely urged that the termination of the services was really by way of dismissal.	None
In this conspectus of circumstances, this Court found that the Head Clerk in charge of the Engineering godown and responsible for the maintenance of considerable stores, held a sensitive position.	None
This Court observed The entire basis of the Labour Courts award for holding that the order is one of dismissal is its view that the management has invoked clause 9 to camouflage its action.	None
When that approach has been given up on behalf of the workman before the High Court the reasoning of the Labour Court falls to the ground and the High Court has acted within the jurisdiction under Article 226 when it set aside the order of the Labour Court especially when there has been no finding of victimization, unfair labour practices or male fides recorded, against the management.	None
To conclude we are satisfied that the High Court was justified in setting aside the order of the Labour Court.17.	None
We have gone into this decision at length to disabuse the impression that a new defence mechanism to protect termination of service simpliciter, viz, loss of confidence, had been propounded in this ruling.	Reasoning
We do not agree that any such innovation has been made.	None
The Air India Corporation Case (l972) 3 SCR 606 (AIR 1972 SC 1343 ) may seem to support the no confidence doctrine but a closer study contradicts any such view.	None
Of course, Shri Tarkunde, Counsel for the management, placed great reliance on this ruling.	Reasoning
Needless to say, this Court recognised the power of the Tribunal to go behind the form of the order, look at the substance and set aside what may masquerade as termination simpliciter if in reality it cloaked a dismissal for misconduct as a colourable exercise of power by the management.	Reasoning
The Court repeated that an Industrial employer cannot hire and fire his workmen on the basis of an unfettered right under the contract of employment.	Reasoning
On the facts of the Air India case the Court concluded that it was not possible to hold this order to be based on any conceivable misconduct.	Reasoning
Special reference was made to the grave suspicion regarding the complainants private conduct with airhostesses.	Reasoning
Where no misconduct spurs the action and a delicate unsuitability for the job vis a vis the young women in employment in the same firm is strongly suspected, resort to termination simpliciter cannot be critised as a male fide machination.	Reasoning
In that background, the action was held to be bona fide and the overall unsuitability led to a loss of confidence in the employee.	Reasoning
Not that the loss of confidence was exalted as a ground but the special circumstances of the case exonerated bad faith in dischargesimliciter.18.	Reasoning
Before concluding the discussion, we may refer to the case of Delhi Transport Undertaking v. Goel, (1970) 2 Lab LJ 20 (AIR 1971 SC 836 ) adverted to by the Labour Court.	None
Indeed that decision turned on Regulations framed under the Delhi Road Transport Authority Act, 1950 and not on pure Industrial Law or construction of the Standing Orders.	None
Moreover, the Court, in that case, appears to have discussed rulings under Article 311 also.	None
However, on the facts of that case, the Court was satisfied that the order of termination was not a disguise or cloak for dismissing the employee and the ground given that he was a cantankerous person undesirable to be retained was good.	None
We do not read the Delhi Transport case (1970) 2 Lab LJ 20 (AIR 1971 SC 836 ) to depart from Murugan Mills case (1965)	None
2 SCR 148 (AIR 1965 SC 1496 ).	None
Indeed, the latter did not, and may be could not, overrule the former.19.	None
The above study of the chain of rulings brings out the futility of the contention that subsequent to Murugan Mills case (1965)	Reasoning
2 SCR 148 (AIR 1965 SC 1496 )colourable exercise of powerhas lost validity andloss of confidencehas gained ground.	Reasoning
The law is simply this The Tribunal has the power and indeed, the duty to Xray the order and discover its true nature, if the object and effect, it the attendant circumstances and the ulterior purpose be to dismiss the employee because he is an evil to be eliminated.	None
But if the management, to cover up the inability to establish by an enquiry illegitimately but ingeniously passes an innocentlooking order of termination simpliciter, such action is bad and is liable to be set aside.	None
Loss of confidence is no new armour for the management otherwise security of tenure, ensured by the new industrial jurisprudence and authenticated by a catena of cases of this Court, can be subverted by this neoformula.	None
Loss of confidence in the Law will be the consequence of the Loss of Confidence doctrine.20.	None
In the light of what we have Indicated, it is clear that loss of confidence is often a subjective feeling or individual reaction to an objective set of facts and motivations.	Reasoning
The Court is concerned with the latter and not with the former, although circumstances may exist which justify a genuine exercise of the power of simple termination.	Reasoning
In a reasonable case of a confidential or responsible post being misused or a sensitive or strategic position being abused, it may be a high risk to keep the employee, once suspicion has started ant a disciplinary enquiry cannot be forced on the master.	Reasoning
There, a terminationsimpliciter maybe bona fide not colourable, and loss of confidence may be evidentiary of good faith of the employer.21.In the present case, the catalogue of circumstances set out in the earlier part of the judgment strikes a contrary note.	Reasoning
The worker was not told when he wrote the Union was not disclosed when they demanded the Labour Court was treated to verbal statements like very reliable sources and other credulous phrases without a modicum of evidence to prove bona fides.	Reasoning
Some testimony of unseemly attempts by the workman to get at secrets outside his orbit some indication of the source of suspicion, some proof of the sensitive or strategic role of the employee, should and would have been forthcoming had the case been bona fide.	Reasoning
How contradictory, that even when a strong suspicion of leaking out sensitive secrets was being entertained about the employee he was being given special merit increments over and above the normal increments A case of res ipsa loquitur.	Reasoning
Circumstances militate against the I say so of M. W. 1 that the management had suffered an ineffable loss of confidence.	Reasoning
To hit below the belt by trading legal phrases is not Industrial Law.	Reasoning
We are constrained to express ourselves unmistakably lest industrial unrest induced by wrongful terminations based on convenient loss of confidence should be generated.22.	Reasoning
Before we conclude we would like to add that an employer who believes or suspects that his employee, particularly one holding a position of confidence, has betrayed that confidence can, if the conditions and terms of the employment permit, terminate his employment and discharge him without any stigma attaching to the discharge.	Reasoning
But such belief or suspicion of the employer should not be a mere whim or fancy.	Reasoning
It should be bona fide and reasonable.	Reasoning
It must rest on some tangible basis and the power has to be exercised by the employer objectively, in good faith, which means honestly with due care and prudence.	Reasoning
If the exercise of such power is challenged on the ground of being colourable or male fide or an act of victimisation or unfair labour practice, the employer must disclose to the Court the grounds of his impugned action so that the same may be tested judicially.	Reasoning
In the instant case this has not been done.	Reasoning
There is only the ipse dixit of the employer that he was suspecting since 1968 that the appellant was divulging secrets relating to his business.	Reasoning
The employer has not disclosed the grounds on which this suspicion arose in 1968.	Reasoning
Further, after 1968, the appellant was given two extra increments, in addition to his normal increments, as stated already, in appreciation of his hard work.	Reasoning
This circumstance completely demolishes even the whimsical and tenuous stand taken by the employer.	Reasoning
It was manifest therefore that the impugned action was not bona fide.23.	None
It was urged by Mr. Tarkunde learned Counsel for the employer that the question whether or not the employer had lost confidence in the employee, was essentially one of fact and this Court should not disturb the finding of fact recorded by the trial Court on this point.	Arguments of Respondent
It is true that this Court.	None
in appeal, as a rule of practice, is loath to interfere with a finding of fact recorded by the trial Court.	Reasoning
But if such a finding is based on no evidence, or is the result of a misreading of the material evidence, or is so unreasonable or grossly unjust that no reasonable person would judicially arrive at that conclusion, it is the duty of this Court to interfere and set matters right.	Reasoning
The case before us is one such instance, where we are called upon to do so.24.	Reasoning
The Labour Court has misled itself on the law and we set aside its order.	Reasoning
The workman will be reinstated with back wages.	Reasoning
However, the management will be free, if it has sufficient material and if so advised, to proceed against the workman for misconduct or on other grounds valid in law.25.	Reasoning
The appeal is, accordingly, allowed with costs.26.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
