 Goswami, J.1.	None
This appeal by special leave at the instance of the Bhavnagar Municipality is directed against the order of the Gujarat High Court dismissing in limine its writ application challenging the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Gujarat, made under S.33A of the Industrial Disputes Act (briefly the Act).2.	Issue
There was an industrial dispute pending between the Bhavnagar Municipality (briefly the appellant) and its workmen before the Industrial Tribunal in Reference No. 37 of 1974 referred to it under S. 10(1)(d) of the Act on March 5, 1974.	Facts
The said industrial dispute related to several demands including the demand for permanent status of the daily rated workers of the Water Works Section of the Municipality who had completed 90 days service.	Facts
While the aforesaid industrial dispute was pending before the Tribunal, the appellant, on September 30, 1974 passed orders retrenching 23 daily rated workmen (briefly the respondents) attached to the Water Works Section of the Municipality.	Facts
It is not disputed that the appellant had complied with S.25F of the Act and due retrenchment compensation had been paid to those workers.	Facts
On June 20, 1975, the respondents filed a complaint to the Tribunal under S.33A of the Act for contravention of S.33 of the Act by the appellant.3.	Facts
Neither party adduced any oral evidence before the Tribunal but relied only upon document produced before it.	Facts
On October 30, 1975, the Tribunal made its award holding that the appellant contravened S. 33(1)(a) of the Act and, therefore, directed reinstatement of the respondents.	Facts
The appellant preferred writ application before the High Court which was dismissed in limine, as stated above.	Facts
Hence this appeal by special leave.4.	Facts
Two questions arise for decision in this appeal.	Issue
First, whether the appellant contravened S. 33(1)(a) of the Act by ordering retrenchment of the respondents who, along with other workers, were directly involved in the industrial dispute pending before the Tribunal.	Issue
Second, whether contravention of S. 33 will automatically lead to an order of reinstatement of the respondent, as has been held by the Tribunal.5.	Issue
It is common ground that the appellant did not obtain prior permission of the Tribunal before retrenching the respondents.6.	None
It is wellsettled that a complaint under S. 33A is maintainable only if the employer contravenes S.33 of the Act.	None
It is submitted by Mr. Agarwal, on behalf of the respondents, that the object of S. 33 should be borne in mind in considering the question about alteration of conditions of service under S. 33(1)(a) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that since the respondents were directly involved in the dispute and the question of their permanent status from a casual or temporary status formed the subjectmatter of the dispute, the reference has been made nugatory by the action of the appellant in retrenching them, Mr. Parekh, on the other hand, submits that retrenchment of the respondents does not involve alteration of conditions of service and hence there is no contravention of S.33 of the Act.7.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no complaint by Mr. Agarwal that there is any noncompliance by the appellant with S.25F of the Act.	Reasoning
Mr. Agarwal further rightly concedes that he cannot bring his case under S. 33(1)(b) or under S. 33(2)(b) since it is not a case of discharge or dismissal for misconduct.	Reasoning
His entire submission is based on S. 33(1)(a) of the Act.8.	Reasoning
Section33 of the Act so far as material for us may be set out 33(1) During the pendency of any proceeding before a Tribunal in respect of an industrial dispute, no employer shall (a) in regard to any matter connected with the dispute, alter, to the prejudice of the workmen concerned in such dispute, the conditions of service applicable to them immediately before the commencement of such proceeding x x x x xSave with the express permission in writing of the authority before which the proceeding is pending.9.	None
There is a clear prohibition in S. 33(1)(a) against altering conditions of service by the employer under the circumstances specified except with the written permission of Tribunal or other authority therein described.10.	Reasoning
In order to attract S. 33(1)(a), the following features must be present (1) There is a proceeding in respect of an industrial dispute pending before the Tribunal.(2) Conditions of service of the workmen applicable immediately before the commencement of the Tribunal proceeding are altered.(3)	None
The alteration of the conditions of service is in regard to a matter connected with the pending industrial dispute.(4)	None
The workmen whose conditions of service are altered are concerned in the pending industrial dispute.(5)	None
The alteration of the conditions of service is to the prejudice of the workmen.11.	None
The first feature is admittedly present in this case since action has been taken by the appellant in retrenching the respondents during the pendency of the proceeding before the Tribunal.	None
The point that requires consideration is whether the other features are also present in the instant case.12.	None
Before we proceed further we should direct our attention to the subjectmatter of the industrial dispute pending before the Tribunal.	None
It is sufficient to take note of the principal item of the dispute, namely, the demand of the respondents for conversion of the temporary status of their employment into permanent.	None
To recapitulate briefly the appellant employed dailyrated workers to do the work of boring and hand pumps in its Water Works Section.	Reasoning
These workers have been in employment for over a year.	Reasoning
They claimed permanency in their employment on their putting in more than 90 days service.	Reasoning
They also demanded two pairs of uniform every year, cycle allowance at the rate of Rs. 10 per month, provident fund benefit and national holidays and other holidays allowed to the other works.	Reasoning
While this particular was pending before the Tribunal, the appellant decided to entrust the work, which had till then been performed by these workers in the water works section, to a contractor.	Reasoning
On the employment of the contractor by the Municipality for the self same work, the services of the respondents became unnecessary and the appellant passed the orders of retrenchment.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, clear that by retrenchment of the respondents even the temporary employment of the workers ceased while their dispute before the Tribunal was pending in order to improve that temporary and insecure status.13.	Reasoning
Retrenchment may not, ordinarily, under all circumstances, amount to alteration of the conditions of service.	Reasoning
For instance, when a wage dispute is pending before a Tribunal and on account of the abolition of a particular department the workers therein have to be retrenched by the employer, such a retrenchment cannot amount to alteration of the conditions of service.	Reasoning
In this particular case, however, the subjectmatter being directly connected with the conversion of the temporary employment into permanent, tampering with the status quo ante of these workers is a clear alteration of the conditions of their service.	Reasoning
They were entitled during the pendency of the proceeding before the Tribunal to continue as temporary employees hoping for a better dispensation in the pending adjudication.	Reasoning
And if the appellant wanted to effect a change of their system in getting the work done through a contractor instead of by these temporary workers, it was incumbent upon the appellant to obtain prior permission of the Tribunal to change the conditions of their employment leading to retrenchment of their services.	Reasoning
The alteration of the method of work culminating in termination of the services by way of retrenchment in this case has a direct impact on the adjudication proceeding.	Reasoning
The alteration effected in the temporary employment of the respondent which was their condition of service immediately before the commencement of the proceeding before the Tribunal, is in regard to a matter connected with the pending industrial dispute.14.	Reasoning
The character of the temporary employment of the respondents being a direct issue before the Tribunal, that condition of employment, however insecure, must subsist during the pendency of the dispute before the Tribunal and cannot be altered to their prejudice by putting an end to that temporary condition.	Reasoning
This could have been done only with the express permission of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
It goes without saying that the respondents were directly concerned in the pending industrial dispute.	Reasoning
No one can also deny that snapping of the temporary employment of the respondents is not to their prejudice.	Reasoning
All the five features adverted to above are present in the instant case.	Reasoning
To permit rupture in employment, in this case, without the prior sanction of the Tribunal will be set at naught the avowed object of S. 33 which is principally directed to preserve the status quo under specified circumstances in the interest of industrial peace during the adjudication.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, clearly of opinion that the appellant has contravened the provisions of S. 33(1)(a) of the Act and the complaint under S. 33A, at the instance of the respondents, is maintainable.	Reasoning
The submission of Mr. Parekh to the contrary cannot be accepted.15.	None
That, however, does not conclude the matter.	Reasoning
The Tribunal was clearly in error in not adjudicating the complaint on the merits.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled that in a complaint under S. 33A, even if the employer is found to have contravened the provisions of S. 33, the Tribunal has to pronounce upon the merits of the dispute between the parties.	Reasoning
The order passed in an application under S. 33A is an award similar to one passed in a reference under S.10 of the Act.	Reasoning
The award passed has to be submitted to the Government and the same has to be published under S.17 of the Act.	Reasoning
For the purposes of the Act the complaint under S. 33A takes, as it were, the form of a reference of an industrial dispute by the appropriate authority and the same has to be disposed of in a like manner.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has committed an error of jurisdiction in declining to adjudicate the matter and to make its award on the merits as required under the law.	Reasoning
The High Court, was, therefore, not right in dismissing the writ application of the appellant in limine.	Reasoning
We should also observe that, in the absence of adjudication on the merits by the Tribunal, the High Court was not right in holding that the retrenchment by the appellant was a gross act of victimisation.16.	Reasoning
In the result the order of the High Court is set aside.	Decision
It follows that the award of the Tribunal ordering reinstatement of the respondents falls and is set aside.	Decision
We should also and that the observations of Tribunal with regard to the question of prosecution of the appellant under Ss.31 and 32 of the Act were not at all pertinent in an enquiry under S. 33A and ought not to have been made.	Decision
The writ application in the High Court stands allowed to the extent indicated.17.	Decision
The appeal is allowed as directed in this order.	Decision
The complaint under S. 33A stands restored to the file of the Tribunal for disposal on the merits in accordance with law and in the light of this judgment.	Decision
The appellant, however, shall pay the costs of the respondents as ordered at the time of granting of the special leave.	Decision
