 P. JEEVAN REDDY, J. Writ Petition (C) No. 967 OF 1989 This writ petition tiled by an environmentalist organisation brings to light the woes of people living in the vicinity of chemical industrial plants in India.	Issue
It highlights the disregard, nay, contempt for law and lawful authorities on the part of some among the emerging breed of entrepreneurs, taking advantage, as they do, of the countrys need for industrialisation and export earnings.	Issue
Pursuit of profit has absolutely drained them of any feeling for fellow human beings  for that matter, for anything else.	Issue
And the law seems to have been helpless.	Issue
Systemic defects ?	Issue
It is such instances which have led many people in this country to believe that disregard of law pays and that the consequences of such disregard will never be visited upon them  particularly, if they are men with means.	Issue
Strong words indeed  but nothing less would reflect the deep sense of hurt, the hearing of this case has instilled in us.	None
The facts of the case will bear out these opening remarks.	None
Bichhri is a small village in Udaipur district of Rajasthan.	Facts
To its north is a major industrial establishment, Hindustan Zinc Limited, a public sector concern.	Facts
That did not affect Bichhri.	Facts
Its woes began somewhere in 1987 when the fourth respondent herein, Hindustan Agro Chemicals Limited started producing certain chemicals like Oleum (said to be the concentrated form of Sulphuric acid) and Single Super Phosphate.	Facts
The real calamity occurred when a sister concern, Silver Chemicals (Respondents No. 5), commenced production of H acid in a plant located within the same complex.	Facts
H acid was meant for export exclusively.	Facts
Its manufacture gives rise to enormous quantities of highly toxic effluents  in particular, ironbased and gypsumbased sludge  which if not properly treated, pose grave threat to mother Earth.	None
It poisons the earth, the water and everything that comes in contact with it.	Facts
Jyoti Chemicals (Respondent No. 8) is another unit established to produce H acid, besides some other chemicals.	Facts
Respondents Nos. 6 and 7 were established to produce fertilizers and a few other products.	None
All the units factories of Respondents Nos. 4 to 8 are situated in the same complex and are controlled by the same group of individuals.	None
All the units are what may be called chemical industries.	Facts
The complex is located within the limits of Bichhri village.	None
Because of the pernicious wastes emerging from the production of H acid, its manufacture is stated to have been banned in the western countries.	None
But the need of H acid continues in the West.	Facts
That need is catered to by the industries like the Silver Chemicals and Jyoti Chemicals in this part of the world.	Facts
(A few other units producing H acid have been established in Gujarat, as would be evident from the decision of the Gujarat High Court in Pravinbhai Jashbhai v. State of Gujarat, (1995)	Facts
2 Guj LR 1210, a decision rendered by one of us, B. N. Kirpal, J. as the Chief Justice of that Court, J. Silver Chemicals is stated to have produced 375 MT of H acid.	Facts
The quantity of H acid produced by Jyoti Chemicals is not known.	Facts
It says that it produced only 20 MT., as trial production, and no more.	Facts
Whatever quantity these two units may have produced, it has given birth to about 24002500 MT of highly toxic sludge (ironbased sludge and gypsumbased sludge) besides other pollutants.	None
Since the toxic untreated waste waters were allowed to flow out freely and because the untreated toxic sludge was thrown in the open in and around the complex, the toxic substances have percolated deep into the bowels of the earth polluting the acquifers and the subterranean supply of water.	Facts
The water in the wells and the streams has turned dark and dirty rendering it unfit for human consumption.	Facts
It has become unit for cattle to drink and for irrigating the land.	Facts
The soil has become polluted rendering it unfit for cultivation, the main stay of the villagers.	Facts
The resulting misery to the villagers needs to emphasis.	Facts
It spread disease, death and disaster in the village and the surrounding areas.	Facts
This sudden degradation of earth and water had an echo in Parliament too.	Facts
An Honble Minister said, action was being taken, but nothing meaningful was done on the spot.	Facts
The villagers then rose in virtual revolt leading to the imposition of Section 144, Cr. P.C. by the District Magistrate in the area and the closure of Silver Chemicals in January, 1989.	Facts
It is averred by the respondents that both the units.	Facts
Silver Chemicals and Jyoti Chemicals have stopped manufacturing H acid since January, 1989 and are closed.	Facts
We may assume it to be so.	Facts
Yet the consequences of their action remain  the sludge, the longlasting damage to earth, to underground water, to human beings, to cattle and the village economy.	Facts
It is with these consequences that we are to content with in this writ petition.	Facts
The present social action litigation was initiated in August, 1989 complaining precisely of the above situation and requesting for appropriate remedial action.	Arguments of Petitioner
To the writ petition, the petitioner enclosed a number of photographs illustrating the enormous damage done to water, cattle, plants and to the area in general.	Arguments of Petitioner
A good amount of technical data and other material was also produced supporting the averments in the writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
COUNTERAFFIDAVITS OF THE RESPONDENTS.	None
On notice being given, counteraffidavits have been filed by the Government of India, Government of Rajasthan, Rajasthan Pollution Control Board (R.P.C.B.) and Respondents Nos. 4 to 8.	None
Since the earliest counteraffidavit in point of time is that of R.P.C.BB.	None
we shall refer to it in the first instance.	Arguments of Respondent
It was filed on October 26, 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
The following are the averments.	None
Re.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindustan Agro Chemicals Limited R4	None
The unit obtained NoObjection Certificate from the P.C.B. for manufacturing sulphuric acid and alumina sulphate.	None
The Board granted clearance subject to certain conditions.	Arguments of Respondent
Later NoObjection Certificate was granted under the Water Prevention and Control of Pollution Act, 1974 Water Act and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 Air Act, again subject to certain conditions.	None
However, this unit changed its product without clearance from the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
Instead of sulphuric acid, it started manufacturing Oleum and Single Super Phosphate S.S.P. Accordingly, consent was refused to the unit on February 16, 1987.	Arguments of Respondent
Directions were also issued to close down the unit(b) Re.	Arguments of Respondent
Silver Chemicals R5 This unit was promoted by the fourth respondent without obtaining NoObjection Certificate from the Board for the manufacture of H acid.	Arguments of Respondent
The waste water generated from the manufacture of H acid is highly acidic and contains very high concentration of dissolved solids along with several dangerous pollutants.	Arguments of Respondent
This unit was commissioned in February, 1988 without obtaining the prior consent of the Board and accordingly notice of closure was served on April 30, 1988.	Arguments of Respondent
On May 12, 1988, the unit applied for consent under Water and Air Acts which was refused.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government was requested to issue directions for cutting of the electricity and water to this unit but no action was taken by the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The unit was found closed on the date of inspection, viz., October 2, 1989(C) Re.	Arguments of Respondent
Rajasthan Multi Fertilizers R6 This unit was installed without obtaining prior NoObjection Certificate from the Board and without even applying for consent under Water and Air Acts.	None
Notice was served on this unit on February 20, 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
In reply whereto, the Board was informed that the unit was closed since last three years and that electricity has also been cut of since February 12, 1988(d)	Arguments of Respondent
Re.	Arguments of Respondent
Phosphates India R7 This unit was also established without obtaining poor NoObjection Certificate from the Board nor did it apply for consent under the Water and Air Acts.	None
When notice dated February 20, 1989 was served upon this unit, the Management replied that this unit was closed for a long time(e) Re.	Arguments of Respondent
Jyoti Chemicals R8 This unit applied for NoObjection Certificate For producing ferric alum.	Arguments of Respondent
NoObjection Certificate was issued imposing various conditions on April 8, 1988.	Arguments of Respondent
The NoObjection Certificate was withdrawn on May 30, 1988 on account of noncompliance with its conditions.	None
The consent applied for under Water and Air Acts by this unit was also refused.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsequently, on February 9, 1989, the unit applied for fresh consent for manufacturing H acid.	Arguments of Respondent
The consent was refused on May 30. 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
The Board has been keeping an eye upon this unit to ensure that it does not start the manufacture of H acid.	Arguments of Respondent
On October 2, 1989, when the unit was inspected, it was found closed The Board submitted further in its counteraffidavit that the sludge lying in the open in the premises of respondents Nos. 4 to 8 ought to be disposed of in accordance with the provisions contained in the Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989 framed under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the Board, the responsibility for creating the said hazardous situation was squarely that of Respondents Nos. 4 to 8.	Arguments of Respondent
The Board enclosed several documents to its counter in support of the averments contained therein8.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government of Rajasthan filed its counteraffidavit on January 20, 1990.	None
It made a curious statement in Para 3 to the following effect (T)hat the State Government is now aware of the pollution of underground water being caused by liquid effluents from the firms arrayed as respondents Nos. 4 to 8 in the writ petition.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the State Government has initiated action through the Pollution Control Board to check further spread of pollution.	Arguments of Respondent
The State Government stated that the water in certain wells in Bichri village and some other surrounding villages has become unfit for drinking by human beings and cattle, though in some other wells, the water remains unaffected9.	Arguments of Respondent
The Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India filed its counter on February 8, 1990.	Arguments of Respondent
In their counter, the Government of India stated that Silver Chemicals was merely granted a Letter of Intent but it never applied for conversion of the Letter of Intent into industrial licence.	Arguments of Respondent
Commencing production before obtaining industrial licence is an offence under Industries Development and Regulation Act, 1951.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as Jyoti Chemicals is concerned, it is stated that it has not approached the Government at any time even for a Letter of Intent.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government of India stated that in June, 1989, a study of the situation in Bichhri village and some other surrounding villages was conducted by the Centre for Science and Environment.	Arguments of Respondent
A copy of their report is enclosed to the counter.	Arguments of Respondent
The report states the consequences emanating from the production of H acid and the manner in which the resulting wastes were dealt with by respondents Nos. 4 to 8 thus The effluents are very difficult to treat as many of the pollutants present are refractory in nature.	Arguments of Respondent
Setting up such highly polluting industry in a critical ground water area was essentially illconceived.	None
The effluents seriously polluted the nearby drain and overflowed into Udaisagar main canal, severely corroding its cementconcrete lined bed and banks.	None
The polluted waters also seriously degraded some agricultural land and damaged standing crops.	Arguments of Respondent
On being ordered to contain the effluents, the industry installed an unlined holding pond within its premises and resorted to spraying the effluent on the nearby hillslope.	None
This only resulted in extensive seepage and percolation of the effluents into ground water and their spread down the acquifer.	None
Currently about 60 wells appear to have been significantly polluted but every week a few new wells, down the acquifer start showing signs of pollution.	Arguments of Respondent
This has created serious problems for water supply for domestic purposes, cattle watering crop irrigation and other beneficial uses, and it has also caused human illness and even death, degradation of land and damage to fruit, trees and other vegetation.	Arguments of Respondent
There are serious apprehensions that the pollution and its harmful effects will spread further after the onset of the monsoon as the water percolating from the higher parts of the basin moves down carrying the pollutants lying on the slopes in the holding pond and those already underground.	Arguments of Respondent
Each of the respondents Nos. 4 to 8 filed separate counteraffidavits.	None
All the affidavits filed on behalf of these respondents are swornto by Lt.Gen. M. L. Yadava, who described himself as the President of each of these units.	Arguments of Respondent
In the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the fourth respondent, it is stated that it is in no way responsible for the situation complained of.	Arguments of Respondent
It is engaged in the manufacture of sulphuric acid and had commenced its operations on January 6, 1987.	Arguments of Respondent
It has been granted NoObjection Certificates from time to time.	None
The consent obtained from R.P.C.B. is valid up to August 15, 1988.	Arguments of Respondent
Application for extension of consent has already been filed.	Arguments of Respondent
This counteraffidavit was filed on January 18, 199011.	None
In the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the fifth respondent Silver Chemicals, it is stated that the manufacture of H acid which was commenced in February, 1988 has been completely stopped after January, 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondent is fully conscious of the need to conserve and protect environment and is prepared fully to cooperate in that behalf.	Arguments of Respondent
It is ready to comply with any stipulations or directions that may bemade for the purpose.	Arguments of Respondent
It, however, submitted that the real culprit is Hindustan Zinc Limited.	Arguments of Respondent
The Archeological Department of the Government of Rajasthan has issued environmental clearance for its unit rather surprising statement.	Arguments of Respondent
NoObjection Certificates had also been issued by the Executive Engineer Irrigation, Udaipur Division and the Wild Life Warden.	None
So far as the requirement of consent under Water and Air Acts is concerned, it merely stated that it had applied for it.	Arguments of Respondent
Its closure in January, 1989 was on account of promulgation of an order under Section 144 Cr.P.C.	Arguments of Respondent
by the District Magistrate in view of widespread agitation by the villagers against its functioning12.	Arguments of Respondent
In the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the sixth respondent Rajasthan Multi Fertilizers, it is stated that it commenced production on March 14, 1982 and closed down in December, 1985.	Arguments of Respondent
Electrical connection to it was disconnected on February 13, 1988.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that since it is a smallscale industry, no consent was asked for from anyone.	None
It denied that it was causing any pollution, either ground, air or water13.	Arguments of Respondent
In the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the seventh respondent Phosphates India, it is stated that this unit commenced production on May 15, 1988 but was closed on and with effect from September 1, 1988 for want of support from the Central Government in the form of subsidies.	Arguments of Respondent
It submitted that it has merged with the fourth respondent in 198788 In the counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the eighth respondent Jyoti Chemicals, it is stated that it has no electrical connection, that it had commenced production in April 1987 and closed down completely in January, 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
It is stated that the unit produced H acid to an extent of 20 mt.	Arguments of Respondent
as a trial measure for one month with the permission of the Industries Department.	Arguments of Respondent
It is no longer manufacturing H acid and, therefore, is not responsible for causing any pollution.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that it is a smallscale industry and was registered with the District Industry Centre, Udaipur for the manufacture of ferric alum and H acid.	Arguments of Respondent
It began its operation simultaneously with the fifth respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
Silver Chemicals, and several of the clearances are common to both, as both of them are located together.	Arguments of Respondent
The trial production of H acid, it is stated, took place in January, 198715.	Arguments of Respondent
Hindustan Zinc Limited was impleaded as the ninth respondent at the instance of respondents Nos. 4 to 8.	Arguments of Respondent
It has filed a counteraffidavit denying that it is responsible in any manner for causing any pollution in Bichhri village or the surrounding areas.	None
According to it, its plants are situated downstream, towards north of Bichhri village.	Arguments of Respondent
We do not think it necessary to refer to this affidavit in any detail inasmuch as we are not concerned, in this writ petition, with the pollution, if any, caused by the ninth respondent in other villages but only with the pollution caused by respondents Nos. 3 to 8 in Bichhri or surrounding villagesORDER PASSED AND STEPS TAKEN DURING THE PERIOD 19891992 The first considered Order made, after hearing the parties, by this Court is of December 11, 1989.	Arguments of Respondent
Under this Order, the Court requested the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute NEERI to study the situation in and around Bichri village and submit their report as to the choice and scale of the available remedial alternatives.	None
NEERI was requested to suggest both shortterm and longterm measures required to combat the hazard already caused.	None
Directions were also made for supply of drinking water to affected villages by the State of Rajasthan.	None
The R.P.C.B. was directed to make available to the Court the report it had prepared concerning the situation in Bichri village.	None
On the next date of hearing, i.e., March 5, 1990, the Court took note of the statements made on behalf of respondents Nos. 4 to 8 that they have completely stopped the manufacture of H acid in their plants and that they did not propose to resume its manufacture.	None
The Court also took note of the petitioners statement that though the manufacture of H acid may have been stopped, a large quantity of highly dangerous effluent waste sludge has accumulated in the area and that unless properly treated, stored and removed, it constitutes a serious danger to the environment.	None
Directions were given to the R.P.C.B. to arrange for its transportation, treatment and safe storage according to the technically accepted procedures for disposal of chemical wastes of that kind.	None
All reasonable expenses for the said operation were to be borne by respondents Nos. 4 to 8 hereinafter referred to in this judgment as the respondents.	None
So far as the polluted water in the wells was concerned, the Court noted the offer made by the learned counsel for the respondents that they will themselves undertake the dewatering of the wells.	Reasoning
The R.P.C.B. was directed to inspect and indicate the number and location of the wells to be dewatered.	None
The matter was next taken up on April 4, 1990.	None
It was brought to the notice of the Court that no meaningful steps were taken for removing the sludge as directed by this Court in its Order dated March 5, 1990.	None
Since the monsoon was about to set in, which would have further damaged the earth and water in the area, the Court directed the respondents to immediately remove the sludge from the open spaces where it was lying and store it in safe places to avoid the risk of seepage of toxic substances into the soil during the rainy season.	None
The respondents were directed to complete the task within five weeks therefrom.	None
It is not really necessary to refer to the contents of the various Orders passed in 1990 and 1991 i.e., subsequent to the Order dated April 4, 1990 for the present purposes.	None
Suffice it to say that the respondents did not comply with the direction to store the sludge in safe places.	None
The dewatering of wells did not prove possible.	None
There was good amount of bickering between the respondents on one side and the R.P.C.B. and the Ministry of Environment and Forests on the other.	None
They blamed each other for lack of progress in the matter of removal of sludge.	None
Meanwhile, years rolled by and the hazard continued to rise.	None
NEERI submitted an interim report.	None
We are, however, not referring to the contents of this interim report inasmuch as we would be referring to the contents of the final report presently after referring to a few more relevant orders of this Court On February 17, 1992, this Court passed a fairly elaborate order observing that respondents Nos. 5 to 8 are responsible for discharging the hazardous industrial wastes that the manufacture of H acid has given rise to huge quantities of iron sludge and gypsum sludge  approximately 2268 MT of gypsumbased sludge and about 189 mt. of ironbased sludge that while the respondents blamed respondent No. 9 as the main culprit, respondent No. 9 denied any responsibility therefor.	None
The immediate concern, said the Court, was the appropriate remedial action.	None
The report of the R.P.C.B. presented a disturbing picture.	Reasoning
It stated that the respondents have deliberately spread the hazardous material sludge all over the place which has only heightened the problem of its removal and that they have failed to carry out the Order of this Court dated April 4, 1990.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the Court directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India to depute its experts immediately to inspect the area to ascertain the existence and extent of gypsumbased and ironbased sludge, to suggest the handling and disposal procedures and to prescribe a package for its transportation and safe storage.	Reasoning
The cost of such storage and transportation was to be recovered from the respondents.	None
Pursuant to the above Order, a team of experts visited the area and submitted a report along with an affidavit dated March 30, 1992.	None
The report presented a highly disturbing picture.	Reasoning
It stated that the sludge was found inside a shed and also at four places outside the shed but within the premises of the complex belonging to the respondents.	Reasoning
It stated further that sludge has been mixed with soil and at many places it is covered with earth.	None
A good amount of sludge was said to be lying exposed to sun and rain.	None
The report stated Above all, the extent of pollution in the ground water seems to be very great and the entire acquifer may be affected due to the pollution caused by the industry.	None
The organic content of the sludge needs to be analysed to assess the percolation property of the contents from the sludge.	None
It is also possible that the iron content in the sludge may be very high which may cause the reddish colouration.	None
As the mother liquor produced during the process (with pH1) was highly acidic in nature and was indiscriminately discharged on land by the unit, it is possible that this might have eroded soil and caused the extensive damage.	None
It is also possible that the organic contents of the mother liquor would have gone into soil with water together with the reddish colour.	None
The report also suggested the mode of dispossal of sludge and measures for reconditioning the soil.	None
In view of the above report, the Court made an order on April 6, 1992 for entombing the sludge under the supervision of the officers of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India.	None
Regarding revamping of the soil, the Court observed that for this purpose, it might become necessary to stop or suspend the operation of all the units of the respondent but that, the Court said, requires to be examined further.	None
The work of entombment of sludge again faced several difficulties.	None
While the respondents blamed the Government officers for the delay, the Government officials blamed the said respondents of noncooperation.	None
Several Orders were passed by this Court in that behalf and ultimately, the work commenced ORDERS PASSED IN 1993, FILING OF WRIT PETITION (C) NO.	None
76 OF 1994	None
BY RESPONDENT NO. 4 AND THE ORDERS PASSED THEREON With a view to find out the connection between the wastes and sludge resulting from the production of H acid and the pollution in the underground water, the Court directed on 20th August, 1993, that samples should be taken of the entombed sludge and also of the water from the affected wells and sent for analysis.	Reasoning
Environment experts of the Ministry of Environment and Forests were asked to find out whether the pollution in the well water was on account of the said sludge or not.	Reasoning
Accordingly, analysis was conducted and the experts submitted the report on November 1, 1993.	None
Under the heading Conclusion, the report stated.	None
5.0 CONCLUSION5.1 On the basis of the observations and analysis results, it is concluded beyond doubt that the sludge inside the emtomed pit is the contaminated one as evident from the number of parameters analysed5.2	None
The groundwater is also contaminated due to discharge of Hacid plant effluent as well as Hacid sludge contaminated soil leachates as shown in the photographs and also supported by the results.	None
The analysis result revealed good correlation between the colour of well water and Hacid content in it.	None
The analysis results show high degree of impurities in sludge soil and also in well water which is a clear indication of contamination of soil and groundwater due to disposal of Hacid waste.	None
The report which is based upon their inspection of the area in September, 1993 revealed many other alarming features.	None
It represents a commentary on the attitude and actions of the respondents.	None
In Para2, under the heading Site Observations Collection of Sludge Contaminated Soil Samples, the following facts are stated 2.1.	None
The Central team, during inspection of the premises of M s. HACL, observed that Hacid sludge (iron gypsum) and contaminated soil are still lying at different places, as shown in Fig. i. within the industrial premises (Photograph 1) which are the leftovers.	None
The area, where the solar evaporation pond was existing with Hacid sludge dumped here and there was observed to have been levelled with borrowed soil (Photograph 2).	None
It was difficult to ascertain whether the sludge had been removed before filling.	None
However, there are visual evidences of contaminated soil in the area2.2.	None
As reported by the Rajasthan Pollution Control Board (RPCB) representatives, about 720 tonnes out of the total contaminated soil and sludge scraped from the sludge dump sites is disposed of in six lined entombed pits covered by lime flyash mix, brick soling and concrete (Photographs 3 4).	None
The remaining scraped sludge and contaminated soil was lying near the entombed pits for want of additional disposal facility.	None
However, during the visit, the left over sludge and contaminated soil could not be traced at site.	None
Inspection of the surrounding area revealed that a huge heap of foreign soil of 5 metre height (Photograph 5) covering a large area, as also indicated in Fig. 1, was raised on the sloppy ground at the foot hill within the industry premises.	None
The storm water runoff pathway over the area showed indication of the heap.	None
Soil in the area was sampled for analysis2.3. M s. HACL has a number of other industrial units which are operating within the same premises without valid consents from the Rajasthan Pollution Control Board (RPCB).	None
These plants are sulphuric acid (H2SO4), fertilizer (SSP) and vegetable oil extraction.	None
The effluent of these units are not properly treated and the untreated effluent particularly from the acid plant is passing through the sludge dump area playing havoc (Photograph 7).	None
The Final effluent was collected at the outlet of the factory premises during operation of these units, at the time of groundwater monitoring in September 1993, by the RBPC.	None
Its quality was observed to be highly acidic (pH 1.08, Conductivity 37, 100 mg/1, 804 21, 000 mg/1, Fe 392 mg/1, COD 167 mg/1) which was also revealed in the earlier visits of the Central teams.	None
However, these units were not in operation during the present visit.	None
Under Para 4.2.1, the report stated inter alia	None
The sludge samples from the surroundings of the presently nonexistent) solar evaporation and the contaminated soil due to seepage from the newly raised dump site also exhibited very high values of the above mentioned parameters.	None
This revealed that the contaminated soil is buried under the new dump found by the team.	None
So much for the waste disposal by the respondents and their continuing good conduct To the same effect is the report of the R.P.C.B. which is dated October 30, 1993	None
In view of the aforesaid reports, all of which unanimously point out the consequence of the H acid production, the manner in which the highly corrosive waste water (mother liquor) and the sludge resulting from the production of H acid was disposed of and the continuing discharge of highly toxic effluents by the remainings units even in the year 1993, the authorities (R.P.C.B.) passed orders closing down, in exercise of their powers under Section 33A of the Water Act, the operation of the Sulphuric Acid Plant and the solvent extraction plant including oil refinery of the fourth respondent with immediate effect.	None
Orders were also passed directing disconnection of electricity supply to the said plants.	None
The fourth respondent filed Writ Petition (C) No. 76 of 1994 in this Court, under Article 32 of the Constitution, questioning the said orders in January, 1994.	None
The main grievance in this writ petition was that without even waiting for the petitioners Hindustan Agro Chemicals Limited reply to this showcause notices, orders of closure and disconnection of electricity supply were passed and that this was done by the R.P.C.B. with a mala fide intent to cause loss to the industry.	None
It was also submitted that sudden closure of its plants is likely to result in disaster and, may be, an explosion and that this consideration was not taken into account while ordering the closure.	None
In its order dated March 7, 1994, this Court found some justification in the contention of the industry that the various counteraffidavits filed by the R.P.C.B. are selfcontradictory.	None
The Board was directed to adopt a constructive attitude in the matter.	None
By another order dated March 18, 1994, the R.P.C.B. was directed to examine the issue of grant of permission to restart the industry or to permit any interim arrangement in that behalf.	None
On April 8, 1994, a consent order was passed whereunder the industry was directed to deposit a sum of Rupees sixty thousand with R.P.C.B. before April 11, 1994 and the R.P.C.B. was directed to carry on the construction work of storage tank for storing and retaining ten days effluents from the Sulphuric Acid Plant.	None
The construction of temporary tank was supposed to be an interim measure pending the construction of an E.T.P. on permanent basis.	None
The Order dated April 28, 1994 noted the report of the R.P.C.B. stating that the construction of temporary tank was completed on April 26, 1994 under its supervision.	None
The industry was directed to comply with such other requirements as may be pointed out by R.P.C.B. for prevention and control of pollution and undertake any works required in that behalf forthwith.	None
Thereafter, the matter went into slumber until October 13, 1995NEERI REPORT.	None
At this juncture, it would be appropriate to refer to the report submitted by NEERI on the subject of Restoration of Environmental Quality of the affected area surrounding village Bichhri due to past Waste Disposal Activities.	None
This report was submitted in April, 1994 and it states that it is based upon the study conducted by it during the period November, 1992 to February, 1994.	None
Having regard to its technical competence and reputation as an expert body on the subject, we may be permitted to refer to its report at some length.	None
At page 7, the report mentions the industrial wastes emerging from the manufacture of H acid.	None
It reads.	None
Solid wastes generated from Hacid manufacturing process areGypsum sludge produced during the neutralisation of acidic solution with lime after nitration stage (around 6 tonnes tonne of Hacid manufactured).Iron sludge produced during the reduction stage (around 0.5 tonnes tonne of Hacid manufactured).Gypsum sludge contains mostly calcium sulphate along with sodium salts and organics.	None
Iron sludge constitutes unreacted iron powder, besides ferric salts and organics.	None
It is estimated that, for each tonne of Hacid manufactured, about 20 m3 of highly corrosive wastewater was generated as mother liquor, besides the generation of around 2.0 m3 of wash water.	None
The mother liquor is characterised by low pH (around 2.0) and high concentration of total dissolved solids (80  280 g L).	None
High COD of the wastewater (90 g L) could be attributed to organics formed during various stages of manufacture.	None
These include nephethalene trisulphonic acid, nitro nephthalene sulphonic acid, Koch acid and Hacid, besides several other intermediates.	None
At pages 8 and 9, the report describes the manner in which the sludge and other industrial wastes were disposed of by the respondents.	None
It states inter alia	None
The total quantities of wastes water and that of sludge generated were around 8250 m3 and 2440 tonnes respectively for production of 375 tonnes by M s. Silver Chemicals Ltd. and M s. Jyoti Chemicals Ltd Majority of sludge brought back from disposal sites located outside the plants was transferred inside a covered shed The sludge lying in the plant premises was entombed in the underground pit by RPCB as per the directions of the Honble Supreme Court.	None
It may be mentioned that only 720 MT of sludge out of the estimated quantity of 2440 MT could be entombed as the capacity of the underground tanks provided by the industry for the purpose was only to that extent Remaining sludge and sludge mixed soil were, however, present in the plant premises as these could not be transferred into underground tanks.	None
It has also been observed that only sludge above the soil was removed from the six sites and transferred to the plant site.	None
Subsurface soil of these sites appears to have been contaminated as the soil has reddish colour akin to that of the sludge A fertilizer plant (single superphosphate), a sulphuric acid plant and an oil extraction and oil refining plant were in operation in the same premises where Hacid was earlier manufactured.	None
The acidic wastewater (around pH 1.0) presently generated from these units was flowing over the abandoned dumpsite.	None
This leaches the sludge mixed soil from the abandoned dumpsite and the contaminated water flows by gravity towards east and finds its way into a nallah flowing through the compount and conveys the contaminated water to an irrigation canal which originates from udaisagar lake (Pate 1.4).	None
At page 10, the report mentions the six dump sites outside the H acid plant premises where the sludge was lying in the open.	None
At pages 26 and 27, the report states on the basis of V.E.S. investigations that while certain wells were found contaminated others were not.	None
At page 96, the report states thus DAMAGE TO CROPS AND	None
TREESThe field surveys in contaminated fields in Zones I and II showed that no crops were coming in the fields particularly in low lying areas.	None
On some elevated areas, crops like jowar, maize were growing however the growth and yield were very poorFurther it was also observed that even trees like eucalyptus planted in contaminated fields show leaf burning and stunted growth.	None
Many old trees which were badly affected due to contamination are still growing under stress conditions as a result of soil contaminationThe top soils at the old dump sites outside the plant premises are still contaminated and require decontamination before the land is used for other purposesIt was observed that even after the operation of hauling the sludge back to the industry premises, some sludge mixed soil was still lying in the premises of a primary school (Table 1.1), which needs decontamination.	None
Chapter6, the report mentions the remedial measures.	None
Para 6.1, titled Introduction states	None
As could be seen from the datea reported in Chapters 4 and 5, the ground water and soils within 2 km from the plant have been contaminated.	None
After critically scrutinising the data, it was concluded that there is an urgent need to work out a decontamination strategy for the affected area.	None
This strategy includes the decontamination of the soil, contaminated ground water and abandoned dump sites.	None
This Chapter details the remedial measures that can be considered for implementation to restore the environmental quality of the affected area.	None
The Chapter then sets out the various remedial measures, including land treatment, soil washing, revegetation, control over the flow of the contaminated water to adjoining lands through canals, leaching of soluble salts, design of farm to development Agroforestry and or forestry plantation with salt tolerant crops plants and ground water decontamination.	None
Inter alia, the report states.	None
The entire contaminated area comprising of 350 ha of contaminated land and six abandoned dump sites outside the industrial premises has been found to be ecologically fragile due to reckless past disposal activities practiced by M s. Silver Chemicals Ltd., and	None
M s. Jyoti Chemicals Ltd.	None
Accordingly, it is suggested that the whole of the contaminated area be developed as a green belt at the expense of M s. Hindustan Agrochemicals Ltd., during the monsoon of 1994.	None
Under para 6.3.2, the report suggests Decontamination Alternatives for Groundwater including Bioremediation, Degradation of HAcid by Azotobacter Vinelandi, Isolation of Bacterial Population from Hacid Contaminated Soil and several other methods Under para 6, 4, 2, the report mentions the several decontamination alternatives including containment of contaminated soil, surface control, ground water control, leachate collection and treatment, gas migration control and direct waste treatment At pages 157 and 158, the report mentions the continuing discharge of effluents in an illegal and dangerous manner.	None
It reports It was also observed by NEERls team during the current study that the industry has not provided adequate effluent treatment facilities and the wastewaters (PH 1.5) from the existing plants (Sulphuric acid, Fertilizer, and Oil extraction) are being discharged, without treatment, on land within the plant premises.	None
This indiscriminate and wilful disposal activity is further aggravating the contamination problem in the area.	None
Acidic effluent leaches the pollutants from the dumped sludge and the contaminated soil and facilitates their penetration through the ground and thereby increasing the concentration of sulphates and dissolved solids in groundwater.	None
What is most serious is the fact that the industry produced chlorgsulfonic acid for a few months during late 1992 which is a hazardous and toxic substance as per MEF Notification titled Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 and even floated public shares for the manufactures of this obnoxious chemical.	None
The production was however ceased due to the intervention of the Rajasthan Pollution Control Board in December 1992 as the industry was operating without obtaining site clearance.	None
No objection Certificate (NOC) Consent from the concerned appropriate regularity (regulatory ?) authorities and without providing for any pollution control measures.	None
It is, therefore, essential for M s. Hindustan Agrochemicals Ltd. to comply with these requirements for carrying out the present industrial activities.	None
The abatement of further contamination warrants the closure of all industrial operations till an appropriate effluent treatment plant is installed, and certified by RPCB for its functionality in keeping with the provisions of Water Act.	None
The Report adds The Industry management in the past (during 198889) has shown scant respect for Pollution Control and Environment Protection Acts.	None
Not only this, the management continues industrial activity producing obnoxious waste waters and dumping the same without any treatment, contaminating land and ground water without any concern for ecology and public health.	None
It is necessary that the provisions of relevant legislations are imposed on the industry to avoid environmental damage and harm to public welfare.	None
We do not think that the above Report requires any emphasis at our hands.	None
It speaks for itself  and it speaks volumes of the high regard the respondents have for law At Pages 179 onwards, the Report refers to the damage to the crops and the land and to the psychological and mental torture inflicted upon the villagers by the respondents and suggests that the principle of Polluter Pays should be applied in this case inasmuch as the incident involved deliberate release of untreated acidic process wastewater and negligent handling of waste sludge knowing fully well the implication of such acts.	None
The Report suggests that compensation should be paid under two heads, viz., (a) for the losses due to damage and (b) towards the cost of restoration of environmental quality.	None
It then works out the total cost of restoration of environmental quality at Rs. 3738.5 lakhs  i.e., Rs. 37.385 crores Para 7.4 states the conclusions flowing from the material in Chapter6 thus The cost of damage to be disbursed to the affected villagers is estimated at Rs. 342.8 lakhs and remediation of impacted well waters and soil at Rs. 3738.5 lakhs.	None
This cost needs to be borne by the management of the industry in keeping with the Polluter Pays principle and the doctrine of Strict Absolute liability, as applied to Sri Ram Food and Fertilizers Industry in the case of Oleum leak in 1985.	None
REPORT OF R.P.CB.	None
SUBMITTED IN JANUARY, 1996 DURING THE FINAL HEARING OF THESE MATTERS.	None
When all these matters were posted before the Court on October 13, 1995, we realised that the matter requires to be heard on a priority basis.	None
Having regard to the voluminous data gathered by this Court and the several Orders passed from time to time, the matter was listed for regular hearing.	None
We heard all the parties at length on 10th, 11th, 16th and 17th January, 1996.	None
We have been taken through the volumnius record.	None
Submissions have also been made on the questions of law arising herein At the end of the first day of regular hearing, we made an Order calling upon the R.P.C.B. to send a team of high officials to the spot and report to us the latest position on the following aspects Whether the factories of Silver Chemicals, Rajasthan Multi Fertilizers and Jyoti Chemicals are still working and whether the machinery installed in the said plant is still existing ?	None
(This information was required to check the statement of the respondents that the said units are lying closed since last several years.)	None
To report whether the factory or factories of Respondent No. 4, Hindustan AgroChemicals Limited, are working and if they are working, what are the products being manufactured by them ?	None
The Board was also directed to report whether the seventh respondent, Phosphate India, which was said to have merged with the fourth respondent, is having a separate factory and if so, what is being produced therein ?	None
(iii) The approximate quantity of sludge  whether iron sludge or gypsum sludge  lying in the area.	None
The report was to indicate what quantity was entombed pursuant to the Orders of this Court and whether any further sludge was lying in the area or in the premises of the respondents complex, its approximate quantity and the time, effort and cost required to remove the same(iv)	None
The Board was also to take samples of the water in wells and tanks in the area and have them analysed and tell us whether it is fit for drinking by cattle and or fit for irrigation purposes Accordingly, the R.P.C.B. officials visited the site and have filed a Report dated January 16, 1996 along with an affidavit.	None
The Report discloses the following facts The two units, Silver Chemicals and Jyoti Chemicals, do not exist now.	None
There is no machinery.	None
A godown and a Ferric Alum plant have been constructed at the site of the said plant.	None
The Ferric Alum plant was not in operation at the time of inspection though plant and machinery for manufacturing it was found installed therein.	None
Certain old stock of Ferric Alum was also found lying within the plant premises Hindustan AgroChemicals Limited (R4) has seven industrial plants, viz., Rajasthan Multi Fertilizers manufacturing Granulated Single Super Phosphate (G.S.S.P.), a Sulphuric Acid Plant, a Chlorosulphonic Acid Plant, Edible Oil Solvent Extraction Plant, Edible Oil Refinery and a Ferric Alum Plant (known as M s. Jyoti Chemicals), ail of which are located within the same premises.	None
All these seven plants were found not operating on the date of inspection by the R.P.C.B. officials though in many cases the machinery and the other equipment was in place.	None
So far as the sludge still remaining in the area is concerned, the report stated Village Bicchidi and other adjoining areas were visited by the undersigned officials to know whether gypsum and iron sludge is still lying in the aforesaid area.	None
In area adjoining the irrigation canal, sludge mixed with soil were found on an area of about 3000 sq.ft.	None
The area was covered with foreign soil.	None
Sample of the sludge mixed soil was collected for the perusal of the Honble Court.	None
Entire premises of M s. Hindustan Agro Chemicals Ltd. was also inspected and sludge mixed with soil was observed in a large area.	None
It was further observed that fresh soil in the varying depth has been spread over in most of the area.	None
In view of the fact that sludge was mixed with the soil and difficult to separate out of the soil it is very difficult to estimate the exact quantity of the sludge required to be removed.	None
Samples of sludge mixed with soil were collected from different part of this area after serving due notices under Environment Protection Act, 1986.	None
So far as the water in the well was concerned, the Report mentioned that they took samples from the wells from Bichhri and other surrounding villages, i.e., from thirty two different locations and that water in sixteen locations was found to contain colour of varying intensities ranging from very dark brown to light pink which apparently shows that these wells handpumps are still polluted.	None
Sri K. N. Bhat, learned counsel for the respondents, however, submitted that the R.P.C.B. officials have throughout been hostile to the respondents and that, therefore, the Reports submitted by them should not be acted upon.	None
He also submitted that respondents have had no opportunity to file objections to the said Report or to produce material to contradict the statements made therein.	Arguments of Respondent
While taking note of these submissions, we may, however, refer to the letter dated January 13, 1996 written by the fourth respondent to the R.P.C.B. In this letter, the particulars of the stocks remaining in each of its seven plants are mentioned along with the date of the last production in each of those plants.	Arguments of Respondent
The last dates of production are the following Sulphuric Acid Plant  November 10, 1993, S.S.P. Plant (Phosphate India)  November 11, 1995 G.S.S.P. Plant (Rajasthan Multi Fertilizers)  July 7, 1995, Solvent Extraction Plant and Refinery  December 2, 1993.	Arguments of Respondent
Jyoti Chemicals  October, 1990 and Chlorosulphonic Acid Plant  September 29, 1995.	Arguments of Respondent
It is worthy of note that these dates are totally at variance with the dates of closure mentioned in the counteraffidavits filed by these units in 199091.	None
CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES.	None
Sri M. C. Mehta, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, brought to our notice the several Reports, orders and other material on record.	None
He submitted that the abundant material on record clearly establishes the culpability of the respondents for the devastation in village Bichhri and surrounding areas and their responsibility and obligation to properly store the remaining sludge, stop discharge of all untreated effluents by taking necessary measures and defray the total cost required for remedial measures as suggested by NEERI (Rupees forty crores and odd).	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel suggested that in view of the saga of repeated and continuous violation of law and lawful orders on the part of the respondents, they must be closed forthwith.	Arguments of Petitioner
So far as the legal propositions are concerned, the learned counsel relied strongly upon the Constitution Bench decision in M. C. Mehta v. Union of India (Oleum Gas Leak Case), as well as the recent Order of this Court in Indian Council for EnviroLegal Action v. Union of India, (1995(5) SCALE 578.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel also invited our attention to quite a few foreign decisions and text books on the subject of environment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sri Altaf Ahmed, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India, also stressed the need for urgent appropriate directions to mitigate and remedy the situation on the spot in the light of the expert Reports including the one made by the central team of experts.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel for the State of Rajasthan, Sri Aruneshwar Gupta, expressed the readiness of the State Government to carry out and enforce such orders as this Court may think fit and proper in the circumstances.	None
Sri K. B. Rohtagi, learned counsel for the R.P.C.B., invited our attention to the various Orders passed, action taken, cases instituted and Reports submitted by the Board in this matter.	None
He submitted that until recently the Board had no power to close down any industry for violation of environmental laws and that after conferment of such power, they did pass orders of closure.	Arguments of Respondent
He denied the allegations of mala fides or hostile intent on the part of the Board towards the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel lamented that despite its best efforts, the Board has not yet been successful in eradicating the pollution in the area and hence asked for stringent orders for remedying the appalling conditions in the village due to the acts of the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
Sri K. N. Bhat, learned counsel for the respondents, made the following submissions The respondents are private corporate bodies.	None
They are not State within the meaning of Article 32 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
A writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, therefore, does not lie against them(2)	Arguments of Respondent
The R.P.C.B. has been adopting a hostile attitude towards these respondents from the very beginning.	Arguments of Respondent
The Reports submitted by it or obtained by it are, therefore, suspect.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents had no opportunity to test the veracity of the said Reports.	Arguments of Respondent
If the matter had been fought out in a properly constituted suit, the respondents would have had an opportunity to crossexamine the experts to establish that their Reports are defective and cannot be relied upon(3) Long before the respondents came into existence, Hindustan Zinc Limited was already in existence close to Bichhri village and has been discharging toxic untreated effluents in an unregulated manner.	Arguments of Respondent
This had affected the water in the wells, streams and acquifers.	Arguments of Respondent
This is borne out by the several Reports made long prior to 1987.	Arguments of Respondent
Blaming the respondents for the said pollution is incorrect as a fact and unjustified(4)	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents have been cooperating with this Court in all matters and carrying out its directions faithfully, The Report of the R.P.C.B. dated November 13, 1992 shows that the work of entombment of the sludge was almost over.	Arguments of Respondent
The Report states that the entire sludge would be stored in the prescribed manner within the next two days.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of this report, the subsequent Report of the Central team, R.P.C.B. and NEERI cannot be accepted or relied upon.	Arguments of Respondent
There are about 70 industries in India manufacturing H acid.	Arguments of Respondent
Only the units of the respondents have been picked upon by the Central and State authorities while taking no action against the other units.	Arguments of Respondent
Even in the matter of disposal of sludge, the directions given for its disposal in the case of other units are not as stringent as have been prescribed in the case of respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
The decision of the Gujarat High Court in Pravinbhai Jashbhai Patel (1995 (2) Guj LR 1210) shows that the method of disposal prescribed there is different and less elaborate than the one prescribed in this case(5)	Arguments of Respondent
The Reports submitted by the various socalled expert committees that sludge is still lying around within and outside the respondents complex and or that the toxic wastes from the Sulphuric Acid Plant are flowing through and leaching the sludge and creating a highly dangerous situation is untrue and incorrect.	Arguments of Respondent
The R.P.C.B. itself had constructed a temporary E.T.P. for the Sulphuric Acid Plant pursuant to the Orders of this Court made in Writ Petition (C) No. 76 of 1994.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsequently, a permanent E.T.P. has also been constructed.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no question of untreated toxic discharges from this plant leaching with sludge.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no sludge and there is no toxic discharge from the Sulphuric Acid Plant	None
The case put forward by the R.P.C.B. that the respondents units do not have the requisite permits consents required by the Water Act, Air Act and the Environment (Protection) Act is again unsustainable in law and incorrect as a fact.	None
The respondents units were established before the amendment of Section 25 of the Water Act and, therefore, did not require any prior consent for their establishment(7)	Arguments of Respondent
The proper solution to the present problem lies in ordering a comprehensive judicial enquiry by a sitting Judge of the High Court to find out the causes of pollution in this village and also to recommend remedial measures and to estimate the loss suffered by the public as well as by the respondents.	Arguments of Respondent
While the respondents are prepared to bear the cost of repairing the damage, if any, caused by them, the R.P.C.B. and other authorities should be made to compensate for the huge losses suffered by the respondents on account of their illegal and obstructionist policy adopted towards them(8)	Arguments of Respondent
The decision in Oleum Gas Leak Case has been explained in the opinion of Ranganath Misra, C.J., in the decision in Carbide Corporation v. Union of India.	Arguments of Respondent
The law laid down in Oleum Gas Leak Case is at variance with the established legal position in other Commonwealth countries Sri Bhat suggested that in the larger interests of environment, industry and public, this Court may direct the Government of India to constitute, by proper legislation, environment courts all over the country  which courts alone should be empowered to deal with such cases, to give appropriate directions including orders of closure of industries wherever necessary, to make necessary technical and scientific investigations, to suggest remedial measures and to oversee their implementation.	Arguments of Respondent
Proceedings by way of a writ in this Court under Article 32 or in the High Court under Article 226, the learned counsel submitted, are not appropriate to deal with such matters, involve as they do several disputed questions of fact and technical issues.	None
Before we proceed to deal with the submissions of the learned counsel, it would be appropriate to notice the relevant provisions of lawRELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS.	None
Article 48A is one of the Directive Principles of State Policy.	None
It says that the State shall endeavour to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wildlife of the country, Article 51	None
A sets out the fundamental duties of the citizens.	None
One of them is (g) to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wild life and to have compassion for living creatures The problem of increasing pollution of rivers and streams in the country  says the Statement of Objects and Reasons appended to the Bill which became the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974  attracted the attention of the State Legislatures and the Parliament.	None
They realised the urgency of ensuring that domestic and industrial effluents are not allowed to be discharged into water courses without adequate treatment and that pollution of rivers and streams was causing damage to the countrys economy.	None
A committee was set up in 1962 to draw a draft enactment for prevention of water pollution.	None
The issue was also considered by the Central Council of Local SelfGovernment in September, 1963.	None
The Council suggested the desirability of having a single enactment for the purpose.	None
A draft Bill was prepared and sent to various States.	None
Several expert committees also made their recommendations meanwhile.	None
Since an enactment on the subject was relatable to Entry 17 read with Entry 6 of ListII in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution  and, therefore, within the exclusive domain of the States  the State Legislatures of Gujarat, Kerala, Haryana and Mysore passed resolutions as contemplated by Article 252 of the Constitution enabling the Parliament to make a law on the subject.	None
On that basis, the Parliament enacted the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974.	None
(The State of Rajasthan too passed the requisite resolution.)	None
Section 24 (1) of the Water Act provides that subject to the provisions of this section, (a) no person shall knowingly cause or permit any poisonous, noxious or polluting matter determined in accordance with such standards as may be laid down by the State Board to enter whether (directly or indirectly) into any stream or well .	None
Section 25(1), before it was amended by Act 53 of 1988, provided that (1) subject to the provisions of this section, no person shall, without the previous consent of the State Board, bring into use any new or altered outlet for the discharge of sewage or trade into a stream or well or begin to make any new discharge of sewage or trade effluent into a stream or well.	None
As amended by Act 53 of 1988, Section 25 now reads 25 (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, no person shall without the previous consent of the State Board, (a) establish or take any steps to establish any industry, operation or process or any treatment and disposal system or an extension or an addition thereto, which is likely to discharge sewage or trade effluent into a stream or well or sewer or on land (such discharge being hereafter in this section referred to as discharge of sewage) or (b) bring into use any new or altered outlets for the discharge of sewage or (c) begin to make any new discharge of sewage .	None
(It is stated that the Rajasthan Assembly passed resolution under Article 252 of the Constitution adopting the said amendment Act vide Gazette Notification dated May 9, 1990.)	None
Section 33 empowers the Pollution Control Board to apply to the Court, not inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial Magistrate of the First Class, to restrain any person causing pollution if the said pollution is likely to prejudicially affect water in a stream or a well.	None
Section 33A. which has been introduced by Amendment Act 53 of 1988, empowers the Board to order the closure of any industry and to stop the electricity, water and any other service to such industry if it finds such a direction necessary for effective implementation of the provisions of the Act.	None
Prior to the said amendment Act, the Pollution Control Board had no such power and the course open to it was to make a recommendation to the Government to pass appropriate orders including closure.	None
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 contains similar provisions.	None
In the year 1986, Parliament enacted a comprehensive legislation, Environment (Protection) Act.	None
The Act defines environment to include water, air and land and the interrelationship which exists among and between water, air and land and human beings, other living creatures, plants, microorganism and property.	None
The preamble to the Act recites that the said act was made pursuant to the decisions taken at the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held at Stockholm in June, 1972 in which India also participated.	None
Section 3 empowers the Central Government to take all such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of the environment and preventing, controlling and abating environmental pollution.	None
Subsection (2) elucidates the several powers inhering in Central Government in the matter of protection and promotion of environment.	None
Section 5 empowers the Central Government to issue appropriate directions to any person, officer or authority to further the objects of the enactment.	None
Section 6 confers rulemaking power upon the Central Government in respect of matters referred to in Section 3.	None
Section 7 says that.	None
no person carrying on any industry, operation or process shall discharge or emit or permit to be discharged or emitted any environmental pollutant in excess of such standards, as may be prescribed The Central Government has made the Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989 in exercise of the power conferred upon it by Section 6 of the Environment (Protection) Act prescribing the manner in which the hazardous wastes shall be collected, treated, stored and disposed of CONSIDERATION OF THE SUBMISSIONS.	None
Taking up the objections urged by Sri Bhat first, we find it difficult to agree with them.	None
This writ petition is not really for issuance of appropriate writ, order or directions against the respondents but is directed against the Union of India, Government of Rajasthan and R.P.C.B to compel them to perform their statutory duties enjoined by the Acts aforementioned on the ground that their failure to carry out their statutory duties is seriously undermining the right to life (of the residents of Bichhri and the affected area) guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
If this Court finds that the said authorities have not taken the action required of them by law and that their inaction is jeopardising the right to life of the Citizens of this country or of any section thereof, it is the duty of this Court to intervene.	Reasoning
If it is found that the respondents are flouting the provisions of law and the directions and orders issued by the lawful authorities, this Court can certainly make appropriate directions to ensure compliance with law and lawful directions made thereunder.	Reasoning
This is a social action litigation on behalf of the villagers of Bichhri whose right to life, as elucidated by this Court in several decisions, is invaded and seriously infringed by the respondents as is established by the various Reports of the experts called for, and filed before, this Court.	Reasoning
If an industry is established without obtaining the requisite permission and clearances and if the industry is continued to be run in blatant disregard of law to the detriment of life and liberty of the citizens living in the vicinity, can it be suggested with any modicum of reasonableness that this Court has no power to intervene and protect the fundamental right to life and liberty of the citizens of this country.	Reasoning
The answer, in our opinion, is selfevident.	None
We are also not convinced of the plea of Sri Bhat that R.P.C.B. has been adopting a hostile attitude towards his clients throughout and, therefore, its contentions or the Reports prepared by its officers should not be relied upon.	Reasoning
If the respondents establish and operate their plants contrary to law, flouting all safety norms provided by law, the R.P.C.B. was bound to act.	Reasoning
On that account, it cannot be said to be acting out of animus or adopting a hostile attitude.	None
Repeated and persistent violations call for repeated orders.	None
That is no proof of hostility.	Reasoning
Moreover, the Reports of R.P.C.B. officials are fully corroborated and affirmed by the Reports of Central team of experts and of NEERI.	Reasoning
We are also, not prepared to agree with Sri Bhat that since the Report of NEERI was prepared at the instance of R.P.C.B., it is suspect.	Reasoning
This criticism is not only unfair but is also uncharitable to the officials of NEERI who have no reason to be inimical to the respondents.	Reasoning
If, however, the actions of the respondents invite the concern of the experts and if they depict the correct situation in their Reports, they cannot be accused of any bias.	Reasoning
Indeed, it is this Court that asked NEERI to suggest remedial measures and it is in compliance with those orders that NEERI submitted its interim Report and also the final Report.	Reasoning
Similarly, the objection of Sri Bhat that the Reports submitted by the NEERI, by the Central team (experts from the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India) and R.P.C.B. cannot be acted upon is equally unacceptable.	Reasoning
These Reports were called by this Court and several Orders passed on the basis of those Reports.	Reasoning
It was never suggested on behalf of Respondents Nos. 4 to 8 that unless they are permitted to crossexamine the experts or the persons who made those Reports, their Reports cannot be acted upon.	Reasoning
This objection, urged at this late stage of proceedings  after a lapse of several years  is wholly unacceptable.	Reasoning
The persons who made the said Reports are all experts in their field and under no obligation either to the R.P.C.B. or for that matter to any other person or industry.	Reasoning
It is in view of their independence and competence that their Reports were relied upon and made the basis of passing Orders by this Court from time to time.	None
Now coming to the question of alleged pollution by Hindustan Zincs Limited (R9), it may be that Respondent No. 9 is also responsible for discharging untreated effluents at one or the other point of time but that is not the issue we are concerned with in these writ petitions.	None
These writ petitions are confined to the pollution caused in Bichhri village on account of the activities of the respondent.	None
No Report among the several Reports placed before us in these proceedings says that Hindustan Zinc Limited is responsible for the pollution at Bichhri village.	None
Sri Bhat brought to our notice certain Reports stating that the discharges from Hindustan Zinc Limited were causing pollution in certain villages but they are all down stream, i.e., to the north of Bichhri village	None
and we are not concerned with the pollution in those villages in these proceedings.	None
The bringing in of Hindustan Zinc Limited in these proceedings is, therefore, not relevant.	None
If necessary, the pollution, if any, caused by Hindustan Zinc Limited can be the subjectmatter of a separate proceeding.	None
We may now deal with the contentions of Sri Bhat based upon the affidavit of R.P.C.B. dated November 13, 1992 which has been repeatedly and strongly relied upon by the learned counsel in support of his submission that the entire sludge has properly stored by or at the expense of his clients.	None
It is on the basis of this affidavit that Sri Bhat says that the subsequent Reports submitted showing the existence of sludge within at outside their complex should not be accepted or acted upon.	Reasoning
Let us turn to the affidavit of R.P.C.B, dated November 13, 1992 and see how far does it support Sri Bhats contention.	None
It is in Para 2(b) that the sentence, strongly relied upon by Sri Bhat occurs, viz., remaining work is likely to be completed by 15th November, 1992.	None
For a proper appreciation of the purport of the said sentence, it would be appropriate to read the entire Para 2(b), which is to the following effect.	None
(b) that all the six tanks have been entombed with brick toppings.	None
Roofing is complete on all tanks which have also been provided with proper outlets for the exit of gases which may form as a result of possible chemical reactions in the sludge mass.	None
The tanks have also been provided with reinforced concrete to prevent brooping of the roof.	None
Remaining work is likely to be completed by 15th November, 1992.	None
We find it difficult to read the said sentence as referring to the storage of the remaining about 1700 MT of sludge.	None
When the storage of 720 MT itself took up all the six tanks provided by the respondent, where was the remaining 1700 tonnes stored ?	Reasoning
Except relying upon the said sentence repeatedly, Sri Bhat has not been able to tell us where this 1700 MT has been stored, whether in tanks and if so, who constructed the tanks and when and how were they covered and sealed.	Reasoning
He is also not able to tell us on what dates the remaining sludge was stored.	Reasoning
It is evident that the aforesaid sentence occurring in clause 2(b) refers to the proper sealing and completion of the said tanks wherein 720 MT of sludge was stored.	Reasoning
If, in fact, the said 1700 MT has also been entombed, it was not difficult for the respondents to give the particulars of the said storage.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, unable to agree with Sri Bhat that the subsequent Reports which repeatedly and uniformly speak of the presence of sludge within and outside the complex of the respondents should not be accepted.	Reasoning
It may be recalled that the Report of the team of Central Experts was submitted on November 1, 1993 based upon the inspection made by them in September October, 1993.	Reasoning
To the same effect is the affidavit of R.P.C.B. dated October 30, 1993 and the further affidavit dated December 1, 1993.	Reasoning
These Reports together with the report of NEERI clearly establish that huge quantities of sludge were still lying around either in the form of mounds or placed in depressions, of spread over the contiguous area and covered with local soil to conceal its existence.	Reasoning
It is worth reiterating that the said sludge is only part of the pernicious discharges emanating from the manufacture of H acid.	Reasoning
The other part, which is unfortunately not visible now (except in its deleterious effects upon the soil and underground water) is the mother liquor produced in enormous quantities which has either flowed out of percolated into the soil.	None
So far as the responsibility of the respondents for causing the pollution in the wells, soil and the acquifers is concerned, it is clearly established by the analysis Report referred to in the Report of the Central experts team dated November 1, 1993 (Page 1026 of Vol. II).	None
Indeed, number of Orders passed by this Court, referred to hereinbefore, are premised upon the finding that the respondents are responsible for the said pollution.	Reasoning
It is only because of the said reason that they were asked to defray the cost of removal and storage of sludge.	Reasoning
It is precisely for this reason that, at one stage, the respondents had also undertaken the dewittering of polluted wells.	Reasoning
Disclaiming the responsibility for the pollution in and around Bichhri village, at this stage of proceedings, is clearly an afterthought.	Reasoning
We accordingly held and affirm that the respondents alone are responsible for all the damage to the soil, to the underground water and to the village Bichhri in general, damage which is eloquently portrayed in the several Reports of the experts mentioned hereinabove.	Reasoning
NEERI has worked out the cost for repairing the damage at more than Rupees forty crores.	Reasoning
Now, the question is whether and to what extent can the respondents be made responsible for defraying the cost of remedial measures in these proceedings under Article 32.	Reasoning
Before we advert to this question, it may perhaps be appropriate to clarify that so far as removal of remaining sludge and or the stoppage of discharge of further toxic wastes are concerned, it is the absolute responsibility of the respondents to store the sludge in a proper manner (in the same manner in which 720 MT of sludge has already been stored) and to stop the discharge of any other or further toxic wastes from its plants including Sulphuric Acid Plant and to ensure that the wastes discharged do not flow into or through the sludge.	Reasoning
Now, turning to the question of liability, it would be appropriate to refer to a few decisions of the subject.	None
In Oleum Gas Leak Case a Constitution Bench discussed this question at length and held thus (At Pp. 10991100).	None
We are of the view that an enterprise which is engaged in a hazardous or inherently dangerous industry which poses a potential threat to the health and safety of the persons working in the factory and residing in the surrounding areas owes an absolute and nondelegable duty to the community to ensure that no harm results to anyone on account of hazardous or inherently dangerous nature of the activity which it has undertaken.	None
The enterprise must be held to be under an obligation to provide that the hazardous or inherently dangerous activity in which it is engaged must be conducted with the highest standard of safety and if any harm results on account of such activity, the enterprise must be absolutely liable to compensate for such harm and it should be no answer to the enterprise to say that it had taken all reasonable care and that the harm occurred without any negligence on its part.	None
Since the persons harmed on account of the hazardous or inherently dangerous activity carried on by the enterprise would not be in a position to isolate the process of operation from the hazardous preparation of substance or any other related element that caused the harm the enterprise must be held strictly liable for causing such harm as a part of the social cost for carrying on the hazardous or inherently dangerous activity.	None
If the enterprise is permitted to carry on an hazardous or inherently dangerous activity for its profits, the law must presume that such permission is conditional on the enterprise absorbing the cost of any accident arising on account of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity as an appropriate item of its overheads.	None
Such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity for private profit can be tolerated only on condition that the enterprise engaged in such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity indemnifies all those who suffer on account of the carrying on of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity regardless of whether it is carried on carefully or not We would therefore hold that where an enterprise is engaged in a hazardous or inherently dangerous activity and harm results to anyone on account of an accident in the operation of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity resulting for example, in escape of toxic gas the enterprise is strictly and absolutely liable to compensate all those who are affected by the accident and such liability is not subject to any of the exceptions which operate visavis the tortious principle of strict liability under the rule in Ryland v. Fletcher, ((1868)	None
LR 3 HL 330) (supra)We would also like to point out that the measure of compensation in the kind of cases referred to in the preceding paragraph must be correlated to the magnitude and capacity of the enterprise because such compensation must have a deterrent effect.	None
The larger and more prosperous the entire, greater must be the amount of compensation payable by it for the harm caused on account of an accident in the carrying on of the hazardous or inherently dangerous activity by the enterprise.	None
Sri Bhat, however, points out that in the said decision, the question whether the industry concerned therein was a State within the meaning of Article 12 and, therefore, subject to the discipline of PartIII of the Constitution including Article 21 was left open and that no compensation as such was awarded by this Court to the affected persons.	Arguments of Respondent
He relies upon the observations in the concurring opinion of Ranganath Misra, CJ., in Union Carbide Corporation.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Chief Justice, referred in the first instance, to the propositions enunciated in Oleum Gas Leak Case and made the following observations in Paras 14 and 15.	None
In M. C. Mehta case no compensation was awarded as this Court could not reach the conclusion that Shriram (the delinquent company) came within the meaning of State in Article 12 so as to be liable to the discipline of Article 21 and to be subjected to a proceeding under Article 32 of the Constitution.	None
Thus what was said was essentially obiter15.	Arguments of Respondent
The extracted part of the observations from M. C. Mehta case perhaps is a good guidelines for working out compensation in the cases to which the ratio is intended to apply.	Arguments of Respondent
The statement of the law exfacie makes a departure, from the accepted legal position in Rylands, v. Fletcher, (1868)	Arguments of Respondent
LR 3 HL 330).	Arguments of Respondent
We have not been shown any binding precedent from the American Supreme Court where the ratio of M. C. Mehta decision has in terms been applied.	Arguments of Respondent
In fact Bhagwati, C.J., clearly indicates in the judgment that his view is a departure from the law applicable to western countries.	Arguments of Respondent
The majority judgment delivered by M. N. Venkatachaliah, J. (on behalf of himself and two other learned Judges) has not expressed any opinion on this issue.	None
We on our part find it difficult to say, with great respect to the learned Chief Justice, that the law declared in Oleum Gas Leak Case is obiter.	None
It does not appear to be unnecessary for the purposes of that case.	None
Having declared the law, the Constitution Bench directed the parties and other organisations to institute actions on the basis of the law so declared.	None
(A distinction between the Oleum Gas Leak Case and the present case may be noticed.	Reasoning
That was not a case where the industry was established or was being operated contrary to law as in the present case.	Reasoning
That was also not a case where the orders of lawful authorities and Courts were violated with impunity as in this case.	Reasoning
In this case, there is a clear violation of law and disobedience to the orders of this Court apart from the orders of the lawful authorities.	Reasoning
The facts stated above and findings recorded by us hereinafter bear it out.	Reasoning
This Court has to ensure the observance of law and of its Orders as a part of enforcement of fundamental rights.	Reasoning
That power cannot be disputed.	None
If so, a question may arise why is this Court not competent to make Orders necessary for a full and effective implementation of its Orders  and that includes the imposition and recovery of cost of all measures including remedial measures.	None
Above all, the Central Government has the power under the provisions of Sections 3 and 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 to levy and recover the cost of remedial measures  as well shall presently point out, If the Central Government omits to do that duty, this Court can certainly issue appropriate directions to it to take necessary measures.	None
Is it not open to the Court, in an appropriate situation, to award damages against private parties as part of relief granted against public authorities.	None
This is a question upon which we do not wish to express any opinion in the absence of a full debate at the Bar).	None
Be that as it may, we are of the considered opinion that even if it is assumed (for the sake of argument) that this Court cannot award damages against the respondents in these proceedings that does not mean that the Court cannot direct the Central Government to determine and recover the cost of remedial measures from the respondents.	None
Section 3 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 expressly empowers the Central Government (or its delegate, as the case may be) to take all such measures as it deems necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of environment Section 5 clothes the Central Government (or its delegate) with the power to issue directions for achieving the objects of the Act.	Decision
Read with the wide definition of environment in Section 2(a), Sections 32 and 5 clothe the Central Government with all such powers as are necessary or expedient for the purpose of protecting and improving the quality of the environment.	None
The Central Government is empowered to take all measures and issue all such directions as are called for for the above purpose.	None
In the present case, the said powers will include giving directions for the removal of sludge, for undertaking remedial measures and also the power to impose the cost of remedial measures on the offending industry and utilises the amount so recovered for carrying out remedial measures.	None
This Court can certainly give directions to the Central Government its delegate to take all such measures, if in a given case this Court finds that such directions are warranted.	None
We find that similar directions have been made in a recent decision of this Court in Indian Council for EnviroLegal Action, (1995(5) SCALE 578) (supra).	None
That was also a writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution.	None
Following is the direction.	None
It appears that the Pollution Control Board had identified as many as 22 industries responsible for the pollution caused by discharge of their effluents into Nakkavagu.	None
They were responsible to compensate to farmers.	None
It was the duty of the State Government to ensure that this amount was recovered from the industries and paid to the farmers.	None
It is, therefore, idle to contend that this Court cannot make appropriate directions for the purpose of ensuring remedial action.	None
It is more a matter of form Sri K. N.	None
Bhat submitted that the rule of absolute liability is not accepted in England or other Commonwealth countries and that the rule evolved by the House of Lords in Rylands v. Fletcher, 1866 (3) HL 330, is the correct rule to be applied in such matters.	Arguments of Respondent
Firstly, in view of the binding decision of this Court in Oleum Gas Leak Case this contention is untenable, for the said decision expressly refers to the rule in Rylands but refuses to apply it saying that it is not suited to the conditions in India.	Arguments of Respondent
Even so, for the sake of completeness, we may discuss the rule in Rylands and indicate why that rule is inappropriate and unacceptable in this country.	Arguments of Respondent
The rule was first stated by Blackburn, J. (Court of Exchequer Chamber) in the following words We think that the true rule of law is, that the person who for his own purposes brings on his lands and collects and keeps there anything likely to do mischief if it escapes, must keep it in at his peril, and, if he does not do so, is prima facie answerable for all the damage which is the natural consequence of its escape.	Arguments of Respondent
He can excuse himself by shewing that the escape was owing to the plaintiffs fault or perhaps that the escape was the consequence of vis major, or the act of God and it seems but reasonable and just that the neighbour, who has brought something on his own property which was not naturally there, harmless to others so long as it is confined to his own property, but which he knows to be mischievous if it gets on his neighbours, should be obliged to make good the damage which ensues if he does not succeed in confining it to his own property.	Arguments of Respondent
The House of Lords, however, added a rider to the above statement, viz., that the user by the defendant should be a nonnatural user to attract the rule.	None
In other words, if the user by the defendant is a natural user of the land, he would not be liable for damages.	None
Thus, the twin tests  apart from the proof of damage to the plaintiff by the act negligence of the defendants  which must be satisfied to attract this rule are foreseeability and nonnatural user of the land.	None
The rule in Rylands, (1868 LR 3 HL 330) has been approved by the House of Lords in the recent decision in Cambridge Water Company v. Eastern Counties Leather, PLC 1994 (2) WLR 53.	None
The plaintiff, Cambridge Water Company, was a statutory corporation engaged in providing public water supply within a certain area including the City of Cambridge.	None
It was lifting water from a bore well situated at some distance from Sawstyn.	None
The defendant company, Eastern Leather, was having a tannery in Sawstyn.	None
Tanning necessarily involves degreasing of pelts.	None
For that purpose, the defendant was using an organo chlorine called P.C.E. P.C.E. was stored in a tank in the premises of the defendant.	None
The plaintiffs case was that on account of the P.C.E. percolating into the ground, the water in its well became contaminated and unfit for human consumption and that on that account it was obliged to find an alternative source at a substantial cost.	None
It sued the defendant for the resulting damages.	None
The plaintiff based his claim on three alternative grounds, viz., negligence, nuisance and the rule in Rylands.	None
The Trial Judge (High Court) dismissed the action in negligence and nuisance holding that the defendant could not have reasonably foreseen that such damage could occur to the plaintiff.	None
So far as the rule in Rylands was concerned, the Trial Judge held that the user by the defendant was not an nonnatural user and hence, it was not liable for damages.	None
On appeal, the Court of Appeal declined to decide the matter on the basis of the rule in Rylands.	None
It relied strongly upon the ratio in Ballard v. Tomlinson, 1885 (29) Ch(D) 115, holding that no person having a right to use a common source is entitled to contaminate that source so as to prevent his neighbour from having a full value of his right of appropriation.	None
The Court of Appeal also opined that the defendants use of the land was not a natural use.	None
On appeal by the defendant, the House of Lords allowed the appeal holding that foreseeability of the harm of the relevant type by the defendant was a prerequisite to the right to recover damages both under the heads of nuisance and also under the rule in Rylands and since that was not established by the plaintiff, it has to fail.	None
The House of Lords, no doubt, held that the defendants use of the land was a nonnatural use but dismissed the suit, as stated above, on the ground that the plaintiff has failed to establish that pollution of their water supply by the solvent used by the defendant in his premises was in the circumstances of the case foreseeable by the defendant.	None
The Australian High Court has, however, expressed its disinclination to treat the rule in Rylands as an independent head for claiming damages or as a rule rooted in the law governing the law of nuisance in Burnie Port Authority v.	None
General Jones Pvt. Ltd.	None
(1994)68 Australian Law Journal 331).	None
The respondent, General Jones Limited, had stored frozen vegetables in three cold storage rooms in the building owned by the appellant, Burnie Port Authority (Authority).	None
The remaining building remained under the occupation of the Authority.	None
The Authority wanted to extend the building.	None
The extension work was partly done by the Authority itself and partly by an independent contractor (Wildridge and Sinclair Pvt. Ltd.).	None
For doing its work, the contractor used a certain insulating material called E.P.S., a highly inflammable substance.	None
On account of negligent handling of E.P.S., there was a fire which inter alia damaged the rooms in which General Jones had stored its vegetables.	None
On an action by General Jones, the Australian High Court held by a majority that the rule in Rylands having attracted many difficulties, uncertainties, qualifications and exceptions, should now be seen, for the purposes of Australian Common Law, as absorbed by the principles of ordinary Negligence.	None
The Court held further that under the rules governing negligence, if a person in control of a premises, introduces a dangerous substance to carry on a dangerous activity, or allows another to do one of those things, owes a duty of reasonable care to avoid a reasonably foreseeable risk of injury or damage to the person or property of another.	None
In a case where a person or the property of that other is lawfully in a place outside the premises, the duty of care varies in degree according to the magnitude of the risk involved and extends to ensuring that such care is taken.	None
Applying the said principle, the Court held that the Authority allowed the independent contractor to introduce or retain a dangerous substance or to engage in a dangerous activity in its premises which substance and activity caused a fire that destroyed the goods of General Jones.	None
The evidence, the Court held, established that the independent contractors work was a dangerous activity in that it involved real and foreseeable risk of a serious conflagration unless special precautions were taken.	None
In the circumstances, it was held that the Authority owed a nondelegable duty of care to General Jones to ensure that its contractor took reasonable steps to prevent the occurrence of a fire and the breach of that duty attracted liability pursuant to the ordinary principles of negligence for the damage sustained by the respondent.	None
On a consideration of the two lines of thought (one adopted by the English Courts and the other by the Australian High Court), we are of the opinion that any principle evolved in this behalf should be simple, practical and suited to the conditions obtaining in this country.	None
We are convinced that the law stated by this Court in Oleum Gas Leak Case is by far the more appropriate one  apart from the fact that it is binding upon us.	None
(We have disagreed with the view that the law stated in the said decision is obiter).	Reasoning
According to this rule, once the activity carried on is hazardous or inherently dangerous, the person carrying on such activity is liable to make good the loss caused to any other person by his activity irrespective of the fact whether he took reasonable care while carrying on his activity.	Reasoning
The rule is premised upon the very nature of the activity carried on.	Reasoning
In the words of the Constitution Bench, such an activity.	None
can be tolerated only on the condition that the enterprise engaged in such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity indemnifies all those who suffer on account of the carrying on of such hazardous or inherently dangerous activity regardless of whether it is carried on carefully or not.	None
The Constitution Bench has also assigned the reason for stating the law in the said terms.	None
It is that the enterprise (carrying on the hazardous or inherently dangerous activity) alone has the resource to discover and guard against hazards or dangers and not the person affected and the practical difficulty (on the part of the affected person) in establishing the absence of reasonable care or that the damage to him was foreseeable by the enterprise.	None
Once the law in Oleum Gas Leak Case held to be the law applicable, it follows, in the light of our findings recorded hereinbefore, that respondents Nos. 4 to 8 are absolutely liable to compensate for the harm caused by them to villagers in the affected area, to the soil and to the underground water and hence, they are bound to take all necessary measures to remove the sludge and other pollutants lying in the affected area (by affected area, we mean the area of about 350 ha. indicated in the sketch at Page 178 of NEERI Report) and also to defray the cost of the remedial measures required to restore the soil and the underground water sources.	Reasoning
Sections 3 and 4 of Environment (Protection) Act confers upon the Central Government the power to give directions of the above nature and to the above effect.	Reasoning
Levy of costs required for carrying out remedial measures is implicit in Sections 3 and 4 which are couched in very wide and expansive language.	Reasoning
Appropriate directions can be given by this Court to the Central Government to invoke and exercise those powers with such modulations as are called for in the facts and circumstances of this case The question of liability of the respondents to defray the costs of remedial measures can also be looked into from another angle, which has now come to be accepted universally as a sound principle, viz., the Pollutar Pays Principle	None
The polluter pays principle demands that the financial costs of preventing or remedying damage caused by pollution should lie with the undertakings which cause the pollution, or produce the goods which cause the pollution.	None
Under the principle it is not the role of Government to meet the costs involved in either prevention of such damage, or in carrying out remedial action, because the effect of this would be to shift the financial burden of the pollution incident to the taxpayer.	None
The polluter pays principle was promoted by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) during the 1970s when there was great public interest in environmental issues.	None
During this time there were demands on Government and other institutions to introduce policies and mechanisms for the protection of the environment and the public from the threats posed by pollution in a modern industrialised society.	None
Since then there has been considerable discussion of the nature of the polluter pays principle, but the precise scope of the principle and its implications for those involved in past, or potentially polluting activities have never been satisfactory agreedDespite the difficulties inherent in defining the principle, the European Community accepted it as a fundamental part of its strategy on environmental matters, and it has been one of the underlying principles of the four Community Action Programmes on the Environment.	None
The current Fourth Action Programme ((1987) O.J.C. 328/1) makes it clear that the cost of preventing and eliminating nuisances must in principle be borne by the polluter, and the polluter pays principle has now been incorporated into the European Community Treaty as part of the new Articles on the environment which were introduced by the Single European Act of 1986.	None
Article 120R (2) of the Treaty states that environmental considerations are to play a part in all the policies of the Community, and that action is to be based on three principles the need for preventive action the need for environmental damage to be rectified at source and that the polluter should pay.	None
(Historic Pollution  Does the Polluter pay ?	None
By Carolyn Shelbourn  Journal of Planning and Environmental Law.	None
Aug. 1974 issue.)	None
Thus, according to this principle, the responsibility for repairing the damage is that of the offending industry.	None
Sections 3 and 5 empower the Central Government to give directions and take measures for giving effect to this Principle.	Reasoning
In all the circumstances of the case, we think it appropriate that the task of determining the amount required for carrying out the remedial measures, its recovery realisation and the task of undertaking the remedial measures is placed upon the Central Government in the light of the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.	Reasoning
It is, of course, open to the Central Government to take the help and assistance of State Government, R.P.C.B. or such other agency or authority, as they think fit.	None
The next question is what is the amount required for carrying out he necessary remedial measures to repair the damage and to restore the water and soil to the condition it was in before the respondents commenced their operations.	None
The Report of NEERI has worked out the cost at more than Rupees forty cores.	None
The estimate of cost of remedial measures is, however, not a technical matter within the expertise of NEERI officials.	Reasoning
Moreover, the estimate was made in the year 1994.	Reasoning
Two years have passed by since then.	Reasoning
Situation, if at all, must have deteriorated further on account of the presence of  and dispersal of the sludge  in and around the complex of the respondents by them.	Reasoning
They have been discharging other toxic effluents from their other plants, as reported by NEERI and the central team.	Reasoning
It is but appropriate that an estimate of the cost of remedial measures be made now with notice to the respondents, which amount should be paid to Central Government and or recovered from them by the Central Government.	Reasoning
Other directions are also called for in the light of the facts and circumstances mentioned above.	Reasoning
CONCLUSIONS.	None
From the affidavits of the parties, Orders of this Court, technical Reports and other data, referred to above (even keeping aside the latest Report of the R.P.C.B.), the following facts emerge.	None
Silver Chemicals (R5) and Jyoti Chemicals (R8) had manufactured about 375MT of H acid during the years 198889.	None
This had given rise to about 8250 m3 of waste water and 2440 tonnes of sludge (both ironbased and gypsumbased).	None
The waste water had partly percolated into the earth in and around Bichhri and part of it had flowed out.	Decision
Out of 2440 tonnes of sludge, about 720 tonnes has been stored in the pits provided by the respondents.	Decision
The remaining sludge is still there either within the area of the complex of the respondents or outside their complex.	Decision
With a view to conceal it from the eyes of the inspection teams and other authorities, the respondents have dispersed it all over the area and covered it with earth.	Decision
In some places, the sludge is lying in mounds, the story of entombing the entire quantity of sludge is untrue.	None
The units manufacturing H acid  indeed most of the units of the respondents  had started functioning, i.e., started manufacturing various chemicals without obtaining requisite clearances consents licences.	None
They did not instal any equipment for treatment of highly toxic effluents discharged by them.	Decision
They continued to function even after and in spite of the closure orders of the R.P.C.B.	Decision
They did never carry out the Orders of this Court fully, (e.g., entombing the sludge) nor did they fulfil the undertaking given by them to the Court (in the matter of removal of sludge and dewatering of the wells).	Decision
In spite of repeated Reports of officials and expert bodies, they persisted in their illegal course of action in a brazen manner, which exhibits their contempt for law, for the lawful authorities and the Courts(II)	Decision
That even after the closure of H acid plant, the fourth respondent had not taken adequate measures for treating the highly toxic waste water and other wastes emanating from the Sulphuric Acid Plant.	Decision
The untreated highly toxic waste water was found  by NEERI as well as the Central team  flowing through the dumps of iron gypsum sludge creating a highly potent mix.	Decision
The letter of the fourth respondent dated January 13, 1996, shows that the Sulphuric Acid Plant was working till November 10, 1995.	Decision
An assertion is made before us that permanent E.T.P. has also been constructed for the Sulphuric Acid Plant in addition to the temporary tank which was constructed under the Orders of this Court.	Decision
We express no opinion on this assertion, which even if true, is valid only for the period subsequent to April, 1994(III)	Decision
The damage caused by the untreated highly toxic wastes resulting from the production of H acid  and the continued discharge of highly toxic effluent from the Sulphuric Acid Plant, flowing through the sludge (H acid waste)  is undescribable.	Decision
It has inflicted untold misery upon the villagers and long lasting damage to the soil, to the underground water and to the environment of that area in general.	Decision
The Report of NEERI contains a sketch, at Page 178, showing the area that has been adversely affected by the production of H acid by the respondents.	Decision
The area has been divided into three zones on the basis of the extent of contamination.	Decision
A total area of 350 ha has become seriously contaiminated.	Decision
The water in the wells in that area is not fit for consumption either by human beings or cattle.	Decision
It has seriously affected the productivity of the land.	Decision
According to NEERI Report, Rupees forty crores is required for repairing the damage caused to men, land, water and the flora(IV)	Decision
This Court has repeatedly found and has recorded in its Orders that it is respondents who have caused the said damage.	Decision
The analysis Reports obtained pursuant to the directions of the Court clearly establish that the pollution of the wells is on account of the wastes discharged by Respondents Nos. 4 to 8, i.e., production of H acid.	Decision
The report of the environment experts dated November 1, 1993 has already been referred to hereinbefore.	Decision
Indeed, several orders of this Court referred to supra are also based upon the said finding(V)	Decision
Sections 3 and 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, apart from other provisions of Water and Air Acts, empower the Government to make all such directions and take all such measures as are necessary or expedient for protecting and promoting the environment, which expression has been defined in very wide and expansive terms in Section 2(a) of the Environment (Protection) Act.	Decision
This Bower includes the power to prohibit an activity, close an industry, direct and or carry out remedial measures, and wherever necessary impose the cost of remedial measures upon the offending industry.	Decision
The principle Polluter Pays has gained almost universal recognition, apart from the fact that it is stated in absolute terms in Oleum Gas Leak.	Decision
The law declared in the said decision is the law governing this case70.	Decision
DIRECTIONS Accordingly, the following directions are made1.	Decision
The Central Government shall determine the amount required for carrying out the remedial measures including the removal of sludge lying in and around the complex of Respondents 4 to 8, in the area affected in village Bichhri and other adjacent villages, on account of the production of H acid and the discharges from the Sulphuric Acid Plant of respondents 4 to 8. ChaptersVI and VII in NEERI report (submitted in 1994) shall be deemed to be the showcause notice issued by the Central Government proposing the determination of the said amount.	Decision
Within six weeks from this day, respondents 4 to 8 shall submit their explanation, along with such material as they think appropriate in support of their case, to the Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, (M.E.F.).	Decision
The Secretary shall thereupon determine the amount in consultation with the experts of his Ministry within six weeks of the submission of the explanation by the said respondents.	Decision
The orders passed by the Secretary, (M.E.F.) shall be communicated to respondents 4 to 8  and all concerned  and shall also be placed before this Court.	Decision
Subject to the Orders, if any, passed by this Court, the said amount shall represent the amount which respondents 4 to 8 are liable to pay to improve and restore the environment in the area.	Decision
For the purpose of these proceedings, the Secretary, (M.E.F.) and respondents 4 to 8 shall proceed on the assumption that the affected area is 350 ha, as indicated in the sketch at Page 178 of NEERI Report.	Decision
In case of failure of the said respondents to pay the said amount, the same shall be recovered by the Central Government in accordance with law.	Decision
The factories, plant, machinery and all other immovable assets, of respondents 4 to 8 are attached herewith.	Decision
The amount so determined and recovered shall be utilised by the M.E.F. for carrying out all necessary remedial measures to restore the soil, water sources and the environment in general of the affected area to its former state2.	Decision
On account of their continuous, persistent and insolent violations of law, their attempts to conceal the sludge, their discharge of toxic effluents from the Sulphuric Acid Plant which was allowed to flow through the sludge, and their nonimplementation of the Orders of this Court  all of which are fully borne out by the expert committees Reports and the findings recorded hereinabove  respondents 4 to 8 have earned the dubious distinction of being characterised as rogue industries.	Decision
They have inflicted untold misery upon the poor, unsuspecting villagers, despoiling their land, their water sources and their entire environment  all in pursuance of their private profit.	Decision
They have forfeited all claims for any consideration by this Court.	Decision
Accordingly, we herewith order the closure of all the plants and factories of respondents 4 to 8 located in Bichri village.	Decision
The R.P.C.B. is directed to seal all the factories units plants of the said respondents forthwith.	Decision
So far as the Sulphuric Acid Plant is concerned, it will be closed at the end of one week from today, within which period respondent No. 4 shall wind down its operations so as to avoid risk of any untoward consequences, as asserted by respondent No. 4 in Writ Petition (C) No. 76 of 1994.	Decision
It is the responsibility of respondent No. 4 to take necessary steps in this behalf.	Decision
The R.P.C.B. shall seal this unit too at the end of one week from today.	Decision
The reopening of these plants shall depend upon their compliance with the directions made and obtaining of all requisite permissions and consents from the relevant authorities Respondents 4 to 8 can apply for directions in this behalf after such compliance3.	None
So far as the claim for damages for the loss suffered by the villagers in the affected area is concerned, it is open to them or any organisation on their behalf to institute suits in the appropriate civil Court.	Decision
If they file the suit or suits in forma pauperis, the State of Rajasthan shall not oppose their applications for leave to sue in forma pauperis4.	Decision
The Central Government shall consider whether it would not be appropriate, in the light of the experience gained, that chemical industries are treated as a category apart.	Decision
Since the chemical industries are the main culprits in the matter of polluting the environment, there is every need for scrutinising their establishment and functioning more rigorously.	Decision
No distinction should be made in this behalf as between a largescale industry and a smallscale industry or for that matter between a largescale industry and a medium scale industry.	None
All chemical industries, whether big or small, should be allowed to be established only after taking into considerations all the environmental aspects and their functioning should be monitored closely to ensure that they do not pollute the environment around them.	Decision
It appears that most of these industries are waterintensive industries.	None
If so, the advisability of allowing the establishment of these industries in arid areas may also require examination.	Decision
Even the existing chemical industries may be subjected to such a study and if it is found on such scrutiny that it is necessary to take any steps in the interests of environment, appropriate directions in that behalf may be issued under Sections 3 and 5 of the Environment Act.	Decision
The Central Government shall ensure that the directions given by it are implemented forthwith5.	Decision
The Central Government and the R.P.C.B. shall file quarterly reports before this Court with respect to the progress in the implementation of Directions 1 to 4 aforesaid6.	Decision
The suggestion for establishment of environment Courts is a commendable one.	Decision
The experience shows that the prosecutions launched in ordinary criminal Courts under the provisions of the Water Act, Air Act and Environment Act never reach their conclusion either because of the workload in those Courts or because there is no proper appreciation of the significance of the environment matters on the part of those in charge of conducting of those cases.	Decision
Moreover, any orders passed by the authorities under Water and Air Acts and the Environment Act are immediately questioned by the industries in Courts.	Decision
Those proceedings take years and years to reach conclusion.	Decision
Very often, interim orders are granted meanwhile which effectively disable the authorities from ensuring the implementation of their orders.	Decision
All this points to the need for creating environment Courts which alone should be empowered to deal with all matters, civil and criminal, relating to environment.	Decision
These Courts should be manned by legally trained persons judicial officers and should be allowed to adopt summary procedures.	Decision
This issue, no doubt, requires to be studied and examined indepth from all angles before taking any action7.	None
The Central Government may also consider the advisability of strengthening the environment protection machinery both at the Centre and the States and provide them more teeth.	Decision
The head of several units and agencies should be made personally accountable for any lapses and or negligence on the part of their units and agencies.	Decision
The idea, of an environmental audit by specialist bodies created on a permanent basis with power to inspect, check and take necessary action not only against erring industries but also against erring officers may be considered.	Decision
The idea of an environmental audit conducted periodically and certified annually, by specialists in the field, duly recognised, can also be considered.	Decision
The ultimate idea is to integrate and balance the concern for environment with the need for industrialisation and technological progress71.	Decision
Respondents 4 to 8 shall pay a sum of Rupees fifty thousand by way of costs to the petitioner which had to fight this litigation over a period of over six years with its own means.	Decision
Voluntary bodies, like the petitioner, deserve encouragement wherever their actions are found to be in furtherance of public interest.	Decision
The said sum shall be deposited in this Court within two weeks from today.	Decision
It shall be paid over to the petitioner72.	Decision
Writ Petition (C) No. 967 of 1989 is allowed with the above directions with costs as specified hereinaboveWRIT PETITION (C) NO. 76 OF 199473.	Decision
In view of the decision in Writ Petition (C) No. 967 of 1989, the writ petition is dismissedNo costsWRIT PETITION (C) NO. 94 OF 199074.	Decision
In view of the decision in Writ Petition (C) No. 967 of 1989, no separate Orders are necessary in this petition.	Decision
The writ petition is accordingly dismissed75.	Decision
No costsWRIT PETITION (C) NO. 824 OF 199376.	Decision
In view of the decision in Writ Petition (C) No. 967 of 1989, no separate Orders are necessary in this petition.	Decision
The writ petition is accordingly dismissed77.	Decision
No costs78.	Decision
Order accordingly.	Decision
