 Dwivedi, J.1.	None
The Kottayam Electric Supply Agency, Kottayam, is the licensee for the supply of electric energy in Kottayam in the State of Kerala The appellant, N. S. Mooss, is the proprietor of the licensee.	Issue
By an order, dated May 17, 1963, the State of Kerala revoked the licence with effect from August 1. 1963.	Issue
The order was made under Section 5 (1) (a) of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (hereinafter called the Act).	Issue
On the same date, the State of Kerala made another order under Section 5 (1) (c) and (3) of the Act directing the appellant to deliver the undertaking to the Kerala Electricity Board (hereinafter called the Board) on or before July 1, 1963.	Facts
The appellant filed a writ petition under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution challenging the two orders.	Issue
The High Court has dismissed the petition Hence this appeal.2.	Facts
Sir Sen, counsel for the appellant, has urged four points before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of those points is The Board endorsed the State proposal for the revocation of the licence before the explanation of the appellant reached the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
The explanation was not placed before the Board and accordingly not considered by the Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
So there was no due consultation of the Board and the order of revocation is void.	Arguments of Petitioner
As we are accepting this point, it is not necessary to notice his remaining points.	None
We shall state only such facts as are necessary for the decision of the aforesaid point.3.	None
On August 17, 1962, the State Government issued a notice to the appellant under S. 4 (3) of the Act asking him to show cause why the licence should not be revoked.	Facts
He was asked to send his explanation within three months and three days from the date of the receipt of the notice.	Facts
Much before the issue of this notice.	Facts
On June 21,1962, the State Government sent the letter No. 11795	Facts
EL 1/61/17/ P. W. to the Board.	Facts
The letter states that the Government considered that the licence of the appellant should be revoked under S. 4 (1) (a) and requested the Board to communicate its views to the Government.	Facts
On July 26, 1962 the Board sent its reply to the Government.	Facts
The reply letter is No. B. VI/5705/62.	Facts
The Board recommended the revocation of the licence.	Facts
On November 5, 1962 within three months of the issue of the notice under Section 4 (3), the appellant sent his explanation to the Government.	Facts
The Government was not satisfied with the explanation.	Facts
It passed the impugned order on May 17, 1963 revoking the licence.	Facts
These facts support Sri Sens contention that the Boards recommendation was made without looking into the appellants explanation.	Facts
Indeed, it was humanly impossible for the Board to have looked into the explanation.4.	Facts
Counsel for the State Government and the Board have raised a preliminary objection.	Facts
They point out that the argument advanced by Sri Sen was neither raised in the writ petition nor urged before the High Court.	Reasoning
According to them it should not be allowed to be raised in this Court.	Reasoning
It is true that the point is not specifically raised in the writ petition.	Reasoning
But, in our view, it is embedded in paragraphs 6 and 22 of the affidavit accompanying the petition.	Facts
Paragraph 6 asserts that the aforesaid two orders are illegal and void and of no effect.	Facts
Paragraph 22 states that the entire proceedings culminating in the issue of (the two orders) constitute a gross violation of that the impugned order have been made in breach of the statutory conditions for revoking a licence.	Facts
earlier we have said that Sri Sens contention is embedded in paragraphs 6 and 22.	Facts
We are reassured of our construction of these paragraphs by the fact that the Government as well as the Board have also construed the petition in the same sense and have controverted it in their affidavits.	Facts
Paragraph 3 of the affidavit filed on behalf of the Government states (The appellants) objections were considered and the Government formed an opinion that it was in public interest to revoke the licence and after consulting the Electricity Board revoked the licence as the Government were satisfied that in their opinion the petitioners had made willful and unreasonably prolonged default in doing several things required of him by or under the Indian Electricity Act.	Facts
In reply to paragraph 22 of the petition, the Governments affidavit states that orders were passed in accordance with the provisions of all the relevant Acts and the Rules and after considering the objections raised by the licensee.	Facts
Paragraph 5 of the Boards affidavit is more outspoken and elaborate.	Facts
It states The State Government consulted the Board in the matter of revoking the licence of the Kottayam Electric Supply Agency by invoking S. 4 (1) (a) of the Indian electricity Act, 1910 and the Board vide letter No. BVI/5705/62, dated 2671962 endorsed the views of the Government on the matter (and) recommended the revocation of the licence.	Facts
Paragraph 18 of the Boards affidavit is a reply to Paragraph 22 of the appellants affidavit.	Facts
Paragraph 18 asserts that the impugned orders were passed in accordance with Law and the Rules thereunder.	Facts
It is thus unmistakably plain that the Government as well as the Board understood the petition as raising a challenge to the orders on the ground of want of due consultation of the Board before the making of the impugned orders.	Facts
And they have replied to that implicit challenge in the petition.	Reasoning
It appears to us that there is little force in the preliminary objection that Sri Sens contention is not raised in the petition.5.	Facts
It is true that this point was not urged on behalf of the appellant in the High Court.	Facts
But as the facts requisite for deciding the issue are on record, we think that we should allow the point to be raised as it goes to the root of the matter.	Facts
It may be noted that the appellant has raised this point in ground No. 6 of his statement of case.	Facts
That ground is The Government without any further thought and relying solely on this report proceeded to revoke the licence and sought the view of the Electricity Board on the matter.	Facts
The Board with the Managing Director of the Company as one of its members readily accepted the report and agreed with the suggestion of the Government for revocation of the licence.	Facts
It is after having made up its mind to revoke the licence, as seen from Ex.	None
R2, that the Government issued notice to the appellant to show cause against revocation.	None
It cannot be said that the respondents have been taken by surprise.	Facts
They already knew that the point would be agitated in the Court.6.	None
Counsel for the Government says that if the point had been clearly taken in the petition and raised in the High Court, the Government could have led evidence to show that the Board was consulted a second time after receipt of the appellants explanation and that the Board, after considering the explanation, had again agreed with the Governments proposal.	Arguments of Respondent
He has advanced an extreme argument that even telephonic consultation could have been held between the Government and the Board after the receipt of the explanation.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Telephonic consultation is out of question.	None
The Board is constituted under the Indian Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.	None
It is a corporate body.	None
It consists of at least three members.	Reasoning
One of them has experience of commercial matters and administration the other is an Electrical Engineer with wide experience and the third has experience of accounting and financial matter in a public utility undertaking, preferably an electricity supply undertaking.	None
Section 13 of the said Act provides that all orders and decisions of the Board shall be authenticated by the signature of the Chairman.	None
It is obvious that telephonic consultation could not be held with three members of the Board at one and the same time, nor could the members bestow collective consideration on the matter before giving the Boards opinion thereon.	None
We have little doubt in our mind that there was no second consultation between the Government and the Board after the receipt of the explanation.	None
Had there been a second consultation, the Board would surely have disclosed it in its counteraffidavit.	None
The evidence already on record excludes the possibility of a second consultation after the receipt of the explanation.	None
We have earlier quoted the number and date of the Government letter by which the Government asked for the Boards opinion on the issue of revoking the licence.	None
The number and date of the Boards letter recommending revocation of the licence has also been mentioned earlier.	None
On receiving the Boards letter, the Government sent another letter to the Board.	None
It is dated April 6, 1963.	None
The number of the letter is the letter is 11795ELI/6120/PW.	None
The subject of the letter is ElectricityKottayam Electric Supply Agencyacquisition of.	None
The letter makes reference to two earlier letters (1) Government letter No. 11795ELI/61/17/PW (2) your reply No.	None
NVI/5705/62 dated 2671962.8.	None
It may be seen that the Government letter referred to above is the letter by which the Government asked for the opinion of the Board on the question of revocation of the licence.	None
The second letter is the reply of the Board recommending revocation of the licence.	None
We have already referred to these letters.	None
The Government letter of April 6, 1963 states that the Government have considered the explanation furnished by the Kottayam Electric Supply Agencyto the show cause notice served on him (No. 11795/ELI/61/19/PW dated 1781963) under S. 4 (3) of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910.	None
Since the explanation is not satisfactory, the Government in public interest have decided to revoke the licence granted to the said Agency.	None
It adds I am therefore directed to enquire as required under Section 5 (b) of the said Act whether the Kerala State Electricity Board is willing to purchase the undertaking.	None
If so, the willingness of the Board may be communicated to the Government at the earliest.9.	None
The Board replied to this letter.	None
The reply is dated April 20, 1963.	None
The letters number is LAW I 570562/20463.	None
The letter informs the Government that the Board was willing to purchase the undertaking with effect from August 1, 1963.	None
On May 17, 1963 the Government revoked the licence with effect from August 1, 1963.	None
The same day another order was passed by the Government.	None
The number of the Order is 11795EL 1/6131/PW.	None
The material portion of the order isWhereas the Government have, under S. 5, subsection (1) Clause (b) of the Act enquired from the Kerala State Electricity Board whether the Board is willing to purchase the undertaking owned by the Kottayam Electric Supply	None
AgencyAnd whereas, the Kerala State Electricity Board has in its letter No. LawI5705/62 dated 20463 intimated the Government that it is willing to purchase the said UndertakingNow, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5, subsection (1) Clause (c) and Section 5 Subsection (3) (of the Act) the Government of Kerala hereby give notice to the Kottayam Electric Supply Agency to sell and deliver possession of the said Undertaking to the Kerala State Electricity Board on or before the First day of July, 1963.10.	None
This entire chain of correspondence between the Government and the Board would unmistakably show that there was no second consultation between the Government and the Board regarding the revocation of the licence after the Government had received the appellants explanation to the show cause notice served on him.	Reasoning
In the circumstances of the case we are satisfied that no prejudice will be caused to the respondents if the point is permitted to be raised in this Court.	Reasoning
So we permit Sri Sen to argue the point.11.	Reasoning
In State of U. P. v. Manbodhan Lal Srivastava, 1958 SCR 533 (AIR 1957 SC 912 ), Hamdard Dawakhana (Wakf), Delhi v. Union of India, (1965) 2 SCR 192 (AIR 1965 SC 1167 ), Karpagathachi v. Nagarathinathachi, (1965)	None
3 SCR 335 (AIR 1965 SC 1752 ) and State of Mysore v. Guduthur Thimmappa and Son, (1967) 1	None
SCR 627 (AIR 1967 SC 1131 )	None
this Court did not permit a new issue of fact to be urged by the appellant.	None
In Mothbhai Fulabhai Patel and Co. v. M s. R. Prasad, (1969) 2	None
SCR 580 (AIR 1970 SC 829 )	None
the case was remanded to the High Court and the appellant was allowed to urge before the High Court his new contention.	None
The facts of all these cases are different from the facts of the present case.	None
The Government cannot derive any assistance from them.12.	None
It is necessary to consider whether the Act obligates the Board to consider the explanation of the licensee before recommending any action against him.	None
Section 4 as it stood originally read(1) The State Government may, if in its opinion the public interest so requires, revoke a licence in any of the following cases, namely(a) where the licensee in the opinion of the State Government makes willful and unreasonably prolonged default in doing anything required of him by or under this Act(b) where the licensee breaks any of the terms or conditions of his licence the breach of which is expressly declared by such licence to render it liable to revocation(c) where the licencee fails, within the period fixed in this behalf by his licence or any longer period which the State Government may substitute therefor by order under subs.	None
(3), cl.	None
(b) and before exercising any of the powers conferred on him thereby in relation to the execution of works(i) to show, to the satisfaction of the State Government, that he is in a position fully and efficiently to discharge the duties and obligations imposed on him by his licence, or(ii) to make the deposit or furnish the security required by his licence(d) where the licensee is, in the opinion of the State Government, unable, by reason of his insolvency fully and efficiently to discharge the duties and obligations imposed on him by his licence.(2) Where the State Government might, under subs.	None
(1) revoke a licence, it may, instead of revoking the licence, permit it to remain in force subject to such further terms and conditions as it thinks fit to impose and any further terms or conditions so imposed shall be binding upon, and observed by, the licensee, and shall be of like force and effect as if they were contained in the licence.13.	None
The original Section 4 was considered by the Privy Council in Hubli Electricity Co. v. Province of Bombay, AIR 1949 PC 136 .	None
The Privy Council held that in S. 4 (1) (a) the opinion of the Government was not subject to any objective tests.	None
The Privy Council	None
saidThe language leaves no room for the relevance of a judicial examination as to the sufficiency of the grounds on which the Government acted in forming an opinion.	None
However, it was held that the opinion should relate to anything required under the Act.	None
The Privy Council said If it relates to something which was not required under the Act, the revocation of the licence would be invalid.14.	None
Then there came our Constitution with its Art. 19 (1) (g) conferring on the citizens the right to carry on business subject to reasonable restrictions in public interest.	None
This Court in Dr. N. B. Khare v. State of Delhi, 1950 SCR 519 (AIR 1950 SC 211 ) held that if an Act which imposes restrictions on the rights specified in Art. 19, does not provide for a reasonable hearing to the party affected, the restriction could not be said to be reasonable in certain circumstances.	None
It seems that Parliament realised, thought late, in 1958 that Section 4 may not stand the test of Article 19 (1) (g).	None
Accordingly it made radical amendments in S. 1.	None
The amended Section 4 readsThe State Government may, if in its opinion the public interest so requires, and after consulting the State Electricity Board, revoke a license in any of the following cases, namely(a) where the licensee, in the opinion of the State Government, makes willful and unreasonably prolonged default in doing anything required of him by or under this Act(b) where the licensee breaks any of the terms or conditions of his license the breach of which is expressly declared by such license to render it liable to revocation(c) where the licensee fails, within the period fixed in this behalf by his license or any longer period which the State Government may substitute therefor by order under Section 4A. subsection (1) and before exercising any of the powers conferred on him thereby in relation to the execution of works(i) to show, to the satisfaction of the State Government, that he is in a position fully and efficiently to discharge the duties and obligations imposed on him by his license, or(ii) to make the deposit or furnish the security required by his license(d) where in the opinion of the State Government the financial position of the licensee is such that he is unable full and efficiently to discharge the duties and obligations imposed on him by his license(e) where a licensee, in the opinion of the State Government, has made default in complying with any direction issued under Section 22A.(2) Where in its opinion the public interest so permits, the State Government may, on the application or with the consent of the licensee, and after consulting the State Electricity Board, and the Central Government where that Government is interested, and if the licensee is not a local authority, after consulting also the local authority, if any, concerned, revoke a license as to the whole or any part of the area of supply upon such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.(3)	None
No license shall be revoked under subsection (1) unless the State Government has given to the licensee not less than three months notice in writing, stating the grounds on which it is proposed to revoke the license and has considered any cause shown by the licensee within the period of that notice, against the proposed revocation.(4) Where the State Government might under subsection (1) revoke a license it may instead of revoking the license permit it to remain in force subject to such further terms and conditions as it thinks fit to impose and any further terms or conditions so imposed shall be binding upon, and be observed by, the licensee, and shall be of like force and effect as if they were contained in the license.15.	None
The amending Act adds subsections (2) and (3) and converts the former subsection (2) into subsection (4).	None
It adds clause (e) to subsection (1).	None
It also adds and after consulting the State Electricity Board in the opening part of subsection (1).	None
The amendments relevant in this case are the phrase after consulting the State Electricity Board and subsection (3) which now provides for a hearing to the licensee before revocation of his license.16.	None
It appears form a reading of S. 4 that when the Government consults the Board on the question of revocation of a licence under S. 4, the Board is to make up its mind as to whether it should recommend (1) to revoke the licence, or (2) not to revoke the licence, or (3) to permit the license to remain in force subject to such further terms and conditions as may be thought proper.	Reasoning
It is difficult to conceive how the Board will make a choice out of these three courses without considering the explanation of the licensee.	Reasoning
The explanation may make out a case for not revoking the license or a case for continuation of the licence with certain overadded conditions.	None
In a particular case the Government may propose to revoke the licence under S. 4 (1) (c) on the ground that the licensee has failed to show that he is in a position fully and efficiently to discharge the duties and obligations imposed on him by his licence Similarly, it may propose to revoke the licence under S. 4 (1) (d) where the financial position of the licensee is such that he is unable fully and efficiently to discharge the duties and obligations imposed on him by his license.	None
In none of these cases the Board will be able to make a just choice out of the aforesaid three courses without applying its mind to the explanation of the licensee.	None
In case of a charge under S. 4(1)(d) it is open to the Board to advance a loan to the licensee and recommend against the proposed revocation of his licence.	None
We are accordingly of opinion that S. 4 contemplates that the Board should make its recommendation only after considering the explanation of the lincensee.	None
It would follow that the Board should be consulted by the Government after the licensees explanation has been received.	None
We have already said that in the present case the Board was consulted much before the receipt of the appellants explanation and that the Board consequently could not consider the explanation at the time of making its recommendation in favour of revocation of the licence.17.	None
Counsel for the Board has submitted that the Board is to be consulted only as regards public interest.	None
It is sufficient to state that we find no force at all in this argument.	None
In the alternative, it is said that the Board is to be consulted only at the stage when the Government takes a provisional decision to revoke the licence.	None
The words after consulting the Board have been added by an amendment.	None
The suggested construction would make the amendment a mere pompous wordspinning.18.	None
It is now to be seen as to what is the effect of this premature consultation of the Board by the Government on the impugned order.	None
The Act does not expressly provide for the consequence of premature consultation.	Reasoning
It does not say that the order of revocation is void.	Reasoning
Sri Sen contends that the order will be void.	Reasoning
Counsel for the Board, on the other hand, contends that it will not be void.	Reasoning
According to him, the provision regarding consultation of the Board is directory, and not mandatory.	Reasoning
Noncompliance with a directory provision does not nullify the order.	None
It is not disputed that if the provision is mandatory, the order of revocation will be void.19.	Reasoning
The object and setting of the phrase after consulting the Board in Section 4 will have to be examined for deciding whether the provision is mandatory of directory.	None
(H. N. Reshbud v. State of Delhi (1955) 1	None
SCR 1150 (AIR 1955 SC 196 ).)20.	None
The power to revoke the licence is a drastic power.	Reasoning
The revocation of licence results in severe abridgment of the right to carry on business.	Reasoning
Having in mind the requirements of Art. 19 (1) (g), Parliament has, it seems to us, prescribed certain conditions to prevent the abuse of power and to ensure just exercise of power.	Reasoning
Clauses (a) to (d) of S. 4 prescribe some of the conditions precedent for the exercise of power.	Reasoning
The order of revocation, in breach of any one of those conditions, will undoubtedly be void.	Reasoning
The clause if in its opinion the public interest so requires is also a condition precedent.	Reasoning
On a successful showing that the order of revocation has been made without the Government applying its mind to the aspect of public interest or without forming an honest opinion on that aspect, it will, we have no doubt, be void.	Reasoning
The phrase after consulting the State Electricity Board is sandwiched between the clause if in its opinion the public interest so requires and cls.	Reasoning
(a) to (d).	Reasoning
In this context it appears to us that consultation with the Board is also a condition precedent for making the order of revocation.	Reasoning
Accordingly the breach of this condition precedent should also entail the same consequence as the breach of the other conditions referred to earlier.	Reasoning
It may be observed that the phrase after consulting the State Electricity Board did not find place in S. 4 as it stood originally.	Reasoning
It was introduced in Section 4 in 1959 by an amendment.	Reasoning
It seems to us that it was introduced in Section 4 with the object of providing an additional safeguard to the licensee.	Reasoning
When revoking a licence, the State Government acts in two stages.	Reasoning
At first it forms a tentative opinion in favour of revoking the licence.	Reasoning
Then it calls for an explanation from the licensee.	Reasoning
When the explanation is received, it considers the explanation.	Reasoning
If not satisfied with the explanation, it passes the final order of revocation.	Reasoning
First impressions and provisional judgments have a tendency to become ultimate ideas and final judgments.	Reasoning
They would settle unconsciously on the investigators mind as the imperceptible dustparticles on an optical lens.	Reasoning
They would dim his understanding and obfuscate his observation.	Reasoning
Facts which will dovetail with them would arrest his attention facts which will conflict with them would flit his observation.	Reasoning
If by any chance he happens to notice refractory facts, he would seek to reconcile them with his first impressions and provisional judgments.	Reasoning
This understanding of human psychology seems to have pursuaded Parliament to interpose the condition of the Boards consultation to the Governments action.	Reasoning
The Board is an independent body.	Reasoning
It consists of three members.	Reasoning
One of them is a technical expert, the other a financial expert, and the third an administrative expert.	Reasoning
While considering the facts presented to it by the Government and by the licensee in his explanation, the Board will undoubtedly act with an open and unconditioned mind and will be able to offer unbiased counsel to the Government.	Reasoning
Having regard to the object and context, we are of the view that the condition of consulting the Board is mandatory and the breach of this condition will make the order of revocation void.	Reasoning
We have already held that the Board was not consulted after the explanation was received.	Reasoning
Accordingly we are of opinion that the order is void.	Reasoning
The consequential order of acquisition will ipso facto fall down.21.	None
Counsel for the Board has relied on 1958 SCR 533 (AIR 1957 SC 912 ) (supra), Ram Gopal Chaturvedi v State of Madhya Pradesh, (1970) 1	None
SCR 472 (AIR 1970 SC 158 ) and State of Bombay v. D. A. Korgaonkar, Civil Appeal No. 289 of 1958 D 651960 (SC).	None
He has also relied on Rollo v. Minister of Town and Country Planning (1948) 1	None
All ER 13 and Derham v. Church Commissioners for England 1954 AC 245. (1970) 1 SCR 472 (AIR 1970 SC 158 ) (supra) and Civil App.	None
No. 289 of 1958 D 651960 (SC) (supra) have followed Manbodhan Lal (Srivastava (supra).	None
In Manbodhan Lal 1958 SCR 533 (AIR 1967 SC 912) this court held that Art. 320 (c) of the Constitution is directory and not mandatory.	None
A Government employee was dismissed from service after complying with the provisions of Art.	None
311 (2) of the Constitution.	None
The U. P. Public Service Commission was consulted as to the punishment to be imposed on him.	None
But it was consulted before the explanation of the employee was received by the Government.	None
The argument was that as the Commission did not have the opportunity of considering his explanation, there was no real consultation as required by Art. 320 (c).	None
It was also argued that Art. 320 (c) was mandatory and that accordingly the order of dismissal was void.	None
This Court pointed out several reasons for the view that Art. 320 (c) is directory.	None
The proviso to Art. 320 empowers the appropriate Govt.	None
to issue directions as to the classes of cases in which consultation of the Commission will not be necessary.	None
The proviso therefore indicates that the provision is directory.	None
Another reason given by the Court is that Art. 320 (c) does not occur in the Chapter in which Art. 311 occurs.	None
It finds place in the Chapter dealing with the Public Service Commission.	None
Accordingly it cannot be said that it confers any right on Government employees.	None
The third reason given is that consultation of the Commission is not binding on the Government.	None
The first two reasons do not apply in our case.	None
We have shown earlier that the condition of consulting the Board has been inserted by an amendment of Section 4 with the object of creating a safeguard in favour of licensee.	Reasoning
There is no provision in the Act authorising the Government to waive the condition of consultation in any case.	Reasoning
It is true that the third reason given by the Court in Manbodhan Lal 1958	Reasoning
SCR 533 (AIR 1957 SC 912 ) (supra) applies in this case.	Reasoning
As there, so here the opinion of the Board is not binding on the Government.	Reasoning
In spite of the Board advising against revocation, the Government may, if satisfied that it is necessary to revoke the licence, may revoke it.	Reasoning
But having regard to the object and context of Section 4, we are of opinion that it should not be regarded as an overweighing consideration.	Reasoning
It will normally be difficult for the Government to ignore the Boards expert advice.	Reasoning
We are satisfied from the object and context of Section 4 that Parliament intended to make consultation of the Board an imperative condition to revoking a licence.22.	Reasoning
In the result, we allow the appeal and set aside the order of the High Court.	Decision
The petition of the appellant under Art.	Decision
226 of the Constitution is allowed and the notice No. 11795EL	None
1/61/19/P. W. dated 1781962, the order of revocation No. 11795/EL 1/6130/P. W. dated 1751963 and the order No. 11795EL 1/6131/P.W. dated 1751963 directing the appellant to hand over the Undertaking to the Board are quashed.	None
The appellant shall not get his costs here as well as in the High Court, as the point on which the appeal is allowed was not raised in the High Court.23.	Decision
Orders quashed.	None
