 Hegde, J. 1.	None
This appeal by certificate arises from the decision of the High Court of Madras.	Issue
It arises two questions for decision viz.	Issue
, whether the High Court was right in its opinion that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes was incompetent to enhance the assessment of the assessee, the respondent herein and whether the High Court was justified in holding that the additional exemptions granted by the Tribunal were justified by the evidence on record.	Issue
2.	Reasoning
There is no merit in the second contention.	Reasoning
Therefore it will be convenient to dispose it of even before going to the facts of the case.	Reasoning
The assessing officer as well as the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes disallowed the two exemption asked for by the assessee on the ground that there was interpretation in the relative document covering the turnover.	Reasoning
The Tribunal reversed that findings of those authorities and allowed the exemptions asked for.	Reasoning
It appears from the order of the Tribunal that it proceeded on the basis that there was no interpolation.	Reasoning
This finding of the Tribunal is essentially a finding of fact and hence we will not be justified in interferring with that finding and more so as the High Court has declined to interfere with that finding.	Reasoning
3.	None
This takes us to the real controversy in the appeal namely whether the Appellate Assistant Commissioner had power to enhance the assessment of the assessee.	Issue
The assessee is a dealer in Hides and Skins at Madras.	Facts
We are concerned herein with its assessment for the year 195859.	None
That assessment was made on March 24, 1961.	Facts
By his order dated August 16, 1962 the Appellate Assistant Commissioner enhanced the assessment of the assessee while disposing of the appeal filed by the assessee.	Facts
Until March 31, 1959, sales tax was being levied on dealers in the State of Madras under the provisions of the Madras Sales Tax Act, 1939 (to be hereinafter referred to as the 1939 Act).	Facts
The assessees turnover for the year 195859 stood charged with the liability to pay tax as leviable under the 1939 Act.	Facts
The 1939 Act was repealed by the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1959 (to be hereinafter referred to as the 1959 Act).	Facts
That Act came into force on April 1, 1959.	Facts
As seen earlier the assessee was assessed after that Act came into force.	Facts
The assessee filed its appeal under sec.	Facts
31 of that Act and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner dealt with that appeal under that provision.	Facts
4. Aggrieved by that order, the assessee took up the matter in appeal to Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal following the decision of the Madras High Court in Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Madras Division vs. Shri Swami and Company(I) accepted the contention of the assessee.	Facts
As against that decision, the State of Madras went up in revision to the High Court under sec.	Facts
38 of the 1959 Act.	Facts
That petition was dismissed.	Facts
Hence this appeal.	Facts
5.	None
The High Court has opined that under the 1939 Act, he appellate authority while exercising its appellate powers could not have enhanced the assessment of the assessee.	None
That was an immunity or protection afforded to the assessee under the 1939 Act.	None
Such an immunity or protection was a vested right of the assessee.	None
The same having not been taken away either expressly or by the provisions of the 1959 Act, the Appellate Assistant Commissioner could not have enhanced the assessment.	None
It further held that immunity or protection of the assessee is protected by sec.	None
66(1) of the 1959 Act as amended in 1963, which amendment was retrospective in its operation.	None
6.	None
The turnover of the assessee during the year 195859 became charged with liability to pay salestax under the 1939 Act as and when the assessee effected sales and the total salestax liability of the assessee for that year became fixed under the same Act on March 31, 1959.	Reasoning
Hence the charging section in the 1959 Act is not relevant for determining the liability of the assessee.	Reasoning
Herein we have only to consider the effect of the change in the Machinery provisions.	None
Before enhancing the assessment the Appellate Assistant Commissioner had given opportunity to the assessee to show cause against the proposed enhancement.	None
The Appellate Asstt.	Reasoning
Comm. rejected the contention of the assessee that he had no power to enhance the assessment as the power to enhance assessment conferred on him by S. 31 of the 1959 Act was inapplicable to the proceedings before him.	None
7.	None
We shall now examine the relevant provisions of the 1939 Act and the 1959 Act.	Reasoning
We shall first take up the material provisions in the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
Sec.	None
2(a2) defines the expression assessing authority as meaning any person authorised by the State Government to make any assessment under the Act.	Reasoning
The expression Commercial Tax Officer is defined in sec 2(a3) as meaning any person appointed to be a Commercial Tax Officer under sec.	Reasoning
2	Reasoning
B. The Deputy Commissioner is defined in sec.	Reasoning
2(b1) as meaning any person appointed to be a Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes under sec.	Reasoning
2B. Section 2B empowers the State Government to make appointments of as many Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and Commercial Tax Officers as they think fit for the purpose of performing the functions respectively conferred on them by or under the Act.	Reasoning
The expression Appellate Tribunal is defined in sec.	None
2 (a2) as meaning the Tribunal appointed under sec.	None
2A, which empowered the Government to appoint a Tribunal consisting of three members to exercise the functions conferred on the Appellate Tribunal by or under the Act.	None
Section 11 provided for appeal by the assessee objecting to an assessment made on him under sec.	Reasoning
9(2) within the prescribed period.	Reasoning
Section 9 prescribed the procedure to be followed by the assessing authority.	Reasoning
Section 12(1) conferred certain special powers on the Commercial Tax Officer.	Reasoning
It said that the Commercial Tax Officer may (i) suo moto or (ii) in cases in which an appeal does not lie to him under section 11, on application, call for and examine the record of any order passed or proceeding recorded under the provisions of this Act by any officer subordinate to him, for the purpose of satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of such order or as to the regularity of such proceeding, and may pass such order with respect thereto as he thinks fit.	Reasoning
8.	None
The application under sec.	Reasoning
12 (1) (ii) could have been made even by the assessing authority.	Reasoning
It may be also remembered that the Commercial Tax Officer was one of the authorities charged with the duty to see that no taxable turnover went untaxed.	Reasoning
The power under sec.	Reasoning
12 (1) could have been exercised within three years from the date the assessee was served with assessment order.	Reasoning
Power under sec.	Reasoning
12 (1) (ii) could have been exercised by the Commercial Tax Officer simultaneously with the exercise of his appellate power under sec.	Reasoning
II(1).	None
9.	None
Section 12(2) conferred special powers on the Deputy Commissioner to call for and examine any order or proceeding recorded under the provisions of the Act satisfying himself as to the legality or propriety of that order or as to the regularity of such proceeding and may pass such order with respect thereto as he thinks fit.	Reasoning
This power he could have exercised within four years from the date on which the assessment order was communicated to the assessee.	Reasoning
10. Section 12A provided for an appeal by an assessee objecting to an order relating to his assessment passed by the Commercial Tax Officer whether on appeal under sec.	Reasoning
11 or under sec.	Reasoning
12 subsec.	None
(1) or by the Deputy Commissioner under sec.	Reasoning
12, subsec.	None
(2) subject to certain conditions with which we are not concerned in this case.	Reasoning
The assessee as well as Deputy Commissioner were conferred with power to move the High Court under sec.	Reasoning
12B within the prescribed period against the order of the Appellate Tribunal on the ground that order either decided erroneously a question of law or it failed to decide the question of law arising for decision.	Reasoning
11.	None
This takes us to the relevant provisions in the 1959 Act.	Reasoning
Therein again the assessing authority is defined in sec.	Reasoning
2 (c) as meaning any person authorised by the Government or by any authority empowered by them to make assessment under the Act.	Reasoning
Against the order of assessment made by the assessing authority an appeal by any person objecting to the assessment lies to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner appointed under sec.	Reasoning
28, subsec.	None
(3).	Reasoning
Section 31 empowers the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment.	Reasoning
The power to enhance the assessment was conferred on the Appellate Authority for the first time by the 1959 Act.	Reasoning
Under this Act also the Deputy Commissioners power to suo moto revise the order of assessment is retained, subject to certain conditions.	Reasoning
Any person objecting to the order made by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner under sec.	Reasoning
31 (3) or against the order made by the Deputy Commissioner under sec.	Reasoning
31 (1) can appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.	Reasoning
Under sec.	Reasoning
38 the assessee or the Deputy Commissioner can take up a revision to the High Court either on the ground that the Tribunal has decided a question of law erroneously or it has failed to decide a question of law arising for decision.	Reasoning
12.	Reasoning
In the matter of assessment, the purpose of the 1939 Act as well as the 1959 Act is identical.	Reasoning
That purpose was and is to see that neither the assessee is over assessed nor the State is deprived of the Revenue to which it is entitled.	Reasoning
Under the 1939 Act, an aggrieved assessee could first appeal to the Appellate Authority and then to Tribunal.	Reasoning
Further he could on question of law go up in revision to the High Court.	Reasoning
To protect the interest of the State, special powers were conferred on the Commercial Tax Officer as well as the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes.	Reasoning
If the Deputy Commissioner was not satisfied with the decision of the Tribunal on questions of law, he could have gone up in revision to the High Court.	Reasoning
Under the 1959 Act, the procedure was simplified to some extent.	Reasoning
The Appellate Asstt.	Reasoning
Commissioner who primarily took over the quasi judicial functions of the Commercial Tax Officer was conferred with power not only to confirm, vary or annul the assessment but also the power to enhance the assessment.	Reasoning
The power conferred on him u s. 31 of the 1959 Act combines to an extent both the appellate power as well as the special power the Commercial Tax Officer had under secs.	Reasoning
11 and 12(1) of the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
Hence the changes effected by the 1959 Act in the machinery provisions do not touch the substance of the matter.	Reasoning
Even as regards the time with in which the enhancement of assessment can be made the change excepting in exceptional cases is in favour of the assessee.	Reasoning
The Commercial Tax Officer could have exercised his special powers under sec.	Reasoning
12 (1) of the 1939 Act within three years from the date the assessment order was served on the assessee.	Reasoning
Under the 1959 Act, he can enhance the assessment only during the pendency of the appeal and not thereafter.	Reasoning
Herein we are not concerned with the special powers of the Deputy Commissioner nor with the powers of the Tribunal or the High Court.	Reasoning
In our opinion there is no basis for saying that the provisions of the 1959 Act relating to the determination of the assessment are more onerous than those in the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
The 1959 Act in our opinion merely simplified the procedure without touching the substance of the right of the parties.	Reasoning
No benefit that was available to an assessee as regards the procedure was taken away by the 1959 Act, if we ignore the remote possibility of an appeal pending before an Appellate Assistant Commissioner for more than three years and that authority falling to exercise his power to enhance the tax within that period.	Reasoning
The assessee before us cannot even have the benefit of such a contingency because the order of assessment in this case was made on March 24, 1961 and the appellate order was passed on August 16, 1922.	Reasoning
In this case it cannot be said that any vested right of the assessee had been in fact affected by the 1959 Act.	Reasoning
13.	Reasoning
Now we shall go to sec.	None
61 of the 1959 Act on the basis of which the Tribunal and the High Court have upheld the assessee.	None
Section 61(1) to the extent material for our purpose reads 61(1).	None
(i) The Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939 (Madras Act IX of 1939), (hereinafter in this section referred to as the said Act), is hereby repealed.	Facts
(ii) The repeal of the said Act by clause (i) shall not affect  (a) anything done or any offence committed, or any fine or penalty incurred or any proceedings begun before the commencement of this Act or (b) the previous operation of the said Act or anything duly done or suffered there under or (c) any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accured or incurred under the said Act or (d) any fine, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence, committed against the said Act or (e) any investigation, legal proceedings or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, fine, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such fine, penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed, as if this Act had not been passed.	None
(iii) Subject to the provisions of clause (ii), anything done or any action taken including any appointment made, notification, notice or order issued, rule, form or regulation framed, certificate, licence or permit granted, under the said Act shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provision of this Act and shall continue in force accordingly, unless and until, superseded by anything done or any action taken under this Act.	None
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subS. (1) any application appeal, revision or other proceeding made or preferred to any officer or authority under the said Act and pending at the commencement of this Act, shall after such commencement, be transferred to and disposed of by the officer or authority who would have had jurisdiction to entertain such application appeal, revision or other proceeding under this Act if it had been in force on the date on which any application, appeal, revision or other proceeding was made or preferred.	None
14.	None
The rules framed under the 1939 Act (the Madras General Sales Tax Rules, 1939), provide for the appointment of Assistant Commercial Tax Officers and the Deputy Commercial Tax Officers.	None
By his order dated September 15, 1939, in exercise of the powers conferred on him by cl.	None
(a) of sec.	None
2 and subsecs.	None
(1) and (2) of sec.	None
14 of the 1939 Act, the Governor of Madras authorised the Assistant Commercial Tax Officers to exercise the powers of the assessing authority in the case of dealers whose turnover does not exceed Rs. 20, 000/ and Deputy Commercial Tax Officers to exercise the powers of an assessing authority in the case of dealers whose turnover exceeds Rs. 20, 000/.	None
It is not necessary to refer to the exceptional cases for which provision is made in the provisos to cl.	None
(1) of that order.	None
Rule 13 (1) of the Rules prescribed that subject to the provisions of sec.	None
11 any person aggrieved by any original order of an assessing authority may appeal to the Commercial Tax Officer of the District.	None
The proviso to that section permits the Board of Revenue to transfer an appeal pending before a Commercial Tax Officer to another Commercial Tax Officer for reasons to be recorded in writing.	None
But the usual appellate authority is the Commercial Tax Officer of the District.	None
Hence the Commercial Tax Officer had both the powers of the appellate authority as well as the special powers conferred on him under sec.	None
12 (1) of the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
By the exercise of those two powers, be could have confirmed, altered, amended or enhanced the assessment made.	None
The power conferred on the appellate authority under the 1959 Act is not wider than that the Commercial Tax Officer had under the 1939 Act.	None
Hence the 1959 Act does not adversely effect in any manner the right of appeal an assessee had under the 1939 Act.	None
If one probes into the grievance of the assessee before us, it would be obvious that it is wholly imaginary.	Reasoning
No assessee has any vested right in the procedure prescribed under the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
So long as the new procedure laid down in the 1959 Act does not interfere with any of his vested rights, an assessee has no right to claim that his case must be dealt with under the provisions of the repealed Act.	Reasoning
It is well settled that the new procedure prescribed by law governs all pending cases.	Reasoning
As seen earlier, the assessee filed its appeal under sec.	Reasoning
31 of the 1959 Act and not sec.	Reasoning
11 of the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
But that is a minor aspect.	Reasoning
What is of the assence is that his right of appeal under the 1959 Act does not take away in any manner any of his vested rights under the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
15.	None
In view of what we have said hereinbefore, it is not necessary for us to consider the meaning of the words any right, privilege accrued under the Act in sec.	Reasoning
61 (1) (ii) (c).	Reasoning
We repeat that no right of the assessee was infringed by the provisions of the 1959 Act.	Reasoning
In this view, it is not necessary to examine the scope of 61 (2) of the 1959 Act about which there was considerable argument before us.	Reasoning
16.	None
The decision under appeal is based on the earlier two decisions of that High Court i.e. in Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Madras vs. Shri Swami Co. (supra) and Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Madras Division vs. M. Balasundaram and Co. (2).	None
Hence it is necessary to examine the correctness of those decisions.	None
In Swami Co.s case (supra) the assessee was assessed by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer for its turnover for the year 195556 under the 1939 Act.	None
The order of assessment was passed on December 15, 1956.	None
The assessee filed an appeal before the Commercial Tax Officer on February 15, 1957.	None
During the pendency of the appeal, the 1959 Act came into force on April 1, 1959.	Facts
Thereafter the appeal was transferred to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Reasoning
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner reduced the turnover of the assessee to certain extent.	None
Not being satisfied with the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the assessee preferred a further appeal to the Appellate Tribunal.	None
In the course of the hearing of the appeal by the Tribunal, the State representative filed a petition seeking enhancement of the turnover of the assessee on certain grounds.	None
The Tribunal rejected that plea holding that the assessee had a vested right to have his appeal disposed of under the provisions of the 1939 Act.	None
It may be noted that under the 1939 Act, only an assessee could have appealed to the Tribunal against the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner but under the 1959 Act both the assessee as well as the Deputy Commissioner can appeal against his order.	None
Aggrieved by the order of the Tribunal, the Deputy Commissioner took up the matter in revision to the High Court.	None
The High Court allowed the revision petition.	None
It held that the Tribunal went wrong in holding that the petition filed by the State representative for enhancement of the assessment was not maintainable.	None
In the course of its judgment the High Court observed The immunity or protection which the assessee had under the 1939 Act so as to save the assessment made by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, the primary assessing authority, from being enhanced by the exercise of the appellate power by the Commercial Tax Officer, is a vested right, which cannot be interfered with or in any way impaired having regard to the specific provision of sec.	None
61 (1) of the Madras Act I of 1959.	None
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner only reduced the turnover to the benefit of the assessee, audit is clear that there was no violation of the vested right of the assessee by reason of the said order.	None
The order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was passed after the coming into force of the 1959 Act and on that date the assessee had no vested right to prevent an enhancement of his assessment by the future appellate authority, namely the Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal entertained an appeal at the instance of the assessee only under the new Act as the order appealed against was one passed after the coming into force of the new Act, and by a Tribunal which functioned under the new Act.	None
It is impossible for the assessee to maintain the position that any order of the Appellate Tribunal enhancing the assessment made by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner would amount to deprivation of their vested rights or violation of the provisions of section 61(1) of the 1959 Act.	None
17.	None
These observations appear to us to be some what incongruous.	Reasoning
As seen earlier under the 1939 Act, the Revenue could not have appealed either against the order of the assessing authority or against that of the appellate authority.	Reasoning
If the nonexistence of the right of appeal on the part of the Department is considered as an immunity or protection and if that immunity or protection is considered as a vested right, the assessee will have that right both at the stage of appeal to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner as well as the stage of the appeal to the Tribunal.	Reasoning
It is difficult to follow how the High Court was able to make a dichotomy as between the powers of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and that of the Tribunal in that regard.	Reasoning
If the new constituted Tribunal were clothed with wider and larger powers as opined by the High Court, the same would be the case with the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the true test to be applied to the case was whether in fact any vested right of the assessee had been taken away under the 1959 Act because of the enlargement of the powers of the first appellate authority or that of the Tribunal.	Reasoning
As seen earlier, no real right of the assessee was infringed by the 1959 Act because of the enlargement of the powers of those authorities.	Reasoning
18.	None
This takes us to the decision in Balasundaram Co.s case (supra).	Reasoning
This case was decided by the same bench which decided Swami Co.s case.	Reasoning
Therein the assessee was assessed to sales tax under the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
During the pendency of its appeal to the Commercial Tax Officer, the 1959 Act came into force.	Reasoning
Its appeal was transferred to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who enhanced the assessment.	Reasoning
But on a further appeal, the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the Appellate Assistant Commissioner had no jurisdiction to enhance the assessment.	Reasoning
As against that order, the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes went up in revision to the High Court.	Reasoning
The High Court held that the assessee had a vested right at the time when the 1959 Act came into force to prevent the Commercial Tax Officer from enhancing the assessment in the course of the appeal preferred by him.	Reasoning
However, there was always the peril of the Commercial Tax Officer, who was also the revising authority, revising the assessment to his prejudice in exercise of his revisional power, but that peril effectively disappeared when under the 1959 Act, the revisional power was conferred upon the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and not upon the Appellate Commissioner.	Reasoning
Thereafter the interference by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner with the assessment order passed by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer to the prejudice of the assessee in the purported exercise of his appellate power, was clearly violative of the assessees vested rights.	Reasoning
In our opinion this decision proceeded on a wrong basis.	Reasoning
The question before the High Court was whether there was a vested right in the assessee not to have his assessment enhanced, under the 1939 Act and whether that vested right had been in any manner infringed by the 1959 Act.	Reasoning
As seen earlier he had no such vested right under the 1939 Act.	Reasoning
The fact that a different procedure is prescribed under the 1939 Act for enhancing the assessment cannot be said to be an infringement of a vested right.	Reasoning
No one can have a vested right in a mere procedure.	Reasoning
We are of opinion that Balasundarams case (supra) was wrongly decided and some of the observations in Swami Cos case (supra) are not correct though the decision in that case is not open to question.	Reasoning
19.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel for the Revenue placed strong reliance on the decision of a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in Velukutty vs. Kerala Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Trivendrum and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3).	Reasoning
Therein, interpreting provision similar to sec.	None
61(2) of Act, the High Court came to the conclusion that the clause be transferred to and disposed of by the officer or authority who would have jurisdiction to entertain such application, appeal, revision or other proceeding under this Act, if it had been in force on the date on which any application, appeal, revision or other proceeding was made or preferred conferred power on the appellate authority to enhance assessment.	None
The correctness of this conclusion was contested by Mr. Shanker Das, learned counsel for the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him that clause merely provided for transferance of the appeals pending before the authorities under the 1959 Act without enlarging their powers.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of our conclusion that vested right of the assessee had been interfered with.	None
It is not necessary for us to go into this controversy.	Reasoning
20.	None
For the reasons mentioned above, this appeal is allowed, orders of the High Court as well as that of the Tribunal are set aside and the case is remitted to the Tribunal for disposal according to law.	Decision
In the circumstances of the case we direct the parties to bear their own costs both in this Court as well as in the High Court.	Decision
