 K.Agrawal, J. SLP (C) No. 25006 of 2012 Leave granted.	None
This batch of appeals has been filed against the impugned judgment and order dated 07.02.2012 passed by the High Court of Delhi at New Delhi in ITA Nos. 216, 398, 403, 404 and 680 of 2011 whereby the Division Bench of the High Court upheld the decision of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (in short the Tribunal) dated 19.02.2010.	Issue
Since the moot question of law in all these appeals is akin, hence, vide this common judgment, all the appeals would stand disposed of.	None
In order to appreciate the controversy at hand, it is pertinent to allude to the relevant facts in a summarized way for the proper insightful of the instant case.	None
The appellant herein is the Income Tax Department, on the other hand, the Respondent  M s Virtual Soft Systems Ltd. is a company registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
b.	None
On 29.12.1999, the Respondent filed return of income for the Assessment Year 19992000 declaring loss of Rs 70,24,178/ while claiming an amount of Rs 1,65,12,077/ as deduction for lease equalization charges.	Facts
c.	None
On scrutiny, the Assessing Officer, after perusal of the return and hearing the parties, vide Assessment Order dated 28.01.2005 disallowed deduction claimed as the lease equalization charges amounting to Rs.1,65,12,077/ and added the same to the income of the Respondent under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short the IT Act).	Facts
Being aggrieved with the said Assessment Order, the Respondent preferred an appeal before the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals).	None
Learned CIT (Appeals), vide order dated 15.09.2005, upheld the order of the Assessing Officer and dismissed the appeal.	Facts
Being dissatisfied, the Respondent preferred an appeal before the ITAT.	Facts
Vide order dated 19.02.2010, the ITAT allowed the appeal of the Respondent while setting aside the orders passed by Learned CIT (Appeals) and the Assessing Officer.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the Revenue took the matter before the High Court.	Facts
The High Court, vide judgment and order dated 07.02.2012, dismissed the appeals at the preliminary stage while confirming the decision of the ITAT.	Facts
Hence, this instant appeal has been filed before this Court by the Revenue.	Facts
We have given our thoughtful consideration to the submissions of learned senior counsel for the parties and perused the relevant records of the case. Point(s) for consideration 5.	None
The short question that arises for consideration before this Court is whether the deduction on account of lease equalization charges from lease rental income can be allowed under the Income Tax Act, 1961, on the basis of Guidance Note issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI)?	Issue
Rival submissions At the outset, learned senior counsel for the Revenue contended that the lease equalization charge is an additional deduction debited to Profit and Loss Account (PL) in addition to the depreciation claimed in books so as to make it equal to capital recovery.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is an artificial calculation which bifurcates lease rental to capital recovery and interest component.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel further contended that in fact the entire lease income constitutes income of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Also, there is no concept of deduction regarding the lease equalization charges under the IT Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, learned senior counsel contended that impugned decision of the High Court is perverse and is liable to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the Respondent submitted that this issue is no longer res integra.	Arguments of Respondent
Now, it is a settled principle that a Guidance Note issued by the ICAI carries great weight and by adopting a method of accounting prescribed in such a Guidance Note, in order to compute real income and offering the same for taxation, cannot be disregarded by the Assessing Officer unless such action falls within the scope and ambit of Section 145(3) of the IT Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Further, it was submitted that the lease equalization charge was nothing but a method of adjusting the depreciation claimed in the books of accounts to enable the Respondent to represent its real income by adopting an accounting methodology which had surely the seal of approval of a professional body such as the ICAI.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel finally submitted that the judgment passed by the High Court is wellversed and within the parameters of law and no interference is sought for by this Court in the matter.	Arguments of Respondent
Discussion Prior to critically examining the case, it would be appropriate to have an understanding and significance of the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.	Issue
The ICAI is an expert body, created by the Parliament under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949.	Reasoning
The ICAIs publication on the subject indicates that the Guidance Note on Accounting for Leases was issued by it for the first time in 1988 which was later on revised in 1995.	None
The Guidance Note reflects the best practices adopted by the accountants throughout the world.	Reasoning
The ICAI is a recognized body vested with the authority to recommend accounting standards for ultimate prescription by the Central Government in consultation with the National Advisory Committee of Accounting Standards for the presentation of true and fair financial statements.	Reasoning
Section 211 of the Companies Act, 1956 as it stood before the amendment dealt with the Form and contents of balancesheet and profit and loss account.	None
Sub clause (3C) of Section 211 was added vide 1999 amendment with retrospective effect.	None
The relevant portion of Section 211 of the Companies Act is reproduced herein as under (3C) For the purposes of this section, the expression accounting standards means the standards of accounting recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India constituted under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949), as may be prescribed by the Central Government in consultation with the National Advisory Committee on Accounting Standards established under subsection (1) of section 210A Provided that the standards of accounting specified by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India shall be deemed to be the accounting standards until the accounting standards are prescribed by the Central Government under this subsection.	None
(Emphasis supplied by us)	None
The purpose behind the amendment in Section 211 of the Companies Act, 1956 was to give clear sight that the accounting standards, as prescribed by the ICAI, shall prevail until the accounting standards are prescribed by the Central Government under this subsection.	Reasoning
The purpose behind the accounting standards was to arrive at a computation of real income after adjusting the permissible deprecation.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that these accounting standards are made by the body of experts after extensive study and research.	Reasoning
11.	None
At this stage, it would be pertinent to reproduce the relevant provisions of the Guidance Note on Accounting for Leases, revised in 1995, which is as under Accounting for leases in the Books of a lessor Finance Leases Assets leased under finance leases should be disclosed as 9.	None
Assets given on lease, as a separate section under the head Fixed Assets in the balance sheet of the lessor.	None
The classification of Assets given on lease should correspond to that adopted in respect of other fixed assets.	None
In addition to the particulars required by statute, e.g., Schedule VI to the Companies Act, 1956, particulars relating to Lease Adjustment Account should be disclosed as stated in Para 11.	None
Lease rentals (those received and those due but not received) under a finance lease should be shown separately under Gross Income in the profit and loss account of the relevant period.	None
It is appropriate that against the lease rental, a matching lease annual charge is made to the profit and loss account.	None
This annual lease charge should represent recovery of the net investment fair value of the leased asset over the lease term.	Reasoning
The said charge should be calculated by deducting the finance income for the period (as per para 12 below) from the lease rental for that period.	None
This annual lease charge would comprise (i) minimum statutory depreciation (e.g., as per the Companies Act, 1956) and (ii) lease equalization charge, where the annual lease charge is less than minimum statutory depreciation.	None
However, where annual lease charge is less than minimum statutory depreciation, a lease equalization credit would arise.	None
In this regard the following accounting entries disclosure should be made.	None
a. ?	None
A separate Lease Equalization Account should be opened with a corresponding debit or credit to Lease Adjustment Account, as the case may be.	None
b.	None
Lease Equalisation Account should be transferred every year to the Profit and Loss Account and disclosed separately as deduction from addition to gross value of lease rentals shown under the head Gross Income.	None
Statutory depreciation should be shown separately in the profit and loss account.	None
Accumulated statutory depreciation should be deducted from the original cost of the leased asset in the balance sheet of the lessor to arrive at the net book value.	None
d. Balance standing in Lease Adjustment Account should be adjusted in the net book value of the leased assets.	None
The amount of adjustment in respect of each class of fixed assets may be shown either in the main balance sheet or in the Fixed Assets Schedule as a separate column in the section related to leased assets.	None
e.	None
The aggregate amount included under Lease Adjustment Account on account of lease equalisation credits should be disclosed separately.	None
The method of income measurement suggested in this paragraph, is in consonance with the inherent nature of a finance lease.	None
The above method is illustrated in the Appendix to this Guidance Note. 12.	None
The finance income for the period should be calculated by applying the interest rate implicit in the lease to the net investment in the lease during the relevant period.	None
This method would ensure recognition of net income in respect of a finance lease at a constant periodic rate of return on the lessors net investment outstanding in the lease.	None
However, some lessor use a simpler method for calculating the finance income for each of the periods comprising the lease term by appropriating the total finance income from the lease in the ratio of minimum lease payments outstanding during each of the respective periods comprising the lease term.	None
(The total finance income from the lease is the difference between the aggregate minimum lease payments receivable over the lease term and the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease.)	None
This method may be used where the finance income in respect of all individual periods as per this method approximate the finance income for the corresponding periods determined according to the former method.	None
It is however clarified that where this method is used, overdue lease rentals, i.e., lease rentals fallen due but not collected should not be taken into account for determining the amount of minimum lease payments outstanding during each of the respective periods comprising the lease term.	None
At the first look, it appears that the method of accounting provided in the Guidance Note of 1995, on the one hand, adjusts the inflated cost of interest of the assets in the balance sheet.	Reasoning
Secondly, it captures real income by separating the element of capital recovery (essentially representing repayment of principal amount by the lessee, the principal amount being the net investment in the lease), and the finance income, which is the revenue receipt of the lessor as remuneration reward for the lessors investment.	Reasoning
As per the Guidance Note, the annual lease charge represents recovery of the net investment fair value of the asset lease term.	Reasoning
The finance income reflects a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment of the lessor outstanding in respect of the finance lease.	Reasoning
While the finance income represents a revenue receipt to be included in income for the purpose of taxation, the capital recovery element (annual lease charge) is not classifiable as income, as it is not, in essence, a revenue receipt chargeable to income tax.	Reasoning
The method of accounting followed, as derived from the ICAIs Guidance Note, is a valid method of capturing real income based on the substance of finance lease transaction.	None
The rule of substance over form is a fundamental principle of accounting, and is in fact, incorporated in the ICAIs Accounting Standards on Disclosure of Accounting Policies being accounting standards which is a kind of guidelines for accounting periods starting from 01.04.1991.	Reasoning
It is a cardinal principle of law that the difference between capital recovery and interest or finance income is essential for accounting for such a transaction with reference to its substance.	Reasoning
If the same was not carried out, the Respondent would be assessed for income tax not merely on revenue receipts but also on nonrevenue items which is completely contrary to the principles of the IT Act and to its Scheme and spirit.	None
The bifurcation of the lease rental is, by no stretch of imagination, an artificial calculation and, therefore, lease equalization is an essential step in the accounting process to ensure that real income from the transaction in the form of revenue receipts only is captured for the purposes of income tax.	Reasoning
Moreover, we do not find any express bar in the IT Act which bars the bifurcation of the lease rental.	Reasoning
This bifurcation is analogous to the manner in which a bank would treat an EMI payment made by the debtor on a loan advanced by the bank.	Reasoning
The repayment of principal would be a balance sheet item and not a revenue item.	Reasoning
Only the interest earned would be a revenue receipt chargeable to income tax.	Reasoning
Hence, we do not find any force in the contentions of the Revenue that whole revenue from lease shall be subjected to tax under the IT Act.	Reasoning
15.	None
Without a doubt, in a catena of cases, this court has discussed the relevancy of the Guidance Note.	None
While dealing with one of such matters, this Court, in Commissioner of Income TaxVII, New Delhi vs. Punjab Stainless Steel Industries (2014) 15 SCC 129 held as under So as to be more accurate about the word Turnover, one can either refer to dictionaries or to material which are published by bodies of Accountants.	Reasoning
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (hereinafter referred to as the ICAI) has published some material under the head Guidance Note on Tax Audit under Section 44B of the Income Tax Act.	Reasoning
The said material has been published so as to guide the members of the ICAI.	Reasoning
In our opinion, when a recognized body of Accountants, after due deliberation and consideration publishes certain materials for its members, one can rely upon the same.	Reasoning
In the present case, the relevant Assessment Year is 19992000.	Reasoning
The main contention of the Revenue is that the Respondent cannot be allowed to claim deduction regarding lease equalization charges since as such there is no express provision regarding such deduction in the IT Act.	Reasoning
However, it is apt to note here that the Respondent can be charged only on real income which can be calculated only after applying the prescribed method.	Reasoning
The IT Act is silent on such deduction.	Reasoning
For such calculation, it is obvious that the Respondent has to take course of Guidance Note prescribed by the ICAI if it is available.	Reasoning
Only after applying such method which is prescribed in the Guidance Note, the Respondent can show fair and real income which is liable to tax under the IT Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is wrong to say that the Respondent claimed deduction by virtue of Guidance Note rather it only applied the method of bifurcation as prescribed by the expert team of ICAI.	Reasoning
Further, a conjoint reading of Section 145 of the IT Act read with Section 211 (unamended) of the Companies Act make it clear that the Respondent is entitled to do such bifurcation and in our view there is no illegality in such bifurcation as it is according to the principles of law.	Reasoning
Moreover, the rule of interpretation says that when internal aid is not available then for the proper interpretation of the Statute, the court may take the help of external aid.	Reasoning
If a term is not defined in a Statute then its meaning can be taken as is prevalent in ordinary or commercial parlance.	Reasoning
Hence, we do not find any force in the contentions of the Revenue that the accounting standards prescribed by the Guidance Note cannot be used to bifurcate the lease rental to reach the real income for the purpose of tax under the IT Act.	Reasoning
To sum up, we are of the view that the Respondent is entitled for bifurcation of lease rental as per the accounting standards prescribed by the ICAI.	Reasoning
Moreover, there is no express bar in the IT Act regarding the application of such accounting standards.	Reasoning
In view of above detailed discussion, we are not inclined to interfere in the impugned decision of the High Court.	Reasoning
Accordingly, the appeal is hereby dismissed leaving parties to bear their own cost.	Decision
In view of the above, other connected appeals are also disposed off accordingly.	Decision
