 S. Sirpurkar, J. Leave granted.	None
The only question in this appeal which has been filed by the Commissioner of Income TaxIII is as to whether the respondentassessee is liable to pay the penalty amounting to Rs.11,37,949/ under Section 271(1)(c) of the Income Tax Act (hereinafter referred to as the Act) ordered by the Assessing Authority.	None
The Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), however, deleted the said penalty.	None
The order of the Commissioner (Appeals) was appealed against before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to the Tribunal) which confirmed the order of the Commissioner (Appeals) and dismissed the appeal filed by the Revenue.	Issue
However, the Revenue challenged the said order before the High Court which confirmed the orders passed by the Commissioner (Appeals) and the Tribunal while dismissing the Tax Appeal filed by the Revenue.	Issue
Few facts would be relevant.4.	Facts
The assessee is a company and the relevant Assessment Year is 200102.	Facts
The Return was filed on 31.1.2001 declaring loss of Rs.26,54,554/. This assessment was finalized under Section 143(3) of the Act on 25.11.2003 whereby the total income was determined at Rs.2,22,688/. In this assessment the addition in respect of interest expenditure was made.	Facts
Simultaneously penalty proceedings under Section 271(1)(c) of the Act were also initiated on account of concealment of income furnishing of inaccurate particulars of income.	Facts
The said expenditure was claimed by the assessee on the basis of expenditure made for paying the interest on the loans incurred by it by which amount the assessee purchased some IPL shares by way of its business policies.	Facts
However, admittedly, the assessee did not earn any income by way of dividend from those shares.	Facts
The company in its Return claimed disallowance of the amount of expenditure for Rs.28,77,242/ under Section 14A of the Act.5.	Facts
By way of response to the Show Cause Notice regarding the penalty in its reply dated 22.3.2006, the assessee claimed that all the details given in the Return were correct, there was no concealment of income, nor were any inaccurate particulars of such income furnished.	Facts
It was pointed out that the disallowance made by the Assessing Authority in the Assessment Order under Section 143(3) of the Act were solely on account of different views taken on the same set of facts and, therefore, they could, at the most, be termed as difference of opinion but nothing to do with the concealment of income or furnishing of inaccurate particulars of such income.	Facts
It was claimed that mere disallowance of the claim in the assessment proceedings could not be the sole basis for levying penalty under Section 271(1)(c) of the Act.	Facts
It was submitted specifically that it was an investment company and in its own case for Assessment Year 200001 the Commissioner (Appeals) had deleted the disallowance of interest made by the Assessment Officer and the Tribunal has also confirmed the stand of the Commissioner (Appeals) for that year and, therefore, it was on the basis of this that the expenditure was claimed.	Facts
It was further submitted that making a claim which is rejected would not make the assessee company liable under Section 271(1)(c) of the Act.	Facts
It was again reiterated that there was absolutely no concealment, nor were any inaccurate particular ever submitted by the assesseecompany.6.	Facts
Mr. Bhattacharya, learned ASG submits that Commissioner (Appeals), the Tribunal as well as the High Court have ignored the positive language of Section 271(1)(c) of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pointed out that the claim of the interest expenditure was totally without legal basis and was made with the mala fide intentions.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further pointed out that the claim made for the interest expenditure was not accepted by the Assessing Authority nor by the Commissioner (Appeals) and, therefore, it was obvious that the claim for the interest expenditure did not have any basis.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further pointed out that the contention about the earlier claims being finalized was also not correct as the appeal was pending before the High Court against the order of the Tribunal for the year 200001.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned ASG, even otherwise, the expenditure on interest could not have been claimed in law, as under Section 36(1)(iii), only the amount of interest paid in respect of capital borrowed for the purposes of the business or profession could have been claimed and it was clear that the interest in the present case was not in respect of the capital borrowed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Our attention was also invited to Section 14A of the Act, which provides that no deduction could be allowed in respect of the expenditure incurred by the assessee in relation to income which does not form part of the total income under this Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned ASG also invited our attention to provision of Section 10(33) to show that the income arising from the transfer of a capital asset could not be reckoned as an income which can form the part of the total income.	Arguments of Petitioner
In short, the contention was that the assessee in this case had made a claim which was totally unacceptable in law and thereby had invited the provisions of Section 271(1)(c) of the Act and had, therefore, exposed itself to the penalty under that provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent pointed out that the language of Section 271(1)(c) had to be strictly construed, this being a taxing statute and more particularly the one providing for penalty.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that unless the wording directly covered the assessee and the fact situation herein, there could not be any penalty under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that there was no concealment or any inaccurate particulars regarding the income were submitted in the Return.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 271(1)(c) is as under 271(1) If the Assessing Officer or the Commissioner (Appeals) or the Commissioner in the course of any proceedings under this Act, is satisfied that any person(c) has concealed the particulars of his income or furnished inaccurate particulars of such income.	Arguments of Respondent
A glance at this provision would suggest that in order to be covered, there has to be concealment of the particulars of the income of the assessee.	None
Secondly, the assessee must have furnished inaccurate particulars of his income.	None
Present is not the case of concealment of the income.	None
That is not the case of the Revenue either.	None
However, the learned Counsel for Revenue suggested that by making incorrect claim for the expenditure on interest, the assessee has furnished inaccurate particulars of the income.	None
As per Law Lexicon, the meaning of the word particular is a detail or details (in plural sense) the details of a claim, or the separate items of an account.	None
Therefore, the word particulars used in the Section 271(1)(c) would embrace the meaning of the details of the claim made.	None
It is an admitted position in the present case that no information given in the Return was found to be incorrect or inaccurate.	None
It is not as if any statement made or any detail supplied was found to be factually incorrect.	None
Hence, at least, prima facie, the assessee cannot be held guilty of furnishing inaccurate particulars.	None
The learned Counsel argued that submitting an incorrect claim in law for the expenditure on interest would amount to giving inaccurate particulars of such income.	None
We do not think that such can be the interpretation of the concerned words.	None
The words are plain and simple.	None
In order to expose the assessee to the penalty unless the case is strictly covered by the provision, the penalty provision cannot be invoked.	None
By any stretch of imagination, making an incorrect claim in law cannot tantamount to furnishing inaccurate particulars.	None
In Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi v. Atul Mohan Bindal, 2009 (9) SCC 589 , where this Court was considering the same provision, the Court observed that the Assessing Officer has to be satisfied that a person has concealed the particulars of his income or furnished inaccurate particulars of such income.	None
This Court referred to another decision of this Court in Union of India v. Dharamendra Textile Processors, VIII (2008) SLT 5092008 (13) SCC 369 , as also, the decision in Union of India v.Rajasthan Spg.	None
Wvg.	None
Mills, IX (2009) SLT 4142009 (13) SCC 448 , and reiterated in para 13 that It goes without saying that for applicability of Section 271(1)(c), conditions stated therein must exist.	None
Therefore, it is obvious that it must be shown that the conditions under Section 271(1)(c) must exist before the penalty is imposed.	None
There can be no dispute that everything would depend upon the Return filed because that is the only document, where the assessee can furnish the particulars of his income.	None
When such particulars are found to be inaccurate, the liability would arise.	None
In Dilip N. Shroff v. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai Anr., 2007 (6) SCC 329 , this Court explained the terms concealment of income and furnishing inaccurate particulars.	None
The Court went on to hold therein that in order to attract the penalty under Section 271(1)(c), mens rea was necessary, as according to the Court, the word inaccurate signified a deliberate act or omission on behalf of the assessee.	None
It went on to hold that Clause (iii) of Section 271(1) provided for a discretionary jurisdiction upon the Assessing Authority, inasmuch as the amount of penalty could not be less than the amount of tax sought to be evaded by reason of such concealment of particulars of income, but it may not exceed three times thereof.	None
It was pointed out that the term inaccurate particulars was not defined anywhere in the Act and, therefore, it was held that furnishing of an assessment of the value of the property may not by itself be furnishing inaccurate particulars.	None
It was further held that the assessee must be found to have failed to prove that his explanation is not only not bona fide but all the facts relating to the same and material to the computation of his income were not disclosed by him.	None
It was then held that the explanation must be preceded by a finding as to how and in what manner, the assessee had furnished the particulars of his income.	None
The Court ultimately went on to hold that the element of mens rea was essential.	None
It was only on the point of mens rea that the judgment in Dilip N. Shroff v. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai Anr.	None
was upset.	None
In Union of India v. Dharamendra Textile Processors (cited supra), after quoting from Section 271 extensively and also considering Section 271(1)(c), the Court came to the conclusion that since Section 271(1)(c) indicated the element of strict liability on the assessee for the concealment or for giving inaccurate particulars while filing Return, there was no necessity of mens rea.	None
The Court went on to hold that the objective behind enactment of Section 271(1)(c) read with Explanations indicated with the said section was for providing remedy for loss of revenue and such a penalty was a civil liability and, therefore, wilful concealment is not an essential ingredient for attracting civil liability as was the case in the matter of prosecution under Section 276C of the Act.	None
The basic reason why decision in Dilip N. Shroff v. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai Anr.	None
(cited supra) was overruled by this Court in Union of India v. Dharamendra Textile Processors (cited supra), was that according to this Court the effect and difference between Section 271(1)(c) and Section 276C of the Act was lost sight of in case of Dilip N. Shroff v. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai Anr.	None
(cited supra).	None
However, it must be pointed out that in Union of India v. Dharamendra Textile Processors (cited supra), no fault was found with the reasoning in the decision in Dilip N. Shroff v. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai Anr.	None
(cited supra), where the Court explained the meaning of the terms conceal and inaccurate.	None
It was only the ultimate inference in Dilip N. Shroff v. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai Anr.	None
(cited supra) to the effect that mens rea was an essential ingredient for the penalty under Section 271(1)(c) that the decision in Dilip N. Shroff v. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai Anr.	None
(cited supra) was overruled.	None
We are not concerned in the present case with the mens rea.	Reasoning
However, we have to only see as to whether in this case, as a matter of fact, the assessee has given inaccurate particulars.	Reasoning
In Websters Dictionary, the word inaccurate has been defined as not accurate, not exact or correct not according to truth erroneous as an inaccurate statement, copy or transcript.	None
We have already seen the meaning of the word particulars in the earlier part of this judgment.	None
Reading the words in conjunction, they must mean the details supplied in the Return, which are not accurate, not exact or correct, not according to truth or erroneous.	Reasoning
We must hasten to add here that in this case, there is no finding that any details supplied by the assessee in its Return were found to be incorrect or erroneous or false.	Reasoning
Such not being the case, there would be no question of inviting the penalty under Section 271(1)(c) of the Act.	Reasoning
A mere making of the claim, which is not sustainable in law, by itself, will not amount to furnishing inaccurate particulars regarding the income of the assessee.	Reasoning
Such claim made in the Return cannot amount to the inaccurate particulars.10.	Reasoning
It was tried to be suggested that Section 14A of the Act specifically excluded the deductions in respect of the expenditure incurred by the assessee in relation to income which does not form part of the total income under the Act.	Reasoning
It was further pointed out that the dividends from the shares did not form the part of the total income.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, reiterated before us that the Assessing Officer had correctly reached the conclusion that since the assessee had claimed excessive deductions knowing that they are incorrect it amounted to concealment of income.	Reasoning
It was tried to be argued that the falsehood in accounts can take either of the two forms (i) an item of receipt may be suppressed fraudulently (ii) an item of expenditure may be falsely (or in an exaggerated amount) claimed, and both types attempt to reduce the taxable income and, therefore, both types amount to concealment of particulars of ones income as well as furnishing of inaccurate particulars of income.	Reasoning
We do not agree, as the assessee had furnished all the details of its expenditure as well as income in its Return, which details, in themselves, were not found to be inaccurate nor could be viewed as the concealment of income on its part.	Reasoning
It was up to the authorities to accept its claim in the Return or not.	Reasoning
Merely because the assessee had claimed the expenditure, which claim was not accepted or was not acceptable to the Revenue, that by itself would not, in our opinion, attract the penalty under Section 271(1)(c).	Reasoning
If we accept the contention of the Revenue then in case of every Return where the claim made is not accepted by Assessing Officer for any reason, the assessee will invite penalty under Section 271(1)(c).	Reasoning
That is clearly not the intendment of the Legislature.	Reasoning
In this behalf the observations of this Court made in Sree Krishna Electricals v. State of Tamil Nadu Anr., (2009) 23 VST 249 (SC), as regards the penalty are apposite.	None
In the aforementioned decision which pertained to the penalty proceedings in Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax Act, the Court had found that the authorities below had found that there were some incorrect statements made in the Return.	None
However, the said transactions were reflected in the accounts of the assessee.	None
This Court, therefore, observed So far as the question of penalty is concerned the items which were not included in the turnover were found incorporated in the appellants account books.	None
Where certain items which are not included in the turnover are disclosed in the dealers own account books and the assessing authorities include these items in the dealers turnover disallowing the exemption, penalty cannot be imposed.	None
The penalty levied stands set aside.	None
The situation in the present case is still better as no fault has been found with the particulars submitted by the assessee in its Return.12.	Decision
The Tribunal, as well as, the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) and the High Court have correctly reached this conclusion and, therefore, the appeal filed by the Revenue has no merits and is dismissed.	Decision
