 Venkatarama Ayyar, J.1.	None
The appellant is a company registered under the Indian Companies Act, and owns a factory called Modi Oil Mills in the district of Meerut.	Facts
The respondents are workmen employed in the Mills.	Facts
The business of the Mills consists in the Manufacture of oils and paints.	Facts
On 1271954 the management put up the following noticeNotice is hereby given that due to nonavailability of groundnut seed and neem seed at the parity with the ruling prices of the groundnut oil and neem oil, the Management is reluctantly compelled to close the Groundnut Crushing Section and Neem Section till the next groundnut season and thus the workers in the attached list are surplus and their services are laid off with effect from 14th July, 1954.	Facts
Workers, thus affected, shall be paid compensation according to Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act, 1953, subject to conditions laid therein.	None
It is further notified that the time of the attendance as provided in S. 25 (D) and (E) shall be 10 A. M. for all the laid off workers.2.	Facts
Pursuant to this notice, 142 workmen mentioned therein, being the respondents in this appeal, were laid off from 1471954.	Facts
On 2671954 the workmen acting through their Union sent a notice to the management demanding full wages for the period of layoff on the ground that it was unjustified and illegal.	None
The management denied these allegations, and refused the demand.	Facts
This being an industrial dispute as defined in S. 2(k), Industrial Disputes Act 14 of 1947, in the ordinary course, proceedings would have been taken with reference thereto under the provisions of that Act.	Facts
But there was at that time another industrial dispute between the parties pending final adjudication.	None
That dispute had been referred under S. 10.	None
Industrial Disputes Act for adjudication to the Regional Conciliation Officer Meerut.	Facts
He held pronounced his award, and against that, both the parties had perferred appeals to the Labour Appellate Tribunal, and they were pending at the date of the notice.	None
The Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act 48 of 1950, hereinafter referred to as the Act, contains special provisions with reference to certain disputes which might arise between parties, when there is already pending adjudication between them another industrial dispute.	Facts
They are Ss. 22 and 23, which are as follows22.	None
During the period of thirty days allowed for the filing of an appeal under S. 10 or during the pendency of any appeal under this Act no employer shall (a) alter, to the prejudice of the workmen concerned in such appeal, the conditions of service applicable to them immediately before the filing of such appeal, or(b) discharge or punish, whether by dismissal or otherwise, any workmen concerned in such appeal, save with the express permission in writing of the Appellate Tribunal.23.Where an employer contravenes the provisions of S.22 during the pendency of proceedings before the Appellate Tribunal, any employee aggrieved by such contravention, may make a complaint in writing, in the prescribed manner to such Appellate Tribunal and on receipt of such complaint, the Appellate Tribunal shall decide the complaint as if it were an appeal pending before it, in accordance with the provisions of this Act and shall pronounce its decision there on and the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.3.	Facts
On 2481954 the respondents filed an application before the Labour Appellate Tribunal under S. 23 of the Act.	Facts
Therein, they alleged that the layoff was notbona fide,because the ground given therefor, namely, nonavailability of groundnut and neem seeds at parity with ruling prices was not true that further in view of pendency before the Labour Appellate Tribunal of an industrial dispute between the parties, the layoff was in contravention of S.22 (a) of the Act, and they accordingly prayed that they might be awarded by way of compensation full wages for the entire period of the layoff.	Facts
The appellant contested the claim.	None
It contended that the nonavailability of groundnut and neem seeds as mentioned in the notice was true, and that the layoff wasbona fide.	Facts
It also claimed that S.22 (a) of the Act had no application to the dispute, as the notice distinctly state that the workmen would be paid compensation as provided in S.25C, Industrial Disputes Act as amended by Act 43 of 1953.	Facts
It also contended that under that section compensation was payable only for the first 45 days at the rate mentioned in the body of the section and not for any period subsequent thereto.	Facts
The Tribunal held that the layoff was justified.	None
It further held on a construction of S. 25C that the workmen were entitled to half the basic wages and dearness allowance not merely for the first 45 days but for the entire period, and that as the appellant did not observe the provisions of that section , there was an alteration of the conditions of service within S.22 (a) of he Act.	Facts
It accordingly awarded compensation for the whole of the period at 50 per cent.	Facts
of the basic wages and dearness allowance.	Facts
Against this decision, the management has perferred this appeal by special leave.4.	Facts
On behalf of the appellant, Sri.	Arguments of Petitioner
Veda Vyas contended firstly, that on its finding that the layoff was justified, the only order which the Tribunal could have passed was one of dismissal of the petition filed by the respondents, and that the award of compensation was, in consequence, without jurisdiction and secondly, that on a true construction of S. 25C, Industrial Disputes Act, the workmen were entitled to compensation only for a period of 45 days as provided in proviso (a) to S.25C. We are of opinion that both these contentions are wellfounded.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the first question, the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to grant relief under S. 23 of the Act arises only if it is made out that there was contravention of S. 22 by the management.	None
The respondents understood this position quite correctly, and with a view to bring themselves within S. 23, they alleged that the layoff was notbona fide,inasmuch as, in fact, groundnut and neem seeds were available.	None
This contention rests on the supposition that the conditions under which workmen could be laid off are conditions as to their service, and that when the employer lays off workmen without proper grounds therefor, it is a violation of the conditions of service within S. 22 (a) of the Act.6.	Reasoning
There was some argument before us whether layoff, whether justifiable or otherwise, could be brought within S.22 (a) of the Act as amounting to breach of the conditions of service.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the one hand, the argument was that the expression conditions of Service would include only such conditions as would operate when the workmen were actually in service, such as the quantum of wages, hours of work, provision for leave and so forth, and that when there was a layoff, these conditions could by their very nature have no application, and that if the layoff was unjustified, that would give the workmen a right to take proceedings under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, but that they could make no claim under S.23 as for a breach of the provisions of S.22(a).	Arguments of Petitioner
The contention, on the other side, was that the workmen and the management should be deemed to have agreed that there would be layoff only for good and proper reasons and under conditions permitted by law, and that if those conditions were not satisfied, the layoff would be an alteration of the conditions of service within S. 22 (a) The question is one of some importance, but it is unnecessary to express any opinion on it, as counsel for the appellant conceded after some argument that conditions under which the workmen could be laid off would be conditions of service.	Reasoning
On this footing, he contended that as the layoff was, in fact, justified, there was no breach of those conditions, and that, in consequence, S.22 (a) of the Act had no application.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondents, it is argued that the layoff must, by its very nature, be temporary and of short duration, and that if it is for a long or indefinite period as in the present case, it could not be said to be a proper layoff such as could be deemed to have been agreed to by the workmen, and that S.22 (a) of the Act would, therefore, be applicable.7.	None
It is common ground that there are no statutory rules prescribing the conditions under which there could be a layoff.	None
If there had been, they would operate as conditions of service between the parties, and then the question would simply have been whether there had been a compliance with them.	None
Under the provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act 20 of 1946, certain Standing Orders had been framed with reference to this matter.	None
Counsel on both sides state that after the enactment of the Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act 43 of 1953, they are no longer in force, and that there are no statutory provisions applicable to the present dispute.	None
We must, therefore, decide the question on the footing that the only condition which the parties might be taken to have agreed to is that the layoff should be for adequate grounds and for a reasonable period.	None
On this question, there is a clear finding in favour of the appellant.	Reasoning
TheTribunal has found that groundnut and neem seeds were not available at parity prices, and that for that reason, the work had to be stopped.	Reasoning
It is not likely that businessmen would cut their profits to spite the workmen.	None
The period of the layoff was expressed to be until the next groundnut season, and we have been told that the season for groundnut begins sometime in NovemberDecember.	Reasoning
In fact, all the respondents have been reemployed in relays from September onwards, and by the first week of December all of them had been absorbed.	Reasoning
On the Finding of the Tribunal that the layoff was justified, it follows that the application of the respondents under S. 23 of the Act was liable to be dismissed on the ground that there had been no contravention of S.22 (a).8.	Reasoning
But, notwithstanding this finding, the Tribunal went on to hold that the application under S. 23 of the Act was maintainable.	None
To appreciate the reasoning behind this decision, it is necessary to refer to S. 25C of the Industrial Disputes Act, which runs as followsRight of workmen laid off for compensation Whenever a workman (other than a badli workman or a casual workman) whose name is borne on the muster roll of an industrial establishment and who has completed not less than one year of continuous service under an employer is laidoff, he shall be paid by the employer for all days during which he is so laidoff, except for such weekly holidays as may intervene, compensation which shall be equal to fifty per cent.	None
of the total of the basic wages and dearness allowance that would have been payable to him had he not been so laidoffProvided that (a) the compensation payable to a workman during any period of twelve months shall not be for more than fortyfive days except in the case specified in clause (b)(b) if during any period of twelve months, a workman has been paid compensation for fortyfive days and during the same period of twelve months he is again laidoff for further continuous periods of more than one week at a time, he shall, unless there is any agreement to the contrary between him and the employer, be paid for all the days during such subsequent periods of layoff compensation at the rate specified in this section.	None
The appellant does not dispute the right of the respondents to compensation, and, in fact, they were informed by the very notice dated 1271954 under which they were laid off, that compensation would be paid to them in accordance with S. 25C.	Reasoning
It is as regards the quantum of compensation payable under that section that the parties are disagreed.	Reasoning
It will be remembered that the lay off commenced on 1471954 and was to continue until the next groundnut season and that the workers were actually absorbed in batches from September, and that by the first week of December, they had all of them been employed.	Reasoning
There was thus one continuous lay off for periods varying from 57 to 121 days.	None
The contention of the appellant is that, on these facts, the workmen were entitled to compensation only in accordance with proviso (a) to S. 25C, and that they would therefore be entitled to 50 per cent.	None
of the basic wages and dearness allowance for the first 45 days and for the rest of the period, no compensation was payable.	None
The respondents agree that proviso (a) to S. 25C applies to the first period of 45 days but they contend that for the remaining period of the lay off, the governing provision is proviso (b) S. 25C, and that under that proviso, they would be entitled to compensation as provided in the body of the section i.e., 50 per cent.	None
of the basic wages and dearness allowance, for the remaining period also.	Facts
This contention was accepted by the Tribunal, and holding that the compensation awarded by the appellant was not in accordance with S.25C, it decided, as already mentioned, that there was an alteration of conditions of service, and accordingly awarded compensation under S.23 of the Act.9.	None
It is contended for the appellant that the construction which the Tribunal has put on S. 25C is erroneous, and that the amount of compensation offered by the appellant was the correct amount payable under that section.	Arguments of Petitioner
As already stated, there is no dispute that the compensation payable for the first 45 days has to be determined in accordance with proviso (a) to S. 25C.	None
The dispute is only as to whether for the rest of the period of lay off the workmen are entitled to compensation under proviso (b) to S. 25C. That proviso would apply only if the workmen had been paid compensation for 45 days, are were again laid off for further periods of more than one week at a time.	None
On the wording of the section, it is clear that the lay off which falls within proviso (b) to S. 25C must be distinct from that for which compensation had been paid in accordance with proviso (a) to S.25C and subsequent thereto in point of time.	Reasoning
And as, in the present case there was one continuous lay off for the entire period, proviso (b) could have no application.10.	None
Counsel for the respondents contends that though there was only one lay off, it should notionally be split up into two, the first period being the 45 days covered by proviso (a) to the section and the rest of the period, by proviso (b).	Arguments of Respondent
It is arguable that there could be a second and distinct lay off following the first without a break, as for example, when the management first notifys lay off for a period of 45 days and pays compensation therefor, and again issues a fresh notificaiton at the end of the period declaring a further lay off for a period exceeding seven days in continuation of the notified lay off, and that would fall within proviso (b).	Reasoning
But, in the present case, there was only one notification, and the period specified therein was up to the next season.	None
By no straining of the language of proviso (b) to S. 25C can such a lay off be brought within its purview.	Reasoning
These respondents rely in support of their contention on the decision inAutomobile Products of India Ltd. v. Their Workmen,(1955) 1 Lab L J 67 (Bom) (A).But that decision gives no effect whatever to the words again laid off, and moreover, if the construction adopted therein is correct, there would be no need for the provisos (a) and (b), as what would be payable under them, according to the respondents, would become payable under the body of the section itself.	Reasoning
If, as observed in the above decision, this conclusion leads to an anomalous position, it is for the legislature, if it thinks fit, to amend the section and not for the Tribunal to construe it otherwise than what it plainly means.	None
We are accordingly of opinion that the respondents are entitled to compensation only for the 45 days as provided in proviso (a), and that as the appellant had offered to pay the same by its notice dated 1271954, there was no alteration of the conditions of the service within S.22 of the Act, and that, in consequence, the petition of the respondents was liable to be rejected.11.	Reasoning
We accordingly allow the appeal, set aside the order of the Tribunal, and dismiss the petition of the respondents.	Decision
The parties will bear their own costs.12.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
