 Bose, J.1.	None
This appeal arises out of certain execution proceedings.	None
The decree which the appellant, Jainarain Ram Lundia, seeks to execute is one that directs specific performance of a contract to sell certain shares in a private limited company known as the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills, together with a five annas share in a partnership firm called the Marwari Brothers, on payment of a sum of Rs.	Facts
2,45,000.2.	None
The fact are as follows.	Facts
The partnership firm, known as the Marwari Brothers, was formed on 2921936.	Facts
The partners consisted of two groups called the Bettia Group and the Padrauna Group.	Facts
The Padrauna Group consisted of (1) Kedarnath Khetan and (2) a firm called Surajmal.	None
These two were the plaintiffs in the suit.	None
Kedarnath was one of the partners of the Surajmal firm.	Facts
The Bettia Group consisted of (1) Gobardhan Das (2) Jainarain Ram Lundia (3) Badri Prasad and (4) Bisheshwar Nath.	Facts
On Bisheshwar Naths death his son Madan Lal Jhunjhunwalls stepped into his shoes.	Facts
These persons were the defendants.3.	Facts
The Marwari Brothers Firm was formed for the purpose of promoting a company for starting a sugar mill in Champaran and for securing the managing agency of the company for itself for a period of ninety years.	Facts
This was done.	Facts
The capital of the company consisted of Rs. 8,00,000 divided into 800 shares of Rs. 1000 each.	Facts
The shares were distributed as follows.	None
In the Bettia Group Gobardhan Das and his brother Badri Prasad had 100 shares.	Facts
Jainarain had 150 and Madan Lal had 100.	Facts
The Bettia Group thus had 350 shares between them.	Facts
The other group (Padrauna) held the remaining 450 shares.4.	Facts
About five years later the two sets of partners fell out and, as a result, the Bettia Group agreed, on 111941, to sell a certain number of their shares in the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills Limited to the Padrauna Group along with a certain share in the Marwari Brothers firm.	Facts
The exact number of shares, agreed to be sold and the extent of the share in the firm was a matter of dispute but that does not concern us at this stage because we are only concerned with the final result embodied in the decree now under execution.5.	None
The Padrauna Group sued for specific performance and the dispute was carried as far as the Federal Court.	Facts
That Court affirmed the decree of the Calcutta High Court on 651949.	Facts
The substance of the decree was this 1.	None
It is declared that upon payment and or tender to the defendantsappellants Jainarain Ram Lundia and Madan Lal Jhunjhunwala, of the sum Rs. 2,45,000 with interest thereon By the plaintiffs, the plaintiffs are entitled to 250 shares belonging to the said defendants in the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills Limited and five annas share belonging to them in the Marwari Brothers and to all dividends and profits in respect thereof with effect from 1219412.	Facts
And it is further ordered and decreed that against payment or tender by the plaintiffs to the said defendants Of the said sum of Rs. 2,45,000 with interest as aforesaid the said defendants  appellants and all proper parties do execute in favour of the plaintiffs proper deed or deeds of transfer or assignment of the said 250 shares in the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills Limited and the said five annas share in the Marwari Brothers6.	Facts
This was in slight variation of the first Courts decree.	None
The exact variation does not matter.	Facts
All that it is necessary to note is that the plaintiffs (that is, the Padrauna Group) tendered the money some time after the first Courts decree and before the Calcutta High Courts decree.	Facts
The tender was not accepted as the defendants (the Bettia Group) had appealed.	None
It is admitted that there was no second tender after the High Courts decree.7.	Facts
After the Federal Court had settled the matter one of the defendants, Jainarain Ram Lundia, applied to the Calcutta High Court for execution.	Facts
The decree was transferred to the Subordinate Judge, Motihari, and the execution proceedings started there on 2511951.	Facts
One of the plaintiffs, Kedarnath Khetan, filed an objection petition on 2031951.	Facts
That is the objection we are concerned with.	None
Among other things, one of the objection was that the defendants were not in a position to implement the conditions imposed on them by the decree because the Marwari Brothers firm was dissolved by agreement between the parties before the Federal Courts decree and was no longer in existence.	Facts
The present appeal turns almost entirely on that fact and on the consequences that flow from it.8.	Facts
The first Court, that is, the Subordinate Judges Court at Motihari to whom the decree had been transferred, declined to go into this holding that it had no jurisdiction as transferee Court.9.	Facts
The plaintiff Kedarnath appealed to the High Court and succeeded.	Facts
The High Court held that the transferee Court had jurisdiction, that the Marwari Brothers had been dissolved and that because of that the defendants could not execute the decree.10.	Facts
The defendants appealed here.11.	Facts
We will first consider the question of fact, namely whether the Marwari Brothers was still in existence as a firm at the date of the execution application.	None
On this point we agree with the High Court that it was not, for the following reasons.12.	None
The plaintiff Kedarnath asserted in his objection petition that the firm had been dissolved by agreement between the parties including the plaintiffs and the defendants.	None
This fact was not denied by the defendant Jainarain Ram Lundia in his rejoinder though the fact was specifically alleged to be within his personal knowledge.	None
Even if he did not know whether the firm had been dissolved or not (a fact which cannot be the case for reasons that we shall give later)	None
he was certainly in a position to admit or deny whether the fact was within his personal knowledge.	None
His silence can therefore only have one meaning.13.	None
The defendants learned counsel contended before us that the fact had been denied by implication because Kedarnath stated that his side was, and had always been, ready to perform their part of the decree.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel argued that as the plaintiffs contended that performance was not possible after the dissolution of the Marwari Brothers firm this meant that the firm was still in existence.	Arguments of Respondent
We reject this contention and remark in passing that this is inconsistent with another argument which was also urged in this Court, namely that the fact of dissolution was, no bar to performance on the defnedants part.14.	None
Quite apart from the language of the rejoinder, the defendant Jainarain said in para.	None
15 of his application dated 1271954 made to the High Court for leave to appeal here that the said Marwari Brothers was in existence on the date of the said conveyance, namely 1491950, and died a natural death on the conveyance of the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills to North Bihar Sugar Mills.	None
This is a clear admission that the firm was dissolved, at any rate on 1491950.	None
The plaintiffs contention is that it was dissolved much earlier but whether that was so or not will make no difference to this appeal because 1491950 is also before the date of the application for execution.15.	None
The defendants learned counsel tried to explain this away also.	Arguments of Respondent
He said that the defendant did not mean that the firm was dissolved on that date but that as the only purpose for which the firm existed, namely the managing agency of the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills, had gone the firm could no longer function.16.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to understand this, some further facts will be necessary.	None
While the plaintiffs appeal was being heard in the High Court, the defendants made an application to that Court on 1441954 asking for permission to adduce further evidence in the shape of a sale deed dated 1491950.	None
The defendant contended that he had only recently come to know that the Ganga Devi Sugar Mills had sold all its land machinery, etc. to the North Bihar Sugar Mills on 1491950.	None
This terminated the managing agency, and as the only business of the firm was this managing agency and as that was the only purpose for which the firm was formed, it was no longer able to function.	Arguments of Respondent
But he said that this deed would show conclusively that the firm was in existence on that date.	None
The High Court refused to accept this document because it considered that the only ground on which additional evidence can be admitted in appeal is when the Court is unable to pronounce judgment on the material already before it as that was not the case here it rejected the document.17.	None
We need not decide whether there is any conflict of view between the Privy Council decisions in  Kessowji Issur v. G. I. P. Rly 34	Reasoning
Ind App 115 at p. 122	Reasoning
(PC) (A) and  Parsotim v. Lal Mohar, 1931 PC 143 (AIR V 18) (PC) (B), on the one hand and  Indrajit Paratap Sahi v. Amar Singh, 1923 PC 128 (AIR V 10) at pp. 134, 135 (PC) (C), on the other because, even if this evidence were to be admitted and were to be accepted as true, there would still be the defendants admission in the High Court that the firm stood dissolved at least on 1491950.	Reasoning
We are not able to construe the statement in any other way.	None
The plaintiff says that the dissolution was much earlier and that the firm mentioned in the sale deed now sought to be filed was not the same firm but another firm of the same name, but even if the defendants version accepted the fact still remains that even according to his statement there was a dissolution before his application for execution and that therefore the defendants were not in a position to assign their five annas share in the Marwari Brothers firm.	Arguments of Petitioner
We now have to consider the effect of that.18.	None
Much of the argument about this revolved round the question whether the equitable rules that obtain before decree in a suit for specific performance continue at the stage of execution.	None
It is not necessary for us to go into that here because the position in the present case is much simpler.	None
When a decree imposes obligations on both sides which are so conditioned that performance by one is conditional on performance by the other execution will not be ordered unless the party seeking execution not only offers to perform his side but, when objection is raised, satisfies the executing Court that he is in a position to do so.	None
Any other rule would have the effect of varying the conditions of the decree a thing that an executing Court cannot do.	Reasoning
There may of course be decrees where the obligations imposed on each side are distinct and severable and in such a case each party might well be left to its own execution.	None
But when the obligations are reciprocal and are interlinked so that they cannot be separated, any attempt to enforce performance unilaterally would be to defeat the directions in the decree and to go behind them which, of course, an executing Court cannot do.	Reasoning
The only question therefore is whether the decree in the present case is of this nature.	None
We are clear that it is.19.	None
The relevant part of the decree has already been quoted.	None
It directs that against payment or tender by the plaintiffs the said defendants do execute in favour of the plaintiffs proper deed on deeds of transfer of five annas share in the Marwari Brothers	None
This is not a case of two independent and severable directions in the same decree but of one set of reciprocal conditions indisolubly linked together so that they cannot exist without each other.	None
The fact that it is a decree for specific performance where the decree itself cannot be given unless the side seeking performance is ready and willing to perform his side of the bargain and is in a position to do so, only strengthens the conclusion that that was the meaning and intendment of the language used.	None
But the principle on which we are founding is not confined to cases of specific performance.	None
It will apply whenever a decree is so conditioned that the right of one party to seek performance from the other is conditional on his readiness and ability to perform his own obligations.	None
The reason is, as we have explained, that to hold otherwise would be to permit an executing Court to go behind the decree and vary its terms by splitting up what was fashioned as an indivisible whole into distinct and divisible parts having separate and severable existence without any interrelation between them just as if they had been separate decrees in separate and distinct suits.20.	None
Fry on Specific Performance was quoted to us (6th edition, Chapter IV, pages 546 onwards) where the learned author states that relief can often be obtained after judgment along much the same lines as before thus a party to a contract may, in a proper case, apply for rescission of the contract and so forth.	None
It was urged by the other side that even if that can be done it can only be done by the Court which passed the decree and not in execution.	None
We do not intend to examine this because even if these remedies also exist, provided application is made to the proper Court, it does not affect the basic principle in execution that the executing Court must take the decree as it stands and cannot go behind it.	None
If the decree says that on payment being made some definite and specific thing is to be given to the other side, the executing Court cannot alter that and allow something else to be substituted for the thing ordered to be given.21.	None
The learned counsel for the defendantappellant contended that even if the Marwari Brothers had ceased to exist as a firm the plaintiff was still entitled to a five annas share in its assets on dissolution.	Arguments of Petitioner
But a five annas share in the assets of a dissolved firm which has ceased to exist is a very different thing from a five annas share in a going partnership concern and to permit this substitution in the decree would be to alter it in a very material particular.	None
The defendant may or may not have the right to ask the Court which passed the decree to vary it in that way	None
but he can certainly not ask the executing Court to do so.	None
The decree must either be executed as it stands in one of the ways allowed by law or not at all.22.	None
In the High Court, and also before us, much was made of the fact that the plaintiff had not retendered the money after the decree was varied by the High Court and it was argued that that precluded him from contesting the defendants right to attach his property under 0,21, R. 32 (1), Civil P. C. The remedy provided in 0.21, R. 32 (1), is, of course, one of the remedies available in execution of a decree for specific performance but it can only be used by a person who is entitled to execute the decree, and if, by reason of his own incapacity to perform his part, he is precluded from seeking execution, O.21, R. 32 (1), cannot apply.23.	None
The only question that remains is whether the executing Court can consider whether the defendant is in a position to perform his part of the decree.	None
But of course it can.	Issue
If the executing Court cannot consider this question who can?The executing Court has to see that the defendant gives the plaintiff the very thing that the decree directs and not something else, so if there is any dispute about its identity or substance nobody but the Court executing the decree can determine it.	None
It is a matter distinctly relating to the execution, discharge and satisfaction of the decree and so, under S. 47, Civil P. C., it can only be determined by the Court executing the decree.	None
And as for the first Courts conclusion that it could not decide these matters because it was not the Court that passed the decree, it is enough to say, as the High Court did, that S. 42 of the Code expressly gives the Court executing a decree sent to it the same powers in executing such decree as if it had been passed by itself.24.	None
The next point urged by the appellant was that as the plaintiff did not raise the present objection before the Federal Court when it passed its decree he is precluded from doing so now.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is true this would have been a good ground for resisting a decree for specific performance but is no answer to the objection to execution.	None
The defendant undertook to perform his part when the decree was passed and he must make good that undertaking before he can seek execution because the decree,in view of its language and intendment, must either be executed as a whole or not at all it cannot be split up into different and uncorrelated parts and be executed unilaterally.	None
It may be observed in passing that it was as much the duty of the defendant to seek modification of the contract by the Court which passed the decree, or modification of the terms of the decree, later if he did not know these fact at the time, as he says it was of the plaintiff.	None
The fact remains that the decree was passed in these terms and it must either be executed as it stands or not at all unless the Court which passed it alters or modifies it.25.	Reasoning
Then it was argued that this objection to execution should have been taken by the plaintiff in the Calcutta High Court when the defendant asked for transfer of the decree to Motihari and that as that was not done it is too late now.	Arguments of Petitioner
But here also the answer is the same.	None
The only question before the Calcutta High Court on the application made to it was whether the decree should be transferred or not.	None
Whether the plaintiff might or could have taken the objection in the High Court is beside the point because it is evident that he need not have done so on the only issue which the application for transfer raised, namely whether the decree should be transferred or not at best it could only be said that the plaintiff had a choice of two forums.	None
But normally this sort of question which involves an enquiry into fact would not be tried by an appellate Court.	None
It would be more appropriate for an original Court to which the decree is transferred for execution to enquire into it.	None
In any case, if the appellants contention is pushed to its logical conclusion it would mean that whenever a decree is transferred all objection to execution must cease unless the order of the Court directing the transfer expressly enumerates the issues that the transferring Court is at liberty to determine.	Reasoning
In our opinion S. 42, Civil P. C. is a complete answer to this contention.26.	Reasoning
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs.27.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
