 K. Das, J.1.	None
This is an appeal on a certificate of fitness granted under the provisions of subs.	None
2 of S. 66A of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, by the High Court of Judicature for the State of Punjab then sitting at Simla.	None
The certificate is dated December 28, 1953, and was granted on an application made by the Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab, appellant herein.	None
The relevant facts are shortly stated below.2.	Facts
For the assessment year 19461947 one Pandit Thakurdas Bhargava, an advocate of Hissar and respondent before us, was assessed to incometax on a total assessable income of Rs. 58,475 in the account year 19451946.	Facts
This sum included the amount of Rs. 32,500 stated to have been receive by the respondent in July, 1945, for defending the accused persons in a case known as the Farrukhnagar case.	Facts
The assessee claimed that the said amount of Rs. 32,500 was not a part of his professional income, because the amount was given to him in trust or charity this claim of the assessee was not accepted by the Incometax Officer, nor by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who heard the appeal from the order of the Incometax Officer.	Facts
Both these officers held that the assessee had received the amount of Rs. 32,500 as his professional income and trust which the assessee later created by a deed of Trust dated August 6, 1945, did not change the nature or character of the receipt as professional income of the assessee they further held that the persons who paid the money to the assessee did not create any trust nor impose any obligation in the nature of a trust binding on the assessee, and in fact and law the trust was created by the assessee himself out of his professional income therefore, the amount attracted tax as soon as it was received by the assessee as his professional income, and its future destination or application was irrelevant for taxing purposes.	Facts
From the order of the Appellate Assistant.	Facts
Commissioner a further appeal was carried to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Delhi Branch.	Facts
We shall presently state the fact which the Tribunal found, but its conclusion drawn from the facts found was expressed in the following words The income in this case did not at any stage arise to the assessee.	Facts
Keeping in mind the express stipulation made by the assessee when the accepted the brief there was a voluntary trust created, which had to be and was subsequently reduced into writing after the money was subscribed.	Facts
The payments received from the accused and other persons were received on behalf of the trust and not by the assessee in his capacity as an individual.	Facts
In this view, we delete the sum of Rs. 32,500 from the assessment.3.	Facts
The appellant then moved the Tribunal for stating a case to the High Court on the question of law which arose out of the order of the Tribunal.	Facts
The Tribunal was of the opinion that a question of law did arise out of its order, and this question is formulated in the following terms Whether the sum of Rs. 32,500 received by the assessee in the circumstances set out in the trust deed later executed by him on August 6, 1945 was his professional income taxable in his hands, or was it money received by him on behalf of a trust and not in his capacity as an individual.	Facts
It appears that in stating a case the Tribunal framed an additional question as to whether the trust was created at or before the payment of Rs. 32,500, but expressed the view that this additional question was implicit in the principal question formulated by it.	None
A case was accordingly stated to the High Court under S. 66 of the Indian Incometax Act, and the High Court by its judgment dated August 3, 1953, answered the question in favour of the assessee, holding that the sum of Rs. 32,500 received by the assessee was not received by him as his professional income but was received on behalf of the trust and not in his capacity as an individual.	Facts
The appellant then moved the High Court and obtained the certificate of fitness referred to earlier in this judgment.4.	Facts
We shall presently state the facts found by the Tribunal in connection with the receipt of the sum of Rs. 32,500 by the assessee, from which the Tribunal drew its inference.	None
But the question as framed by the Tribunal and answered by the High Court was whether in the circumstances set out in the trust deed dated August 6, 1945, the amount of Rs. 32,500 received by the assessee was professional income in his hand.	None
It is, therefore, appropriate to refer first to the recitals in the trust deed.	None
The respondent stated in the trust deed that he had decreased his legal practice for the last few years and had reserved his professional income accruing after June 1944 for payment of taxes and charity.	None
He then said Accordingly, I have been acting on that.	None
In the Farrukhnagar, district Gurgaon case, Crown versus Chuttan Lal etc., the relatives and the accused expressed a strong desire to get the case conducted by me during its trial.	None
At last on their persistence and promise that they would provide me with Rs. 40,000/ for charitable purposes and I would create a public charitable trust thereof I agree to conduct the case.	None
The case is now over.	None
The accused and their relatives have given me Rs. 32,500/ for charity and creating a trust.	None
The said amount has been deposited in the Bank.	None
If they pay any other amount that will also be included in that.	None
Accordingly I create this trust with the following conditions and with the said amount and any other amount which may be realised afterwards or included in the trust (then followed the name and objects of the trust etc.)The Tribunal accepted as correct the statements of the respondent that he was at first unwilling to accept the brief in the Furrukhnagar case he was then persuaded to accept it at the request of some members of the Bar and some influential local people on the understanding, as the respondent put it, that the accused persons of that case would provide.	None
Rs. 40,000/ for a charitable trust which the respondent would create.	None
Eventually, the sum of Rs. 32,500/ was paid by or on behalf of the accused persons, and as the Tribunal has put it, a charitable trust which the respondent would create, trust deed dated August 6, 1945, the recitals whereof we have quoted above.5.	None
The question before us is what is the proper legal inference from the aforesaid facts found by the Tribunal.	None
Both the Tribunal and the High Court have drawn the inference that a charitable trust was created by the persons who paid the money to the assessee, and all that the assessee did under the deed of trust dated August 6, 1945 was to reduce the terms of the trust to writing.	None
The High Court, therefore applied the principle laid down by the Privy Council in Raja Bejoy Singh Dudhuria v. Commissioner of Incometax, Bengal, (1933) 1	None
ITR 135 (AIR 1933 PC 145 ), and observed that by the overriding obligation imposed on the assessee by the persons who paid the money, the sum of Rs. 32,500/ never became the income of the assessee and the amount become trust property as soon as it was paid there being no question of the application of part of his income by the assessee.6.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellant it has been contended that the inference which the Tribunal and the High Court drew is not the proper legal inference which flows from the facts found, and according to the learned AttorneyGeneral who appeared for the appellant the proper legal inference is that the amount was received by the assessee as his professional income in respect of which he later created a trust by the deed of trust dated August 6, 1945.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has submitted that there was no trust nor any legal obligation imposed on the assessee by the persons who paid the money, at the time when the money was received which prevented the amount from becoming the professional income of the assessee.	None
He has also contended that even the existence of a trust will make no difference, unless it can be held that the money was delivered to that trust before it could become professional income in the hands of the assessee.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
We think that the question raised in this case can be decided by a very short answer, and that answer is that from the facts found by the Tribunal the proper legal inference is that the sum of Rs. 32,500/ paid to the assessee was his professional income at the time when it was paid and no trust or obligation in the nature of a trust was created at that time, and when the assessee created a trust by the trust deed of August 6, 1945, he applied part of his professional income as trust property.	Reasoning
If that is the true conclusion as we hold it to be, then the principle laid down by the Privy Council in Bejoy Singh Dudhurias case, (1933) 1 ITR 135 (AIR 1933 PC 145 ), has no application.	Reasoning
It is indeed true, as has been observed by the High Court, that a trust may be created by any language sufficient to show the intention and no technical words are necessary.	Reasoning
A trust may even be created by the use of words which are primarily words of condition, but such words will constitute a trust only where the requisites of a trust are present, namely, where there are purposes independent of the donee to which the subject matter of the gift is required to be applied and an obligation on the donee to satisfy those purposes.	Reasoning
The findings of the Tribunal show clearly enough that the persons who paid the sum of Rs. 32,500/ did not use any words of an imperative nature creating a trust or an obligation.	Reasoning
They were anxious to have the services of the assessee in the Farrukhnagar case the assessee was at first unwilling to give his services and later he agreed proposing that he would himself create a charitable trust out of the money paid to him for defending the accused persons in the Farrukhnagar case.	Reasoning
The position is clarified beyond any doubt by the statements made in the trust deed of August 6, 1945.The assessee said therein that he was reserving his professional income as an advocate accruing after June, 1944 for payments of taxes and charity and, accordingly, when he received his professional income in the Farrukhnagar case he created a charitable trust out of the money so received.	Reasoning
The clear statement in the trust deed, a statement accepted as correct by the Tribunal, is that the assessee created a trust on certain conditions etc.	Reasoning
It is not stated anywhere that the persons who paid the money created a trust or imposed a legally enforceable obligation on the assessee.	Reasoning
Even in his affidavit the assessee had stated that it was agreed that the accused would provide Rs. 40,000/ for a charitable trust which I would create in case I defend them, on an absolutely clear and express understanding that the money would not be used for any private and personal purposes.	Reasoning
Even in this affidavit there is no suggestion that the persons who paid the money created the trust or imposed any obligation on the assessee.	Reasoning
It was the assessees own voluntary desire that he would create a trust out of the fees paid to him for defending the accused persons in the Farrukhnagar case.	Reasoning
Such a voluntary desire on the part of the assessee created no trust, nor did it give rise to any legally enforceable obligation.	Reasoning
In the circumstances the Appellate Assistant Commissioner rightly pointed out that if the accused persons had themselves resolved to create a charitable trust in memory of the professional aid rendered to them by the appellant and had made the assessee trustee for the money so paid to him for that purpose, it could, perhaps, be argued that the money paid was earmarked for charity ab initio but of this there was no indication anywhere.	Reasoning
In our opinion the view taken by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was the correct view.	Reasoning
The money when it was received by the assessee was his professional income, though the assessee had expressed a desire earlier to create a charitable trust out of the money when received by him.	Reasoning
Once it is held that the amount was received as his professional income, the assessee is clearly liable to pay tax thereon.	Reasoning
In our opinion the correct answer to the question referred to the High Court is that the amount of rupees 32,500/ received by the assessee was professional income taxable in his hands.8.	Decision
Learned counsel for the respondent has referred us to a number of decisions where the principle laid down in Bejoy Singh Dudhurias case, (1933) 1 ITR 135 (AIR 1933 PC 145 ), was applied, and has contended that where there is an allocation of a sum out of revenue as a result of an overriding title or obligation before it becomes income in the hands of the assessee, the allocation may be the result of a decree of a court, an arbitration award or even the provisions of a will or deed.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the conclusion at which we have arrived, the decisions relied upon can hardly help and it is unnecessary to consider them.	None
Our conclusion is that there was no overriding obligation imposed on the assessee at the time when the sum of Rs. 32,500/ was received by him.9.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we allow this appeal and set aside the judgment and order of the High Court.	Decision
The answer to the question is in favour of the appellant, namely, that the sum of Rs. 32,500/ received by the assessee was his professional income taxable in his hands.	Decision
The appellant will be entitled to his costs throughout.10.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
