 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Respondent No. 3 herein is owner of a jeep bearing registration No. BR 03 P 9011.	Facts
The said vehicle admittedly was being used as a taxi and, thus, a commercial vehicle.	Facts
One Ram Lal was working as a Khalasi in the said taxi.	Facts
He used to drive the said vehicle sometimes.	Facts
He had a driving licence.	Facts
Driving licence, however, was granted to him for driving a Light Motor Vehicle.	Facts
The said taxi met with an accident on 14.8.2000 at about 1 p.m. as a result whereof a girl aged about 12 years, Km.	Facts
Anjali Rai, died.	Facts
On an allegation made in that behalf that the said taxi was being driven rashly and negligently by the aforementioned Ram Lal, a claim petition in terms of Sections 163A and 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (for short the Act) was filed by the First and the Second Respondents herein.	Facts
The said taxi admittedly was insured with the Appellant herein.	Facts
One of the issues raised in the said proceeding was as to whether the driver of the said jeep was having a valid and effective licence.	Facts
Another question which arose was as to whether the said Ram Lal was driving the said vehicle.	Facts
The learned Tribunal did not go into the said question.	Facts
It inter alia held that the said Ram Lal had been driving the said vehicle having regard to the fact that he had been shown as the accused in the criminal case.	Facts
However, as regard the question as to whether by permitting the said Ram Lal to drive the said vehicle, the Respondent No. 3 herein of its third party liability as the said question arises only between the owner of the vehicle and the insurance company.	Facts
It was further held Insurance Company can recover this amount from owner of vehicle.	Facts
This legal proposition is fully applicable in this matter.	Facts
So, Issue No. 3 is decided in favour of Petitioners.	Facts
The appeal preferred thereagainst by the Appellant herein before the High Court was dismissed on the premise that no appeal was maintainable wherefor reliance was placed by the High Court on a decision of this Court in National Insurance Company Ltd.	Issue
Chandigarh vs. Nicolletta Rohtagi and others JT 2002 (7) SC 251 .	Issue
As regard the purported statutory liability of the Appellant, it was held the mere fact that there was violation of the terms and conditions subject to which the insurance policy had been issued, cannot have the effect of exonerating the insurer from the statutory liability cast upon him in this regard to pay the amount to the third party victim.	Facts
It was further held It will, therefore, be open to the insurerappellant to initiate an appropriate proceeding for the refund of the amount paid by it to the claimants and establish the breach of the terms and conditions subject to which the insurance policy had been issued.	None
Hence, this appeal.	None
The contention raised on behalf of the Appellant was that the High Court was palpably in error as violation of the terms and conditions of the contract of insurance is a matter which comes within the purview of any of the statutory defences which can be raised by an insurer under subsection (2) of Section 149 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The statutory bar as regards raising a defence on the part of the insurance company is confined to the quantum of damages only.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	None
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent conceded that the appeal preferred by the Respondent was maintainable.	Arguments of Respondent
However, relying on or on the basis of a decision of this Court in Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Nanjappan and others 2005 SCC (Cri) 148 he argued that the insurance company may pay the awarded amount to the claimants and recover the same from the owner of the vehicle.	Arguments of Respondent
In a proceeding arising out of a claim petition filed under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act, the insurance company is a necessary party as it is required to indemnify the owner or driver of the vehicle.	None
Even in a case where the owner colludes with the claimants or is not otherwise represented, the insurance company can contest the matter on merits of the claim petition upon obtaining leave of the court as is provided under subsection (2) of Section 170 of the Act.	None
However, there does not exist any embargo in raising a defence which comes within the purview of subsection (2) of Section 149 of the Act which reads as under Duty of insurers to satisfy judgments and award against persons insured in respect of third party risks.	None
(1) xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
No sum shall be payable by an insurer under sub section (1) in respect of any judgment or award unless, before the commencement of the proceedings in which the judgment of award is given the insurer had notice through the Court or, as the case may be, the Claims Tribunal of the bringing of the proceedings, or in respect of such judgment or award so long as execution is stayed thereon pending an appeal and an insurer to whom notice of the bringing of any such proceedings is so given shall be entitled to be made a party thereto and to defend the action on any of the following grounds, namely (a) that there has been a breach of a specified condition of the policy, being one of the following conditions, namely a condition excluding the use of the vehicle (a) for hire or reward, where the vehicle is on the date of the contract of insurance a vehicle not covered by a permit to ply for hire or reward, or (b) for organised racing and speed testing, or (c) for a purpose not allowed by the permit under which the vehicle is used, where the vehicle is a transport vehicle, or (d) without sidecar being attached where the vehicle is a motor cycle or a condition excluding driving by a named person or persons or by any person who is not duly licensed, or by any person who has been disqualified for holding or obtaining a driving licence during the period of disqualification or a condition excluding liability for injury caused or contributed to by conditions of war, civil war, riot or civil commotion or (b) that the policy is void on the ground that it was obtained by the nondisclosure of a material fact or by a representation of fact which was false in some material particular.	None
It has not been disputed before us that the vehicle was being used as a taxi.	None
It was, therefore, a commercial vehicle.	None
The driver of the said vehicle, thus, was required to hold an appropriate licence therefor.	None
Ram Lal who allegedly was driving the said vehicle at the relevant time, as noticed hereinbefore, was holder of a licence to drive a Light Motor Vehicle only.	None
He did not possess any licence to drive a commercial vehicle.	None
Evidently, therefore, there was a breach of condition of the contract of insurance.	None
The Appellant, therefore, could raise the said defence.	None
We have noticed hereinbefore that the Tribunal has not gone into the said question.	None
It proceeded on the basis that the case was covered by Kamla (supra).	None
The correctness of the said decision came up for consideration before this Court in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Swaran Singh and others (2004) 3 SCC 297 wherein this Court clearly held The owner of a motor vehicle in terms of Section 5 of the Act has a responsibility to see that no vehicle is driven except by a person who does not satisfy the provisions of Section 3 or 4 of the Act.	None
In a case, therefore, where the driver of the vehicle, admittedly, did not hold any licence and the same was allowed consciously to be driven by the owner of the vehicle by such person, the insurer is entitled to succeed in its defence and avoid liability.	None
The matter, however, may be different where a disputed question of fact arises as to whether the driver had a valid licence or where the owner of the vehicle committed a breach of the terms of the contract of insurance as also the provisions of the Act by consciously allowing any person to drive a vehicle who did not have a valid driving licence.	None
In a given case, the driver of the vehicle may not have any hand in it at all e.g. a case where an accident takes place owing to a mechanical fault or vis major.	None
(See Jitendra Kumar)	None
In Swaran Singh (supra), to which one of us was a party, this Court noticed an earlier decision of this Court, namely, Malla Prakasarao vs. Malla Janaki and others (2004) 3 SCC 343 wherein one of the members of the Bench, V.N. Khare, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) was a member.	None
In that case, it was held It is not disputed that the driving licence of the driver of the vehicle had expired on 20111982 and the driver did not apply for renewal within 30 days of the expiry of the said licence, as required under Section 11 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939.	None
It is also not disputed that the driver of the vehicle did not have driving licence when the accident took place.	None
According to the terms of the contract, the Insurance Company has no liability to pay any compensation where an accident takes place by a vehicle, driven by a driver without a driving licence.	None
In that view of the matter, we do not find any merit in the appeal.	None
This Court in Swaran Singh (supra) clearly laid down that the liability of the insurance company visavis the owner would depend upon several factors.	None
The owner would be liable for payment of compensation in a case where the driver was not having a licence at all.	None
It was the obligation on the part of the owner to take adequate care to see that the driver had an appropriate licence to drive the vehicle.	None
The question as regards the liability of the owner vis vis the driver being not possessed of a valid licence was considered in Swaran Singh (supra) stating Section 3 of the Act casts an obligation on a driver to hold an effective driving licence for the type of vehicle which he intends to drive.	None
Section 10 of the Act enables the Central Government to prescribe forms of driving licences for various categories of vehicles mentioned in subsection (2) of the said section.	None
The various types of vehicles described for which a driver may obtain a licence for one or more of them are (a) motorcycle without gear, (b) motorcycle with gear, (c) invalid carriage, (d) light motor vehicle, (e) transport vehicle, (f) road roller, and (g) motor vehicle of other specified description.	None
The definition clause in Section 2 of the Act defines various categories of vehicles which are covered in broad types mentioned in subsection (2) of Section 10.	None
They are goods carriage, heavy goods vehicle, heavy passenger motor vehicle, invalid carriage, light motor vehicle, maxicab, medium goods vehicle, medium passenger motor vehicle, motorcab, motorcycle, omnibus, private service vehicle, semi trailer, tourist vehicle, tractor, trailer and transport vehicle.	None
In claims for compensation for accidents, various kinds of breaches with regard to the conditions of driving licences arise for consideration before the Tribunal as a person possessing a driving licence for motorcycle without gear, sic may be driving a vehicle for which he has no licence.	None
Cases may also arise where a holder of driving licence for light motor vehicle is found to be driving a maxicab, motorcab or omnibus for which he has no licence.	None
In each case, on evidence led before the Tribunal, a decision has to be taken whether the fact of the driver possessing licence for one type of vehicle but found driving another type of vehicle, was the main or contributory cause of accident.	None
If on facts, it is found that the accident was caused solely because of some other unforeseen or intervening causes like mechanical failures and similar other causes having no nexus with the driver not possessing requisite type of licence, the insurer will not be allowed to avoid its liability merely for technical breach of conditions concerning driving licence.	None
The matter came up for consideration again before a Division Bench of this Court in National Insurance Corporation Ltd. vs. Kanti Devi (Mrs.) and others (2005) 5 SCC 789 wherein this Court upon consideration of the observations made in Swaran Singh (supra) opined The decision in Swaran Singh case was not before either MACT or the High Court when the respective orders were passed.	None
Therefore, we think it proper to remit the matter to MACT for fresh consideration.	None
It shall permit the parties to lead such further evidence as they may intend to lead.	None
The matter shall be decided keeping in view the principle enunciated by this Court in Swaran Singh case.	None
In a case of this nature, therefore, the owner of a vehicle cannot contend that he has no liability to verify the fact as to whether the driver of the vehicle possessed a valid licence or not.	Reasoning
However, in this case the owner has not appeared.	None
The victim was aged only 12 years.	Reasoning
The claimants are from a poor background.	Reasoning
They must have suffered great mental agony.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are of the opinion that it may not be appropriate to push them into another round of litigation particularly when it may be difficult for them to secure the presence of the owner of the vehicle.	None
In Nanjappan (supra), this Court opined Therefore, while setting aside the judgment of the High court we direct in terms of what has been stated in Baljit Kaurs case (supra) that the insurer shall pay the quantum of compensation fixed by the Tribunal, about which there was no dispute raised, to the respondentsclaimants within three months from today.	None
The for the purpose of recovering the same from the insured, the insurer shall not be required to file a suit.	None
It may initiate a proceeding before the concerned Executing Court as if the dispute between the insurer and the owner was the subject matter of determination before the Tribunal and the issue is decided against the owner and in favour of the insurer.	None
Before release of the amount to the insured, owner of the vehicle shall be issued a notice and he shall be required to furnish security for the entire amount which the insurer will pay to the claimants.	None
The offending vehicle shall be attached, as a part of the security.	None
If necessity arises the Executing Court shall take assistance of the concerned Regional Transport authority.	None
The Executing Court shall pass appropriate orders in accordance with law as to the manner in which the insured, owner of the vehicle shall make payment to the insurer.	None
In case there is any default it shall be open to the Executing Court to direct realization by disposal of the securities to be furnished or from any other property or properties of the owner of the vehicle, the insured.	None
The appeal is disposed of in the aforesaid terms, with no order as to costs.	None
Although, thus, we are of the opinion that the Appellant was not liable to pay the claimed amount as the driver was not possessing a valid licence and the High Court was in error in holding otherwise, we decline to interfere with the impugned award, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India but we direct that the Appellant may recover the amount from the owner in the same manner as was directed in Nanjappan (supra).	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, we decline to interfere with the impugned judgment.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed accordingly.	Decision
