 B. Majmudar, J.	None
In this group of 17 appeals by special leave, the Commissioner of Income Tax, Kanpur has brought in challenge the judgment and order dated 20th February 1975 of the Allahabad High Court in Income Tax References Nos. 18 of 1973 and 715 of 1972.	Issue
Respondent  Kamla Town Trust  is the common respondent in all these appeals.	Issue
As common questions of law and fact are involved between the very same parties in all these appeals, the appeals were heard together and are being disposed of by this common judgment.	Issue
The common respondent, Kamla Town Trust, was assessed to income tax for the relevant assessment years 194950 to 196566.	Facts
These assessment orders gave rise to hierarchy of appeals under the Income Tax Act which ultimately culminated into 17 income tax Appeals by the assessee before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Allahabad Bench, Allahabad.	Facts
The common question in the appeals before the Tribunal was whether for the relevant assessment years the respondentassessee was entitled to exemption from payment of income tax as per the provisions of Section 4(3)(i) of the Incometax Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the 1922 Act), and under Section 11 re ad with Section 2(15) of the Incometax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the 1961 Act) in so far as they applied to the relevant assessment years.	Facts
The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal dismissed respondent assessees appeals for assessment years 194950 to 195556 but it allowed respondentassessees appeals for assessment years 195657 to 196566 subject to the rider that the income derived from the trust property by the assessee will be exempt only within the limit permissible under Section 11(1)(a) of the 1961 Act to the extent to which the income so accumulated is not in excess of 25 of the income from trust property or Rs.10, 000/ whichever is higher, after the 1961 Act came into force.	Facts
In other words the rider applied to the assessments for the years 196263 to 196566.	Facts
As both the Revenue and the assessee were partly aggrieved by the aforesaid common order of the Tribunal, they sought reference of the questions, ventilating their grievances under Sect ion 256(1) of the 1961 Act.	Facts
The Tribunal accordingly granted these reference applications under Section 256(1) and referred the following questions for opinion of the High Court.	Facts
At the instance of the respondentassessee two questions were referred for the opinion of the High Court Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal was justified in holding that the assessee was not a public charitable trust and its income was not exempt under Section 4(3)(i) of the Income Tax Act, 1922, for the assessment years 194950 to 195556?(2)	Facts
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal was legally correct in holding that the second rectification decree dated 10th May 1955, in suit no.163 of 1954 operates prospectively from the assessment year 195657 and does not have the effect of rectifying the deed of trust dated 27th October, 1941, as from the date of its execution.	None
While at the instance of Revenue the Tribunal referred five questions as under Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal was right in holding by following the decision of the Allahabad High Court in the case of M s J.K. Hosiery Factory v. Commissioner of Income Tax, 1971 (81) ITR 557 that even the unamended clause 3(19) of the Memorandum of Association of the settlor company viz., M s J.K. Cotton Spinning Weaving Mills Co. Ltd., empowered the company to create a public charitable trust and the insertion of subsection (22) in clause 3 of the Memorandum of Association by the company was a matter of abundant caution?(b)	Facts
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, it is open to the Revenue to take the objection in these proceedings that the second rectification suit no.163 of 1954 was barred by section 11 and Order 2, rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure?(c)	Facts
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was legally correct in holding that the objects and activities of the trust fell objects and activities of the trust fell within the first limb of the definition of charitable purpose in section 2(15) of the new Act and the residuary clause thereof is not attracted for the assessment years 196263 to 196566?(d)	Facts
Whether on the interpretation of the various clauses of the trust deed even as amended by the second rectification decree dated 10.5.1955, the trust is void for uncertainty and was not a public charitable trust?(e)	Facts
Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the Income Tax Officer was entitled to go behind the civil court decree dated 10.5.1955 in suit No.163 of 1954 and adjudge the validity of the rectification?	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court after hearing the rival contentions canvassed by the parties answered all the referred questions in favour of the respondentassessee and against the Revenue.	None
It is under these circumstances that t he Revenue through Commissioner of Income Tax, Kanpur having obtained special leave to appeal has preferred these 17 appeals.	Facts
It may be noted at the outset that though the Revenue lost on all the referred seven questions before the High Court, in the present proceedings at the stage of final hearing Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the appellantCommissioner of Income Tax highlighted the grievance of the Revenue centering round the answers of the High Court on some of the referred questions.	Facts
The grievance highlighted on behalf of the Revenue by Dr. Gauri Shankar centered round the answers of the High Court to Questions Nos. 1 and 2 referred on behalf of the assesseerespondent as well as answers of the High Court on Questions Nos.	Facts
(d) and (e) referred on behalf of the Revenue.	None
Before proceeding to deal with the main submissions canvassed by learned senior counsel for the Revenue centering round the answers of the High Court on the aforesaid questions and the rival contentions canvassed by learned senior counsel Shri Verma for the respondent assessee in support of these answers, it will be apposite to have a look at the relevant background facts leading to the present proceeding s. Background facts	Facts
The assessee is a trust created by a trust deed dated 27.10.1941 executed between M s. J.K. Spinning Weaving Mills Co. Ltd., Kanpur (hereinafter called the company) of the one part and Sir Padampat Sin ghania, Lala Kailashpat Singhania and Lala Laxmipat Singhania (hereinafter called the trustees) of the other part.	Facts
The company was registered under the provisions of the Indian Companies Act 7 of 1913 with its registered office at Cawnpore in U.P.	Facts
The objects of the trust deed in its original form show that it was created with a view to construct a settlement or colony for their workmen together with amenities in the shape of hospitals, schools, temples, mosques, recreation places and for such other works directly concerning the amenities of workmen.	Facts
The company made an application to the Improvement Trust, Kanpur for demising to it two tracts of land in Kanpur at concessional rates.	Facts
The Improvement Trust demised one plot o f land to the company for constructing the colony with an extra plot of land for the purpose of constructing a Water Pump Station by an indenture dated 19.10.1936 for a consideration of Rs. 43, 700/. Another plot of land was demised by the Improvement Trust to the company by an indenture dated 2.2.1938 for a consideration of Rs.26, 300/ for constructing an office for the said settlement.	Facts
Both these plots were demised to the company at concessional rates for the welfare of workmen.	Facts
The company transferred both the plots by the said trust deed of 27.10.1941 to the trustees for effectuating its object of settling these plots upon the charitable trust thereinafter mentioned in the deed.	Facts
We will deal with the relevant re citals in the Trust Deed, in details, at an appropriate stage in latter part of this judgment.	None
Suffice it to state at this juncture that one of the objects of the trust, as mentioned in paragraph 2(b) of the Trust Deed of 1941 was as under To erect, establish, equip, furnish, fit, maintain and repair on the said two plots of land, and any land that may hereafter be acquired by the Trust.(1) residential quarters, chawls or buildings for the workmen and staff and other employees of the Company or other allied concerns under the management or in which the Directors of the Company may for the time being be interested and for their respective families and dependents and for such other skilled and unskilled workmen craftsmen traders merchants technical or professional men whom the trustees may permit to reside or work in the said two plots with a view to supply their needs and requirements or to render them services or to cater to their wants comforts conveniences and amenities.	None
Later on the Settlor Company filed a suit being suit No.40 of 1945 in the Court of Civil and Sessions Judge, Kanpur under Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1877 for rectification of the Trust Deed so as t o bring it in conformity with its real intention to create a public charitable trust.	Facts
It was alleged in the plaint that having regard to its Memorandum of Association, the Settlor Company intended to settle the properties mentioned in the T rust Deed and transfer them to the trustees for the purposes of creating a public charitable trust including the benefits of its own employees, but the operative part of the Trust Deed was found to be less comprehensive than what was intended by the par ties thereto at the time when instructions were given for preparing a draft of the same and when they executed the Deed of Trust.	Facts
The Settlor Company further alleged that through a misunderstanding on the part of the draftsman and through a mutual mistake the Deed of Trust did not truly express their intention.	Facts
It was asserted that the real intention of the parties was to create a public charitable trust, but the Company was advised that it was doubtful whether the Trust Deed on a strict construction thereof might not exclude from its benefits the rest of the public apart from the employees of the company and residents of the said settlement.	Facts
In order to give effect to the said intention the company submitted that certain amendments by way of rectification of the deed should be made in the Object Clause 2 of the Trust Deed.	Facts
The learned Civil Judge by his judgment dated 18th August 1945 ordered the Deed of Trust to be rectified as prayed for in the Plaint.	Facts
We will refer to the relevant rectified paragraphs of the Trust deed as per the aforesaid order of the Civil Court a little later.	Facts
The Deed of Trust of 1941 as rectified in 1945 became a subject matter of interpretation by the Appellate Income Tax Tribunal and High Court of Allahabad in the case of J.K. Hosiery Factory v. Commissioner of Income Tax, U.P. 1971 (81) ITR 557.	Facts
In the said partnership the respondentassessee trust happened to be a partner.	Facts
The High Court held the rectification decree passed by Civil Court to be valid and further held that it was not possible for the Income Tax Officer to question the validity of the rectification on the ground that conditions for grant of rectification did not in fact exist.	Facts
However, it was further held that the objects of the Trust Deed as rectified in 1945 did not create a public charitable trust and on an analysis of the object clause 2(b) (i) of the Trust Deed held that it being a mixture of charitable and noncharitable objects, could not be treated to be creating a public charitable trust.	Facts
In the meanwhile the Settlor Company had filed another suit being suit No.163 of 1954 in the Court of First Civil Judge, Kanpur for further rectification of the Trust Deed.	None
It was reiterated in the plaint that the real intention of the Settlor Company was to create a public charitable trust for the benefit of the public in the city of Kanpur and the surrounding areas particularly, the members of the working class including the workmen employed in the plaintiff company, but in their capacity as members of the working class.	Facts
The intention, it was repeated, was to create the said trust wholly and exclusively for charitable objects and purposes.	Facts
It was alleged that the trustees had, in fact, been giving the benefit of the trust to the members of the public and no part of the trust moneys had, at any time, been used for a noncharitable or nonreligious object or purpose.	Facts
It was contended that the said Deed of Trust even as rectified was less comprehensive than what was intended by the parties thereto at the time when instructions were given for preparing a draft of the same and when they executed it and the Settlor Company was advised that it did not truly express the intention of the parties.	Facts
It was prayed that the rectifications sought for be allowed so as to bring it in conformity with the real intention of the parties.	Facts
In the said suit besides the trustees two persons interested in the trust were impleaded as defendants in their representative capacity after the service of a public notice under Order 1 Rule 8 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Facts
The Civil Judge, Kanpur by judgment and decree dated 10.5.1955 decreed the suit.	Facts
By the second rectification decree certain rectifications were made in the Preamble of the Trust Deed and in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Trust Deed.	Facts
At an appropriate stage in latter part of this judgment we will deal with these rectified clauses inserted in the Trust Deed in 1955.The jurisdictional Income Tax Officer issued notices under Section 34 of 1922 Act and Section 148 of 1961 Act for the relevant assessment years to the assesseetrust alleging that the income had escaped assessment for the relevant years.	Facts
In response to the said notices the assessee filed NIL returns for all the assessment years under reference.	Facts
The contention of the trust before the Income Tax Officer was that it was a public charitable trust and, therefore, its income was exempt from income tax.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer rejected this contention as discussed in his earlier assessment order for the assessment year 194849.	Facts
He stated that in the earlier assessment order, he had come to a clear conclusion that the trust was a private trust for the benefit of the employees only and was not at all exempt from tax.	Facts
With regard to the rectifications made by the decrees of the Civil Court, the Income Tax Officer held that the trust was originally created for the benefit of the settlor company and the objects of the trust could not be altered subsequently unless the trust was revoked for which there was no power under the Deed.	Facts
The income from it was, therefore, assessed to tax.	Facts
He relied on the decision of the Calcutta High Court in re.	Facts
Mercantile Bank of India (Agency) Ltd. 1942	Facts
(10) ITR 512 and held that a trust for the benefits of its employees and members of the staff is not a charitable trust.	Facts
Re spondentassessee preferred appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	None
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner dismissed all the appeals of the respondent.	Facts
It is under these circumstances that the respondentassessee approached the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal as noted earlier.	Facts
The assessee partly succeeded while the Revenue also succeeded in part before the Income Tax Tribunal and that is how seven questions came to be referred to the High Court under Section 256(1) by the Tribuna l, two at the instance of the assessee and five at the instance of the Revenue and which came to be wholly decided in favour of the respondent assessee as already noted earlier.	Facts
Rival Contentions Learned senior counsel Dr. Gauri Shankar raised the following contentions in support of these appeals The second rectification in the year 1955 as decreed by the Civil Court was without jurisdiction as in substance by the socalled rectification a new Trust Deed was sought to be substituted, which was beyond the powers of the Civil Court.(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
The condition precedent for invoking the jurisdiction of the Civil Court under Section 26 of the Specific Relief Act of 1963 or under Section 31 of the earlier Act that there should be mutual mistake on the part of parties to the document was absent in the facts of the present case and consequently the Civil Court had no jurisdiction to grant such rectification.(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
The rectification decree was in personam and not in rem to which Revenue was not a party and, therefore, it was not binding on the Income Tax authorities.(4)	Arguments of Petitioner
Even assuming that Rectification Order of 1955 was validly made, it would operate only prospectively and could not have any retrospective effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
This submission was made for challenging the answer to Question No. 2 posed for consideration of the High Court at the instance of the respondentassessee.(5) Even after the rectification of 1955 the Trust Deed as rectified did not create any public charitable trust entitling the respondentassessee to claim income tax exemption under the relevant provisions of 1922 Act as well as 1961 Act as applicable to the concerned assessment years.(6)	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire Trust Deed as originally executed and as twice rectified in 1945 and 1955 was merely a colourable device on the part of the three main trustees Singhania brothers who held partnership interest in the firm of J.K. Hosiery Factory but went out as partners of the said partnership and entered by the back door assuming the garb of the trustees of respondenttrust which became a partner in the same partnership firm claiming income tax exemption.	Arguments of Petitioner
Consequently such a colourable device on the part of the respondent should not be countenanced.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Verma, learned senior counsel for the respondentassessee on the other hand combatted the aforesaid contentions of learned senior counsel for the Revenue and submitted that even for the assessment years 194950 to 195556 wherein the rectified Trust Deed of 1945 prior to its further rectification in 1955 was holding the field, it was a trust for public charitable purposes and consequently even apart from the retrospective effect of the rectification in 1955, the respondentasessee was entitled to claim exemption from payment of income tax for these relevant years.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, so far as the answer to Question No. 2 refer red for the opinion of the High Court at the instance of the respondentassessee was concerned, Shri Verma fairly stated that he was not supporting the said answer and that he was conceding that 1955 rectification of the Trust Deed had only prospective effect.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue in Rejoinder submitted that 1945 rectification did not create a public charitable trust.	None
He, however, fairly stated that as there was no clear indication from the judgment of the High Court about any colourable device on the part of the assessee or its trustees underlying the creation of trust he was not pressing that point any further.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the light of the aforesaid rival contentions the battle lines are clearly drawn between the contesting parties wherein the first five contentions canvassed on behalf of the Revenue by Dr. Gauri Shankar will have to be examined and the sixth and the last contention which arises for con sideration in the light of the additional contention of learned senior counsel Shri Verma for the respondent, namely, whether the rectification of 1945 created a public charitable trust or not, will also fall for determination.	None
We shall now de al with the aforesaid six contentions canvassed for our consideration seriatim Contention No.1 So far as jurisdiction of the Civil Court to grant rectification of the Trust Deed is concerned the relevant provision is found in Section 26 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 which had succeeded the prior Specific Relief Act of 1877.	Reasoning
Under the earlier Act an analogous provision was found in Section 31 of the Act.	Reasoning
As per these provisions a suit could be filed before competent Civil Court for rectification of an instrument when through fraud or a mutual mistake of the parties a contract or other instrument in writing does not express their real intention.	Reasoning
It is obvious that a Trust Deed is not a contract in the strict sense of the term but it would certainly be covered by the expression other instrument in writing.	Reasoning
It could, therefore, not be urged with any emphasis that competent Civil Court which was approached by the Settlor Company for rectification of the instrument of trust, was not having requisite jurisdiction to entertain such proceedings.	Reasoning
However, Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue pitched his faith on a decision of the Andhra Prades h High Court in the case of Trustees of H.E.H. the Nizams Pilgrimage Money Trust v. Commissioner of WealthTax 1988 (171) ITR 323.	None
In that case the trustees of H.E.H. Nizams Pilgrimage Money Trust had applied to the Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Hyderabad, under Section 34 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 seeking his opinion, advice and directions with respect to the utilisation of the income of the trust fund in terms of the resolution.	None
By the said resolution the trustees contrary to the objects of the trust had resolved to utilise the income of the trust fund for charitable purposes in India when the settlor had clearly laid down in the Trust Deed that the trust fund and unspent accumulations, if any, were to be utilised for religious or charitable objects at Hedjaz and or Iraq.	None
It was, therefore, held that the resolution of the trustees was invalid and the order of the Chief Judge permitting the trustees to spend the trust income in India was equally inoperative and without jurisdiction.	None
It was also held that the Trust Act applied only to private trusts and not to public trusts.	None
And that after the death of the settlor, the trust had become a public trust.	None
Moreover, Section 34 of the Trust Act provided only for a summary enquiry and order with respect to management or administration of the trust property other than questions of detail, difficulty or importance.	None
We fail to appreciate how the aforesaid decision can be of any assistance to the learned senior counsel for the Revenue in the present case.	None
On the facts of the case before Andhra Pradesh High Court the City Civil Court, Hyderabad, had no jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Trust Act to bring about any changes in the objects of trust which had become a public trust.	Reasoning
On the facts of the present case Section 31 of 1877 Act (Specific Relief Act) or the corresponding provisions of Section 26 of 1963 Act could be effectively invoked for rectification of the instrument of trust.	Reasoning
Such a court does not suffer from any inherent lack of jurisdiction, like the City Civil Court in the Andhra Pradesh case which had no such jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Indian Trusts Act.	Reasoning
The first contention must, therefore, be rejected.	None
Contention No. 2  So far as this contention is concerned it was vehemently contended by learned senior counsel for the Revenue that Civil Court will get jurisdiction to entertain rectification proceedings provided any of the two conditions precedent are satisfied, namely, (i) through fraud or (ii) by mutual mistake of parties the instrument in writing does not express real intention of parties.	None
So far as fraud is concerned it is not the case of anyone that either party to the instrument had committed any fraud.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact the learned senior counsel went to the extent of submitting that there are not two parties in an instrument of trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is difficult to agree.	None
Settlor is one party to the trust who settles his property in trust for the benefit of others who become beneficiaries and the legal ownership of the property is transferred to the trustees.	None
Thus not only there are more than one party to the instrument of trust but in fact there would at least be two main parties, namely, the settlor on the one hand and the trustees on the other and also there will be the beneficiaries who would be indirectly third parties to the instrument though not being direct parties thereto.	Reasoning
Thus it would be almost a tripartite transaction.	None
Dr. Gauri Shankar then submitted that even if it is so, no mutual mistake was alleged in the rectification proceedings.	None
Even this contention cannot be accepted.	None
The Settlor Company had clearly indicated in the rectification proceedings that the real intention of the settlor to create a public charitable trust was not clearly brought out on the wordings of the original Trust Deed and, therefore, the need to rectify the instrument, as neither the Settlor Company nor the trustees who assumed the legal ownership of the property settled in trust would have agreed to the transaction in question if it had purported not to create a public charitable trust.	Reasoning
It was this mutual mistake on the part of both the parties that required rectification of the instrument to make, what was latent intention a patent one.	Reasoning
Even that apart it is strictly not open to the Revenue which is not a party to the instrument to take up such a contention about nonfulfilment of condition precedent as it would be a fact in issue before the competent court which was called upon to rectify the instrument by either of the parties to the instrument.	Reasoning
Absence of such a condition would at the most make the order erroneous and which can be challenged by either of the parties to the proceedings but it will have no impact on the jurisdiction of the Civil Court to pass such an order however erroneous it may appear to be to the Revenue.	Reasoning
At the highest such an error would remain in the realm of error in the exercise of jurisdiction and not an error depriving jurisdiction to the competent court to entertain such rectification proceedings.	Reasoning
In this connection it is profitable to have a look at the decision of Delhi High Court in the case of Jagdamba Charity Trust v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, Delhi (Central) 1981 (128) ITR 377.	Reasoning
In that case Deed of Trust was got rectified by the parties from the Civil Court.	Reasoning
These proceedings had to be initiated in the light of judgment of the High Court which had held that due to provisions in certain clauses of the Trust Deed the trust was noncharitable and the trust was not entitled to exemption under Incometax Act and that since the decision had created some doubts regarding the validity of some clauses of the deed it was necessary that the deed should be rectified.	Reasoning
The Civil Court granted a decree and directed that the Trust Deed be rectified.	Reasoning
The question was whether such rectification order of the Civil Court was binding on the Income Tax Department when the assesseetrust armed with such rectification order claimed exemption from income tax under Section 11 of the 1961 Act.	Reasoning
S. R anganathan, J., as he then was, speaking for the Delhi High Court took the view that the word instrument used in Section 26 of the Specific Relief Act has a very wide meaning and includes every document by which any right or liability is, o r is purported to be created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded.	Reasoning
There is no reason to exclude a Trust Deed from its purview.	Reasoning
A Trust Deed is a document which sets out the terms of an understanding between the author of the trust and the trustees.	Reasoning
Though in form, the trustees are not signatories to the instrument as drawn up, they are parties to the instrument in a real sense for it is on the terms of the instrument that they accept office and proceed to administer the trust.	Reasoning
The law obliges them to act upon the terms of the Trust Deed and they cannot commit a breach thereof.	Reasoning
If a gift deed, sale deed or promissory note could be within the terms of the section, there is no reason why a Trust Deed cannot be rectified under Section 26.	Reasoning
It was further held that since there was an order of Civil Court binding on the author and the trustees, they could administer the trust only in terms of the amendment directed by the Court.	Reasoning
The trustees were and must be deemed, from the beginning, to have been under a legal obligation to hold the properties only for the object and with the powers set out in the Trust Deed as amended.	Reasoning
Therefore, whatever might be the correctness or otherwise of the order passed by the Civil Court under Section 26 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963, it was not open to the Incometax Officer to say that the trustees could administer the trust in accordance with the original deed and that the claim for exemption had to be dealt with on the basis of the original deed.	Reasoning
Nor was it open to the Incometax Officer to say that in the relevant accounting year, the trustees held the property subject to the terms of the original and not the amended deed.	Reasoning
In our view the aforesaid decision of the Delhi High Court lays down the correct legal position in connection with proceedings for rectification of instruments like trust deeds, initiated before competent civil courts under the relevant provisions of the Specific Relief Act.	Reasoning
In the case of Laxminarain Lath Trust v. Commissioner of Incometax 1988 (170) ITR 375 a Division Bench of Rajasthan High Court speaking through S.C. Agrawal, J., as he then was, h ad to consider the question whether any rectification of the Trust Deed which changed character of the private trust into public charitable trust could be relied upon before the Income Tax authorities for claiming exemption under Section 11 of the Incometax Act, 1961 by the assesseetrust.	Reasoning
In that case the original Trust Deed executed in August 1948 did not bring out the real intention of the settlor to create a public charitable trust on account of certain subclauses of Object Clause No. 2.	Reasoning
It was, therefore, felt necessary to rectify the mistake in the original settlement deed so as to put on record the true intention of the settlor and of the trust created by him.	Reasoning
It was held by the Rajasthan High Court that it was pe rmissible for the settlor to clarify his intention increating the trust under the original settlement deed by executing the supplementary deed.	Reasoning
Even in the original deed, a discretion had been conferred on the trustees to apply the income of the trust in rendering aid to persons belonging to the L family and it was permissible for the trustees not to apply the income of the trust for the said object and in fact the income of the trust had never been applied for that object.	Reasoning
It could not be said that the beneficiaries under clause 2(vi), namely, persons belonging to the family of L, had an enforceable right to the application of the income of the assessee for the object mentioned in clause 2(vi), and in these circumstances their consent was not necessary before altering the terms of the Trust Deed.	Reasoning
In any case although the supplementary deed was executed in May 1958, none of the persons belonging to the family of L had challenged the validity of the same in a court of la w. After the execution of the supplementary deed, it was not open to the trustees to apply the funds of the assessee for noncharitable purposes.	Reasoning
The assesseetrust had acquired the status of a trust wholly for charitable and religious purposes after the amendment of the Trust Deed in May 1958.	Reasoning
It was entitled to exemption under Section 11 of the Incometax Act, 1961.	Reasoning
The doctrine of cy pres was also invoked in the said case by observing that in respect of christie the courts apply the doctrine of cy pres which envisaes that if a clear charitable intention is expressed, it will not be permitted to fail because the mode, if specified, cannot be executed and the law will substitute another mode cy pres, i.e., as nearly as po ssible to the mode specified by the donor.	Reasoning
The said doctrine is applied on the principle that the court would lean in favour of charity and where a general charitable goal is projected and particular objects and modes are indicated, the court, acting to fulfil the broader benevolence of the donor and to avert the frustration of the good to the community, reconstructs, as nearly as may be, the charitable intent and makes viable what otherwise may die.	Reasoning
The aforesaid decision of the Rajasthan High Court also takes a view which is almost parallel to the view taken by the Delhi High Court though the binding nature of the rectification order of the civil court on the Income Tax Officer is not highlighted as no such occasion arose for Rajasthan High Court to pronounce on the same on the facts of that case.	Reasoning
However, the fact remains that after due rectification of the original Trust Deed either by the settlor himself by executing a supplementary deed or by getting it rectified through competent civil court under the relevant provisions of the Specific Relief Act, the trustees would be bound to carry out the amended and rectified objects of the trust and if they fail to do so they would be guilty of b reach of trust for which even proper proceedings can be initiated against them under Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
For all these reasons, therefore, it must be held that when such rectified Trust Deed is pressed in service before the Incometax authorities in assessment proceedings concerning the relevant assessment years the Incometax Officer will have to interpret such rectified instrument for finding out its correct legal effect.	Reasoning
But it will not be open to the Incometax Officer to refuse to look at such rectified instrument of trust and to insist that the trustees of the trust should ignore the said rectified objects and should stick to the instrument as it existed prior to its rectification.	Reasoning
The Incometax officer will have to take the instrument as it exists in its actual amended form when it is pressed in service for framing the assessment concerning the relevant assessment year in which such rectified instrument holds the field.	Reasoning
The second contention, therefore, fails and is rejected.	Reasoning
Contention No. 3 So far as this contention is concerned Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue was right when he contended that order of rectification by a civil court is not a judgment in rem.	Reasoning
It would be a judgment in personam binding on the parties to the rectified instrument, namely, the settlor on the one hand and the trustees on the other as well as on the ultimate beneficiaries.	Reasoning
It is also true that Section 41 of the Indian Evidence Act cannot apply to such rectification order as under the said provision only judgments and orders passed in exercise of probate, matrimonial admirality or insolvency jurisdiction would have the character o f judgments in rem.	Reasoning
Similarly Section 42 of the Indian Evidence Act also could not make them relevant in any enquiry or proceedings unless they relate to matters of a public nature relevant to the enquiry.	Reasoning
However it is Section 43 of the Evidence Act which would squarely get attracted in such cases.	Reasoning
Said section lays down that judgments, orders or decrees other than those mentioned in sections 40, 41 and 42, are irrelevant, unless the existence of such judgment, order or decree is a fact in issue, or is relevant under some other provision of this Act.	Reasoning
Section 40 deals with previous judgments relevant to bar a second suit or trial.	Reasoning
That obviously cannot have any application.	Reasoning
But a rectified Trust Deed pursuant to the order of the court would certainly make the rectification order relevant under the provisions of Section 11 of the Indian Evidence Act, as the fact in issue in an enquiry before the Incometax Officer would be whether on the basis of the rectified trust instrument the assesseetrust is entitled to get its income exempted from tax under the relevant provisions of the Incometax Act.	Reasoning
In such proceedings, therefore, the order granting rectification of such instrument of trust would certainly remain relevant.	Reasoning
Consequently it cannot be said that such rectification orders passed by civil courts permitting rectifications of trust deeds under the relevant provisions of the Specific Relief Act could not be relied upon by the assesseetrust in assessment proceedings before the Incometax Officer was not a party to such rectification proceedings.	Reasoning
It will be for the Incometax Officer to consider the real scope and ambit of the Trust Deed as presented to him in rectified form with a view to finding out whether on the basis of such a rectified instrument the assessee trust had earned exemption from payment of income tax under the relevant provisions holding the field in the concerned assessment years.	Reasoning
The third contention is, therefore, decided by answering that though the rectification orders of the civil court are not judgments in rem they are relevant in assessment proceedings before the Incometax Officer and will have to be given effect to for whatever they are worth.	Reasoning
Contention No. 4 So far as this contention is concerned learned senior counsel for the Revenue is spared his pains as learned senior counsel for respondentassessee fairly stated in the light of the debate that took place in the Court that he was not supporting the answer given by the High Court in favour of assessee on Question No. 2 referred for the opinion of the High Court at the instance of the assesseetrust.	Reasoning
In short he submitted that he would treat 1955 rectification of the instrument of trust as creating almost a new trust or substituting the new for the old and, therefore, he would not press that such rectification of 1955 would have any retrospective effect.	Reasoning
In view of the fair stand taken by the learned senior counsel for the respondentassessee, this contention will have to be decided in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee by holding that rectification brought about by the order of the civil court in 1955, namely, the second rectification had no retrospective effect and would operate prospectively from the date on which such rectification saw the light of the day and would cover assessment years 195657 onwards upto assessment years 196566 and would not look back on the previous assessment years from 194950 to 195556.	Reasoning
In other words the decision of the Tribunal on referred Question No. 2 will remain operative and that contrary answer of the High Court on this question would stand rejected.	Reasoning
Contention No. 5 14.  	None
Having cleared the Revenues stand in connection with the Trust Deed in question for the assessment years 194950 to 195556 as aforesaid, Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue set hi s sails on the subsequent assessment years 195657 onwards wherein the Trust Deed as rectified in 1955 held the field.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that even after the rectification of 1955 the situation had not at all improved for the respondenttrust and it remained a private trust and not a public charitable trust.	None
So far as this contention is concerned it was vehemently opposed by learned senior counsel for respondentassessee, Shri Verma.	None
In fact this has remained now the real bone of contention between the warring parties.	None
In order to resolve this controversy it will be profitable to have a close look at the relevant provisions of the Trust Deed of 1941 as amended in 1955 pursuant to the second rectification order of the civil cour t.	None
The said Trust Deed as amended in 1955 is found at Annexure J to the Paper Book Volume II.	None
Leaving aside the introductory recitals, the relevant operative recitals in the Trust Deed read as under That in exercise of the power reserved to it under the Memorandum of Association and for effectuating its object of establishing a trust or settlement for public religious or charitable purposes including trust or settlements for relief of property, education medical relief and advancement of any other object of general public utility of religious or charitable nature, the Company both hereby grant convey and assure upto the Trustees the said plot of land situate at Cawnpore and numbered as 1 in Block H Factory Workmen Area containing by admeasurement 43.70 (forty three decimal point seventy) acres more or less and more clearly delineated and shown on the plan annexed to the said Indenture bearing date the 19th day of October 1936 and thereon marked red as also the said plot of land situate at Cawnpore and numbered as 2 in Block H Factory Workmen Area containing by admeasurement 26.30 (twenty six decimal point thirty) acres more or less and more clearly delineated and shown on the plan annexed to the said Indenture dated the 2nd day of February 1938 and thereon marked red TOGETHER WITH all way wells waters water courses swers ditches drains trees shrubs liberties easements profits privileges and appurtenances whatsoever to the said plots of land respectively belonging or in any wise appertaining with the same or any part thereof now or at any time heretofore usually held occupied or enjoyed therewith and all the state right title interest claim and demand whatsoever at law or in equity of it was the company into or upon the said two plots of land and every part thereof TO HAVE AND TO HOLD THE SAID two plots of land hereby conveyed granted or assured or expressed so to be and every part thereof unto and to the use of the Trustees for ever to be by them held upon the trusts and with the subject to the powers provisions agreements and declarations in respect thereof hereinafter appearing and contained.2.	Facts
The Trustees do hereby declare that they s hall hold and stand possessed of the said two plots of land upon the trusts following namely (a) To manage the said two plots of land (hereinafter called the Trust Properties which term shall include any security or securities or investments of any kind whatsoever into which the same or any part thereof may be converted and varied from time to time and such as may be acquired by the Trustees or come to their hands by virtue of these presents or by operation of law or otherwise however in relation to these trusts as also all donations funds or endowments either in the shape of cash shares securities or other movable or immovable properties which may be given to the Trustees by any person whosoever for the benefit of the Trusts hereby created) and to collect and recover the rents profits and other income thereof and to pay there out the expenses of collection of such income and the rates taxes assessments and other outgoings in respect of any properties that may at any time be comprised in the Trust properties including the premia for insurance of any such property against loss or damage by fire or lightning or civil commotion airraids and other risks or losses or damages as the Trustees may in their absolute discretion think proper (but so that nothing herein contained shall impose any obligation on the Trustees to insure any of the premises comprised in the Trust Properties which they do not wish to do so) as also to pay the expenses of painting or whitewashing the buildings and structures that may be created on the said Trust Properties and of effecting all repairs additions and alterations thereto as well as to all plant and machinery which may be lying thereon or affixed thereto.(b) To erect, establish, equip, furnish, fit maintain and repair on the said two plots of land any other land that may hereafter be acquired by the Trustees on behalf of the Trust.(i) residential quarters, chawls or buildings for the workmen in the town of Kanpur and the surrounding areas and extensions and for their respective families and dependents and for such other skilled and unskilled workmen craftsmen traders merchants technical or professional men whom the Trustees may permit to reside or work in the said two plots proved that the benefit in this clause shall be granted only to those persons who on account of poverty are in need of help and really deserve help.(ii) Public schools, pathshalas, colleges, libraries public halls, hostels or boarding houses.	None
(iii) Hospitals, dispensaries, museum places or recreation, instruction, swimming baths, lakes, parks, playgrounds, temples, mosques, churches, a market or markets and such other works and institutions of general public utility.	None
(iv) such other works, building and installations as the Trustees may in their discretion think fit to provide for the advancement of any other similar object of general public utility.(c) To erect, establish, equip, furnish fit maintain and repair on the second of the aforesaid two plots a temple, a hospital with all necessary quarters for housing its staff, an office or offices for the management and administration of the Colony or Settlement to be established on the said two plots and quarters for the office staff and a water pumping station and similar other works.(d) To charge such rent or fees for the use and occupation of any of the said premises as the Trustees may in t heir discretion from time to time think fit.(e) To use and spend the income of the Trust properties or the corpus of any funds or donations given or endowed for the benefit of these trusts for the objects herein mentioned.	None
A mere lo ok at the aforesaid objects of the trust which remained operative and kicking after the second rectification of 1955 shows that each of the objects mentioned in clauses (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Object Clause 2 clearly partakes the character of a charitable disposition meant for the benefit of a well demarcated mass of humanity.	Reasoning
There is not much dispute on this aspect, so far as paras 2(a) and (b)(ii) to (iv), (c), (d) and (e) are concerned.	None
However learned senior counsel f or the Revenue vehemently submitted that leaving aside the objects mentioned in para 2(b), subparas (ii), (iii) and (iv) so far as subpara (i) of clause (b) of para 2 is concerned, at least that object does not create a public charitable trust a s the object mentioned therein namely constructing residential quarters, chawls or buildings for the workmen in the town of Kanpur and surrounding areas was a very vague object.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was next contended that though the object is so widely worded, it in substance is meant to benefit only the workmen of the company if the entire history of the trust from 1941 onwards is minutely scrutinised.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted by Dr. Gauri Shankar that initially when the two pieces of land were obtained on concessional rates from the Improvement Trust, Kanpur in 1941 by indentures of 19.10.1936 and 2.2.1938 respectively, they were meant to be utilised for the construction of colonies of workmen of the Settlor Company itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
That the original Trust Deed of 1941 without latter rectifications of 1945 and 1955 clearly indicated that the beneficiaries were only the employees of the Settlor Company and there was no whisper about the benefit to humanity at large or to members of the general public.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus it was clearly a private trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
That though by rectification of 1945 the term workmen in general was introduced for indicating the class of beneficiaries, in substance the benefit was reserved to the workmen of the Settlor Company itself, and that even after 1955 rectification, the words workmen in general in Kanpur and surrounding areas and extensions remained a mere camouflage.	None
It is not possible to agree with the aforesaid submissions of the learned senior counsel Dr. Gauri Shankar, for the Revenue.	None
The reasons are obvious.	None
It cannot be said that the indicated beneficiaries, namely, the workmen in the town of Kanpur and surrounding areas and extensions are so vague as to make the object of the trus t inoperative or options.	None
Workmen in town of Kanpur and the surrounding areas and extensions formed a clearly earmarked class or category of members of general public and they were certainly a part and parcel of the general public.	Reasoning
It is also not pos sible to countenance the submission that the words surrounding areas and extensions of Kanpur town introduced vagueness, in the identification of beneficiaries.	Reasoning
Surrounding areas and extensions would naturally include those areas which are on the periphery of Kanpur town, and which are adjacent to Kanpur town.	Reasoning
They would not obviously include any areas which are geographically far removed from and situated at long distance from Kanpur town and which could not be said to be in the vicinity of the Kanpur town.	Reasoning
The words surrounding areas and extensions of Kanpur town indicate proximity of such areas with the Kanpur town and have a clear nexus with the geographical boundary of Kanpur town.	Reasoning
It is also easy to visualise that the trustees will have to make available the benefit of the clause only to those workmen in the town of Kanpur and surrounding areas and extensions and to their respective families and dependents who on account of poverty are in need of help and really deserve help.	Reasoning
Any provision made for a poor class of public well earmarked as recipient of such benefits would certainly make the object of such bounty a charitable one.	None
In fact Dr. Gauri Shankar fairly stated that if one only goes by the verbiage of the clause as found in 1955 rectified deed then it would appear to be a public charitable trust.	None
But he submitted that we have to X ray the clause and try to find out as to who are the real beneficiaries of the said trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is difficult to countenance even this submission.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to find out whether the relevant clauses of a trust deed create a public charitable trust or not we have to go by the express words employed by the Trust Deed.	None
In our view for finding out the real intention of the settlor, the words used in the Deed would be the real vehicle of thought of the settlor expressing his intention in cold print.	Reasoning
This would be much more so when such recitals in the Trust Deed are not challenged on the ground that they are a camouflage or a result of a colourable device.	Reasoning
As we have noted earlier, contention regarding colourable device was not pressed by Dr. Gauri Shankar for the Revenue and rightly so as it did not arise out of the judgment under appeal.	Reasoning
On the other hand, on the express language of clause 2(b)(i) of the 1955 rectified deed, it cannot be said that it does not create a public charitable trust.	Reasoning
On the contrary it becomes clear on a close reading of relevant provisions of this clause that the objects are specific and charitable in nature.	Reasoning
The beneficiaries are also clearly indicated.	Reasoning
There is also no ambiguity about the trustees or the trust properties.	Reasoning
Thus all the basic requirements for creation of a public charitable trust do exist on the express language of the relevant subclauses of clause (2) of 1955 rectified deed.	Reasoning
Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue then submitted in any case absolute discretion is vested in the trustees under the Trust Deed to utilise the trust income for the benefit of any of the subclasses of workmen in the town of Kanpur and they were likely to divert the entire benefit to their own workmen.	Arguments of Petitioner
To say the least it is merely a discretion left to the trustees and not an obligation of the trustees that they must necessarily spend the income of the trust for the workmen of the settlor company itself and not for the benefit of any other outside worker.	None
We shall deal with this aspect in greater details when we will refer to Contention No. 6 canvassed by learned senior counsel for the assessee trust that even apart from the rectification of 1955 the earlier rectification of 1945 did create a public charitable trust.	Reasoning
However so far as the second rectification of 1955 is concerned it has clearly indicated that only a discretion is vested in the trustees to utilise the trust income for benefit of poor workmen in the town of Kanpur and in the surrounding areas and extensions and that may include even poor and needy workmen of the settlor company itself.	Reasoning
In this connection Shri Verma also rightly invited our attention to Section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure and clause (i), subclause (b)(iv) whereby trustees in their discretion could provide for advancement of other similar objects of general public utility.	None
Relying on a series of decisions of this Court in Commissioner of IncomeTax, Madras v. Andhra Chamber of Commerce 1965 (55) ITR 722 Ahmedabad Rana Caste Association v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, Gujarat 1971 (82) ITR 704 Abdul Sathar Haji Moosa Sait Dharmastapanam v. Commissioner of Agricultural IncomeTax, Kerala 1973 (91) ITR 5 Sole Trus tee, Loka Sikshana Trust v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, Mysore 1975 (101) ITR 234 Yogiraj Charity Trust v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, New Delhi 1976 (103) ITR 777 and Commissioner of IncomeTax, Madras etc.etc.	None
v. Andhra Chamber of Commerce etc.etc.	None
1981 (130) ITR 184	None
it was submitted that objects of general public utility would clearly indicate that they are meant for public benefit and would create a public charitable trust.	None
That in the light of the objects of the trust as rectified in 1955 even a workmen who is not an employee of the settlor company could in appropriate case seek direction under Section 92, Code of Civil Procedure, from competent civil court against the trustees to act according to the object of the trust and give benefit to such an applicant beneficiary if the circumstances so permit and the income of the trust is sufficient to cater to his needs.	None
When confronted with these very widely worded objects of the trust, Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue mounted his attack in the light of clause 30 of the Trust Deed as rectified in 1955 which reads as under The Trust premises shall be held by the Trustees hereof subject to the terms and provisions of the said two indentures bearing date the 19th day of October 1936 and 2nd February 1938 and the Trustees shall accordingly duly and faithfully observe perform and comply with all the terms and provisions thereof and all such other terms provisions rules and regulations which the said Cawnpore Improvement Trust may from time to time impose upon them or require them to observe perform and comply with or such as may from time to time be mutually agreed upon between the Cawn pore Improvement Trust and the Trustees consistently with the powers reserved by the said Cawnpore Improvement Trust in that behalf under the said two Indentures.	None
It is no doubt true that the trustees are enjoined to utilise the trust properties subject to the terms and provisions of the indentures dated 19th October 1936 and 2nd February 1938 which require the trustees to utilise the trust property for the benefit of settlor companys own workmen.	None
But as rightly submitted by Shri Verma, learned senior counsel for the assesseetrust, the said clause would not detract from the public charitable nature of the trust as projected by the relevant operative parts of the object clause to which we have made detailed reference earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Verma was also right when he contended that if at all the trustees diverted the benefit to the beneficiaries other than the workmen of the company itself it would give a cause of action to the original vendor, namely, the Town Improvement Trust, which had taken no steps in all these years or made any grievance about the same and secondly as provided by the indentures themselves all that would result on account of any alleged breach of the conditions of the indentures on the part of trustees would be that they would be liable to pay additional quantified amount to the original vendor and the concessional rate of consideration for the grant in that eventuality, may stand withdrawn.	Arguments of Respondent
But it would not amount to any breach of trust on the part of the trustees if such benefit is conferred on outside workmen who fell within the clearly earmarked class of beneficiaries as per object clause 2(b)(i).	Arguments of Respondent
On the contrary, the trustees not only would not be allege d to be guilty of any breach of trust but can be said to have acted according to the objects of the trust.	None
Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue next contended that as observed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner in connection with assessment year 194849 not a pie of the income of the trust was utilised during the relevant years by the trust for the benefit of outside workmen and almost nothing was spent on charity.	None
He particularly invited our attention to the following observations as found in Annexure F2 in Volume II of the Paper Book which contains the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax, Range II, Kanpur, for assessment year 194849.	None
In paragraph 13 of the jud gment the learned Appellate Assistant Commissioner has observed as under The appreciation of the real nature of the trust would not be complete without referring to its balance sheets and the income and expenditure accounts right from the year of inception of the trust upto the date.	None
I have gone through the income and expenditure accounts of the various years and I find that not a single paisa was ever spent by the trust for charity.	None
The balance sheet of the trust shows that all its funds were mostly employed by the various companies and firms of J.K. Group to whom huge advances were made from time to time.	None
A certain portion of the trust funds was no doubt employed in the construction, maintenance and repairs of quarters which were let out to the employees of J.K. Cotton Spg.	None
Wvg.	None
Mills Co. Ltd. and to other allied concerns like J.K. Jute Mills Company, J.K. Hosiery Factory, J.K. Iron Steel Co. Ltd. and J.K. Cotton Manufacturers Ltd. but all the surplus funds available to the trust were either given over to the various concerns of J.K. Group for the advancement of their business or advanced to J.K. Charitable Trust.	None
From the day to day working of the trust also it is thus quite clear that it ensured for no charitable purposes.	None
Now it must be at once noted that the said observations are made in connection with the assessment proceedings for 1948 49.	None
They would be governed by the Trust Deed as rectified by the first rectification in 1945.	None
Consequently these observations cannot apply to the interpretation of an entirely different set of recitals found in the rectified deed of 1955.	None
Even that apart Shri Verma, learned senior counsel for the assessee has invited our attention to various documents which are on record in Volume I of the Paper Book at pages 21, 28, 176, 179, 183 and 184 to indicate that in fact benefit of the income from the trust was made available not only to workmen of the company but to outside workmen also who resided within Kanpur town.	None
It was also submitted that the aforesaid documents clearly showed that the rent recovered from the workmen who occupied these 160 cottages put up by the settlor company on the trust land was minimal and was highly subsidised as compared to the market rent.	None
That water and electricity were given free to the beneficiaries and a part of the land was also made available to the Municipality to establish a primary school.	None
It was also contended that the income tax appellate tribunal itself had noted in the common judgment from which the references arose, that Appellate Assistant Commissioner had himself conceded that no exorbitant rents were charged from the tenants who occupied the residential quarters in question and in fact the average rent recovered showed that the rents were only nominal.	None
Shri Verma also submitted that the Income Tax Tribunal had noted the contention on behalf of the assessee that as regard s rent charged it was pointed out that the average rent realised from 160 cottages was Rs. 7660/ per annum from 194748 to 196465.	Arguments of Respondent
That amenities of water and electricity were provided free and even the schools were free.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words rent including service and electricity charges work out to less than Rs. 16/ per mensem for the accommodation whose fair market rate in an industrial city like Kanpur would be over Rs. 150/ per mensem.	Arguments of Respondent
This according to assessees counsel shows that cottages were given to poor employees at concessional rent.	None
In our view these contentions on behalf of the assessee are well supported on the evidence on record.	None
It cannot, therefore, be urged that the trustees had indulged in any profit making while employing the income of the trust on the beneficial objects of the Trust Deed and in discharging the obligations with which they were charged under the said Trust Deed.	Reasoning
In fact in fairness it must be stated that Dr Gauri Shankar did not also pursue this aspect any further.	Reasoning
Before parting with the discussion on this aspect we may also mention that at page 410 of the Paper Book Vol.	Reasoning
II a list of tenants not working in J.K. Group of Mills but who are living in Kamla Town Trust quarters, was furnished by the respondentassessee before the Income Tax Tribunal along with the affidavit of one Shri R.B. Somnath, Engineer of the respondenttrust.	Reasoning
This also showed that the beneficiaries of the trust income and properties are not only the workmen of the settlor company but also outside workmen who are residing in Kanpur town being a part and parcel of the general public.	Reasoning
It must, therefore, be held that the rectified Trust Deed of 1955 did create a public charitable trust as rightly held by the High Court.	Reasoning
Contention No. 5, therefore, stands rejected.	None
Contention No. 6 18.  	None
So far as this contention is concerned it is canvassed for the first time before us by Shri Verma, learned senior counsel for the assessee trust for supporting the ultimate answer given by the High Court on Question No. 1 referred for the opinion of the High Court at the instance of the assessee.	None
Shri Verma submitted that leaving aside 1955 second rectifica tion even the original Trust Deed of 1941 as rectified in 1945 did create a public charitable trust.	Arguments of Respondent
The main plank of his argument was based on the following premises1.	Arguments of Respondent
Workmen in general and in particular of the company are also a part and parcel of public and it cannot be said that they are not members of the general public residing in Kanpur.2.	Arguments of Respondent
We have to judge the correct connotation of the term workmen in general in the light of economic and social conditions that prevailed in 1945 when the deed was rectified.	None
According to Shri Verma, construction of residential quarters, chawls or buildings for the workmen in general and in particular for the workmen, staff and other employees of the company or other allied concerns under the management of or in which the Directors of the company may for the time being be interested and for their respective families and dependents and for such other skilled and unskilled workmen craftsmen traders, merchants, technical or professional men whom the trustees may permit to reside or work in the said two plots with a view to supply their needs and requirements or to render them services or to cater to their wants, comforts, conveniences and amenities, as enjoined by clause 2(b)(i) of the Trust Deed as rectified in 1945 would indicate a well defined class out of general members of the public in Kanpur city.	Arguments of Respondent
It is trite to note that workmen as a class would consist of poor and needy persons and it cannot be said that they would be representing an affluent class of society or public who would not be in need of a roof over their head for themselves as well as for their dependents.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, implicit in the said provision is the object of charity for these poor and well defined class of needy persons constituting a part and parcel of the general public residing in Kanpur.	None
On this premises it was submitted that even the 1945 deed did create a public charitable trust.	None
It was also contended that the Tribunal and the High Court had wrongly taken the view that because of the earlier judgment of the Allahabad High Court in J.K. Hosiery Factory (supra), the Trust Deed as rectified in 1945 could not be said to have created a valid public charitable trust.	Arguments of Respondent
That in the proceedings before the Allahabad High Court in the said case respondenttrust was not a party.	Arguments of Respondent
The assessment was of the partnership.	Arguments of Respondent
Even otherwise the said decision could not be binding on parties in the present assessment proceedings pertaining to entirely different years and for entirely different assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Verma relying on a series of decisions of different courts including this Court submitted that if the Trust Deed provides a charitable object for the benefit of a class of public and also gives preference to a smaller class of public which may consist of even the workmen of the settlor company or even the poor and needy relatives of the settlor himself the public charitable nature of the trust does not get whittled down or effaced.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand Dr. Gauri Shankar for the Revenue relying upon number of other judgments including the judgments of Chancery Division of English Court submitted that workmen by themselves cannot be treated to be a poor class of citizens for whom any benefit given under the Trust Deed would necessarily make it a public charitable object and if the trustees under the deed are under an obligation to provide the benefit of the trust properties to the employees of the settlor company itself the company by giving such benefit would in turn be exonerating itself from its otherwise contractual obligation or even statutory obligation of providing welfare facilities and residential facilities to its own workmen who because of these facilities would work more efficiently for the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus there would be quid pro quo between the settlor on the one hand and the beneficiaries, namely, the workmen and employees of the company on the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
That such a provision would detract from real public charitable nature of the endowment.	None
In the light of the aforesaid rival contentions on this issue we shall now proceed to examine this moot question.	None
Before we deal with these rival submissions, it will be profitable to have a look at the relevant recitals in the rectified Trust Deed of 1945.	None
Clause 2(b)(i) of the Deed of Trust after the said rectification dated 18.8.1945 laid down amongst others, the following object To erect, establish, equip, furnish, fit, maintain and repair on the said two plots of land and any other land that may hereafter be acquired by the Trustees on behalf of the Trust.(i) residential quarters, chawls or buildings for the workmen in general and in particular for the workmen staff and other employees of the company or other allied concerns under the management of or in which the Directors of the company may for the time being be interest ed and for their respective families and dependents and for such other skilled and unskilled workmen craftsmen traders merchants technical or professional men whom the trustees may permit to reside or work in the said two plots with a view to supply their needs and requirements or to render them services or to cater to their wants comforts conveniences and amenities.	None
Shri Verma submitted that if workmen in general represent a poor and needy class of persons who are a part and parcel of the general public residing in Kanpur, as residential quarters, chawls or buildings had to be constructed in Kanpur, then even if a preference is given to similarly needy and poor workmen staff members or the other employees of the company it could not be said that only because of such preference the charitable aspect of the endowment would get frustrated or would become a private trust.	Arguments of Respondent
In order to support his contention Shri Verma invited our attention to a decision of this Court in the case of Trustees of the Charity Fund v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bombay 1959 (36) ITR 513.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the clause in the Deed of Trust provided for grant of relief and benefit to the poor and indigent members of Jewish community or any other community of Bombay or other parts of Idea or of the world and preference was to be given to the poor and indigent relations or members of the family of the settlor Sir Sassoon David.	None
It was held that despite such preference the trust would remain a public charitable trust.	None
Relying on subclause (a) to (f) of clause 13 of the Deed of Trust it was held that the deed constituted a valid public charitable trust and as the relations or members of Sir Sassoon David did not figure as direct recipients of any benefits under subclauses (b) to (f) and the circumstance that in selecting the beneficiaries under subclause (a) preference had to be given under the provisos to the relations or members of the family of Sir Sassoon David could not affect that public charitable trust, the income from the properties came within the scope of Section 4(3) (i) of the Income Tax Act and were exempt.	None
Reliance was also placed on number of other de cisions of various High Courts which obviously fell in line with the aforesaid decision of this Court and which had taken the view that if the main benefit of the settled property in trust had to go to charity, if the trustees were permitted to give preference to poor relations of the settlors the trust would remain a public charitable trust.	None
In this connection our attention was invited to the decisions of Gujarat High Court in Commissioner of IncomeTax v. Moosa Haji Ahmed and others 1964 (52) ITR 147.	None
Calcutta High Court in Commissioner of IncomeTax, Calcutta v. Board of Mutwallis to the Wakf Estate, Ebrahim Solaiman Saleji 1968 (69) ITR 758 and three decisions of Bombay High Court in Commissioner of IncomeTax.	None
Bomb ay City II v. Trustees of Seth Meghji Mathuradas Charity Trsut 1959 (37) ITR 419 Commissioner of WealthTax, Bombay City II v. Trustees of the J.P. Pardiwala Charity Trust 1965 (58) ITR 46 and Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bombay city III v. D.D.	None
Deshpande 1976 (102) ITR 390.	None
On the other hand Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for the Revenue submitted that as the benefit is made available under the Trust Deed to workmen in general and in particular to the workmen staff and other employees of the company it cannot necessarily be held that these workmen must be poor and needy as no such words are found in the clause.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that any Trust Deed conferring benefit on an identified group of persons like workmen or employees of the company would make the trust a private trust and not a public charitable trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this contention he heavily relied upon decision of the Madras High Court in Sakthi Charities v. Commissioner of IncomeTax, Madras 1984 (149) ITR 624.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case it was held agreeing with the view of the Tribunal that as the Trust Deed provided for conferring benefit only on the employees of M s Sakthi Sugar Ltd. and the relatives of the deceased employees, the said benefits could not be available to the members of the general public not connected with M s Sakthi Sugar Ltd.	None
Consequently all these clauses were not charitable in nature.	None
Our attention was also invited by Dr. Gauri Shankar to two decisions of the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice in England in Trustees of the William Vernon Sons, Ltd. Employees Fund v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue 36 Tax Cases (Chancery Division) 484 and in Ashworth v. Drummond 1914 (2) C hancery Division 90.	None
In Trustees of the William Vernon (supra) the question was whether a bequest under the will directing 20 of the received moneys to be paid to some organisation or charity at the discretion of the executors for the benefit of employees of the firm would constitute a public charitable endowment.	None
It was held that the objects of the scheme were not charitable only.	None
Justice Upjohn at page 495 of the Report observed as under Thirty years ago it was not always appreciated that in order to constitute a valid charitable trust it must be a public trust, and that if a trust is limited to the employees of a company the personal nexus constituted by that common employment does not satisfy the necessary test of the character of publicity.	None
That is now well established, and it was established in a line of authorities after the last war culminating in Oppenheim v. Tobacco Securities Co., Ltd. in the House of Lords in 1951.	None
Therefore, it is common ground that the scheme does not constitute valid charitable trusts In Re Drummond (supra) it was held that work people in question could not be regarded as poor people within the statute of Elizabeth.	None
In our view the aforesaid decisions of English Chancery Courts cannot ipso facto be made applicable to workmen residing in this country and who had to face entirely different socioeconomic conditions, especially in 1945, when the rectified object of the Trust Deed saw the light of the day.	None
While interpreting the word workmen in general as employed in 1945 rectified Trust Deed, we have to sit in settlors arm chair with a view to visualizing what was meant by the Settlor Company when it used these terms in 1945, keeping in view the then prevalent socioeconomic conditions in this country.	Reasoning
It is easy to visualise that workmen who were to toil for their existence would necessarily represent a class of needy persons requiring a shelter over their he ad, when the settlor company in 1945 contemplated to construct residential quarters, chawls or buildings for workmen it necessarily meant to provide these facilities for a needy class of persons who could legitimately be presumed to be a class of downtrodden persons suffering from penury and want.	Reasoning
The socioeconomic situation prevailing in England treating workmen as not necessarily poor, cannot almost automatically be imported and applied for judging the economic status of working class in India especially in 1945 when even the definition of workmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 had also still to see the light of the day.	Reasoning
We, therefore, cannot agree with the general proposition canvassed by Dr. Gauri Shankar for the Revenue that any provision made for the benefit of workmen in general would not necessarily be a provision for needy or poor class of citizens who may be forming part of the general public.	Reasoning
Shri Verma, learned senior counsel for respondent assessee was also right when he submitted, relying upon decision of this Court in Trustees of the Charity Fund (supra) and other decisions of the High Courts to which we have made a reference earlier, that when an y property is settled for charitable purposes for catering to the needs of a class of public which is poor and needy, any preference given to poor and needy workmen of the settlor company would not necessarily detract from the charitable object underlying such bequest or settlement.	Reasoning
It is trite to observe that if settlors poor relatives can legitimately be the recipients of charitable benefits under a public charitable trust, then if such preference is given to poor workmen of the settlor company who are not even related to the settlor, they would stand at least on an equal if not a better footing and in no eventuality on a worse footing, in judging the public charitable nature of the settlement in their favour.	Reasoning
However, the basic fact must remain that the settlement is made in favour of a well earmarked class of needy and poor persons who may form a part of the general public and for whom such charitable bequest or endowment is made, and the preferred class of beneficiaries must form a part and parcel of that very general earmarked class.	Reasoning
It must, therefore, be held that the provision for construction of houses for workmen in general as found in clause 2(b)(i) of 1945 rectified Deed, so far as it went, did constitute a charitable object.	Reasoning
However, this conclusion of ours does not end the controversy centering round the aforesaid clause.	None
There are two clear hurdles in the way of Shri Verma for the respondent which militat e against his submission that the said clause when read as a whole does create a public charitable trust in favour of workmen in general.	Reasoning
The first hurdle is that the term workmen in general as employed in the clause is too general and vague but even assuming that in the context of the residential quarters, chawls or buildings to be constructed for them on the lands situated at Kanpur which are settled in trust by the Settlor Company, it would refer to workmen in Kanpur town, even then the more substantial hurdle in the way of the respondent is projected by the fact that there is an obligation cast on the trustees to construct these residential quarters, chawls or buildings in particular for the workmen, staff and other employees of the company or other allied concerns under the management of and in which the directors of the company may for the time being be interested and for their respective families and dependents.	Reasoning
In the light of the words in particular as found in this clause, Dr. Gauri Shankar, learned senior counsel for Revenue rightly submitted, that they represent a scheme of priority for workmen of the Settlor Company and not a scheme of preference.	Reasoning
In other words the trustees are bound under an obligation to construct residential quarters etc.	Reasoning
first for the workmen or employees of the Settlor Company or its allied concerns.	Reasoning
They have no choice in the matter.	Reasoning
They cannot in their discretion select an outside workman as recipient of the benefit under the scheme of the Trust Deed.	Reasoning
In effect the general class of beneficiaries constituted by the words workmen in general gets whittled down and circumscribed by the words in particular for workmen of the company etc	Reasoning
Thus in substance it becomes a trust for the benefit of a well defined smaller class of beneficiaries, namely, employees or workmen of the company and its allied concerns and it fails to meet the requirement of a genuine or public or charitable trust.	Reasoning
We are in agreement with this submission of Dr. Gauri Shankar.	Reasoning
Once such an obligation is cast on the trustees the public character of the endowment gets whittled down and in substance becomes the settlement for an identified group of persons.	Reasoning
In this connection we may profitably refer to a Division Bench judgment of the Bombay High Court in the case of Commissioner of IncomeTax, Bombay City II v. Walchand Diamond Jubilee Trust 1958 (34) ITR 228 wherein Chagla, C.J., spoke for the Bench.	Reasoning
In that case the question was whether the provision made in Trust Deed to utilise the accumulated income of the property of the trust on charitable objects like giving scholarships to deserving students or giving medical relief s of the nature and kind such as starting maternity homes etc., or giving monetary help to the poor and needy persons and for providing relief to the poor and distressed in time of famine would get adversely affected and would cease to be a charitable object if preference was to be given to such persons as are eligible under the aforesaid provisions who are at the time or have in the past been employees of Premier Construction Co. Ltd. and of the associated companies and their relative s and dependents as the trustees may in their discretion think expedient and proper.	Reasoning
In this connection the following pertinent observations were made by Chief Justice Chagla at page 236 of the Report Now, undoubtedly, we would have taken a different view of this trust if there was an obligation upon the trustees to prefer the employees.	None
In other words, if the other members of the public were postponed to the employees of the Premier Construction Co. Ltd., then, looking to t he other provisions of the deed, we might easily have taken the view that the main purpose of the trust was to benefit the employees and the charity to the public was merely illusory.	None
But there is no obligation cast upon the trustees by this pro viso to prefer the employees of	None
the Premier Construction Co. Ltd.	None
It is for the trustees to exercise their discretion.	None
In the first place, they have to utilise the income for carrying out the four objects, and any member of the public who comes within these four objects would be qualified to receive the bounty of the settlor.	None
If a member of the public also happens to be an employee of the Premier Construction Co. Ltd., it is open to the trustees to give him preference.	None
Therefore, the trustees would not be guilty of committing any breach of trust if they selected for the bounty of the settlor such members of the public as did not fall in the category of employees of	None
the Premier Construction Co. Ltd.	None
That is the re al test which we have got to apply.	None
We must not assume that the trustees will exercise their discretion dishonestly or improperly.	None
The test is whether the exercise of the discretion of the trustees is so fettered that they are bound t	None
o	None
select particular persons in preference to others.	None
That is clearly not the case here In our view aforesaid is the correct test evolved by the High Court.	None
Applying the said test to the clause in question we find that though residential quarters, chawls or buildings are to be constructed for the workmen in general and who, as we have already shown earlier, may be a well defined class of workmen residing in Kanpur and who may be poor and needy in the light of their socioeconomic conditions as prevailed in 1945 when the clause was drafted, once we turn to the second part of this clause which lays down in clearest terms that in particular the quarters are to be constructed for the workmen staff and other employees of the company and of its allied concerns, it becomes clear that no discretion is left with the trustees and on the contrary they are enjoined, called upon and under an obligation to construct these quarters, chawls and buildings necessrily for the workmen, staff and other employees of the company and its allies.	Reasoning
It is also easy to visualise that other employees of the company may include even affluent employees who may not necessarily constitute an object of charity .	Reasoning
Once this conclusion flows from the wording of the clause, it becomes clear that reference to workmen in general becomes illusory and the settlement can be said to be in substance meant only for catering to the needs of a well defined group of persons, namely, workmen, staff and other employees of the company and its allied concerns and in that case on the aforesaid ratio of the decision of the Bombay High Court, which we approve, the object clause in question would fall short of creating any public charitable trust.	Reasoning
In this connection we may also refer to two decisions, one of Calcutta High Court and another of Allahabad High Court, to which our attention was drawn by Dr. Gauri Shankar for the Revenue.	Reasoning
In the case of Mercantile Bank of India (Agency), Ltd., (supra) a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court speaking through Derbyshire, C.J., held that in order to constitute a valid charitable trust it should be for the benefit of the public or the specified section of it.	Reasoning
A fluctuating body of private individuals such as the present and future officers and members of the staff and other employees of a company could not be a part of the general public or of any section of the public and therefore the income of the trust fund was not exempt from the payment of incometax under Section 4(3)(i).	Reasoning
It was further observed that Andrew Yule Co. Ltd., and their subsidiary concerns for whose employees benefit was conferred under the deed employed a large number of persons.	Reasoning
The trust was for the benefit of the past, present and future officers, members of the staff and other employees of those concerns.	Reasoning
Anyone from the Secretary or some other highly paid member of the staff down to the lowest menial may be included within the benefit of this fund.	Reasoning
Necessitous circumstances might include the case of a superior employee earning some thousands of rupees per month, who owing to some misfortune  say the burning down of his house, or the loss of his property  might find himself suddenly in Necessitous circumstances, and in need of money to replace his lost property.	Reasoning
The learned Judge could see no reason why the administrators of the fund should not be in a position to make a grant to such a person to make up his loss.	Reasoning
It might be a most desirable thing to do and the administrators might justly think that they had used some of the funds to the best advantage.	Reasoning
But such use cannot be said to be for the relief of poverty.	Reasoning
Even if (as had been argued)	Reasoning
the administrators are bound to use this fund solely to relieve persons suffering from indigence, illhealth or other Necessitous circumstances, it was impossible to say that the fund is  to use the words of the section  property held in trust wholly for charitable purposes.	Reasoning
A Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court in the case of J.K. Hosiery Factory (supra) had an occasion to consider the very same clause of the rectified deed of 1945.It is of course true that the said decision was rendered in assessment proceedings of the firm wherein respondent assessee was a partner and not in the assessment proceedings of the respondent firm itself.	Reasoning
Still the interpretation placed on the very same Trust Deed as rectified in 1945 in proceedings to which respondentassessee was a party in another capacity cannot be said to be totally irrelevant.	None
H.N. Seth, J., speaking for the Division Bench made the following observations in this connection We are doubtful whether the construction of residential colony for workmen in general can be regarded as an object of public charity.	None
While enabling the trustees to construct residential quarters, etc ., for the benefit of the workmen in general, the settlor made it clear that such buildings were not to be constructed for the benefit of the public in general.	None
The expression workmen in general does not fix a definite class of public which is in tended to be benefited under the deed.	None
What types of employees or workers can be said to be covered by this expression is not at all clear.	None
Moreover, the precise language used by the settlor is to erect residential quarters, etc., for the w orkmen in general and in particular for the workmen, staff and other employees of the company or other allied concerns under the management of .	None
This shows that the expression workmen in general was not intended to mean merely poor labourers.	None
The expression was intended to cover even such classes of persons who might be employed in any concern in any capacity whatsoever and who may be drawing high salaries.	None
Making a provision for constructing residential quarters, etc., for the benefit of the employees irrespective of whether they are poor or not, can hardly be said to be a charitable object or a work of general public utility.	None
As we have discussed earlier the term workmen in general when read in the context socioeconomic situation prevailing in 1945 in this country and when also considered in the context of construction of residential quarters, chawls or buildings in Kanpur may partake the character of a well defined class of workmen in Kanpur city who ma y be poor and needy, still as the trustees are enjoined to construct residential quarters, Chawls or buildings in particular for the workmen, staff and other employees of the company it follows that other employees of the company who are the beneficiaries may not necessarily be poor or needy or affluent.	Arguments of Respondent
We, therefore, concur with the second part of the reasoning of Allahabad High Court in the aforesaid judgment though we are not in a position to subscribe to the general proposition that construction of residential colonies for workmen in general cannot by itself be regarded as an object of public charity.	Reasoning
As a result of the aforesaid discussion, therefore, it must be held that rectified clause 2(b)(i) of 1945 deed fell short of projecting an object of a public charitable nature and it could not be said that under the rectified deed of 1945 the trust properties were held by respondenttrust wholly for religious or charitable purposes.	Reasoning
It is of course true that rest of the subclauses of clause 2(b) did refer to charitable objects but as one of the objects was not of a public charitable nature it could not be held that the entire trust was wholly for religious or charitable purposes.	Reasoning
Now is left the consideration of one submission of Shri Verma, learned senior counsel for the Respondent who relied upon Explanation to subsection (3) of Section 4 of 1922 Act which read as under In this subsection charitable purpose includes relief of the poor, education, medical relief and advancement of any other object of general public utility, but nothing contained in clause (i) or clause (ii) shall operate to exempt from the provisions of this Act that part of the income from property held under a trust or other legal obligation for private religious purposes which does not ensure for the benefit of the public.	None
In our view the said Explanation cannot be of any avil to the respondentassessee so far as the rectified deed of 1945 is concerned.	None
The emphasis in the Explanation is on charitable objects of general public utility like relief of poor, education, medical relief and advancement of any other object of general public utility.	Reasoning
Once it is held that clause 2(b)(i) of 1945 rectification deed imposed an obligation on the trustees to utilise the trust property for the benefit of the settlor companys own workmen and employees, it would cease to be projecting an object of providing relief to poor workmen only.	Reasoning
Nor would it advance any other object of general public utility but would be confined to the utility of a well defined class of employees and workmen of the settlor company and its allied concerns only.	Reasoning
For all these reasons, therefore, it is not possible to accept the submission of Shri Verma, learned senior counsel for respondentassessee based on this Explanation.	Reasoning
This contention, therefore, stands rejected.	Reasoning
Conclusions 31.  	None
The aforesaid decisions on the contentions canvassed on behalf of the rival contesting parties by their learned senior advocates, yield the following result (i) For assessment years 194950 to 195556 the respondent assessee would not be entitled to get the benefit o f Section 4(3)(i) of the 1922 Act and income derived by it from its properties would not get exemption from income tax under the said provision.	Decision
(ii) For the assessment years 195657 to 196162 the income derived by the respondentassessee from trust properties during these years will get exempted under Section 4(3)(i) of 1922 Act as the 1955 rectified Trust Deed is held by us to be having objects of wholly charitable nature.	Decision
(iii) For the assessment years 196263 to 196566 the income derived rom trust properties by the respondenttrust will be entitled to exemption from income tax under Section 11 of the 1961 Act subject to the compliance with the conditions laid down therein as even during this period the rectified Trust Deed of 1955 as interpreted by us will be treated to have held the field.	Decision
Final Order In the light of the aforesaid discussion and the conclusions to which we have reached the questions referred for opinion of the High Court will stand answered as under Questions referred at the instance of the assessee in ITR No. 18/73 Question No. 1 Answered in the affirmative in favour of the Revenue and against the a ssessee.	Decision
Question No. 2 Answered in the affirmative in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee as the answer of the High Court on this question was not supported by the learned counsel for the respondent.	Decision
Question referred at the instance of Revenue in ITR No. 715/72	Decision
Question	Decision
No. (a) Answered in the affirmative in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue as answer of the High Court was not challenged before us by learned counsel for the Revenue.	Decision
Question No. (b) Answered in the negative in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue as the answer of the High Court was not challenged by learned counsel for t he appellantrevenue.	Decision
Question No. (c) Answered in the affirmative in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue as the answer of the High Court was not challenged by learned counsel for the Revenue.	Decision
Question No. (d)  Answered in the negative in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	Decision
Question No. (e) Answered in the negative in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	Decision
In the result, out of these 17 appeals fil ed by the Revenue seven appeals pertaining to assessment years 194950 to 195556 will stand allowed while Revenues remaining ten appeals pertaining to assessment years 195657 to 196566 will stand dismissed.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the ca se there will be no order as to costs in these appeals.	Decision
