 C. Agrawal,	None
J. These appeals filed by the assessee raise common questions for consideration.	Issue
Civil Appeals Nos. 33333334 of 1981 relating to asst.	Issue
yrs.	Facts
196768 and 196869 have been filed against the judgment of the Madras High Court dt.	Issue
28th	Issue
November, 1978 in Tax Case No. 116 of 1974 on the basis of certificate of fitness granted by the High Court under s. 261 of the IT Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Incometax Act,).	Issue
In these appeals the High Court has answered against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue the following question referred to by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred as the Tribunal) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal is right in law in holding that the sums of Rs. 47,055 and Rs. 89,324 transferred to the Development Reserve Account for the asst.	Issue
yrs.	Facts
196768 and 196869 respectively were not to be deducted in arriving at the taxable profits of the assesseecompany ?	None
Civil Appeals Nos. 261314 of 1984 have been filed against the judgment of the Madras High Court dt.	None
6th February, 1978 reported as Addl.	Issue
CIT vs. Vellore Electric Corporation Ltd. 1979 119 ITR 523 (Mad) on the basis of certificate of fitness granted by the High Court under s. 261 of the IT Act.	Issue
In these appeals, which relate to asst. yrs. 196970 and 197071, the High Court has answered against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue the following questions referred by the Tribunal Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is entitled to deduction of Rs. 55,703 and Rs. 30,104 contributed by it for the Contingencies Reserve for the asst.	Issue
yrs.	Facts
196970 and 197071 respectively ?	Issue
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is entitled to the deduction of Rs. 98,676 and Rs. 18,735 transferred by it to the Development Reserve account and to the Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve account respectively for the asst.	Issue
yr. 196970 and Rs. 68,288 transferred by it to the Development Reserve account for the asst.	Issue
yr. 197071 ?	Issue
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in view of the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, the assessee is entitled to relief under s. 80I not only in respect of business income but also in respect of income derived by it from investments in securities ?	Issue
The assessee is a public limited company having a licence under the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (hereinafter referred to as the Electricity Supply Act) to distribute power in the Vellore and Ranipet areas.	Facts
In view of s. 57 of the Electricity Supply Act r w Sixth Sch.	Facts
to the said Act, the assessee was required to set apart a part of its profits for reserves known as Contingencies Reserve, Development Reserve, and Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve.	Facts
Under the Sixth Sch.	Facts
to the Electricity Supply Act the assessee was required to invest the sums appropriated in the Contingencies Reserve in securities authorised under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.	Facts
In respect of the asst. yrs.	Facts
196768 and 196869 the assessee claimed deduction of the sums of Rs. 91,715 and Rs.	Facts
1,39,781 in respect of the amounts transferred by the assessee to the Contingencies Reserve and Development Reserve.	Facts
The ITO while making the assessment disallowed the said deductions and added the said amounts in the income of the assessee.	Facts
On appeal, the AAC allowed certain deductions but did not consider the question of excluding the amounts transferred to the Contingencies Reserve and Development Reserve.	Facts
On further appeal, the Tribunal disallowed the claim of the assessee with regard to Development Reserve but held that the assessee was entitled to succeed in respect of the claim relating to Contingencies Reserve.	Facts
The Tribunal referred to the High Court for its opinion the question above mentioned in respect of asst.	Facts
yrs.	Facts
196768 and 196869 regarding deductibility of the sums transferred to the Development Reserve.	Facts
On the basis of its earlier judgment in the Vellore Electricity Corporation Ltd. vs. Union of India 1977 109 ITR 454 (Mad) concerning the asst.	Facts
yr. 196667 in respect of the same assessee the High Court held that the assessee could not claim deduction in respect of Development Reserve and the question referred was answered against the assessee.	Facts
In the asst.	Facts
yr. 196970 there was appropriation of Rs. 55,703 to the Contingencies Reserve, Rs. 98,676 to the Development Reserve and Rs. 18,735 to the Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve.	Facts
In the asst.	Facts
yr. 197071 there was appropriation of Rs. 30,104 to the Contingencies Reserve and Rs. 62,288 to the Development Reserve.	Facts
The assessee also claimed deduction at the rate of 8 per cent under s. 80I of the Act on Rs. 17,791 and Rs. 14,741 being the interest received by the assessee on Government securities during the asst.	Facts
yrs.	Facts
196970 and 197071	Facts
in respect of amounts in the Contingencies Reserve which are required to be invested in such securities under the provisions of the Electricity Supply Act.	Facts
The said claim of the assessee was dismissed by the ITO and the AAC.	Facts
The Tribunal, on further appeal, allowed the claim of the assessee in respect of appropriation of sums to the Contingencies Reserve, but rejected the claim for deduction of the amounts appropriated to the Development Reserve and Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve.	Facts
The Tribunal also allowed the claim of the assessee under s. 80I of the Act.	Facts
In respect of the asst. yrs. 196970 and 197071 the three questions mentioned above were referred by the Tribunal to the High Court for its opinion.	Facts
By its judgment dt.	Facts
6th February, 1978, the High Court answered question Nos. 1 and 2 in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee on the basis of its earlier judgment in Vellore Electric Corporation Ltd. (supra) in respect of asst.	Facts
yr. 196667.	Facts
As regards question No. 3 the High Court has held that the interest received on investments of the sums in the Contingencies Reserve could not be considered profit of the company attributable to the business of the assessee which alone could be taken into account for the purpose of s. 80I of the Act and, therefore, the assessee was not entitled to claim any deduction under s. 80I.	Facts
Therefore, the third question was also answered against the assessee.	Facts
These appeals broadly involve following two questions Is the assessee entitled to claim deduction in respect of sums transferred to the Contingencies Reserve, Development Reserve and Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve ?	Issue
Is the assessee entitled to deduction under s. 80I on the interest received on the amounts transferred to the Contingencies Reserve which were invested in Government securities ?	Issue
As indicated earlier, the assessee is a licensee under the Electricity Supply Act for the purpose of distribution of power.	Reasoning
Under s. 57 of the Electricity Supply Act the provisions of the Sixth Sch. are deemed to be incorporated in the licence of a licensee, not being a local authority and the licensee is required to comply with the provisions of the said Schedule.	Reasoning
The Sixth Sch. contains the financial principles and their application.	Reasoning
It makes provisions for creation of the following reserves by the licensee Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve Paragraph II(1) Consumers Rebate Reserve Paragraph II(4) Contingencies Reserve (Paragraphs III, IV V) Development Reserve (Paragraph VA).	None
In Poona Electric Supply Co. Ltd. vs. CIT 1965 57 ITR 521 (SC) this Court has laid that the amounts credited to the Consumers Rebate Reserve account did not form part of the real profits of the appellantcompany and in order to arrive at the taxable income of the appellantcompany from business under s. 10(1) of the Indian IT Act, 1922, the said amounts had to be deducted.	Reasoning
As regards Contingencies Reserve, there was difference of opinion among the various High Courts.	Reasoning
The High Courts of Madras Vellore Electric Corpn.	Reasoning
Ltd. (supra) and Calcutta CIT vs.	Reasoning
Sijua (Jharriah) Electric Supply Co. Ltd.	Reasoning
1984 145 ITR 740 (Cal) had taken the view that deduction could not be claimed in respect of the amounts appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve.	Reasoning
The High Courts of Kerala Cochin State Power Light Corpn. Ltd. vs. CIT 1974 93 ITR 582 (Ker) Bombay Amalgamated Electricity Co. Ltd. vs. CIT 1974 97 ITR 334 (Bom) and Patna Darbhanga Laheriasari Electric Supply Corpn.	Reasoning
Ltd. vs. CIT 1979 117 ITR 516 (Patna) had taken a contrary view and had held that deduction could be claimed in respect of the amounts appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve.	Reasoning
For the purpose of wealthtax, the Bombay High Court in CWT vs. Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Ltd. 1976 103 ITR 384 (Bom) , had held the amount standing to the credit of the Contingencies Reserve is a part of the assets belonging to the assessee and is includible in the net wealth of the assessee and is chargeable to wealthtax.	Reasoning
This conflict in the views of the High Courts with regard to taxability of the amounts appropriated to Contingencies Reserve was resolved by this Court in Associated Power Co. Ltd. vs. CIT 1996 218 ITR 195 (SC) wherein the decisions of the High Courts of Madras and Calcutta referred to above have been approved and the decisions of the High Courts of Kerala and Bombay mentioned above have been overruled.	Reasoning
It has been held that Contingencies Reserve is to be created from existing reserves or from the revenues of the undertaking which indicates that the monies which have to be put into the Contingencies Reserve reach the electricity company and it is the electricity company which has to invest the sums appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve.	Reasoning
It has been pointed out that contingencies Reserve differs from Consumers Benefit Reserve since the amount appropriated in the Consumers Benefit Reserve has to be returned to the consumers and it is as if the electricity company had not received that amount which it is obliged to return and that the position is altogether different in the case of monies standing to the credit of the Contingencies Reserve which are set apart to be utilised by the electricity company for the purposes set out in paragraph V of the Sixth Sch.	Reasoning
to the Electricity Supply Act which are the expenses which the electricity company has to incur and that the reservation is made so that money is always available for meeting these expenses and the supply of electricity is not interrupted.	Reasoning
It was held that the monies in the Contingencies Reserve belong to the electricity company.	Reasoning
In view of the decision of this Court in Associated Power Co. Ltd. (supra), it must be held that question No. 1 in Civil Appeals Nos. 261314 of 1984 relating to Contingencies Reserve has been rightly answered against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue by the High Court.	Reasoning
We may now come to Development Reserve and Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve.	None
In respect of Development Reserve the following provisions are contained in paragraph VA of the Sixth Sch.	None
to the Electricity Supply Act VA(1)	None
Their shall be created a reserve to be called the Development Reserve to which shall be appropriated in respect of each accounting year a sum equal to the amount of incometax and supertax calculated at rates applicable during the assessment year for which the accounting year of the licensee is the previous year, on the amount of investment allowances to which the licensee is entitled for the accounting year under s. 32A of the IT Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)	None
Provided that if in any accounting year, the clear profit excluding the special appropriation to be made under item (va) of cl.	None
(c) of subparagraph (2) of paragraph XVII together with the accumulations, if any, in the Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve less the sum calculated as aforesaid falls short of the reasonable return, the sum to be appropriated to the Development Reserve in respect of such accounting year shall be reduced by the amount of the shortfall.	None
Any sum to be appropriated towards the Development Reserve in respect of any accounting year and under subparagraph (1), may be appropriated in annual installments spread over a period not exceeding five years from the commencement of that assessment year.	None
The Development Reserve shall be available only for investment in the business of electricity supply of the undertaking.	None
On the purchase of the undertaking, the Development Reserve shall be handed over to the purchaser and maintained as such Development Reserve Provided that where the undertaking is purchased by the Board or the State Government, the amount of the Reserve whether such amount is in the form of cash or other assets may be deducted from the price payable to the licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Paragraph VA was inserted by Act 101 of 1956 w.e.f. 1st April, 1857.	None
Prior to that by Finance Act, 1955 provision for allowances by way of development rebate was incorporated in s. 10(2)(vi)(b) of the Indian IT Act, 1922 but such rebate was allowable only if an amount equal to 75 per cent of it was debited to the PL a c for the relevant previous year and credited to a reserve account to be utilised by the assessee during a period of ten years next following for the purpose of the undertaking except for distribution by way of profits or by way of remittances outside India as profits or the creation of any asset outside India.	None
This obligation did not extend to a case where the assessee was a company, being a licensee within the meaning of the Electricity Supply Act.	None
Therefore, a separate provision was made by amending the Sixth Sch.	None
to the Electricity Supply Act for the creation of a Development Reserve.	None
Development Reserve required to be created under paragraph VA of the Sixth Sch.	None
to the Electricity Supply Act is directly related to the Development Rebate being equal to the incometax and the supertax payable on such rebate.	None
The Kerala High Court in Cochin State Power Light Corpn.	None
Ltd. (supra) has made a distinction between Development Reserve and Contingencies Reserve and, while holding that the amounts appropriated to Contingencies Reserve must be deducted, it held that the amounts appropriated to Development Rebate could not be deducted.	None
The High Court has said We will now take up the case of development reserve provided under paragraph VA of the Sixth Sch.	None
This, as we have already pointed out, is of the same character as the 75 per cent of the development rebate which the assessee was bound to plough back into the business of the undertaking under the proviso to s. 10(2)(vi)(b) of the IT Act, 1922.	None
It cannot be said that the amount is expended by the assessee nor could it be said that it is lost to the assessee to an overriding obligation.	None
The development reserve is still available to the assessee with the only limitation that it is so available only for investment in the business of the electricity supply undertaking.	None
There is no restriction as to the scope of investment of the amount nor reserved in any particular manner.	None
Even the sum to be so appropriated towards the development reserve in respect of any accounting year could not be appropriated in annual installments spread over for a period not exceeding five years.	None
The benefit of the amount so set apart as reserve is available to the assessee directly.	None
It could be applied by him as he pleases as investment in the business of the electricity supply undertaking.	None
Development Reserve was held to be different from Contingencies Reserve for the reason that while in Contingencies Reserve there is diversion of the revenue, there is no such diversion in Development Reserve.	Reasoning
The Madras High Court in Vellore Electric Corpn.	Reasoning
(supra), has disagreed with the view of the Kerala High Court in Cochin State Powers Light Corpn.	None
Ltd. (supra) as regards the deductibility of the amounts appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve but has agreed with the view of the Kerala High Court with regard to Development Reserve.	None
According to the Madras High Court, there is no difference between the two revenues and, referring to the decision of the Kerala High Court in this regard, it has been observed As a matter of fact, the very tests that the learned Judges applied for holding that the Development Reserve cannot be deducted, will apply to the Contingencies reserve also.	None
The view that there is diversion of Revenue in Contingencies Reserve has not been accepted by this Court in Associated Power Co. Ltd. (supra).	None
Shri Harish Salve, the learned senior counsel appearing for the assessee, has urged that under the Sixth Sch.	Arguments of Petitioner
there is difference between Development Reserve under paragraph VA(1) and Contingencies Reserve under paragraphs III, IV and V.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel has laid stress on the difference in the language used in subpara (2) of paragraph V relating to Contingencies Reserve and subpara (4) of paragraph VA relating to Development Reserve.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subpara (2) of paragraph V and subpara (4) of paragraph VA provided as follows V(2).	Arguments of Petitioner
On the purchase of the undertaking the Contingencies Reserve, after deduction of the amounts drawn under subparagraph (1), shall be handed over to the purchaser and maintained as such Contingencies Reserve Provided that where the undertaking is purchased by the Board or the State Government, the amount of the Reserve computed as above shall, after further deduction of the amount of compensation, if any, payable to the employees of the outgoing licensee under any law for the time being in force, be handed over to the Board or the State Government, as the case may be.	Arguments of Petitioner
VA(4).	Arguments of Petitioner
On the purchase of the undertaking, the Development Reserve shall be handed over to the purchaser and maintained as such Development Reserve Provided that where the undertaking is purchased by the Board or the State Government, the amount of the Reserve whether such amount is in the form of cash or other assets may be deducted from the price payable to the licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
A perusal of the said provisions would indicate that the main part of the subpara (2) of Paragraph V and subpara (4) of paragraph VA are practically the same.	Reasoning
There is difference in the proviso to the said provisions.	Reasoning
Under the proviso to subpara (2) of paragraph V where the undertaking is purchased by the State Electricity Board or the State Government the amount of the Contingencies Reserve after further deduction of the amount of compensation, if any, payable to the employees the outgoing licensee under any law for the time being in force, has to be handed over to the Electricity Board or the State Government as the case may be.	Reasoning
Under the proviso to subpara (4) of paragraph VA where the undertaking is purchased by the State Electricity Board or the State Government the amount of Development Reserve has to be deducted from the price payable to the licensee.	Reasoning
This difference in the two provisions does not, in our opinion, mean that the amounts appropriated to Development Reserve were not part of the real profit of the electricity company.	Reasoning
Like Contingencies Reserve, Development Reserve also belonged to the electricity company and it had the use of it.	Reasoning
The Contingencies Reserve is meant to be utilised by the electricity company to meet the expenses or recoup loss of profits arising out of accidents, strikes or other circumstances which the electricity company could not have promoted or to meet the expenses on replacement or renewal of plant or works or for payment of compensation required by law for which no other provision has been made.	Reasoning
Development Reserve is meant for investment in the business of electricity supply of the undertaking.	Reasoning
On the purchase of the undertaking Contingencies Reserve, as well as Development Reserve have to be handed over to the purchaser and have to be maintained as Contingencies Reserve and Development Reserve as the case may be, in view of the main part of subpara (2) of paragraph V and subpara (4) of paragraph VA.	Reasoning
Under the proviso to subpara (2) of paragraph V where the undertaking is purchased by the Electricity Board or the State Government the amount of Contingencies Reserve, after the deduction of the amount of compensation, if any, payable to the employees of the outgoing licensee, is to be handed over to the Electricity Board or the State Government, as the case may be.	Reasoning
Under subpara (4) of paragraph VA the amount of Development Reserve, instead of being handed over to the Electricity Board or the State Government, can be deducted from the price payable to the licensee.	Reasoning
Both the provisions achieve the same result, viz., the Reserve being available to the State Electricity Board or the State Government.	Reasoning
The difference in the language in the provisos in subpara (2) of paragraph V and subpara (4) of paragraph VA may be due to the fact that the liability for the payment of compensation payable to the employees of the outgoing licensee would be of the licensee and the said liability has to be met out of the Contingencies Reserve in view of paragraph V(1)(c) of the Sixth Sch.	Reasoning
and the amount of Contingencies Reserve is to be handed over after deducting the amount of compensation so payable by the licensee.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no difference between Development Reserve and Contingencies Reserve and the High Court, in the impugned judgment, has rightly held that the amount appropriated towards Development Reserve could not be deducted.	Reasoning
Provisions regarding Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve are contained in subparas (1), (2) and (3) of paragraph II of the Sixth Sch.	Reasoning
The said provisions are practically in the same terms as those contained in paragraph VA relating to Development Reserve.	Reasoning
Subpara (2) of paragraph II requires that the Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve shall be available for disposal by the licensee only to the extent by which the clear profit is less than the reasonable return in any year of account.	Reasoning
Under subpara (3) of paragraph II on the purchase of the undertaking under the terms of license any balance remaining in the Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve has to be handed over to the purchaser and has to be maintained as such Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve and where the undertaking is purchased by the State Electricity Board or the State Government the amount of the Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve may be deducted from the price payable to the licensee.	Reasoning
The reasons given for holding that the amounts appropriated to Development Reserve could not be deducted are equally applicable to Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve and it must, therefore, held that the amounts appropriated to the Tariffs and Dividend Control Reserve could not be deducted.	Reasoning
It must, therefore, he held that the question referred in Civil Appeals Nos. 33333334 of 1981 and question No. 2 referred in Civil Appeals Nos. 261314 of 1984 have been rightly answered against the assessee and in favour of the Revenue by the High Court in the impugned judgments.	Reasoning
We may now come to question No. 3 in Civil Appeals Nos. 261314 of 1984 which relates to relief claimed by the assessee under s. 80I of the Act in respect of income earned by way of interest on investment in securities of the amounts appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve.	None
At the relevant time s. 80I read as under Sec.	None
80I. Deduction in respect of profits and gains from priority industries in the case of certain companies.	None
(1) In the case of a company to which the section applies, where the gross total income includes any profits and gains attributable to any priority industry, there shall be allowed, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this section, a deduction from such profits and gains of an amount equal to 8 per cent thereof, in computing the total income of the company.	None
This section applies to a domestic company, save in a case where such company is a company which is referred to in s. 108 and has a gross total income of fifty thousand rupees or less.	None
Where a company to which this section applies is entitled also to the deduction under s. 80H, the deduction under subs.	None
(1) of this section shall be allowed with reference to the amount of the profits and gains attributable to the priority industry or industries as reduced by the deduction under s. 80H in relation to such profits and gains.	None
Prior to the enactment of s. 80I a similar provision was contained in s. 80E which was applicable to certain specific industries mentioned therein.	None
Subs.	None
(1) of s. 80E provided as under Sec.	None
80E. Deduction in respect of profits and gains from specified industries in the case of certain companies.	None
(1) In the case of a company to which this section applies, where the total income (as computed in accordance with the other provisions of this Act) includes any profits and gains attributable to the business of generation or distribution of electricity or any other form of power or of construction, manufacture or production of any one or more of the articles or things specified in the list in the Fifth Sch., there shall be allowed a deduction from such profits and gains of an amount equal to 8 per cent, thereof, in computing the total income of the company.	None
This section applied to  (a) an Indian company or (b) any other company which has made the prescribed arrangements for the declaration and payment of dividends (including dividends on preference shares) within India.	None
But does not apply to any Indian company referred to in cl.	None
(9a), or to any other company referred to in cl.	None
(b), if such Indian or other company is a company referred to in s. 108 and its total income as computed before applying the provisions of subs.	None
(1) does not exceed twenty five thousand rupees.	None
The said provision came up for consideration before this Court in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. vs. CIT 1978 113 ITR 84 (SC) 1978 113 ITR 84 (SC)	None
In that case, while construing the expression profits and gains attributable to the business of in s. 80E, this Court said As regards the aspect emerging from the expression attributable to occurring in the phrase profits and gains attributable to the business of the specified industry (here generation and distribution of electricity)) on which the learned Solicitor General relied, it will be pertinent to observe that the legislature has deliberately used the expression attributable to and not the expression derived from.	None
It cannot be disputed that the expression attributable to is certainly wider in import than the expression derived from.	None
Had the expression derived from been used it could have with some force been contended that a balancing charge arising from the sale of old machinery and buildings cannot be regarded as profits and gains derived from the conduct of the business of generation and distribution of electricity.	None
In this connection it may be pointed out that whenever the legislature wanted to give a restricted meaning in the manner suggested by the learned Solicitor General it has used the expression derived from, as for instance in s. 80J.	None
In our view, since the expression of wider import, namely, attributable to has been used, the legislature intended to cover receipts from sources other than the actual conduct of the business of generation and distribution of electricity.	Reasoning
Shri Harish Salve has submitted that the said judgment in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra) was not available to the High Court at the time when question No. 3 was answered by the impugned judgment in Civil Appeals Nos. 261314 of 1984 since the case of Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra) was decided on 11th April, 1978, while the impugned judgment of the High Court was delivered on 2nd February, 1978.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission is that in view of the interpretation placed by this Court on the words attributable to in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra), the income by way of interest on the amounts lying in Contingencies Reserve that were invested in securities have to be treated as profits and gains attributable to the business of the assesseecompany in generating electricity as a licensee under the Electricity Supply Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this context, Shri Salve has placed reliance on subpara (2) of paragraph IV of the Sixth Sch.	Arguments of Petitioner
to the Electricity Supply Act which reads as follows IV(2).	Arguments of Petitioner
The sums appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve shall be invested in securities authorised under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 (92 of 1882) and such investment shall be made within a period of six months of the close of the year of account in which such appropriation is made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submissions is that since the assessee, as a licensee, was required to appropriate certain amounts in the Contingencies Reserve and to invest the same as securities authorised under the Indian Trust Act, 1882, the income by way of such investments as securities has to be treated as profits and gains attributable to the business of the assessee to generate electricity as licensee under the Electricity Supply Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	None
Shri K. N. Shukla, the learned senior counsel appearing for the Revenue, has however, submitted that income derived by way of interest from investment in securities cannot be regarded as profits and gains attributable to the business of generating electricity carried on by the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Shukla has placed reliance on the decision of various the High Courts Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. vs. CIT 1980 122 ITR 660 (Cal) 1980 122 ITR 660 (Cal) CIT vs. Cochin Refineries Ltd. (1984) 154 ITR 345 , CIT vs. Universal Radiators (P) Ltd. (1980) 128 ITR 531 CIT vs. Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd. 1986 157 ITR 762 (Bom) 1986 157 ITR 762 (Bom) and English Electric Co. of India Ltd. vs. CIT 1987 168 ITR 513 (Mad) 1987 168 ITR 513 (Mad) .	Arguments of Respondent
In Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. vs. CIT (supra) the assessee was carrying on business as manufacturer of aluminium.	Reasoning
Income by way of interest had accrued from the surplus funds of the assessee that had been invested for short periods.	Reasoning
It was held by the Calcutta High Court that no part of the interest accruing from company investments of surplus funds can be said to be attributable to the priority industry of the assessee and that such interest had arisen by reason of the surplus fund being not employed in the priority industry and that such temporary investment had not been shown to have any connection whatsoever direct or indirect with the priority industry of the assessee.	Reasoning
In CIT vs. Universal Radiators (P) Ltd. (supra) the assessee had surplus funds which it had invested in the bank in fixed deposit and thereafter when the assessee wanted money from the bank on the security of the said fixed deposit, amounts were lent by the bank.	Reasoning
After observing that the Court was concerned with the deposit having nexus with the priority industry at the stage at which the amount were deposited in the bank and started earning interest, the Madras High Court held that, considering the question of the interest income at the stage at which the deposit was made, the use of the receipt as security does not make the income that of the priority industry.	Reasoning
The High Court has referred to the impugned judgment Addl.	Reasoning
CIT vs. Vellore Electric Corpn.	Reasoning
Ltd. which had since been reported in 1979 119 ITR 523 (Mad) 1979 119 ITR 523 (Mad) and after taking note of the decision of this Court in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra), the High Court has said In the context of the pronouncement of the Supreme Court, the view taken by this Court that the profits and gains must arise from the specific activities or business of generation of electricity may have to be reconsidered.	Reasoning
As attributable to is wider than derived from, the relief is not confined only to the profits of the priority industry strictly so called.	Reasoning
It would have a wider ambit.	Reasoning
However, the conclusion arrived at in that case is unexceptionable because the character of the interest is different from the character of the income attributable to the priority industry.	Reasoning
In CIT vs. Cochin Refineries Ltd. (supra) the assessee had derived interest on bank deposits.	None
The said deposits were of amounts meant for the purpose of repayment of loans which were so deposited as the loans were not due for repayment.	None
Such deposits were for short duration and were subsequently utilised for repayment of loans.	None
Deduction was claimed under s. 80I in respect of interest received from these deposits.	None
The Kerala High Court held that the amounts of interests were receipts from other sources and not profits and gains attributable to the business of the assessee as a priority industry and the assessee was not entitled to deduction under s. 80I in respect of such amounts.	None
The Court has expressed its agreement with the impugned judgment and has observed that the decision of this Court in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra) did not support the contention of the assessee to the contrary.	None
It was held that the words profits and gains in the expression profits and gains attributable to any priority industry means only the business income and not any other income.	None
CIT vs. Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd. (supra) related to profits earned by the assessee from sale of dry fruits imported under import licenses granted under the Export Promotion Scheme.	None
The assessee was engaged in the business of manufacture and export of oil engines.	None
It was held that the said profits did not qualify for relief under s. 80I of the Act because the same could not be said to be profits attributable to the priority industry, namely, manufacture and export of oil engines.	None
The Bombay High Court has said that it is not enough that there should be a traceable relationship between the profits earned and the priority industry and that the profits must be more closely linked to the priority industry for it to be held that they were attributable to it.	None
It was observed that profits realised upon the sale of the import entitlements are so closely and directly linked as to be attributable to the priority industry but when the assessee has utilised the import entitlements, imported goods and sold them, the profits so earned are too remotely linked to be attributable to the priority industry.	None
In English Electric Co. of India Ltd. vs. CIT (supra), the assessee had received interest from supplies of raw materials, the State Electricity Board, banks as well as on security deposits with other agencies.	None
The Madras High Court, while following its earlier decision in Universal Radiators (P) Ltd. (supra) and the decision of this Court in Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra), has held that in so far as the interest received from bank deposits was concerned, the same could not be attributable to the priority industry itself but as regards interest earned on other deposits, the High Court held that they were in the nature of security deposits for the purpose of contracts by the assesseecompany and in case of interest received from supply of raw materials, the same was received because the raw materials were not supplied at all and the advance receipts were returned with interest which had a direct nexus with the business of the priority industry and that when the company had to keep security deposits such deposits were necessary for the purpose of its business and any such interest obtained from such deposits would be clearly attributable to priority industry.	None
This decision indicates that in a case where the security deposit is necessary for the purpose of business of the assessee, then the interest obtained therefrom can be said to be attributable to the priority industry.	None
To the same effect is the decision of the Calcutta High Court in CIT vs. Dunlop India Ltd. 1992 197 ITR 34 (Cal) 1992 197 ITR 34 (Cal)	None
In this case deposits were made by the assessee with the Excise Department for obtaining manufacturing facilities under the central excise laws and with the electricity boards in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu for the purpose of obtaining industrial power connections.	None
It was held that these deposits made were incidental to and for the purpose of carrying on the business of priority industry and the interest receipts earned from these securities had to be treated as part of the profits and gains attributable to a priority industry under s. 80I of the Act.	None
The position that emerges from these decisions is that profits and gains can be said to be attributable to the priority industry under s. 80I if there is a direct and proximate connection between the profits and gains and the business of the priority industry.	Reasoning
In this context, reference may be made to the recent decision in Indian Leather Corpn.	Reasoning
(P) Ltd. vs. CIT (CA No. 292 of 1982 decided on 30th April, 1997).	Reasoning
This Court, while construing the words Income attributable to any of the aforesaid activities in s. 104(4) of the Act, has said In order that income can be said to be attributable to manufacture or processing of goods for the purpose of Expln.	Reasoning
to s. 104(4) of the Act the earning of the income must be directly connected with manufacture or processing of goods.	Reasoning
In the present case, the assessee is carrying on business of generating electricity as a licensee under the Electricity Supply Act.	Reasoning
Under s. 57 of the Electricity Supply Act the provisions of the Sixth Sch.	Reasoning
shall be deemed to be incorporated in the license of every licensee.	Reasoning
Under paragraph III of the Sixth Sch., the licensee is obliged to create from existing reserves or from the revenues of the undertaking a reserve called Contingencies Reserve and under subpara (2) of paragraph IV the licensee is obliged to invest the sums appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve in securities authorised under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.	Reasoning
The requirement to create the Contingencies Reserve is a part of the obligation of the assessee as a licensee to carry on its business of generating electricity and it is also part of the obligation of assessee as a licensee that the sums appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve are invested in securities authorised under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.	Reasoning
In Cambay Electric Supply Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra) this Court has said In our view, since the expression of wider import, namely, attributable to, has been used, the legislature intended to cover receipts from sources other than the actual conduct of the business of generation and distribution of electricity.	Reasoning
This would mean that it is not necessary that the income should have been earned from the actual conduct of the business of generation and distribution of electricity.	Reasoning
What is required is that the activity from which the income is earned must have a direct and proximate connection with the priority industry of generation and distribution of electricity.	Reasoning
The creation of the Contingencies Reserve and the investment of the sums appropriated to the said Reserve in security authorised under the Indian Trust Act, 1882, being a condition statutorily incorporated in the license granted to the assessee under the Electricity Supply Act, is incidental to the carrying on of the business of generation and distribution of electricity by the assessee.	Reasoning
There is thus a direct and proximate connection between the carrying on the business of generation and distribution of electricity by the assessee as a licensee under the Electricity Supply Act and the income derived by way of interest from the investments in securities of the sums appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve as required under the provisions of the Sixth Sch.	Reasoning
to the Electricity Supply Act which is one of the conditions of license on the basis of which the assessee can carry on its business of generating and distributing electricity.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the view that the income earned by way of interest on the sums appropriated to the Contingencies Reserve which have been invested in securities can be said to be profits and gains attributable to the business of the assessee for the purpose of s. 80I of the Act.	Reasoning
Question No. 3 in Civil Appeals Nos. 261314 of 1984 is, therefore, answered in the affirmative, i.e., in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue.	Reasoning
In the result, Civil Appeals Nos. 33333334 of 1981 are dismissed and Civil Appeal Nos. 261314 of 1984 are partly allowed to the extent that question No. 3 is answered in the affirmative, in favour of the assessee and against the Revenue and the impugned judgment of the High Court is reversed to this extent.	Decision
There is no order as to costs.	Decision
