 	None
P. Jeevan Reddy, J. An application under Sections 397/398 of the Companies Act, 1956 can be filed inter alia by any member of members holding not less than onetenth of the issued share capital of the Company  vide Clause (a) of Subsection (1) of Section 399.	Facts
Subsection (3) of Section 399 says that among the members of the Company entitled to make an application by virtue of Subsection (1) any one or more of them having obtained the consent in writing of the rest may make the application on behalf and for the benefit of all of them.	Facts
The three appellants in this appeal are the shareholders of the first respondentcompany, Jeypore Sugar Company Limited.	Issue
The Respondents are its Directors.	Issue
The first appellants daughter Smt.	Facts
V. Rajeshwari also holds certain shares in the first respondentcompany.	Issue
She is married and has been residing in U.S.A. since 1973.	Facts
Before leaving for the U.S.A., she executed a General Power of Attorney (G.P.A.) in favour of her father, the first appellant herein, on 29th November, 1973.	Issue
On October 25, 1978, the three appellants herein filed an application under Sections 397/398 in the High Court of Orissa.	Facts
To comply with the requirement of onetenth shareholding, the first appellant gave consent in writing for and on behalf of Smt.	Facts
Rajeshwari as her G.P.A. holder.	Reasoning
If the shareholding of Rajeshwari is taken into account and she is deemed to have consented to the filing of the said application, the requirements of Section 399 are admittedly satisfied.	Facts
The precise question in this appeal is whether the consent given by her G.P.A. holder for and on her behalf and not by her personally  is a valid consent within the meaning of Subsection (3) of Section 399	Facts
As soon as the application under Sections 397/398 was filed by the appellants, some of the respondents raised a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the application on the ground that it does not comply with the requirement of Section 399 inasmuch as the consent given by the first appellant on behalf of and as the attorney of Smt.	Facts
Rajeshwari, and not by herself personally, cannot be treated as consent within the meaning of Section 399(3).	Facts
Both the Company Judge, and on appeal the Division Bench of the Orissa High Court, upheld the said objection and dismissed the application on the said preliminary ground alone.	Facts
For a proper appreciation of the question arising herein, it would be appropriate to read Section 399 of the Companies Act here Section 399.	None
Right to apply under Sections 397 and 398.  	None
(1) The following members of a company shall have the right to apply under Section 397 or 398 (a) in the case of a company having a share capital, not less than one hundred members of the company or not less than onetenth of the total number of its members, whichever is less or any member or members holding not less than onetenth of the issued share capital of the company, provided that the applicant or applicants have paid all calls and other sums due on their shares (b) in the case of a company not having a share capital, not less than onefifth of the total number of its members.	None
For the purposes of Subsection (1), where any share or shares are held by two or more persons jointly, they shall be counted only as one member.	None
Where any members of a company are entitled to make an application in virtue of Subsection (1), any one or more of them having obtained the consent in writing of the rest, may make the applications on behalf and for the benefit of all of them.	Facts
(Subsections (4) and (5) are omitted as unnecessary.)	None
The relevant clauses of the General Power of Attorney executed by Smt.	None
Rajeshwari in favour of the first appellant may also be noted To sell, convert, collect, get in, or manage or collect or otherwise administer any property movable or immovable which may be vested in me alone or join with others.	None
To take, prosecute, or defend, all legal proceedings touching any of my matters in which I am or may hereafter interested or concerned and also if thought fit to compromise, refer to arbitration withdraw or confess judgment or in any such proceedings.	None
To vote at the Meetings of the Company or Companies and otherwise to act as my proxy or representative in respect of any shares or stock or debentures which may hereafter, be acquired by me and for that purpose to sign and execute and proxies or other instruments in my name and on my behalf.	None
To appear and act in all the Courts, in the Registration office and in any Offices of the Government, District, Board, Municipality or any local authority, on my behalf.	None
To sign, all the papers to be filed into, Courts or offices on my behalf and to receive the moneys or other properties from Courts or other offices on my behalf.	None
Generally to act my attorney or Agent in relation to the matters aforesaid and all other matters in which I may be interested or concerned and on my behalf to execute or do all deeds, acts or things as fully and effectively in all respects as I myself do it if I personally present.	None
A reading of the several clause of the G.P.A. discloses exfade that the powers given thereunder are wide enough to take in the power to grant the consent under Section 399(3).	Reasoning
Under the said deed, Smt.	Reasoning
Rajeshwari empowered her father to manage and otherwise administer her movable and immovable properties including shares and stock as may be held by her and to take all proceedings before all the authorities and Courts concerning the said properties and shares.	Reasoning
The deed also empowered him to sign all necessary papers relevant in that behalf and to file them in courts and generally to do all things as may be necessary to safeguard her interest.	Reasoning
It is obvious that in pursuance of the said deed, it would have been perfectly legitimate for the first appellant to institute suits, petitions and other proceedings with respect to the shares or other movable and immovable properties held by Smt.	Reasoning
Rajeshwari.	Reasoning
Indeed it would well have been within the power of the G.P.A. holder to have himself figured as an applicant, acting in the name of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajeshwari, in the said application filed under Sections 397/398.	Reasoning
If so, there appears no reason why the consent could not have been given by the Power of Attorney holder which is only a step towards protecting the interest of Rajeshwari.	Reasoning
It in effect means joining the tiling of the application under Section 397/398.	Reasoning
May be that there are some functions duties which cannot be performed through a Power of Attorney Agent (e.g., quasijudicial judicial functions) but there appears to be no good reason why the consent contemplated by Section 399(3) cannot be given by such Power of Attorneyholder, when indeed he could himself have filed such an application in the name of and on behalf of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajeshwari.	Reasoning
In this connection we may notice yet another fact.	Reasoning
With a view to counteract the objection taken by the respondents, the appellants filed an affidavit of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajeshwari wherein she affirmed that on her recent visit to India she was apprised by her father of the affairs of the first respondentcompany and of the proposal to file an application against the first respondentcompany and its management alleging oppression and mismanagement.	Reasoning
She affirmed that she had authorised her father to act on her behalf as her G.P.A. in that behalf and to take all such steps as he deemed proper to protect her interest.	Reasoning
The Company Judge and the Division Bench have, however, taken the view that the consent to be granted by a member of the Company under Section 399(3) must be a conscious decision of the member himself herself.	Reasoning
They opined that the member must personally apply his mind to the advisability of granting consent and then grant it.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter, they held, the G.P.A.holder is not competent to grant the consent.	Reasoning
Mr. Sibal, the learned Counsel appearing for the respondents, supported the said reasoning.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the right or power to grant consent under Section 399(3) is a personal right which cannot be delegated to or exercised by an agent.	Arguments of Respondent
They very filing of an application under Sections 397/398 has serious repercussions on the reputation and creditworthiness of the company.	Arguments of Respondent
It must therefore be insisted that the decision to grant consent must be a personal decision of the member and not a decision of his agent.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal further submitted that this is not even a case where the Power of Attorney expressly authorised the agent to grant consent under Section 399(3).	Arguments of Respondent
The deed in question is merely a General Power of Attorney and that is not enough.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to agree with the said reasoning.	Reasoning
Section 399 or Subsection (3) thereof does not either expressly or by necessary implication indicate that the consent to be accorded thereunder should be given by the member personally.	Reasoning
As we have emphasised hereinabove, the first appellant could have filed, or joined as an applicant in an application under Sections 397/398 in the name of and for and on behalf of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajeshwari as her G.P.A. holder.	Reasoning
No question of consent would have and could have arisen in such a case.	Reasoning
If so, it is ununderstandable as to why and how he could not have given consent on behalf of Smt.	Reasoning
Rajeshwari, the member, under Section 399(3).	Reasoning
No rule or decision could be brought to our notice saying that the consent under Section 399(3) cannot be given by a G.P.A.holder (who is empowered by the principal to manage and administer the shares and stocks held by the principal and to take all necessary steps and proceedings in all Courts, Offices and Tribunals in that behalf).	Reasoning
In this connection, it is relevant to notice that shares may also be held by a company or other corporate body.	Reasoning
Question may arise what does one mean by a personal decision by a company or other juristic person.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, we see no warrant for holding that Section 399(3) is an exception to the normal rule of agency.	Reasoning
The normal rule is that whatever a person can do himself, he can do it through his agent, except certain functions which may be personal in nature or otherwise do not admit of such delegation.	Reasoning
The consent contemplated by Section 399(3) falls under the general rule and not under the exception.	Reasoning
Mr. Sibal brought to our notice Rule 88 of the Companies (Court) Rules, 1959 which reads Petition under Section 397 or 398.  	Arguments of Respondent
(1) Where a petition is presented under Section 397 or 398 on behalf of any members of a company entitled to apply under Section 399(1), by any one or more of them, the letters of consent signed by the rest of the members so entitled authorising the petitioner or petitioners to present the petition on their behalf, shall be annexed to the petition, and the names and addresses of all the members on whose behalf the petition is presented shall be set out in a schedule to the petition and where the company has a share capital, the petition shall state whether the petitioners have paid all calls and other sums due on their respective shares.	None
Where the petition is presented by any member or members authorised by the Central Government under Section 399(4) the order of the Central Government authorising such member or members to present the petition shall be similarly annexed to the petition.	None
A petition under Section 397 shall be in Form No. 43, and a petition under Section 398 shall be in Form No. 44.	None
A petition under Section 397 or 398 shall not be withdrawn without leave of the Court, and where the petition has been presented by a member or members authorised by the Central Government under Subsection(4) of Section 399, notice of the application for leave to withdraw shall be given to the Central Government.	None
What the Rule says is that the letters of consent signed by the consenting members shall be annexed to the petition alongwith their names and addresses and other prescribed particulars.	Reasoning
The Rule does not in any manner indicate that the consent should be given by the member personally.	None
Mr. Vinoo Bhagat, learned Counsel for the appellant invited our attention to a decision of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Killick Nixon Limited and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Bank of India and Ors, (1985)	Reasoning
57 Com Cases 831.	None
In this case it is held that the General Power of Attorneyholder empowered to grant consent under Section 399(3).	Reasoning
The General Power of Attorney concerned therein is substantially in the same terms as the one concerned herein.	Reasoning
We agree with the said decision.	None
Mr. Sibal brought to our notice a few decisions to which we may advert now.	Arguments of Respondent
A learned single Judge of Allahabad High Court held in Makhan Lal Jain and Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
v. The Amrit Banaspati Co. Ltd. and Ors.,	Arguments of Respondent
AIR1953All326 that the consent in writing contemplated by Section 153(C)(3) of Companies Act, 1913 requires that the writing itself should indicate that the members have affixed their signatures, having applied their mind to the question before them and have consented for the action being taken.	Arguments of Respondent
(Section 153(c)(3) of the Companies Act, 1913, considered in the said decision broadly corresponds to Section 399(3).	Arguments of Respondent
Looking at the sheets of papers allegedly constituting the consent of the consenting members, the learned Judge held that having regard to their contents, they cannot be treated as consent letters.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Judge held that the writing itself should indicate that the person has applied his mind to the question before him and has given his consent and that where a petitioner obtained another shareholders signature on a blank piece of paper and sought to supplement it by an affidavit or an oral sworn statement of the member himself or his agent cannot be said to have complied with the requirements of the section.	Arguments of Respondent
Nowhere does the decision say that such consent must be given by the member personally and that it cannot be given through his agent.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Sibal relied upon the decision of this Court in Charanjit Lal Chowdhury v. The Union of India and Ors., 19501SCR869 and in particular the statement in para 78 at page 62.	Arguments of Respondent
In the said paragraph, this Court considered the question whether the shares held by a person can be said to be property within the meaning of Articles 31(2) and 19(1)(f) and whether acquisition of the company by the Government amounts to acquisition of the shares of the shareholders.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioner contended that it does.	Arguments of Respondent
Repelling the said contention, S.R. Das, J. observed These rights, as already stated, are, no doubt, privileges incidental to the ownership of the share which itself is property, but it cannot, in my opinion, be said that these rights, by themselves, and apart from the share are, property within the meaning of those articles, for those articles only regard that as property which can by itself be acquired, disposed of or taken possession of.	None
The right to vote for the election of directors, the right to pass resolutions and the right to present a petition for winding up are personal rights flowing from the ownership of the share and cannot by themselves and apart from the share be acquired or disposed of or taken possession of as contemplated by those articles.	None
The second question is assuming that these rights are by themselves property, what is the effect of the Ordinance and the Act on such property.	None
It is nobodys case that the Ordinance or the Act has authorised any acquisition by the State of this property of the shareholder or that there has in fact been any such acquisition.	None
The only question then is whether this property of the shareholder meaning thereby only the rights mentioned above, has been taken possession of by the State.	None
It will be noticed that by the Ordinance or the Act these particular rights of the shareholder have not been entirely taken away, for he can still exercise these rights subject, of course, to the sanction of the Government.	None
Assuming however, that the letters placed on these rights are tantamount to the taking away of the rights altogether, there is nothing to indicate that the Ordinance or the Act has, after taking away the rights from the shareholder, vested them in the State or in any other person named by it so as to enable the State or any other person to exercise those rights of the shareholder.	None
The observations to the effect that the right to present an application of winding up and the right to vote for the election of Directors are the personal rights of shareholders must be understood in the context of the question considered therein.	Reasoning
The observations cannot be torn from their context to hold that the said right cannot be exercised through an agent.	Reasoning
That was not the issue before the Court.	Reasoning
Mr. Sibal also brought to our notice the decision of this Court in R. Subba Rao v. Commissioner of incometax, Madras, 195630ITR163(SC) .	Arguments of Respondent
The matter arose under Section 26(A) of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922 read with Rules 2 and 6 of the Rule framed in that behalf.	Reasoning
The Rules provided that an application for renewal of registration of the firm shall be signed personally by all the partners.	Reasoning
It is because of the said requirement that it was held that partners must sign such an application personally.	Reasoning
In the absence of any such expression in Section 399(3), the said decision is of no help to the respondents herein.	Reasoning
Mr. Sibal lastly contended that the petition was filed as far back as in 1978 and that over the years, certain Directors have ceased to be directors by death or otherwise and that some new directors have come into Office.	Arguments of Respondent
An affidavit was handed over across the bar stating that some of the directors have expired.	Arguments of Respondent
The affidavit, however, does not say that any new directors have come into office or that in their absence the present appeal is not maintainable.	Reasoning
We need not, therefore, express any opinion on this contention.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, the appeal is allowed and the orders of the learned Company Judge and the Division Bench impugned herein are set aside.	Decision
The consent given by the first appellant for and on behalf of Smt.	Decision
V. Rajeshwari, as her G.P.A. holder, is a valid consent within the meaning of Sections 399(3) and, therefore, the preliminary objection to the maintainability of the application filed under Section 397/398 is unsustainable in law.	Decision
The application may be proceeded with in accordance with law expeditiously, in view of the fact that about fifteen years have been spent on a preliminary objection alone.	Decision
No orders as to costs.	Decision
L. Hansaria, J. I am in respectful agreement with my learned brother in the conclusion arrived at by him.	None
Though it may be that on the legal question under consideration the contention of Shri Sibal is correct for the reasons advanced by him, as Smt.	None
Rajeshwari made her position clear in the affidavit filed in the High Court, to which brother Jeevan Reddy has adverted to, I do think she had authorised her father to act on her behalf in the matter at hand, and the application under Section 397/398 of the Companies Act, 1956, as filed in the Court, ought to be taken as one to which she had consented.	None
