 Hegde, J. 1.	None
In these appeals by certificates, just one question of law arises for decision and that question is whether the scheme prepared by the Amritsar Improvement Trust under Sections 24, 25 and 28 and sanctioned by the Government under Section 41 of the Punjab Town Improvement Act, 1922 (to be hereinafter called the Act) is an invalid scheme.	Issue
The High Court of Punjab and Haryana has held in two writ petition that the scheme in question is an invalid scheme and has consequently set aside that scheme.	Issue
Aggrieved by those decisions, the Amritsar Improvement Trust as well as the State Government of Punjab have come up in appeal.	Issue
2.	None
The Amritsar Improvement Trust at its meeting held on April 19, 1962 resolved as follows70.	None
Item For consideration.	None
Framing of a development cum housing accommodation scheme for the area bounded by Circular Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Gumtala Drain, Byepass Road and Ajnala Road.	None
RESOLUTION.	None
The Trust resolved to frame a developmentcumhousing accommodation scheme for the area bounded by Circular Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Gumtala Drain, Byepass Road and Ajnala Road u ss. 24 and 25 read with Section 28 (2) of the Punjab Town Improvement Act, 1922.	Facts
The Area will be developed as a commercialcumresidential area and an industrial Colony will also be provided.	Facts
Sites will be earmarked for the construction of houses for servicemen and also for labour and Harijan colonies.	Facts
The scheme should now be notified under S. 36 of the Punjab Town Improvement Act, 1922, for inviting objections, 3.	Facts
That resolution was amended by the Improvement Trust at its meeting held on May, 1, 1962.	Facts
The amendment reads thus92.	None
Item.	None
Reference Trust resolution No. 70 dated 1941962.	None
For consideration.	None
Refixation of boundaries of Dev.	None
Scheme for the area bounded by Circular Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Gumtala Drain, Byepass Road and Ajnala Road.	Facts
RESOLUTION.	None
It is decided to refix the boundaries of the Development scheme as under Circular Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Byepass Road and Ajnala Road.	None
Resolution No. 70 dated 1941962 be and is amended accordingly.	Facts
4.	None
Thereafter on May 4, 1962, it issued the following notice under Section 36 of the Act.	None
The Amritsar Improvement Trust, Amritsar.	None
Notice under Section 36 of the Punjab Town Improvement Act, 1922.	None
Notice is hereby given that in accordance with Resolution No. 70, dated 1941962, as amended by Resolution No. 92, dated 151962, passed by the Amritsar improvement Amritsar, the Trust has framed a development cum housing accommodation scheme for an area measuring approximately 860 acres, bounded by Circular road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Byepass Road and Ajnala Road, within the local area of the Amritsar Improvement Trust, under Ss. 24 and 25 read with Section 28 (2) of the Punjab Town Improvement Act, 1922.	Facts
The area will be developed as commercialcumresidential area and an industrial colony will also be provided.	Facts
Sites will be earmarked for the construction of colonies for servicemen and also for labourers and Harijans.	Facts
The boundaries of the scheme are as under North Starting from the junction of Ajnala road and Byepass Road along but excluding the land under Byepass road, upto its junction with Fatehgarh Churian Road East Thence by Fatehgarh Churian Road but excluding the land under this Road, upto its junction with Circular Road South Thence by Circular Road but excluding the land under the Circular Road, upto its junction with Ajnala Road West.	Facts
Thence by Ajnala Road but excluding the land under the Ajnala road, upto its junction with Byepass Road, the point of start.	None
These boundaries are more particularly shown on a map of the locality held by the Chairman of the Improvement Trust, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Road, Amritsar.	None
2.	None
Details of the Scheme and a statement of the land to be acquired and the general map of the locality comprised in the scheme may be inspected at the office of the Trust, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Road, Amritsar, during office hours, on any working day.	Facts
3.	None
Any person having any objection to the scheme should forward the same in writing to the undersigned so as to reach him on or before the 7th July, 1962.	Facts
Dated, 4th May, 1962.	None
Sd  Shashpal Singh, Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, Amritsar.	None
5.	None
In response to that notice several interested persons submitted their objections.	Facts
One of the objectors pleaded that the Improvement Trust had no competence to include in a development scheme areas outside the municipality.	Facts
The Improvement Trust rejected all the objections and approved the prepared scheme.	Facts
Thereafter the same was submitted to the Government and the Government sanctioned the same.	Facts
6.	None
There is no dispute that the impugned scheme includes both areas inside the Amritsar municipality as well as areas outside that municipality.	Facts
It is also seen from the resolutions passed by the Improvement Trust as well as the notice issued by it under Section 36 of Act that the Improvement Trust purported to frame a development cum housing accommodation scheme.	Facts
It did not purport to frame an expansion scheme.	Facts
7.	None
The High Court has come to the conclusion that the Improvement Trust had no power to include in a development scheme areas outside the municipal limits for the purpose of development.	Facts
8.	None
From the resolutions passed by the Improvement Trust, in particular the resolution passed by it on May 1, 1962, it is seen that the areas bounded by Circular Road, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Byepass Road and Ajnala Road were included for the purpose of development.	None
It is conceded that the area included within those boundaries partly lies within the municipal limits and partly outside the municipal limits.	None
It is urged on behalf of the writ petitioners that the areas outside the municipal limits can be taken over either under an expansion scheme or under a housing accommodation scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
They cannot be taken over for a development scheme.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is force in this contention.	Reasoning
9. Let us now read the relevant provisions.	None
Section 24 of the Act provides (1) The trust may, for the purpose of development of any locality within the municipal limits contained in its local area, prepare a development scheme, and(2) Such trust may, if it is of opinion that it is expedient and for the public advantage to promote and control the development of and to provide for the expansion of a municipality in any locality adjacent thereto, within the local area of such trust prepare a expansion scheme.	None
(3) A development scheme or an expansion scheme may provide for the layout of the locality to be developed, the purposes for which particular portions of such locality are to be utilised, the prescribed street alignment and the building line on each side of the streets proposed in such locality, the drainage of insanitary localities and such other details as may appear desirable.	None
10. Section 24 (1) deals with preparation of a development scheme.	None
Section 4 (2) deals with the preparation of an expansion scheme.	None
Sec. 24 (3) prescribes what all things could be included in a development scheme or an expansion scheme.	None
Section 25 reads thusIf the trust is of opinion that it is expedient and for the public advantage to provide housing accommodation for any lass of the inhabitants within its local area such trust may frame a housing accommodation scheme for the purpose aforesaid (Proviso omitted).	None
11.	None
Section 28 (1) provides that the scheme under the Act may combine one or more types of scheme or any special features thereof.	None
12.	None
It is clear from Section 24 (1) that a development scheme cannot include areas outside the municipal limits.	Reasoning
Therefore if a scheme includes both areas outside municipal limits and inside its limits, such a scheme cannot be prepared under Sec.	Reasoning
24 (1).As seen earlier, from the resolutions of the Improvement Trust, it is clear that it purported to prepare a development scheme cum housing accommodation scheme.	Reasoning
It did not purport to prepare an expansion scheme.	Reasoning
13.	None
The legislature has given specific names to the various schemes to be prepared by the Improvement Trust.	Reasoning
Hence when the Improvement Trust says that it has prepared a development scheme, it is not possible to hold that in fact it has prepared an expansion scheme.	Reasoning
The power conferred on the Improvement Trust is not a plenary power.	Reasoning
It is a power that has to be exercised in accordance with the conditions laid down in the Act.	Reasoning
If the Improvement Trust desired to prepare an expansion scheme, it should have formed an opinion that it is expedient and for the public advantage to promote and control the development of and to provide for the expansion of a municipally in a locality adjacent thereto within the local area of such trust.	Reasoning
14.	None
From the resolutions passed by the Improvement Trust, it does not appear that it had formed any such opinion.	Reasoning
Under these circumstances, it is not possible to accept the contention of the appellants that as the resolutions of the Improvement Trust refer to Section 24, we may conclude that the scheme prepared is an expansion scheme.	Reasoning
The resolutions of the Improvement Trust do not merely refer to Section 24.	Reasoning
They also say that scheme prepared is a development scheme cum housing scheme.	Reasoning
If these resolutions are read as a whole, it is clear that the Improvement Trust purported to act under its power under Sections 24 (1) and 25 and not under Section 24 (2).	Reasoning
15.	None
It was urged on behalf of the appellants that if the exercise of a power can be traced to a valid power, the fact that the power is purported to have been exercised under nonexisting power, does not invalidate the exercise of that power.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that connection reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in L. Hazari Mal Kuthiala v. Incometax Officer, Special Circle, Ambala Cantt., 41 ITR 12 (AIR 1961 SC 200 ) and Hukumchand Mills Ltd. v. State of Madhya Pradesh, 52 ITR 583 (AIR 1964 SC 1329 ).16.	Arguments of Petitioner
The former case considered the validity of a transfer of an incometax proceeding ordered by the Commissioner of Incometax, Punjab.	Reasoning
He purported to make the order in question under Sections 5 (5) and 7 (A) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 instead of making that order under Section 5 (5) of the Patiala Incometax Act.	Reasoning
Under both those provisions, he had similar powers.	Reasoning
This Court held that once it is established that the Commissioner had power to transfer the proceeding, the fact that he purported to exercise that power under a wrong provision of law would not vitiate his order.	Reasoning
The exercise of that power would be referable to a jurisdiction which conferred validity upon it and not to a jurisdiction under which it would be nugatory.	Reasoning
17.	None
In Hukumchand Mills case, 52 ITR 583 (AIR 1964 SC 1329 ) (supra), this Court again ruled that it is well established that wrong reference to the power under which action was taken by the government would not per se vitiated that action if it could be justified under some other power under which the Government could lawfully do that act and therefore, even though the notification dated December 28, 1949, by which amendments were made to the Indore Industrial Tax Rules, 1927, was purported to be made under Rule 17 of those Rules, the amendments were valid because the Government had power to make the amendments under Section 5 (1) and (3) of Act I of 1948.	None
Failure to refer to Section 5 did not invalidate the notification.	None
18.	None
The legal principle enunciated in those decisions is a well established principle.	Reasoning
If an authority has a valid power to do a particular act, the fact that it purported to do that act under a provision of law which did not confer power to do that act, would not invalidate the Act.	Reasoning
But that rule is inapplicable to the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
19.	None
Before taking action under Section 24 (2), the Improvement Trust had to form a particular opinion.	Reasoning
The formation of that opinion is a condition precedent.	Reasoning
Until the Improvement Trust forms that opinion, it is incompetent to take action under that section.	Reasoning
The Act has not conferred any blanket power on the Improvement Trust, to frame any scheme which it thought fit.	Reasoning
That being so, it is not possible to uphold the contention of the appellants that the impugned scheme can be traced to a valid power.	Reasoning
20.	None
There is yet another difficulty in the way of the appellants.	Reasoning
The schemes framed by Improvement Trust do not come into force automatically.	Reasoning
They have to be sanctioned by the Government.	Reasoning
The Government may accept them.	Reasoning
It may reject them.	Reasoning
It may amend them and it may even send them back to the Improvement Trust for reconsideration.	Reasoning
Hence, it is necessary for the Government to know before sanctioning the scheme as to what the scheme is, so that it may examine whether that scheme is necessary or feasible.	Reasoning
Unless the Government is informed as to the nature of the scheme, it would not be possible for the Government to consider whether the scheme should be sanctioned or not.	Reasoning
In the present case, the Government was informed that the scheme in question was a development cum housing accommodation scheme.	Reasoning
It has approved that scheme.	Reasoning
We do not know whether it would have sanctioned an expansion scheme.	Reasoning
Mr. V. C. Mahajan, learned Counsel for the State of Punjab contends that the government must be presumed to have known the true facts before sanctioning the scheme and the government has no objection for the scheme in question.	Arguments of Respondent
Even if we accept that contention that does not alter the legal position.	None
We should not mix up the facts of this case with the scope of the relevant provisions in the Act.	Reasoning
We cannot confine our attention to the facts of a particular case.	Reasoning
Our conclusion that the power conferred on the Improvement Trust is a limited power is reached on the basis of the nature of the power conferred and not on the basis of the facts of this case.	Reasoning
The fact that the government is prepared to bless a particular scheme does not change the nature of the power.	Reasoning
21.	None
The scheme before us is one and indivisible.	Decision
It is not possible to hold that it is partly valid and partly invalid.	Decision
It has to stand or fall as a whole.	Decision
22.	None
For the reasons mentioned above, these appeals are dismissed with costshearing fee one set.	Decision
23.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
