 BAHARUL ISLAM, J. 1.	None
By these writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution the petitioners have challenged the orders of the first respondent (the State of Jammu and Kashmir) allotting quotas of resin to respondents.	Issue
According to the petitioners these orders denying similar treatment to them are arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	Issue
2.	None
The material facts in the four petitions are similar.	Facts
The industries of which the petitioners are partners are admittedly small scale industries for the manufacture of resin and turpentine oil.	Facts
The industries of the petitioners in Writ Petitions Nos. 3465 of 1980 and 3231 of 1980 were provisionally registered but revalidated for short periods.	Facts
The industry of the petitioner in Writ Petition No. 3464 of 1980 was provisionally registered, revalidation was applied for but was not granted.	Facts
The industry of the petitioner in Writ Petition No. 5908 of 1980 was formally registered.	Facts
It appears that the petitioners were applying to the Government for allotment of resin as well as raw material for their industries but the Government referring to their policy decision of March 20, 1978 refused to make any allotment of Oleo resin to them.	Facts
The petitioners in Writ Petition Nos. 3464 and 5908 of 1980 have alleged that they purchased rawmaterial from the open market and somehow managed their industries to run for a certain period.	Facts
3. Resin is admittedly a forest product extracted from Chir trees.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been alleged that only three States of India, namely, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir have Chir forests.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners have alleged that the State of Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh stopped selling resin for the last several years in view of establishment of factories in public and joint sectors and that the St ate of Jammu and Kashmir was selling resin by public auction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sometime after October 1978 the State of Jammu and Kashmir, it has been further alleged, virtually created monopoly in favour of three existing industrial units and committed to supply them about 17, 000 M. T. of resin for long time to come.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a Public sector unit in Jammu which consumes about 3, 000 tons of resin per year.	Arguments of Petitioner
Several small scale industries, according to petitioners, were assured supply of resin even as late as 1979 notwithstanding the Governments aforesaid industrial policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
In such a situation, being unable to procure raw materials for their industries, the petitioners approached the relevant authorities including the Deputy Minister of Industry and the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir for allotment of rawmaterials but to no avail.	Arguments of Petitioner
(For the sake of convenience we shall hereinafter refer only to the respondents and Annexures in W. P. No. 3231 of 1980).	None
The petitioners further allege that while they were refused allotment of supply of raw materials, respondent No. 1 made allotments to respondents No. 4 to 16 (hereinafter called allottee respondents) although most of them were not even formally registered at the time of making the impugned orders of allotment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petitioners contend that in the circumstances they were adversely discriminated against while respondents Nos. 4 to 16 were favour ed and as such the impugned orders are liable to be struck down as , violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.4.	Issue
The impugned orders have been annexed as Annexures N to Z1.	None
The letter of allotment (Annexure X) in favour of M s. Sud Pine Industries (respondent No. 27) is in the following termsSub Supply of resin to M s. Sud Pine Industries Kunwani for their factory at Talab Jammu.	None
Government Order No. 175	None
DIC/1980 dated 3051980.	None
In partial modification of Government order No. 2.	None
DIC o f 1979 dated 2011979 sanction is accorded to the supply of crude (oleo) resin 700 tonnes per annum by the Forest Deptt.	None
to M s. Sud Pine Industries for their factory at Kunjwani Talab Jammu on the terms and conditions specified in the above said order.	None
The supply of resin shall be subject to its being reviewed by the Government with due regards to its availability from year to year.	None
By order of the Govt.	None
of J K. Sd  (Sheikh Ghulam Rasool) Secretary to Government.	None
The orders as per annexures L to W in favour of respondents 17 to 26 are identical in material parts.	None
It will be sufficient if the material portion of Annexure N is quoted.	None
It runs thusSanction is accorded to the supply of crude (oleo) resin by the Forest Department to M s. Kashmir R T Works, Srinagar, for their factory at Srinagar, subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement to be entered into between the Forest Department and the party and on the following specific conditions 1.	None
The Forest Department will supply Crude (oleo) resin 700 T PA to the firm from the date the Unit is formally registered subject to its being reviewed with due regard to its availability from year to year 2.	None
The resin will be supplied Rs. 320/ per quintal, unless otherwise reviewed on year to year basis.	None
3.	None
The cost of empty tin will be charged Rs. 5/ per tin in addition to the above rate 4.	None
By order of the Government a t Jammu and Kashmir.	None
Sd  Sheikh Ghulam Rasool Secretary to Government.(emphasis added) 5.	None
It is obvious that the industries of these respondents were not formally registered at the time of the impugned orders of allotment.	None
6.	None
The State of Jammu and Kashmir (Respondent No. 1) have filed a counter affidavit.	Arguments of Respondent
They have not denied the material allegation s of the petitioners but they say that the allocations have been made in order to implement the industrial policy of the State Government as enunciated in a Report of the Development Review Committee, Jammu and Kashmir a committee headed by Shri L. K. Jha, the Governor of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent No. 1 has quoted from the report the Goals of the industrial policy which readThe balanced economic development of the State will obviously, be one of the foremost concerns o f the Government.	None
They would like to emphasis maximum self sufficiency and selfreliance consistently with the need to promote the requisite and desirable degree of interdependence with other parts of the country.	None
The objective will be to secure the most prudent and beneficial utilization of the natural resources and skills peculiar to this State to achieve the maximum possible F rate of economic growth, consistently with the need to secure a degree of balanced regional development as well as balance between the rural areas and the urban, to maximise State per capita income, and to generate the maximum employment potential.	None
Many areas of the State are as cut off, isolated and poor as they were at the dawn of independence.	None
We have to improve the living standards in these specially backward areas for whom in terms of the quickest mode of transportation, Srinagar is more distant than the State is from Kerala.	None
Many sections of the community similarly, like Scheduled Castes Gujarat and Bakarwalas and other backward class need to be assisted in their speedy uplift.	None
Ladakh needs a visible acceleration of the tempo of its development so that our people in this far flung and difficult frontier area can realise the full fruits of development in the shortest possible time.	None
Respondent No. 1 has given the district wise breakup of the applications received from different regions.	None
It is as followsJammu  63 Udaypur  10 Rajouri  1 Poonch  1 Doda  1 Kathua  9 Anantnag  2 S rinagar  11 Outsiders  12  GRAND TOTAL 110 Applications  They have also shown the allotments of resin districtwise.	None
The industries of the respondents No. 4 to 16 are also small scale industries.	Arguments of Respondent
The breakup of the small scale industries as given in Annexure R.II (in W.P. No. 3464) shows that Jammu has the largest number of units namely, 10, Second comes Srinagar with 4, then come Udampur with 3, Kathua (in Jammu Division), Anantnag and Baramulla (in Kashmir Division), with one each.	Arguments of Respondent
Rajouri in Jammu Division has none.	Arguments of Respondent
It appears that the industries of the present applicants are also in the Jammu region and those of respondents No. 4 to 16 also appear to have been located in the Jammu region.	Arguments of Respondent
In their affidavit at para 3 respondent No. 1 has stated that all the applications for allocation of resin were considered from time to time at various levels by the State Government and it was decided on May 30, 1980 as follows(a) The allotment of resin to the existing unit should be rationalised (b) Applications received from various districts be considered for allotment of resin.	Arguments of Respondent
The State Government have submitted that they made no promise of supply of rawmaterial in favour of any of the petitioners.	None
The petitioners have submitted, in our opinion, correctly, that as there were already 10 units functioning in small scale sector in the Jammu region and inasmuch as the allottee respondents industries were also located in the Jammu region, allocations in their favour would be inconsistent with the Governments industrial policy.7.	Arguments of Respondent
In the instant case, respondent No. 1 as well as the other parties h as taken reliance on their industrial policy statement as stated above.	None
We have already quoted the relevant portions of the State Industrial policy statement.	Arguments of Respondent
The Government have stated that they have considered all the 110 applications including those of the petitioners coming from industrialists of different parts of the country.	Arguments of Respondent
They have stated, and their statement is corroborated by the documents, that there is preponderance of industries in the Jammu region and industries of the petitioners as well as respondents No. 4 to 16 were also functioning in the same region.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent No. 1 has not explained as to how and on what basis, if any, the allotments were made by the impugned orders in favour of the new allottees whose industries were located in the Jammu region.	Reasoning
Pawan Kumar Sharma, the petitioner in W.P. No. 3231 of 1980 states that his industry was provisionally registered under the Provisional Registration Certificate dated 291 1976.	None
It was further extended for further short periods.	Arguments of Petitioner
He says that as there was assurance from the authorities that rawmaterials will be allotted to him after he completed the installation of requisite machinery.	None
The J. K. Resin and Turpentine Industries of petitioner Om Prakash Sud, was provisionally registered in the year 1975.	None
He was also approaching the Government from time to time to get allotment of the rawmaterials but got no favourable reaction from the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
He states that he had already established his factory and got it insured for a sum of Rs. 6.80 lakhs.	Arguments of Respondent
He obtained rawmaterial from the open market and was running his industry.	None
Petitioner, Ravindra Dutt of M s. Dinesh Resin and Turpentines in W.P. No. 3465 of 1980 alleges that his industry was provisionally registered on 25101975 which was extended upto April, 1979.	Arguments of Petitioner
Letter of 31st May, 1979 shows that his industry was later on formally registered as a small unit.	Arguments of Petitioner
This factory was producing resin and turpentine out of the resin which he purchased from open auction He was approaching the Government from time to time to get requisite quantity of rawmaterials but failed to get it.	None
Petitioner, Shamlal Kapoor, Director of Jammu Resin Enterprises Private Limited, alleges that his industry was formally registered with the Government of	None
J K. He alleges that his industry was functioning for a long time and trying to get necessary quota of rawmaterials from respondent No. 1.	Arguments of Petitioner
He was approaching the Government to get requisite quota.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sud Pine Industries, was provisionally registered on 103 1978 and formally registered on 10101978.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears from Annexure N, in respect of respondent M s Kashmir R T Works (respondent No. 17), Annexure O in respect of M s. Sun Shine R T Industries (respondent No. 18), Annexure P in respect of M s. Woolan Paints and Chemicals Scopore (respondent No. 19) Annexure Q in respect of M s. Pine Wood Products Company (respondent No. 20), Annexure R in respect o f M s. Haji Mast Ali Slaria (respondent No. 21), Annexure S in respect of M s. Phyto Chemicals (respondent No. n 22), Annexure T in respect of M s. New Himalayan Paints and Chemicals (respondent No. 23), Annexure U in respect of M s. S .	None
K. Chemical (respondent No. 24), Annexure V in respect of M s. Rajindra R T (respondent No. 25) and Annexure W in respect of M s. Bharat Paints and Chemicals (respondent No. 26) that the allotments were made in their favour from the date the unit is formally registered which shows that industries were not even registered at the time of the impugned orders of this allotment.	Arguments of Respondent
Respondent M s. Rajindra R T Industries, Udhampur, appears to stand on a different footing.	Arguments of Respondent
He appear s to have fulfilled all the conditions required for allocation of resin in accordance with the policy of the State of J K.	Arguments of Respondent
The industry is an experienced one and the factory started production of resin and turpentine at Hoshiarpur since 1948.	Arguments of Respondent
It is a firm registered under the Indian Partnership Act and has long experience in the business including resin and turpentine since 1948.	Arguments of Respondent
The industry set up a factory in 1970 in the rural industrial estate near Udhampur which is a backward area.	Arguments of Respondent
The industry was provisionally registered in 1970 and formal registration was granted on 2921974.	Arguments of Respondent
It applied for adequate quantities of rawmaterials and was allotted only 200 tons although it had been sanctioned 1500 per ton per annum since 1975.	None
Respondent M s. Sud Pine Industries, M s. Kashmir R T Works, Bakshi Resin Turpentine and M s. K. C. Soni Bakshi also appear to be on different footings.	None
It appears from Annexures X and Y that the first two industries have already been formally registered.	Arguments of Respondent
They are existing units having already started production.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as respondent M s Bakshi Resin and Turpentine is concerned, it had already set up factory and started production.	Arguments of Respondent
It was provisionally registered as early as 1976 and the unit is located in a backward area.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as respondent K. C. Soni Resin Turpentine is concerned, it was formally registered on 19479.	Arguments of Respondent
This unit is located in a remote backward area of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
8.	None
Equality before the Law or equal protection of the laws within the meaning of Article 14 of the Constitution of India means absence of any arbitrary discrimination by the law or in their administration.	None
No undue favour to one or hostile discrimination to another should be shown.	Reasoning
A classification is reasonable when it is not an arbitrary selection but rests on differences pertinent to the subject in respect of which the classification is made.	Reasoning
The classification permissible must be based on some real and substantial distinction, a just and reasonable relation to the objects sought to be attained and cannot be made arbitrarily and without any substantial basis (See State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali.	Reasoning
The classification must not be arbitrary but be rational, that is to say, it must not only be based on some qualities or characteristics which are to be found in all the persons grouped together and not in others who are left out.	Reasoning
Those qualities or characteristics must have a reasonable relation to the object of the law.	Reasoning
In order to pass the test, two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (1) that the classification must be founded on an intelligible differentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others, and (2) that differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act.	Reasoning
The differentia which is the basis of the classification and the object of the Act are distinct things and what is necessary is that there must be a nexus between them.	Reasoning
We are not unaware that the rule of equality does not mean mathematical equality and that it permits of practical inequalities.	None
But what is needed is that the selection of quota seekers as in the case in hand should have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved in the industrial policy decision of the State.	Reasoning
If the selection or differentiation is arbitrary and lacks a rational basis it offends Article 14.	None
9.	None
In the instant case, although the State Government has taken reliance on the State Industrial Policy decision referred to above, they do not appear to have followed it in practice, except in the cases of the five respondents referred to above.	None
In fact no reasonable basis has been adopted in making the allotments in favour of the new allottees and denying allotments to the petitioners.	Reasoning
In the circumstances the petitions are partly allowed, the impugned orders of allotments except in favour of respondents, M s Rajindra Resin and Turpentine Industries, M s Sud Pine Industries, M s Kashmir R T Works, M s Bakshi Resin Turpentine and M s K. C. Soni Resin Turpentine are quashed.	Decision
The petitions are partly allowed.	Decision
The Rules are made absolute except as against these five respondents.	Decision
The respondent.	Decision
No. 1, the State of Jammu and Kashmir, is directed to make the other allotments of the rawmaterials to the applicants in the light of the observations made above.	None
10.	None
Respondent No. 1 shall pay costs of Rs. 100.00 to each of the petitioners.	None
11.	None
Petition partly allowed.	None
