 KANIA, J. These writ petitions are filed by Public Limited Companies growing and manufacturing tea in the States of West Bengal and Kerala respectively.	Issue
Although, there are some differences in the facts, the material facts are largely common and the questions raised in the petitions can be fairly regarded as common question s of law.	Issue
They are, therefore, being disposed of together by this common judgment.	Issue
The Petitioners in Civil Writ Petitions Nos. 540910 of 1980 are the Tata Tea Limited and a shareholder of the said Company.	Facts
These petitions are directed against the State of West Bengal, Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax of West Bengal, West Bengal Agricultural Incometax Officer, Calcutta RangeI, Union of India and Incometax Officer, OWard, Companies DistrictII, Calcutta.	Facts
The Petitioners in Civil Writ Petitions Nos. 541112 of 1980 are also the Tata Tea Limited and a shareholder thereof.	Facts
The Respondents are State of Kerala, Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax at Kerala, Union of India and the concerned Incometax Officer.	None
The Petitioners in other writ petitions are Tea Companies and shareholders thereof and the Respondents are ranged on similar lines as above.	Facts
The Petitioners are Public Limited Companies growing as well as manufacturing tea and selling the same.	Facts
As far as the petitions directed against the State of West Bengal are concerned, the challenge therein is to the constitutional validity of Sections 3 5 of the Bengal Agricultural Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1980.	Facts
The Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act, 1944 provides for the levy and collection of agricultural incometax in the then Province of Bengal, the predecessor Province to the present State of West Bengal and, after the coming into force of the Constitution, th e State of West Bengal.	Facts
By the said amending Act, for the first time, subsections (2) (2A) of Section 8 of the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act were omitted and always deemed to have been omitted.	Facts
It is alleged by the Petitioner s that as a result of the omission of subsections (2) (2A) of Section 8 of the Bengal Agricultural Income tax Act, 1944, the State Legislature has sought to assume the power, competence and jurisdiction to impose agricultural incometax on the entire income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by a seller and has thereby transgressed the constitutional limitations contained in Article 246(3) of the Constitution of India read with Entry 46 of List II of t	Facts
he Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India.	Facts
In the aforesaid Writ Petitions Nos. 540910 of 1980 the process of manufacturing tea has been described in some detail.	Facts
To put it very briefly, the green tea grown by the tea growers is withered by exposure to air under natural or controlled conditions.	Facts
Certain machinery and equipment is required for the aforesaid process.	Facts
The object of withering is partial dehydration of shoots to make them leathery and flaccid for rolling and chemic al changes.	Facts
The change brought about is the increase in caffeline, soluble sugars and amino acids.	Facts
The second process involves rupture and distortion of tea shoots into smaller sizes to allow mixing of enzymes and substrates.	Facts
This is known as rolling.	Facts
The process of rolling is carried out by mechanical bruising, tearing, cutting, crushing breaking and twisting tea leaves for which crank roller rotorvane C.T.C. machines are employed.	Facts
The third process is of fermentation which involves exposure to air under controlled temprature.	Facts
For this the equipment required is fermentation chamber trags floor troughs.	Facts
As a result of this process, the colour of tea changes from green to coppery.	Facts
The next process is of drying or roasting for stoppage of fermentation dehydration to ensure keeping the quality of the product.	Facts
Drying or roasting has to be done at a temperature of 30 degree celsius and humidity exposure to blast of hot air in a counter current dryer.	Facts
The equipment required for this is a conventional tea dryer.	Facts
As a result of this process, the moisture in the tea is reduced to 4 per cent and it becomes black in colour.	Facts
This manufacturing process is applied to tea leaves in a factory which is situated within the garden area owned by the Petitioner and licensed under the Factories Act.	Facts
It is averred that the carrying out of the aforesaid processes is a specialised operation involving the application of modern methods of biochemical engineering.	None
The cleaning of the tea is then done with machines according to various sizes like broken pekoe, broken orange pekoe, pekoe dust, dust, churmani dust and so on.	Facts
There are other also other brands of tea produced by the aforesaid process.	Facts
It is needless to consider these processes in detail except to state that they are quite elaborate and, in the cases before us, valuable machinery is being used for carrying out these processes which are carried out in factories.	Facts
The case o f the Petitioners is that the income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured as aforesaid is derived partly from agriculture and partly from manufacture.	Facts
Under the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (referred to hereinafter as the Act of 1922) and the Rules framed thereunder the income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by a seller, has to be computed in the manner laid down in Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 and 40 per cent of the income so computed is treated as income other than agricultural income and the remaining 60 per cent is treated as agricultural income.	Facts
In respect of the income other than agricultural income, it is the Union Parliament which has and before the coming into force of the Constitution the Centre Legislature which had the power to legislate in respect of taxes and in respect of the agricultural income, the legislative power in respect of taxation was left to the Provinces under the Government of India Act, 1935 and to the States under the Constitution.	Facts
The Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act, 1944 enacted by the Provincial Legislature of Bengal defined agricultural income in identical terms as contained in Section 2(1) of the Act of 1922.	Facts
The Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act further provided by subsection (2) of Section 8 that notwithstanding anything contained that Act, in the case of tea grown in West Bengal and sold by the grower himself or his agents after manufacture, the agricultural income derived therefrom shall be deemed to be that portion of the income computed as aforesaid under the Act of 1922 on which incometax was not payable under the Act of 1922 and agricultural incometax was levied on the whol e of such agricultural income.	Facts
As a result of this, the position was that the income of an assessee who grew, manufactured and sold tea in West Bengal was computed in the manner laid down in the Act of 1922 read with Incometax Rules, 1922 and agricultural incometax was levied only in respect of 60 per cent of that income.	Facts
On coming into force of the Incometax Act, 1961 which replaced the Act of 1922, the position remained the same.	Facts
The Incometax Act, 1961 (referred to hereinafter as the Act of 1961) came into effect from 1st April, 1962.	None
The definition of agricultural income in the Act of 1961 is contained in subsection (1) of Section 2 of that Act and is in pari materia with the definition of the said term in the Ac t of 1922.	Facts
Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 is in pari materia with Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922.	None
As a result of this even after the Act of 1961 and the Incometax Rules, 1962 came into force, a State Legislature could only legislate in respect of taxes regarding that part of the income computed by the Incometax Officer concerned as aforesaid which is treated as agricultural income, namely, 60 per cent of it.	Facts
In 1979, the Legislature of the State of West Bengal enacted the Bengal Agricultural Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1979.	Facts
By the said Amendment Act, subsection (2A) was added after subsection (2) in Section 8 of the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act, 1944.	Facts
Very briefly put, the said subsection (2A) gave powers to the Agricultural Incometax Officer to make the computation of income derived from tea in cases where it had not been computed for the purposes of assessment of incometax under the Act of 1961 or, although computed, the assessment under the Act of 1961 had been annulled or set aside under that Act and no order of assessment under Section 25 had been made within six years from the end of the year in which the agricultural income was first assessable in the manner and subject to the limitations and conditions set out in the said subsection.	Facts
It is not really necessary for us to consider this provision further in the view which we have taken.	Facts
Moreover, this Amendment Act remained in force only for the period 1 97980 after which it was replaced by the Amendment Act of 1980.	None
The West Bengal Legislature in 1980 amended the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act by the Bengal Agricultural Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1980.	Facts
By the said Amendment Act, subsections (2) and (2A) of Section 8 of the Bengal Agricultural Income tax were deleted and always deemed to have been deleted as already pointed out and Section 25(4) of that Act was omitted.	Facts
Section 7 of the Amendment Act provided for cases where the assessment under the Act of 1961 of any agricultural income derived from tea was made before coming into force of the Amendment Act but we are not concerned with that section.	Facts
Under the petition, the challenge is to the validity of Sections 3 and 5 of the Amendment Act whereby the aforesaid subsections (2) and (2A) of Section 8 were omitted with retrospective effect and Section 25(4) was omitted.	Facts
It is submitted in the petition that, from the speech of the Finance Minister at the time of introducing the Bill for carrying out the amendments, as well as from the affidavit in reply filed by the State of West Bengal, it is clear that the entire object of the amendments was to subject to the levy of agricultural incometax, the entire income derived by an assessee from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by him.	Arguments of Petitioner
We come next to the petitions against the State of Kerala.	None
Under the Agricultural Incometax Act, 1950 passed by the Legislature of the State of Kerala, agricultural income is defined in the same maner as under the Act of 1922 and there was an Explanation after clause (2) in Section 2 (a) stating that agricultural income derived from land used for agricultural purposes b y the cultivation of tea leaves means that portion of the income derived from the cultivation, manufacture and sale of tea as is defined to be agricultural income for the purposes of enactments relating to the Indian Incometax Act.	None
By an Act cal led The Agricultural incometax (Amendment) Act, 1980 (Kerala Act No. 17 of 1980), the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act was amended and the said Explanation was deleted.	None
It was submitted that this deletion was made with a view to make the entire income earned by an assessee who grew and manufactured tea from the sale of tea subject to the levy of agricultural incometax.	None
Here again, it was pointed out that, from the speech of the Finance Minister at the time of introducing the Bill concerned and the stand taken in Court by the State of Kerala, it was clear that the entire object of the amendment was to make the entire income derived by an assessee as aforestated liable to the levy of agricultural incometax.	Arguments of Petitioner
These submissions were adopted by the learned Counsel who appeared for the other Petitioners and by Mr. Manchanda who appeare for the Union of India.	None
It is submitted by Dr. Paul, learned Counsel for the Tata Tea Company that the aforesaid amendment s, in so far as they purport to confer power on the respective legislatures of the State of West Bengal and the State of Kerala to legislate regarding taxes on the income from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by an assessee in ex cess of 60 per cent of such income computed in the manner prescribed under the law relating to incometax are void and of no legal effect as they are beyond the legislative competence of the respective legislatures of the States of West Bengal and Kerala respectively in view of the provisions of Article 246 of the Constitution read with Entry 82 in List I and Entry 46 in List II in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and the relevant provisions of the law relating to incometax.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Paul, learned Counsel for Tata Tea Company and Tata Finlay Company further submitted that, if the entire income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by an assessee were to be regarded as agricultural income, the result would be that the Parliament would not have any competence to legislate in respect of taxes on the same with the result that the provisions of the Act of 1922 and the Act of 1961 imposing the levy of incometax on any part of such income would become ultra vires.	Arguments of Petitioner
This particular submission was not supported by Dr. Gauri Shankar who appeared for Petitioner in W.P. No. 358 of 1984 and was opposed by Mr. Manchanda who appeared for the Union of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
As far as the State of West Bengal and the State of Kerala are concerned, they are represented by learned Counsel, Mr. Potti and Mr. Tapas Ray respectively.	None
It was urged by Mr. Potti and Mr. Ray that Article 366(1) of the Constitution merely states that the term agricultural income has the same meaning as given to it in the enactments relating to incometax, that the definition of the said term in the Act of 1922 and the Act of 1961 did not prescribe that only a particular portion of the inc ome derived by an assessee from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by him can be regarded as agricultural income and hence it was open to the State Legislatures concerned to levy agricultural incometax on such entire income.	None
Alternatively, it was submitted by them that, in any event, in law, the entire income derived from the sale of tea by an assessee growing and manufacturing tea must be held to be agricultural income in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Bist Co. (which we propose to refer to more particularly hereinafter) and hence the State Legislature was entitled to levy agricultural incometax on the same.	None
The Parliament had no power to legislate in respect of such income.	None
In order to examine the correctness of these contentions, certain relevant provisions of law may be noted at this stage.	None
Under Article 246(1) of the Constitution, Parliament has exclusive power to legislate with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution which is referred to in the Constitution as the Union List.	None
Clause (3) of that Article prescribes that a Legislature of a State has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (referred to in the Constitution as the State List).	None
Clause (2) of the said Article provides that both Parliament and State Legislatures have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule called the Concurrent List.	None
Entry 82 in List I or the Union List reads taxes on income other than agricultural income.	None
Entry 46 of List II (State List) reads taxes on agricultural income.	None
Article 366 of the Constitution contains definitions and subArticle (1) thereof reads as follows Agricultural income means agricultural income as defined for the purposes of the enactments relating to Indian Incometax Act.	None
The material portion of subsection (1) of Section 2 of the Act of 1922 (Indian Incometax Act, 1922) defines agricultural income as follows Agricultural income means (a) any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes, and is either assessed to landrevenue in the taxable territories or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by officers of the Government as such (b) any income derived from such land by (i) agriculture, or (ii) the performance by a cultivator or receiver of rentin kind of any process ordinarily employed by a cultivator or receiver of rentinkind to render the produce raised or received by him fit to be taken to market, or(iii)the sale by a cultivator or receiver of rentinkind of the produce raised or received by him, in respect of which no process has been performed other than a process of the nature described in subclause (ii)	None
x x x x Clause (c) of the said subsection and the Proviso thereto are not material for our purposes.	None
Section 59 of the Act of 1922 deals with the powers to make rules.	None
Subsection (1) confers power on the Central Board of Revenue, subject to the control of the Central Government, to make rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act of 1922 and for the ascertainment and determination of any class of income.	None
The material portion of subsection (2) of that section runs as follows Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may (a) prescribe the manner in which, and the procedure by which, the income, profits and gains shall be arrived at in the case of (i) incomes derived in part from agriculture and in part from business x x x x Subsection (5) of Section 59 reads as follows Rules made under this section shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall thereupon have effect as if en acted in this Act.	None
Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 deals with the computation of income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by the seller and that rule runs as follows Income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by the seller in the taxable territories shall be computed as if it were income derived from business, and 40 per cent of such income shall be deemed to be income, profits and gains liable to tax Provided that in computing such income an allowance shall be made in respect of the cost of planting bushes in replacement of bushes that have died or become permanently useless in an area already planted, unless such area has previously been abandoned.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 2 of the Act of 1961 (Incometax Act, 1961) defines the term agricultural income.	Facts
The material portion of that definition is similar to the definition contained in the Act of 1922 and runs as follows (1) agricultural income means (a) any rent or revenue derived from land which is situated in India and is used for agricultural purposes (b) any income derived from such land by (i) agriculture or (ii) the performance by a cultivator or receiver of rentinkind of any process ordinarily employed by a cultivator or receiver of rentinkind to render the produce raised or received by him fit to be taken to market or (iii) the sale by a cultivator or receive r of rentinkind of the produce raised or received by him, in respect of which no process has been performed other than a process of the nature described in paragraph (ii) of this subclause.	None
Clause (c) of the said subsection is not material for our purpose.	None
Section 295 of the Act of 1961 deals with the power to make rules.	None
The relevant portion of that section runs as follows The Board may, subject to the control of the Central Government, by notification in the Gazette of India, make rules for the whole or any part of India for carrying out the purposes of this Act.	None
(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters (a) the ascertainment and determination of any class of income (b) the manner in which and the procedure by which the income shall be arrived at in the case of (i) income derived in part from agriculture and in part from business x	None
x x x x The Board referred to in Section 295(1) is the Central Board of Direct taxes.	None
Section 296 provides inter alia that a rule framed under Section 295 shall be laid, as soon as may be after the rule is made, before each House of Parliament and shall have effect subject to any modification or deletion made by both Houses of Parliament.	None
Rule 7 of the Income tax Rules, 1962 made under Section 295 of the Act of 1961 deals with income which is partially agricultural and partially from business.	None
Rule 8 deals with income from the manufacture of tea and the said rule runs as follows Income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by the seller in India shall b e computed as if it were income derived from business, and forty per cent of such income shall be deemed to be income liable to tax.	None
(2) In computing such income an allowance shall be made in respect of the cost of planting bushes in replacement of bushes that have died or become permanently useless in an area already planted, if such area has not previously been abandoned, and for the purpose of determining such cost, no deduction shall be made in respect of the amount of any subsidy which, under the provisions of clause (30) of Section 10, is not includible in the total income.	None
Section 7 of the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act, 1944 deals with the computation of tax and allowances under the head AGRICULTURAL INCOME FROM AGRICULTURE.	None
Section 8 of that Act deals with the computation of tax on mixed income.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 8, very briefly stated, prescribes that in case of such mixed income which is partly agricultural and is assessable under the said Bengal Act and partly chargeable under the Indian Incometax Act of 1922 under the head Business, agricultural incometax would be payable by an assessee in respect of the market value of agricultural produce which has been raised by the assessee or received by him as rentinkind and which has been utilised by him as raw material in such business or the sale receipts of which are included in the accounts of the business subject to allowances permissible under that Act.	None
Clause (a) of the Proviso to that subsection makes it clear that if, for the purposes of assessment of incometax under the Act of 1922, the market value of the produce had been determined that would be accepted as market value also for the said Bengal Act.	None
Clause (b) of the Proviso deals with common charges on agricultural income and income chargeable under the Act of 1922.	None
The material portion of subsections (2) and (3) of the said section ran as follows Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, in the case of tea the plant Camellia Thea (Linn.) grown in West Bengal and sold by the grower himself or his agent after manufacture, the agricultural income derived therefrom shall, as long as for the purposes of assessment of income tax under the Indian Incometax A ct, 1922, the income derived therefrom is computed under that Act in such manner as to include agricultural income, be deemed to be that portion of such income as so computed on which incometax is not payable under that Act, and agricultural income tax at the rates specified in the Schedule shall be payable on the whole of such agricultural income as so computed.	Facts
X X X X X (3) For the purpose of the assessment of agricultural incometax under this section or any rule made thereunder a certified copy of an order of an assessment under the Indian Incomet ax Act, 1922, or a certified copy of an order of any appellate or revising authority or of the High Court or of the Supreme Court altering or amending such order of assessment under the provisions of that Act shall be conclusive evidence of the contents of such order.	None
The Bengal Agricultural Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1980 (referred to hereinafter as the Bengal Amendment Act of 1980) was passed by the Legislature of the State of West Bengal and published in the Gazette on 31st March, 1980.	Facts
By Section 2 of that Act, Section 7A was inserted into the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act, 1944 and that section runs as follows 7A Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, in the case of an assessee being a company or a firm or other association of persons, the agricultural income of such assessee shall be computed in accordance wit h the method of accounting regularly employed by such assessee for such computationProvided that if, in any case, the method of accounting as aforesaid is such that, in the opinion of the Agricultural Incometax Officer, the agricultural income cannot be computed, the computation shall be made on such basis and in such manner as the Agricultural Incometax Officer may determine.	None
Section 3 of the Amendment Act of 1980 provides that subsections (2) and (2A) of Section 8 of the Bengal Act of 1944 shall be omitted and shall be always deemed to have been omitted.	None
Section 7 of the Bengal Amendment Act of 1980 runs as follows Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal, or authority to the contrary, where any assessment under the Income tax Act, 1961 of any agricultural income derived from tea ha s been made before the coming into force of this Act, the proceeding relating to such assessment may be taken and continued under the principal Act as if this Act had not been passed.	None
It may be mentioned her e that by the Bengal Agricultural Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1979, subsection (2A) was inserted after subsection (2) in Section 8 of the Bengal Act of 1944.	Facts
That Act remained in force only for a period of one year.	None
The material portion of subsection (2A) ran as follows (2A) Where the computation of the income derived from tea has not been completed for the purposes of assessment of incometax under the Incometax Act, 1961, or where such computation has been completed but the assessment under the Incometax Act, 1961, has been annulled or set aside under that Act and no order of assessment under Section 25 has been made within six years from the end of the year in which the agricultural income was first assessable, the Agricultural Incometax Officer shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act, assess the agricultural income derived from tea in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed and shall determine the sum payable by the assessee on the basis of such assessmentX X X X X In the State of Kerala, agricultural incometax was sought to be imposed by the Agricultural Incometax Act, 1950 passed by the Legislature of the State of Kerala.	Facts
The definition of the term agricultural income is contained in subsection (a) of Section 2 of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act.	None
The said definition is in line with the definition of the said term under the Act of 1922.	None
There was an Explanation after clause (2) of subsection (a) of Section 2.	None
The material part of subsection (a) runs as follows 2(a) agricultural income means (1) any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes ( 2) any income derived from such land by (i) agriculture or (ii) the performance by a cultivator or receiver of rentinkind of any process ordinarily employed by a cultivator o r receiver of rentinkind to render the produce raised or received by him fit to be taken to market or (iii) the sale by a cultivator or receiver of rentinkind of the produce raised or received by him, in respect of which no process has been performed other than a process of the nature described in subclause (ii) x	None
x x x x The Explanation referred to above, which followed clause 2 ran as follows Agricultural income derived from such land by the cultivation of tea means that portion of the income derived from the cultivation, manufacture and sale of tea as is defined to be agricultural income for the purposes of the enactments relating to Indian Incometax By Section 2 of the Agricultural Incometax Amendment Act, 1980 (Kerala Act 17 of 1980), the said Explanation was omitted with effect from 1.4.1980.	None
The affidavit in reply filed on behalf of the State of Kerala as well as the speech of the Finance Minister of the said State at the time of introducing of the Bill which was passed as the Kerala Amendment Act of 1980, make it clear that the intention behind deleting of Explanation was to make the entire income earned by a person from the sale of tea grown and manufactured b y him in the State liable to the levy of agricultural incometax.	None
The main question which we have to consider is whether the aforesaid provisios in the Bengal Amendment Act of 1980 are in excess of the legislative competence of the West Bengal State Legislature.	None
It will also have to be considered whether by reason of the deletion of the aforesaid Explanation effected by the Kerala Amendment Act of 1980 the definition of the term agricultural income in subsection (a) of Section 2 of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax became void as in excess of the legislative competence of the State Legislature.	None
A perusal of Entry 82 of List I in the Seventh Schedule and Entry 46 in List II makes it clear the respective Legislatures of the State of West Bengal and the State of Kerala could pass laws imposing taxes only in respect of agricultural income and in respect of income other than agricultural income, it is only Parliament which has the power to legislate in respect of taxes on such income.	None
sub article (1) of Article 366 of the Constitution states that agricultural income means such income as is defined as agricultural income for the purposes of enactments relating to Indian income tax.	None
It is significant that the words used are not as defined by the enactments relating to Indian incometax but as defined for the purposes of the enactments relating to Indian incometax.	None
(emphasis supplied).	None
We have already set out the definition of the term agricultural income under the Act of 1922 as well as that in the Act of 1961 which replaced the Act of 1922.	Facts
If these definitions are read by themselves, it would be difficult to say that there is any conflict between them and the definition of the term agricultural income contained in the Bengal Agricultural Income tax Act, 1944 after its amendment in 1980 or the definition of the said term in the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act of 1950, even after the deletion of the aforesaid Explanation.	None
However, it must be realised that Section 59 of the Act of 1922 and Section 295 of the Act of 1961 both deal with rule making powers.	None
Under the Act of 1922 that power is given to the Central Board of Revenue and under the Act of 1961 that power is given to the Central Board of Direct Taxes.	None
Clause (a) of subsection (2) of Section 59 of the Act of 1922 specifically confers powers on the Central Board of Revenue to make rules prescribing the manner in which and the procedure by which income, profits and gains shall be arrived at in the case of income derived in part from agriculture and in part from business.	None
A similar power is conferred under Section 295 of the Act of 1961 on the Central Board of Direct Taxes to make rules in respect of income derived in part from agriculture and in part from business.	None
The only difference between Section 59 of the Act of 1922 and Section 295 of the Act of 1961 in this connection, to which our attention was drawn by Mr. Potti, is that subsection (5) of Section 59 provides that the rules made under the said Section shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall thereupon have effect as if enacted in the Act of 1922 whereas Section 296 of the Act of 1961 provides that the rules made under the Act of 1961 have to be laid before each House of Parliament in the manner prescribed in Section 296 and both Houses of Parliament are entitled to make such changes therein as they may re solve or they might direct that the rule should not be given effect to.	None
This, however, does not make much difference.	None
Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 and Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules 1962 framed under Section 295 of the Act of 1961 are in pari materia.	None
It may be mentioned here that Rule 7 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 deals with the computation of income which is partially agricultural and partially from business and Rule 8 is the specific rule dealing with income derived from th e sale of tea grown and manufactured by the seller in India.	None
Under subrule (1) of Rule 8, it is provided that such income shall be computed as if it were income derived from business and 40 per cent of such income is deemed to be income liable to tax.	None
A perusal of the aforesaid Rule 8(1) makes it clear that under the said rule, income from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by a seller in India has to be computed as if it were income derived from business which would imply that the deductions allowable under the Act of 1961 in respect of income derived from business would be allowable in the case of income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by a seller and further allowance would be granted a s set out in Rule 8(2) and 40 per cent of the income so computed would be deemed to be income liable to the levy of incometax and the balance of the income would be liable to tax as agricultural income subject to such further deductions as the law pertaining to the levy of agricultural incometax might allow.	Facts
The question is whether Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 and Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 can be said to form part of the definition of the term agricultural income under the Act of 1922 and the Act of 1961 respectively.	None
In Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. Anr.	None
v. State of Kerala Ors., 1965 48 I.T.R. 85 a Bench comprising of five learned Judges of this Court was called upon to consider the quest ion of the power of a State Legislature to make a law in respect of taxes on agricultural income arising from tea plantations and the Bench took the view that the power of the State Legislatures in this connection is limited to legislating with respect to agricultural income determined in accordance with Rule 24 of the Indian Incometax Rules, 1922, under which income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by the seller is first to be computed under Section 10 of the Act of 1922, as if it were income derived from business.	Reasoning
Any expenditure by the assessee, not being an allowance described in clauses (i) to (xiv) of Section 10(2) of the Act of 1922 and not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee, laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purposes of such business would be deductible.	None
Of the income so computed, 40 per cent, being under Rule 24 of the Indian Incometax Rules, 1922 treated as income liable to incometax, the other 60 per cent alone will be agricultural income.	None
The State Legislature is free in the exercise of its plenary legislative power to allow further deductions from such computed agricultural income in the case of tea plantations as it considers fit	None
but it cannot add to the amount of agricultural income so computed by providing that certain items of expenditure deducted in the computation of the income from business under the provisions of the Indian Incometax Ac t, 1922 be not deducted and be considered to be a part of the taxable agricultural income.	None
The State Legislature cannot enact such a provision which would make agricultural income from tea plantations higher than what it would be if computed in accordance with Rule 24 read with Section 10 of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
In that case, the provision of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act which had to be considered was Explanation 2 to Section 5 added by an amending Act in 1961 which deals with the computation of agricultural income.	None
The provisions of Section 2 of the Kerala Agricultural Income tax Act which defines agricultural income for the purposes of that Act and the Explanation to clause (2) of subsection (a) of that Section, which Explanation has now been deleted by the impugned Amendment Act, were also considered.	None
It was pointed out (p. 91 of the Report) that Agricultural income as defined in the Constitution means agricultural income for th e purpose of the enactments relating to incometax.	None
One such enactment is the Incometax Act.	None
Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules 1922 has been made under the power conferred by Section 59 of the Income tax Act and has effect as if enacted in that Act.	None
When Section 59 of the Incometax Act provides for the Rules made under that Act to prescribe the proportions of income from business and income from agriculture in the entire income derived in part from agriculture and in part from business, the proportion so prescribed must be taken to be prescribed by the Act.	None
These rules were in existence in 1950 when the Constitution incorporated the definition of agricultural income from the Incometax Act by reference.	None
The definition of the term was bound up with the Rules.	None
(emphasis supplied).	None
It was pointed out by Mr. Potti that there is a reference in the aforesaid judgment to the said Explanation contained in Section 2(a)(2) of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act, which is now deleted, and which substantially incorporated the provisions of Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 about the computation of income derived by an assessee from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by him and the respective proportions of the same which could be regarded as agricultural income and other income respectively.	Arguments of Respondent
It is, however, not possible to say that the aforesaid decision is essentially based on the said Explanation as contended by Mr. Potti.	Arguments of Respondent
The question whether computation of income by the Central Incometax authorities could be disregarded by an Agricultural Incometax Officer acting under the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act came up for consideration before another Bench of five learned Judges of this Court in Anglo American Direct Tea Trading Co. Ltd. etc. v. Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax, Kerala, 1968 69 I.T.R. 667.	None
In that case the year in question were 195859 to 196162, with the result that the provisions of the Act of 1922 as well as the Act of 1961 and of the Incometax Rules, 1922 as well as the Incometax Rules, 1962 had to be taken into account.	None
This Court followed its decision in the case of Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. Anr.	None
v. State of Kerala	None
Ors., 1965 48 I.T.R. 85 and held t hat income from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by an assessee is derived partly from business and partly from agriculture.	None
This income is computed as if it were income from business under the Central Incometax Act and the Rules made thereunder.	None
Of the income so computed as aforesaid, 40 per cent is deemed to be income derived from business and assessable to non agricultural incometax.	None
The balance of 60 per cent of the income so computed is agricultural income within the meaning of the Central Incometax Act and the Constitution of India and the power of the State Legislature to make a law in respect of taxes on agricultural income arising from tea plantations is limited to legislating with respect to the agricultural income so determined.	None
It was also pointed out that the Explanation to Section 2(a)(2) of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act, 1950 adopted this rule of computation.	None
It was held in that case that the Agricultural Incometax Officer acting under the Kerala Act was bound to accept the computation of the tea income already made by the Central Incometax authorities and to assess only 60 per cent of the income so computed, less deductions allowable under Section 5 of the Kerala Act in so far as the same had not been allowed in the assessment under the Central Incometax Act.	None
The Court also held that if, before Agricultural Incometax Officer proceeds to make the assessment under the Kerala Act, an assessment of income by the Incometax Officer under Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 or Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 had been made, then the Agricultural Incometax Officer acting under the Kerala Act is bound to accept the computation of the tea income already made by the Central Incometax Authorities as aforesaid.	None
In the case of State of Tamil Nadu v. Kannan Devan Hills Produce Co. Ltd., 1972 84 I.T.R. 475 a Division Bench comprising of two learned Judges of this Court followed the aforesaid decisions.	None
In the case of Tea Estate India P. Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax, West Bengal II, 1976 103 I.T.R. 785 a Bench comprising of two learned Judges of this Court observed (at P. 795) as follows Income which is realised by sale of tea by a tea company which grows tea on its land and thereafter subjects it to manufacturing process in its factory is an integrated income.	None
Such income consists of two elements or components.	None
One element or component consists of the agricultural income which is yielded in the form of green leaves purely by the land over which tea plants are grown.	None
The second element or component consists of nonagricultural income which is the result of subjecting green leaves which are plucked from the tea plants grown on the land to a particular manufacturing process in the factory of the tea company.	None
The decisions in the cases of Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd.	None
AngloAmerican Direct Tea Trading Co. Ltd., 1968 69 I.T.R. 667, 1965 48 I.T.R. 85 referred to earlier have been cited with approval by a Division Bench of this Court in Commissioner of Incometax, Madras v. R.M. Chidambaram Pillai, etc., 1977 106 I.T.R. 292.	None
A reading of Article 245 of the Constitution with Entry 82 of List I and Entry 46 of List II in the Seventh Schedule makes it clear that the State Legislature has exclusive jurisdiction to legislate in respect of taxes on agricultural income and in respect of taxes on other income, it is Parliament alone which can legislate.	None
The term agricultural income used in that Entry has to be construed in accordance with the definition of the said term in Article 366(1) of the Constitution of India and that sub article states that agricultural income means agricultural income as defined for the purposes of the enactments relating to Indian Incometax.	None
A scrutiny of the aforesaid decisions of this Court in Karimatharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. (supra) and AngloAmerican Direct Tea Trading Co. Ltd., 1968 69 I.T.R. 667 shows that this Court has consistently taken the view that the definition of the term agricultural income for the purposes of the Act of 1922 and tha Act of 1961, being Acts pertaining to the levy of incometax, has to be considered in the light of Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 in the case of the Act of 1922 and Rules 7 and 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 as far as the Act of 1961 is concerned.	None
An analysis of the said decisions shows that this Court has taken the view that, in case of income from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by an assessee, Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 and Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 although at first glance they appear to be rules of apportionment and computation, must be treated as incorporated in the definition of the term agricultural income in the Act of 1922 and the Act of 1961 respectively.	None
It is true that in both the cases, Karimtharuvi Tea Estates Ltd. (supra)	None
AngloAmerican Direct Tea Trading Co. Ltd., 1968 48 I.T.R. 83 it has been noticed by this Court that the said Explanation to Section 2(a)(2) to the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act was in line with the provisions of Rule 24 of the Incometax Rules, 1922 and Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 but that by itself does not make any difference and the reading of the aforesaid decisions makes it perfectly clear that even without that Explanation the position would have been the same.	Arguments of Respondent
The conclusion which must follow is that although the Explanation has been deleted from clause (2) of subsection (a) of Section 2 of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act and in spite of the amendments carried out by the Amendment Act of 1979 and thereafter the Amendment Act of 1980 in the case of the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act, an Agricultural Incometax Officer acting under the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act or the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act has no power to levy agricultural incometax except in respect of 60 per cent of the income derived by an assessee from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by him and computed in the manner laid down under the relevant Central Income tax Act and the Rules framed thereunder.	Reasoning
It was, however, contended by Mr. Potti on behalf of the State of Kerala and Mr. Tapas Ray on behalf of the State of West Bengal that the position as emerging from the aforesaid decisions of this Court has been altered by the decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Sales Tax, Lucknow v. D.S. Bist Ors., 1979 44 S.T.C. 392.	None
I n that case the assessee owned some tea gardens in the State of U.P. and sold the tealeaves grown by him in his gardens after processing and packing the same.	None
A question arose whether the tea leaves sold by the assessee were agricultural produce grown by himself and the sales were, therefore, not exigible to sales tax under the Proviso to Section 2(i) of the U.P. Sales Tax Act, 1948.	None
The contention of the revenue was that the goods in question, namely, tea leaves grown and processed as aforestated had ceased to be an agricultural produce after processing and were, therefore, exigible to sales tax.	None
The processes to which tealeaves were subjected by the assessee was described by the Revising Authority as follows (p. 394)	None
The tealeaves were first of all subjected to withering in shadow in rooms on a wooden floor for about 14 hours.	None
(2) Then they were crushed by hand or foot and were then roasted for about 15 minutes.	None
(3) Later they were roasted on mats for about 15 minutes.	None
(4)	None
And then they were covered by wet sheets for generating fermentation.	None
During this process the colour of leaves was changed from green to yellowish.	None
(5) he leaves were then subjected to grading with sieves of various sizes.	None
Fanning machines are also used in completing the grading process.	None
(6) The produce was then finally roasted with charcoal for obtaining suitable flavour and colours.	None
(7) It is this final product which was eventually sold by the assessee.	None
It was observed by the Supreme Court that if the tea leaves sold by the assessee substantially retained the character of being an agricultural produce, the assessees sales would not be exigible to sales tax.	None
If , on the other hand, the leaves had undergone such vital changes by processing that they lost their character of being an agricultural produce and became a different commodity, then the sales made by the assessee were exigible to sales tax.	None
The Court held that, on the findings recorded by the revising authority, it could not be justifiably held in law that the tealeaves lost their character of being an agricultural produce and became something different.	None
All the processes applied by the assessee were necessary for the purpose of saving the tealeaves from perishing, making them fit for transporting and marketing them.	None
It was submitted by learned Counsel that this decision laid down that the processes involved i n producing marketable tea were only such as would be carried out by an agriculturist to make his produce marketable and hence the entire income derived from the sale of such tea leaves should be regarded as agricultural income.	None
In our view, it is impossible to accept this contention.	None
In the first place, the question before the Court in that case was not relating to agricultural incometax at all but relating to sales tax.	None
Moreover, what the Court was called upon to consider, and what it did to consider, was only whether the tealeaves after undergoing the processes set out earlier continued to be agricultural produce or whether they became a different commodity which could not be regarded as an agricultural produce.	None
It is significant that the aforesaid decisions rendered by Benches comprising five learned Judges of this Court in Karimatharuvi and AngloAmericans, Cases, as well the other decisions referred to earlier, have not been referred to in that decision at all, and rightly so, because the Division Bench in Bists Case was called upon to consider a question which was essentially a different question.	None
The ratio of the decision in Bists Case has no application to the cases before us.	None
That decision is, therefore, of no assistance to learned Counsel for the State of Kerala and the State of West Bengal.	None
We find that the judgment in Bists Case referred to above has been distinguished by a learned Single Judge of the Kerala High Court in	None
High Land Produces Co. Ltd.	None
Anr.	None
etc.	None
v. Inspecting Asstt.	None
Commr. of Agricultural Incometax Sales Tax (Special), Kottayam, and Ors. etc., 1984 148 I.T.R. 746 in considering the scope of the power of the State Legislature to tax agricultural income.	None
That case arose after the aforesaid amendment of Section 2(a) of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act, 1950 whereby the Explanation at the end of Section 2(a)(2) thereof was deleted.	None
It has been pointed out by the learned Judge that the Explanation to Section 2(a) of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act, 1950 was, in substance, in harmony with the concept of mixed income contemplated by Section 295(2)(b) of the Act of 1961 and Rule 8 of Incometax Rules, 1962.	None
The Explanation specifically referred to that portion of the income from tea as was defined by the Central Act and Rule 8 to be agricultural income by exclusion from total income computed under the Central Act.	None
This Explanation has been omitted by the Amendment Act of 1980.	None
The State Legislature is perfectly competent to omit any provision which it has enacted.	None
However, it cannot thereby widen the ambit of the State Act so as to bring to tax the entire income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by an assessee.	None
It has been pointed out by the learned Judge in his judgment that none of the observations in Bists Case could be read to mean that the entirety of the income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by the assessee would be chargeable to agricultural incometax, for such a construction would not only be unwarranted by the facts and reasoning of that case, but would also be directly in conflict with the Central statute and the principle laid down by a larger Benches comprising five learned Judges of the Supreme Court in the aforesaid two decisions.	None
It was contended by Mr. Potti and Mr. Ray, learned Counsel for the Respondent States that Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 was not a part of an enactment and could not be regarded as an enactment and hence it need not be taken into account in considering the definition of the term agricultural income under the Constitution.	None
It was pointed out by the m that, unlike subsection (5) of Section 59 of the Act of 1922 which provided that the rules made under the said section would have effect, after publication in the Gazette, as if enacted in that Act, Section 296 of the Act of 1961 merely provided inter alia that a rule framed under Section 295 had to be laid, as soon as may be, before each House of Parliament while it is in Session for a total period of thirty days and unless it was directed to be deleted or amended by both House s of Parliament it would be given effect to.	None
It was pointed out by them that Rule 8, therefore, could not be said to be enactment and hence it could not affect the definition of the term agricultural income under Article 366(1) of the Constitution.	None
We are unable to accept this submission.	None
What Article 366(1) provides is that the term agricultural income has the same meaning as attributed to it for the purposes of enactments relating to Indian income tax and in our view, i t is quite clear that Rule 8 of the Incometax Rules, 1962 as well as Rule 24 of the Income tax Rules, 1922, pertain to and are bound up with the definition of the term agricultural income for the purposes of laws or enactments pertaining to Indian income tax and hence the provisions of those rules have to be taken into account in considering the meaning of the term agricultural income under subarticle (1) of Article 366 of the Constitution.	None
It was next contended by M r. Potti Mr. Ray that Rule 8 went beyond the scope of the rule making power conferred by Section 295 of the Act of 1961 and hence was ultra vires.	Arguments of Respondent
This submission has to be rejected.	Reasoning
Clause (b) of sub section (2) of Section 295 specifically confers power on the rule making authority to make rules relating to the manner in which and the procedure by which income for the purposes of the Act of 1961 would be arrived at in the case of income derived in part from agriculture and in part from business and Rule 8 clearly provides for the manner in which computation of income for the purposes of the Act of 1961 is to be made in the case of income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by a seller in India and hence we totally fail to see how it can be said that the said rule goes beyond the scope of the rulemaking power conferred under Section 295.In view of what we have discussed above, it appears to us that although the Explanation to Section 2(a)(2) of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act, 1950 has been deleted by the Amendment Act of 1980, the result would still be the same, namely, that the Kerala State Legislature can impose tax only in respect of 60 per cent of the income derived by an assessee who sells tea grown and manufactured by him in India and such income has to be computed in the manner laid down in the Act of 1922 and thereafter in the Act of 1961 for computation of business income.	Reasoning
The same is the position in respect of the powers of the legislature of the State of West Bengal in spite of the amendments made by the said legislature by the Amendment Act of 1980 and earlier under the amending Act of 1979 which was in force only for one year as we have stated before.	Reasoning
It is not necessary to strike down the said amendments because they do not directly conflict with the definition of the term agricultural income under the Constitution as we have pointed out earlier, but we may make it clear that they do not confer any wider power on the State Legislature to impose taxes on agricultural income than what we have set out earlier.	Reasoning
Before parting with the matter, it must be mentioned that the validity of the aforesaid amendments to the Bengal Agricultural	None
In cometax Act, 1944 made in 1980 and the deletion of the Explanation in Section 2(a)(2) of the Kerala Agricultural Incometax Act were challenged as being ultra vires and invalid in law on several other grounds.	None
We have not thought it necessary to go into these grounds in view of what we have held, as set out above.	None
Dr. Pal on behalf of Tata Tea Co. and Tata Finlay Co. also challenged the amendment carried out in 1980 in the Bengal Agricultural Incometax Act on the ground of being its retrospective in operation.	Arguments of Petitioner
It also appears to us unnecessary to go into this question in view of what we have already held.	None
In the result, although none of the prayers in the petitions is granted in terms, the Petitioners substantially succeed in the Petitions.	Reasoning
There will be a declaration in terms of the last but one paragraph in favour of the Petitioners.	Decision
Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, however, we feel that the parties should bear and pay their own costs and we direct accordingly.	Reasoning
Petitions disposed of.	None
