 Untwalia, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave filed by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. from the award dated 831969 made by the fifth Industrial Tribunal, West Bengal.	Issue
The Governor of West Bengal made the reference under Section 10 (1) of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947  hereinafter called the Act, for adjudication on the following 5 issues(1)	Issue
Allowance for the education of employees children(2)	Issue
House Building loan(3) Free conveyance or conveyance allowance(4) Revision of Lunch allowance(5)	Issue
Whether the following canteen employees should be made permanent the names of 10 employees given.	Issue
The Tribunal granted no relief to the workmen on issues 2 and 3, allowed their claim in part in respect of issues 1, 4 and 5.	Facts
Feeling aggrieved by the said award the appellant which is a Government company constituted under Section 617 of the Companies Act, the shares of which are entirely owned by the Central Government, has filed this appeal.	Facts
The dispute relates to about 1,000 workmen working at the Barrackpore (West Bengal) branch of the Companys repairing workshop represented by the Hindustan Aeronautics workers Union, Barrackpore.2.	Facts
The competency of the Government of West Bengel to make the reference was challenged before the Tribunal as also here.	Issue
Mr. V. S. Desai, learned counsel for the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
submitted that the appropriate Government within the meaning of Section 2 (a) of the Act competent to make the reference was the Central Government, or, if a State Government it was the Government of Karnataka where the Bangalore Divisional Office of the Company is situated end under which works the Barrackpore branch.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel stressed the point that the Central Government owned the entire bundle of shares in the company.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appoints and removes the Board of Directors as well as the Chairman and the Managing Director.	Arguments of Petitioner
All matters of importance are reserved for the decision of the President of India and ultimately executed in accordance with his directions.	Arguments of Petitioner
The memorandum and Articles of Association of the company unmistakably point out the vital role and control of the Central Government in the matter of carrying on of the industry owned by the appellant.	Arguments of Petitioner
Hence, counsel submitted that the industrial dispute in question concerned an industry which was carried on under the authority of the Central Government within the meaning of Section 2 (a) (i) of the Act and the Central Government was the only appropriate Government to make the reference under Section 10.	Arguments of Petitioner
The submission so made was identical to the one made before and repelled by this Court in the case of Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union v. The State of Bihar, (1969) 3	None
SCR 995 (AIR 1970 SC 82 1970 Lab IC 212) wherein it has been said at page 1,000 (of SCR) (at p. 86 of AIR and at p. 216 of Lab IC)	None
It is true that besides the Central Government having contributed the entire share capital, extensive powers are conferred on it, including the power to give directions as to how the company should function, the power to appoint directors and even the power to determine the wages and salaries payable by the company to its employees.	None
But there powers are derived from the companys memorandum of association and the Articles of Association and not by reason of the company being the agent of the Central Government.	None
The question whether a corporation is an agent of the State must depend on the facts of each case.	None
Where a statute setting up a corporation so provides, such a corporation can easily be identified as the agent of the State as in Graham v. Public Works commissioners, (1901) 2 KB 781 where Phillimore, J. said that the Crown does in certain cases establish with the consent of Parliament certain officials or bodies who are to be treated as agents of the Crown even though they have the power of contracting as principals.	None
In the absence of a statutory provision, however, a commercial corporation acting on its own behalf, even though it is controlled wholly or partially by a Government department, will be ordinarily presumed not to be a servant or agent of the State.	None
The fact that a Minister appoints the members or directors of a corporation and he is entitled to call for information, to give directions which are binding on the directors and to supervise over the conduct of the business of the corporation does not render the corporation an agent of the Government (See the State Trading Corporation of India Ltd, v. The Commercial Tax Officer, Visakhapatnam) (1964)	None
4	None
SCR 99 at l88 (AIR 1963 SC 1811 at p. 1849), per Shah, J. and Tamlin v. Hannsford (1950) 1 KB 18 at pp. 25, 26.	None
Such an inference that the corporation is the agent of the Government may be drawn where it is performing in substance governmental and not commercial functions.	None
(of London County Territorial and Auxilliary Forces Association v. Nichols)  (1948) 2	None
All ER 432.3.	None
Mr. Desai made a futile and unsubstantial attempt to distinguish the case of Heavy Engineering Mazdoor Union, (AIR 1970 SC 82 1970 Lab IC 212) on the ground that that was the case of a Government Company carrying on an industry where Private Sector Undertakings were also operating.	Reasoning
It was not an industry, as in the instant case, which the Government alone was entitled to carry on to the exclusion of the private operators.	Reasoning
The distinction so made is of no consequence and does not affect the ratio of the case in the least.	Reasoning
We may also add that by amendments made in the definition of appropriate Government in Section 2 (a) (i) frorn time to time certain statutory corporations were incorporated in the definition to make the Central Government an appropriate Government in relation to the industry carried on by them.	Reasoning
But no public company even if the shares were exclusively owned by the Government was attempted to be roped in the said definition.4.	Reasoning
The other leg of the argument to challenge the competency of the West Bengal Government to make the reference is also fruitless.	Reasoning
It may be assumed that the Barrackpore branch was under the control of the Bangalore division of the company.	Reasoning
Yet it,was a separate branch engaged in an industry of repairs of aircrafts or the like at Barrackpore.	Reasoning
For the purposes of the Act and on the facts of this case the Barrackpore branch was an industry carried on by the company as a separate unit.	Reasoning
The workers were receiving their pay packages at Barrackpore and were under the control of the officers of the company stationed there.	Reasoning
If there was any disturbance of industrial peace at Barrackpore where a considerable number of workmen were working the appropriate Government concerned in the maintenance of the industrial peace was the West Bengal Government.	Reasoning
The grievances of the workmen of Barrackpore were their own and the cause of action in relation to the industrial dispute in question arose there.	Reasoning
The reference, therefore, for adjudication of such a dispute by the Governor of West Bengal was good and valid.	Reasoning
The facts of the case of M s. Lipton Limited v. Their Employees, (1959) 2 Supp SCR 150 (AIR 1959 SC 620 ) cited on behalf of the appellant are clearly distinguishable.	Reasoning
The ratio of trial case was pressed into service in vain on behalf of the appellant.5.	Reasoning
The first demand on behalf of the workmen as respects the education allowance of the children was chiefly based upon the educational facilities said to be available to the workmen of Bangalore.	None
On behalf of the management it was pointed out that certain educational facilities were given to the employees living in the township of Bangalore but not in the city of Bangalore.	Arguments of Respondent
The workmen working at Barrackpore had also been provided with certain educational facilities.	Arguments of Respondent
We, however do not propose to go into the merits of the rival contentions.	None
In our opinion the award directing the company to pay Rs. 12 per month to each employee to meet educational expenses of their children irrespective of the number of children a particular workman may have is beyond the scope of the issue referred for adjudication.	Reasoning
The Tribunal while discussing this issue felt constrained to think that strictly speaking claim for allowance for the education of employees children could not form a subject matter of industrial dispute.	Reasoning
Really it was a matter to be taken into consideration at the time of fixing their wages.	Reasoning
In substance and in effect the directions given by the Tribunal is by way of revision of the pay structure of the Barrackpore employees.	Reasoning
No such reference was either asked for or made.	Reasoning
The Tribunal, therefore, had no jurisdiction to change the wage structure in the garb of allowing educational expenses for the employees children.	Reasoning
We may add that on behalf of the appellant it was stated before us that the latest revised wage structure has taken the matter of education of the employees children into consideration, while, Mr. A. K. Sen, appearing for the workmen, did not accept it to be so.	Reasoning
If necessary and advisable a proper industrial dispute may be raised in that regard in future but the award as it stands cannot be upheld.6.	Reasoning
Apropos issue No. 4 it was stated on behalf of the appellant that all staff and not only the supervisory staff were getting Rs. 1.50 as lunch allowance under circumstances similar to the ones under which the employees belonging to the supervisory staff were getting Rupees 1.50 as lunch allowance.	Reasoning
The award of the Tribunal, therefore, was unnecessary and superfluous in that regard.	Reasoning
If that be so, the award may be a surplusage as it is conceded on behalf of the appellant that under the existing service conditions every employee eligible to get a lunch allowance was getting Rs. 1.50.7.	Reasoning
The 10 workmen sought to be made permanent under issue No. 5 were casual workmen before 411967 within the meaning of clause (b) (d) of Standing Order I headed Classification of workmen.	Reasoning
They were appointed as temporary workmen within the meaning of clause (b) (d) of Standing Order I on and from 411967.	Reasoning
The Tribunals direction to make them permanent on and from 411968 treating them as probationers appointed in permanent vacancies was not justified.	Reasoning
The Tribunal did not go into the question as to whether more permanent workmen were necessary to be appointed in the canteen over and above the existing permanent strength to justify the making of the 10 workmen as permanent in the canteen where they were working.	Reasoning
No direction of creation of new posts was given.	Reasoning
On the evidence as adduced before the Tribunal and on the basis of the findings recorded by it, it is plain that the 10 workmen or any of them could be made permanent only against the permanent vacancies and not otherwise.	Reasoning
On behalf of the appellant it was stated before us that all of them have been made permanent against such vacancies, while, on behalf of the workmen the assertion was that none of them has been made permanent so far.	Reasoning
The management has no objection in absorbing the 10 workmen concerned in permanent vacancies as and when they occur if any of them has not been already absorbed.	Reasoning
The workmen want nothing more than this.8.	None
In the result the appeal is allowed and substantially the award of the Tribunal is set aside but subject to the clarifications and observations made above.	Decision
In the circumstances, there will be no order as to costs.9.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
