 The following are the prayers in M.A. No. 2363 of 2018 (previously I.A. No. 6 of 2016) in C.A. No. 2593 of 2006 and M.A. No. 2364 of 2018 (previously I.A. Nos. 9 and 10 of 2016) in Civil Appeal No. 2591 of 2006.	Issue
Prayer in I.A.	Issue
No. 6 of 2016 in C.A. No.2593/2006 a) pass appropriate directions in terms as prayed for in Para 10 hereinabove and b) pass such other or further order(s) as this Honble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case and in the interest of justice Para 10 of said I.A. reads as follows  The applicant most humbly submit that order dated 21.1.2016 passed in C.A. No. 2593 of 2006 be modified to the extent of directing disbursal, if any only from such amount which are in excess of funds, not identified or related to the members of the applicant or such order s as deemed fit and proper in facts and circumstances of the case may be passed.	Issue
Prayer in I.A. 9 of 2016 in C.A. No.2591/2006 a) order dated 21.01.2016 be modified and directions be passed in terms of para 9 hereinabove and b) pass such other or further order(s) as this Honble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case and in the interest of justice.	Issue
Para 9 of said I.A. reads as follows  The instant application, under the circumstances, is being preferred before this Court, seeking appropriate directions and or modification of order dated 21.01.2016, passed by this Court.	Issue
A copy of the said order dated 21.01.2016 passed by this Court in C.A. No. 2591/2006 is annexed hereto and marked as Annexure A3.	Issue
Trust not having any amount in its accounts for making payments, necessary directions be given to the new company for making of such payment, on terms, as deemed fit and proper in facts and circumstances of the case.	Issue
Prayer in I.A.	Issue
No. 10 of 2016 in C.A. No.2591/2006 a) necessary direction be issued modifying the order dated 21.01.2016 passed by this Honble Court in Civil Appeal No.2591 of 2006 with Civil Appeal No. 2593 of 2006, by directing payment of only the principal amount of Rs.1.95 crores, to be paid in installments, in such a manner as this Honble court may deem fit and proper, in full and final settlement of claim of Respondent and b) pass such further order(s) as this Honble Court may deem fit and proper in the facts and circumstances of the present case and in the interest of justice.	Issue
The judgment dated 21.01.2016, which is sought to be modified, reads as follows After having extensively heard Mr. Dushyant Dave and Mr. Jayant Bhushan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants and Mr. Sudhir Chandra, Mr. Bhaskar P. Gupta and Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents, we see no ground to interfere with the well reasoned order passed by the learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court, as affirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court, since the High Court has mainly proceeded on undisputed facts.	Facts
Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned senior counsel, has submitted that the Kelvin Jute Company Ltd. has since merged into Trend Vyapaar Ltd. in 2001 under a scheme framed by BIFR.	Facts
We see from the Judgment that the direction for payment of the provident fund dues is to the Trust as well as to the Company.	Facts
In the unlikely event of the Trust not able to meet the payment as directed by the High Court, it would be open to the new company referred to above to approach this Court for appropriate directions.	Facts
Since the matter has been pending before this Court since 2006 and as there was an order of stay of the Judgment of the High Court, we grant further period of three months for payment of the amount as directed by the High Court.	Facts
In view of the above, the Civil Appeals are dismissed with no order as to costs.	Facts
The appeal leading to the judgment above arose from the judgment of the Calcutta High Court dated 16.02.2006 in APO258/2002 and APO238/2002.	Facts
The Division Bench affirmed the judgment dated 15.03.2002 in Writ Petition No. 4312 of 1993.	Facts
Paragraphs 26.1 and 26.2 of the judgment dated 15.03.2002 of the Single Bench containing the operative portion, reads as follows 26.1 In the circumstances, the Kelvin Trust shall transfer the amount of Rs.2,00,98,363.02 as stood on June 30, 1986 together with the interest accrued on the said amount at the statutory rate till the date of transfer to the Waverly Trust.	Facts
In case the Trust is short of fund, the Kelvin, which has utilized the funds of the Trust, shall pay the same to Kelvin Trust, which will in turn transfer the same to Waverly Trust.	Facts
All these actions have to be undertaken and completed within three months from date.	Facts
In default, the RPFC shall cancel the exemption and shall take custody and possession of all the funds and securities at the hands and assets and bank accounts of Kelvin Trust.	Facts
In case there is any shortage, assets, funds, securities, capitals and bank accounts of Kelvin shall remain attached until the fund is available in Kelvin Trust.	Facts
It will be open to RPFC to take appropriate steps and pass appropriate order enforcing transfer of the said fund and recovery of the amount from Kelvin Trust and Kelvin respectively, in terms of section 17B or otherwise including recovery and also to take steps for the penal consequences, as the case may be.	Facts
Let a writ mandamus do issue accordingly to each of the respective respondents severally and jointly.	None
26.2	None
Until the amount is so transferred, the Kelvin Trust and the Kelvin is restrained from dealing with or disposing of its funds, assets and securities and from withdrawing any money from their respective Bank Account except in usual course of business and in discharge of payment of its statutory liabilities and wages payable to its workers without leaving a balance of a sum of Rs.3 crores.	Facts
In the result, the writ petition succeeds and is allowed to the above extent.	Facts
While the Interlocutory Applications were pending before this Court, in view of the dispute on the amounts due, this Court on 10.05.2016, issued a direction to the Provident Fund Commissioner to determine the outstanding amounts.	Facts
The order reads as follows Pending disposal of these applications, we direct the Provident Fund Commissioner, acting through its jurisdictional delegate, to determine the outstanding amounts due from the respondents and submit a report to this Court within three months.	Facts
In the meanwhile, we direct the 7th respondent  Trend Vyapar Ltd. (applicant in I.A. No.10) to deposit an amount of Rs.1.95 crores before the Provident Fund Commissioner within a period of three months from today, without prejudice to all contentions available in the pending cases The Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner, accordingly, passed an order dated 26.08.2016 under Section 7A of the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.	Facts
The Provident Fund Commissioner determined the amount due as Rs.1,94,98,363.00.	Facts
The determination was made on the basis of the available records.	Facts
In the meanwhile, M s Trend Vyapaar Ltd. deposited an amount of Rs.1.95 crores with the Provident Fund Commissioner in terms of the order dated 10.5.2016.	Facts
At one stage, after hearing both sides for quite some time, this Court felt that it would be in the interest of all to put an end to the litigations, invoking its jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and close the litigations by treating the remittance of Rs.1.95 crores as full and final settlement of all the dues from M s Trend Vyapaar Ltd. Order dated 26.10.2016 reads as follows Having regard to the prolonged litigation and after hearing learned senior counsel appearing for both sides, we are of the view that it is high time to give a quietus to the disputes.	Facts
As per our direction, M s. Trend Vyapar Limited has deposited an amount of Rs.1.95 Crores with the Provident Fund Commissioner.	Facts
We are also informed that ever since M s. Trend Vyapar Limited took over the Company, they are in regular payment of the Provident Fund to its workers.	Facts
Be that as it may, in view of the background of the cases which have been dealt with in detail by the High Court while disposing of the appeals, we have taken the view that no interference was called for since the facts were not disputed.	Facts
In the above circumstances, we are prima facie of the view that this is an eminently fit case where this Court should invoke its discretion under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and give a quietus to all other disputes by treating the remittance of Rs. 1.95 Crores as full and final settlement of all the dues without any further liability on the part of M s. Trend Vyapar Limited either by way of interest or by way of damages.	Facts
The nonapplicants have submitted that they are not willing for such a settlement and insisted on disposal of the applications on merits.	Facts
Mr. Krishnan Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel has led the arguments on behalf of M s Trend Vyapaar Ltd	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned Senior counsel, the applicant had made a provision, at the time of takeover only for a sum of Rs.1.95 crores, as a contingent liability.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also submitted that the nonapplicants had not raised any objection before the BIFR.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Senior Counsel has also made a forceful submission on an alleged fraud played by the nonapplicants before the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
To quote from the written submission 15	Arguments of Petitioner
The writ petition admits that Kelvin Broadloom was covered by Kelvins S.17 EPF Act exemption.	Arguments of Petitioner
Instead of taking a fresh exemption, Hooghly renamed the Kelvin Broadloom division that it bought from Bajoria Group in 1986 its Waverly Jute Mill Company unit only to take advantage of the 22.6.1961 exemption to an entirely different company of that name.	Arguments of Petitioner
From S.2A of the EPF Act read with the definition of exempted establishment in S.2(fff), it is clear that a company cannot utilize an exemption granted to some other company.	Arguments of Petitioner
16.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Weaverlys, the fraud is even more brazen.	Arguments of Petitioner
While the Civil Appeal was pending before this Honble Court, in 2011, Hooghly sold its Waverly Jute Mill Company Unit to a company Weaverly Jute Mills Pvt.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ltd. newly incorporated in 2011 only to take over the unit by adding letter e after a in Waverly.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was obviously done only to continue to take advantage of the exemption dated 22.6.1961 in favour of the original Waverly Jute Mills Company Limited, Titagarh, 24 Parganas It is also submitted that in the case of a nonexempted establishment, only a beneficiary employer can stake a claim and in the instant case, no beneficiary has ever made a claim.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	None
The arguments in the written submission have been completed by submitting that In view of the capping of Trend Vyapaars liability at Rs.1.95 crores under the BIFR Scheme in terms of S.18(8) of SICA and the amount of Rs.1.95 crores having been deposited with the RPFC as per this Honble Courts order dated 10.05.2016, it is respectfully prayed that no further liability to pay interest should be fastened on Trend Vyapaar Ltd. Trend Vyapaar Ltd should also be relieved of any liability under paragraph 28 of the Appendix to the EPF Scheme to make good any deficit in Kelvin Trusts accounts if Kelvin Trust is directed to pay interest to Waverly Trust.	Arguments of Respondent
In any case, in view of RPFCs finding that Waverly Trust is not an exempted trust after the transfer of Kelvin Broadloom unit first to Hooghly and then to Weaverly, under the provisions of paragraph 27AA of the EPF Scheme read with paragraph 29 of the Appendix thereto, Waverly Trust is not entitled to claim any money by way of EPF dues from Trend Vyapaar Ltd or Kelvin Trust.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sudhir Chandra, learned Senior Counsel, who led the arguments on behalf of the writ petitioner before the High Court (nonapplicant herein), has submitted that the issues before the High Court having become final, the same cannot be reopened otherwise than in accordance with law.	Arguments of Petitioner
To quote from the written submission 17	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted with great respect that the question that Trend Vyapaar Ltd. was in regular payment of Provident Fund dues to its workers was of no consequence at all in the case because the amount of Rs.1.95 Crores with statutory interest from 30.06.1986 till payment was payable by the Kelvin Trust to the Waverly Trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
It did not matter whether Trend Vyapaar Ltd. was paying its workers or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
The finding of Honble Single Judge is that the management of Kelvin Jute Co. Ltd. had utilized the funds for its own purposes (in obvious collusion with the trustees of Kelvin Trust).	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that this amounts to defalcation and or embezzlement by the management of the Kelvin Jute Co. Ltd. of the PF accumulations liable to be transferred from the Kelvin Trust to the Waverley Trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
As such, the question of this Honble Court issuing directions under Article 142 of the Constitution of India could not arise.	Arguments of Petitioner
18.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appln.	Arguments of Petitioner
Nos. 6, 9 and 10 are nothing but abuse of the process of Court at the behest of the erstwhile management of Kelvin Trend Vyapaar Ltd., i.e., the Nathani Group.	Arguments of Petitioner
19.	Arguments of Petitioner
The PF accumulations alongwith statutory interest due thereon is the amount due under the decree of the Honble High Court, affirmed by this Honble Court, as payable by the Kelvin Trust to the Weaverly Trust, failing which, by the Kelvin Jute Co. Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Trend Vyapaar Ltd. to the Waverly Trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
20.	Arguments of Petitioner
None of the said IA Nos. 6, 9 and 10/2016 are review applications, nor is there any ground of review.	Arguments of Petitioner
21.	Arguments of Petitioner
The issue in respect of transfer of the said admitted amount of Rs.1.95 crores with statutory interest thereon from 30.06.1986 is between the Kelvin Trust and the Waverly Trust, failing which, the Kelvin Jute Co. Ltd. has to transfer the amount to the Waverly Trust.	Arguments of Petitioner
The workers do not come in the picture.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	None
The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner has taken a stand before this Court that Section 7A, Section 14B and Section 7Q are not applicable in the present case, being a private Trust.	Reasoning
But the fact remains that the non applicants did not produce any records before the Commissioner for enabling him to determine the dues, as directed by this Court.	Reasoning
We have also heard the learned Senior Counsel and other Counsel appearing for other applicants, intervenors and nonapplicants.	Reasoning
Having regard to the judgment dated 15.03.2002 passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court in Writ Petition No. 4312 of 1993, which has been affirmed by the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court and by this Court in the judgment dated 21.01.2016, we are afraid any application for recall modification which has the effect of reviewing the original judgment in the Writ Petition cannot be entertained by this Court.	Decision
The main contention of the applicants seem to be that writ petitioners had played fraud on Court and that the basis of the judgment of the High Court has been obtained by misleading that Court.	Decision
If that be the position, nothing prevents the applicants from approaching the High Court and seeking a review of the judgment.	Decision
We make it clear that in the event of such a review being filed on the ground of fraud, the High Court will be free to examine the same and the judgment of this Court dated 21.01.2016 shall not stand in any way of the High Court looking into that aspect of the matter.	Decision
Without prejudice to such liberty and making it further clear that such applications may not be dismissed on the ground of delay in case they are filed within thirty days from today, M.A. No. 2363 of 2018 (previously I.A. No. 6 of 2016) in C.A. No. 2593 of 2006 and M.A. No. 2364 of 2018 (previously I.A. Nos. 9 and 10 of 2016) in Civil Appeal No. 2591 of 2006 are dismissed.	Decision
We make it clear that we are not otherwise expressing any opinion on the merits of the applications or their objections.	Decision
It will be open to both sides to take all available contentions before the High Court.	Decision
The amount of Rs.1.95 Crores deposited with the Provident Fund Commissioner pursuant to order dated 10.05.2016 along with accrued interest shall be transferred to the nonapplicant Trust without prejudice to the contentions available to the parities.	Decision
However, we make it clear that the transfer as above shall be subject to any orders which may be passed by the High Court in the review petitions.	Decision
