 K. JAIN, J. Challenge in this civil appeal, under Section 130E(b) of the Customs Act, 1962 (for short the Act), is to the judgment and order dated 14th September, 2006 delivered by the Customs, Excise Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (for short the CESTAT) whereby it allowed the appeal preferred by the revenue, the respondent herein.	None
Consequently, the customs duty drawback (49,75,536/) claimed by the appellant under the scheme of duty drawback, incorporated in Chapter X of the Act, read with Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback Rules, 1995 (as amended) got disallowed on the ground of misdeclaration of value of the goods entered for exportation.	None
The facts, material for adjudication of the present appeal, may be stated thus The appellant viz.	Facts
M s Siddachalam Exports Pvt. Ltd., (hereinafter referred to as the exporter) was engaged in the exports of readymade garments, engineering goods, handicrafts, woollen garments, leather goods, etc.	Facts
On 24th February, 2003, the exporter filed seven shipping Bills (Nos.J 903000127129 and J903000131134) for export of goods declared as ladies tops valued at 390/ per piece and denim shirts valued at 417/ per piece consigned to one M s Zao Jainyo Overseas, Moscow, Russia at a total FOB value of 4,14,63,360/. The exporter claimed a duty drawback of 49,75,536/.3.	Facts
Based on secret information that the aforementioned goods had been overvalued with the intention of claiming undue drawback amounts, customs authorities carried out 100 examination of the consignment on 26th February, 2003 drew samples, and forwarded the same to one M s Skipper International for their opinion regarding their market value.4.	Facts
On 27th February, 2003, Mr. Sanjeev Jain, director of the exporter company was also examined, and in his statement recorded under Section 108 of the Act he stated that the goods covered by the shipping bills were not manufactured by his company, but were supplied by one Mr. Gupta.	Facts
Payments to Mr. Gupta in respect of the goods were made through cheques.	Facts
He, however, did not remember the address or contact number of Mr. Gupta.	Facts
Mr. Jain also stated that the goods covered by the seven shipping bills were purchased 150/ to 350/ per piece, however, he had not seen the invoices for the same.5.	Facts
Vide letter dated 5th March, 2003, the exporter requested for provisional release of the goods on execution of bond and bank guarantee.	Facts
On 12th March, 2003, one Pankaj, claiming to be an authorised representative of the said M s Skipper International submitted his valuation letter, opining that samples of ladies tops and denim shirts were export surplus and export rejected garments having poor quality of fabric and stitching, and the market value of the said goods ranged between 40/ to 70/ per piece.	Facts
Based on the said report, the customs authorities formed the opinion that the total value of the consignments was 56,04,000/ as against the declared FOB value of 4,14,63,360/ and the admissible drawback should be 3,56,328/ as against the claim of 49,57,536/. The consignments in question were seized under Section 110 of the Act.	Facts
However, subsequently the goods were released provisionally on execution of bond and bank guarantee by the exporter.6.	Facts
On 11th September, 2003, Assistant Commissioner of Customs (SIIB), ICD, Tughlakabad, New Delhi issued a show cause notice to the exporter, interalia, alleging that the FOB value of the goods covered under the seven shipping bills had been grossly misdeclared by artificially inflating it, thereby rendering them liable for confiscation under Sections 113(d) and or (i) of the Act.	Facts
The exporter was asked to show cause as to why the draw back on goods covered under shipping Bills No. J903000134 and J903000129 dated 24th February, 2003 should not be reduced to 3,56,328/ draw back amounting to 29,90,280/ on goods covered under the remaining shipping bills should not be disallowed, and penalty under Section 114 of the Act should not be imposed on the exporter.7.	Facts
On 7th December, 2004, the said Pankaj, authorised signatory of M s Skipper International submitted another letter to the Commissioner (Adjudication Bench) stating that their earlier letter dated 12th March, 2003 should not be relied upon for any purpose in as much as the same was prepared by the Customs authorities, and he was merely asked to transcribe his signature on the same.	Facts
It was further stated that he was neither shown any goods nor any documents.8.	Facts
On 14th December, 2004, the exporter replied to the show cause notice denying all the allegations contained therein.	Facts
The exporter also questioned the authenticity of the report dated 12th March, 2003 submitted by M s Skipper International.9.	Facts
The Commissioner of Central Excise, DelhiIII adjudicated on said show cause notice vide OrderinOriginal dated 31st January, 2005.	Facts
Relying on the decisions of the CESTAT, wherein the market enquiries conducted by the revenue in the absence of and without notice to the exporter had been held to be invalid, the Commissioner dropped the proceedings against the exporter, and allowed the draw back as claimed by the exporter.	Facts
The Commissioner held as follows In the light of above decisions of Honble Tribunal, I find that the enquiry conducted from M s Skipper International, in the absence of and without any notice to the exporter company or its Director, cannot be assigned any evidential weightage as it does not depict if the identical garments had ever been purchased by M s Skipper International for the given prices.	Facts
So, being the evidence and the relevant law, it has to be held that there had been indeed no market enquiry to establish the present market value.	Facts
Further, Mr. Pankaj, authorized signatory of M s Skipper International, has retracted his statement he made in his certificate dated 12.03.2003 by which he had given present market value of the samples shown to him.	Facts
In view of this conclusion, and in the absence of any other independent evidence relating to market enquiry, I fail to find corroboration from any other independent evidence as far as the aspect relating to the present market price and inflating of FOB value are concerned.	Facts
Being aggrieved, the Revenue preferred an appeal before the CESTAT.	Facts
As aforementioned, the CESTAT, vide the impugned judgment, has allowed the appeal filed by the Revenue, observing thus We find merit in the appeal of the revenue.	Facts
The basic issue in this case was whether the declared export prices were mis declarations on account of being overvaluation of the goods under export.	Issue
The second issue was whether the Present Market Value of the consignments were as indicated by M s Skipper International, thereby denying draw back amount.	Facts
While the defence of the respondent is that the export price has been realized, the declared value remains entirely unsubstantiated.	Facts
The opinion of M s Skipper International, who saw the samples is based on the observation that these samples of Ladies Tops and Denims Shirts are export surplus and export rejected garments having poor Quality of fabric and stitching.	Facts
There is no contest raised against the finding regarding poor quality of fabric and stitching.	Facts
It is upon this finding that M s. Skipper International reached the conclusion that the garments were export rejects.	Facts
The valuation was also on that basis.	Facts
Instead of contesting the factual position noted about the samples, the exporter has chosen to attack the competence of the opinion giver.	Facts
This is not acceptable for two reasons.	Facts
The first is that the quality of stitching and fabric would be evident to any one familiar with garment trade and cannot be ruled to be beyond the ken of an export surplus dealer.	Facts
There is no rocket science involved in as certainly quality of fabric or stitching of a garment.	Facts
Therefore, the attack on the opinion giver is entirely misplaced.	Facts
It is also because the opinion itself is not flawed.	Facts
Secondly, M s Skipper International was dealing in (sic.)	Facts
export surplus garments, therefore, it had expertise in the market valuation of such goods.	Facts
If fabric and stitching are of poor quality, certainly, the items would not be having the price of prime quality export garments as declared by the exporter.10.	Facts
Another entirely unacceptable aspect in the appellants conduct is that it has refused to place on record the material which it should be in possession of to substantiate the values declared.	Facts
The appellant is a merchant exporter and has purchased the garments, valued over 4 crores from the market.	Facts
It is to be expected that the appellant would have taken care to place the order for the goods on competent manufacturers or traders along with proper specification regarding material, make, and size and those manufacturers or traders would give the appellant proper invoices and other documents.	Facts
Instead of producing such evidence, it has chosen to state that procurement is through one illusory Gupta, whose particulars are not known to the appellant.	Facts
Such abnormal vagueness can only be attributed to an effort to cover up inconvenient facts.	Facts
It is well settled that a person in the possession of clinching evidence on an issue in dispute cannot hope to succeed by withholding that evidence.	Facts
Therefore, the Commissioner was clearly in error in faulting the revenue for relying upon the opinion of M s Skipper International and not carrying out investigations on the lines indicated by Shri Jain.	Facts
The particulars supplied by Shri Jain were not reliable at all and was intended only to mislead.	Facts
Further, issuance of some cheques is no satisfactory evidence about the correct value of the consignments.	None
Accordingly, the CESTAT confirmed the reduction of draw back claim in case of consignments covered by Shipping Bill Nos. J903000134 and J903000129 to 3,26,328/ and denial of draw back claim amounting to 29,90,280/ in relation to other consignments as contemplated in the show cause notice dated 11th September, 2003.	Facts
The CESTAT also levied a penalty of 5 lakhs each on the exporter and its Director, Mr. Sanjeev Jain, respectively.	Facts
Hence, the present appeal by the exporter.	Facts
Mr. Ramji Srinivasan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the exporter, while assailing the impugned judgment, contended that the Revenue has failed to discharge the onus placed on it in as much as it has failed to establish that the exporter had misdeclared the value of the export goods as was held in Nanya Imports Exports Enterprises Vs. Commissioner of Customs, Chennai1.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel contended that the show cause notice was vitiated as it was based solely on the opinion of the said Pankaj, authorised signatory of M s Skipper International, who had not even examined the goods in question.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel asserted that the procedure for determining value of goods has to be in terms of Sections 2(41) and 14 of the Act, read with Rule 4 of the Customs Valuation (Determination of Price of Imported Goods) Rules, 1988 (for short the 1988 Rules).	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on Varsha Plastics Private 1 (2006) 4 SCC 765 Limited Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs. Union of India Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
((2009) 3 SCC 365 ), learned counsel argued that the 1988 Rules having been framed to maintain uniformity and certainty in the matter of valuation of goods, which is a matter of procedure, these Rules have to be adhered to strictly.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also contended that the CESTAT has erred in law in levying penalty on Mr. Sanjeev Jain who was not even made a party to the appeal filed by the Revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
Per contra, Ms. Rashmi Malhotra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Revenue strenuously urged that the impugned judgment deserves to be affirmed, and the CESTAT rightly did not consider the effect of retraction by M s Skipper International, as the same was not dealt with by the Commissioner as well.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel urged that the exporter cannot be allowed to urge this ground at this stage, as the same was not raised by it before the CESTAT.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of the contention, decision of this Court in M s Builders Association of India Vs. State of Karnataka Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
((1993) 1 SCC 409 ) was pressed into service.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, since the retraction was tendered after twenty one months of the submission of original report, it had lost its efficacy and, therefore, had no bearing on the authenticity of the report.	Arguments of Respondent
It is trite law that the amplitude of an appeal under Section 130E(b) of the Act, in relation to the rate of duty of customs or to the value of goods for the purposes of assessment, is very wide but it is equally well settled that where the CESTAT, a fact finding authority, has arrived at a finding by taking into consideration all material and relevant facts and has applied correct legal principles, this Court would be loathe to interfere with such a finding even when another view might be possible on same set of facts.	None
Nevertheless, if it is shown that the conclusion under challenge is such as could not possibly have been arrived at by a person duly instructed upon the material before him i.e. the conclusion is perverse or that the CESTAT has failed to apply correct principles of law, this Court is competent to substitute its own opinion for that of the CESTAT.	None
Having bestowed our anxious consideration to the facts at hand, we are constrained to observe that the decisions of both the authorities below are unsustainable.	None
In our opinion, neither the Commissioner nor the CESTAT has examined the issue before them in its correct perspective and as per the procedure contemplated in law for determination of the value of the goods for exportation.	None
It is settled that the procedure prescribed under Section 14(1) of the Act and particularized in Rule 4 of the 1988 Rules has to be adopted to determine the value of goods entered for exports, irrespective of the fact whether any duty is leviable or not.	Reasoning
It is also trite that ordinarily, the price received by the exporter in the ordinary course of business shall be taken to be the transaction value for determination of value of goods under export, in absence of any special circumstances indicated under Section 14(1) of the Act and Rule 4(2) of the 1988 Rules.	Reasoning
The initial burden to establish that the value mentioned by the exporter in the bill of export or the shipping bill, as the case may be, is incorrect lies on the Revenue.	Reasoning
Therefore, once the transaction value under Rule 4 is rejected, the value must be determined by sequentially proceeding through Rules 5 to 8 of the 1988 Rules.	Reasoning
(See Commissioner of Customs (Gen), Mumbai Vs.	Reasoning
Abdulla Koyloth (JT 2010 (12) SC 267 ).)	Reasoning
In Om Prakash Bhatia Vs. Commissioner of Customs, Delhi ((2003) 6 SCC 161 ), while dealing with a similar case of fraudulent drawback claim by deliberately overinvoicing readymade garments, this Court rejected the plea of the exporter that Section 113(d) of the Act was not applicable to the facts of that case as the goods were not prohibited goods (ii) the exporter was required to declare the value of the goods expected to be received from the overseas purchaser and not the market value of such goods in India and (iii) since in that case, no duty was payable on the export, Section 14 of the Act could not be applied to determine the value of the goods.	Reasoning
It was, interalia, held that the definition of prohibited goods in Section 2(33) of the Act indicates that if the conditions prescribed for import or export of the goods are not complied with, it would be considered to be prohibited goods.	Reasoning
It was held that for determining the export value of the goods, it is necessary to refer to the meaning of the word value as defined in Section 2(41) of the Act and the same must be determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of Section 14 of the Act.	Reasoning
The Court observed thus For determining the export value of the goods, we have to refer to the meaning of the word value given in Section 2(41) of the Act, which specifically provides that value in relation to any goods means the value thereof determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection (1) of Section 14.	Reasoning
Section 14 specifically provides that in case of assessing the value for the purpose of export, value is to be determined at the price at which such or like goods are ordinarily sold or offered for sale at the place of exportation in the course of international trade, where the seller and the buyer have no interest in the business of each other and the price is the sole consideration for sale.	Reasoning
No doubt, Section 14 would be applicable for determining the value of the goods for the purpose of tariff or duty of customs chargeable on the goods.	Reasoning
In addition, by reference it is to be resorted to and applied for determining the export value of the goods as provided under subsection (41) of Section 2.	Reasoning
This is independent of any question of assessability of the goods sought to be exported to duty.	Reasoning
Hence, for finding out whether the export value is truly stated in the shipping bill, even if no duty is leviable, it can be referred to for determining the true export value of the goods sought to be exported.	Reasoning
The opinion expressed in Om Prakash Bhatia (supra) has been reiterated by this Court in Bibhishan Vs. State of Maharashtra ((2007) 12 SCC 390 ).	Reasoning
It has been held that the definition of prohibited goods in the Act is a broad one and the said provision not only brings within its sweep an import or export of goods which is subject to any prohibition under the Act, but also any of the law for the time being in force.	Reasoning
In the present case, as stated above, neither the adjudicating authority i.e., the Commissioner of Central Excise nor the CESTAT has dealt with the matter as per the procedure prescribed under the Act.	Decision
At the threshold, instead of first determining the value of the goods on the basis of contemporaneous exports of identical goods, the Revenue erroneously resorted to a market enquiry.	Decision
If for any reason, data of contemporaneous exports of identical goods was not available, the procedure laid down in Rules 5 to 8 of the 1988 Rules was required to be followed and market enquiry could be conducted only as a last resort.	Decision
It is evident that no such exercise was undertaken by the Commissioner and interestingly he, acting as an appellate authority, proceeded to test the evidentiary value of the report submitted by M s Skipper International and rejected it on the ground that it does not depict if the identical garments had ever been purchased by the said concern.	Decision
Observing that in the absence of any other independent evidence relating to market enquiry, there was no other corroborating evidence to support the allegation of inflation in FOB value, he dropped the proceedings initiated vide show cause notice dated 11th September 2003.	Decision
Similarly, it is manifest from the CESTATs order that revenues appeal has been accepted mainly on the ground that report of M s Skipper International was worthy of credence and the exporter had failed to produce any evidence to establish that export value stated in the shipping bills was the true export value.	Decision
In our opinion, both the said authorities have failed to apply the correct principles of law and therefore, their orders cannot be sustained.	Decision
Resultantly, for the reasons as enumerated, the appeal is allowed the orders passed by the CESTAT and the Commissioner are set aside and the matter is remitted back to the adjudicating authority for fresh consideration in accordance with law, after affording adequate opportunity of hearing to the exporter.	Decision
The entire exercise, in terms of this order, shall be completed within six months from the date of receipt of a copy of this judgment.	Decision
Needless to add that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the opinion rendered by M s Skipper International or on the conduct of the exporter in not adducing any evidence in support of the export value stated in the shipping bills in question.	Decision
21 .In	None
the facts and circumstances of the case, the parties are left to bear their own costs.	Decision
