 Jagannadha Rao, J. Leave granted.	None
The appellant (Managing Partner) is the 2nd defendant in the suit.	Facts
The first respondentBank filed a suit O.S. 101/1980 based on mortgage for recovery of Rs. 7,82,881.78 against M s. Shiva Rice Industries (a partnership firm) (1st defendant), the appellant (defendant 2) and defendants 3 to 10 (Partners) on the file of the Principal Civil Judge , Shimoga.	Facts
These defendants had taken a loan of Rs. 5 lakhs on 7.4.1976 agreeing to repay in 52 monthly instalments each of Rs. 8000/ from 7.4.1977 with interest at the end of each quarter.	Facts
The plaint schedule properties were offered as security and an equitable mortgage was created as per Ex.P.4.	Facts
by deposit of title deeds.	Facts
The defendants paid Rs. 75,000/ on 6.11.1984, Rs. 40,000/ on 21.12.1984, Rs. 15,000/ on 22.1.1985, Rs. 20,000/ on 8.7.1985 and Rs. 10,000/ on 14.11.1985, in all Rs. 1,60,000/.	Facts
The trial Court passed a preliminary mortgage decree on 4.7.1982 with proportionate costs but the decreeholder Bank was directed to file a fresh memo of calculation calculating the interest on the balance of principal amount due at 16.5 per annum from the date of the equitable mortgage at yearly rests till date of suit.	Facts
The amounts paid after suit by the defendants were to be deducted as on the respective dates of payment and interest was to be paid as per judgment and these figures were directed to be computed.	Facts
It was further directed, so far as future interest from date of suit was concerned, as follows  The plaintiff is entitled to future interest from the date of the suit at 6 per annum on the principal amount due from the defendants till date of recovery of full amount.	Facts
In other words, future interest from the date of the suit was to be only 6 per annum and not at the contractual rate of 16.5.3.	None
The plaintiff Bank filed an appeal in the High Court as Regular First Appeal No. 1 of 1998 and a learned Single Judge of the High Court allowed the appeal and held that the plaintiff was entitled to future interest also at the contractual rate of interest of 16.5 from the date of suit till date of realisation with costs because of Section 34 CPC.	Facts
However, the defendants could, if they so desired, move the Circle Office of the Bank for reduction of this rate of interest and it would then be for the Bank to consider it favourably but in accordance with law.4.	Facts
Against the above said judgment of the High Court, this appeal has been preferred by the Managing Partner, the 2nd defendant contending that the High Court erred in interfering with the discretion exercised by the trial Court in so far as pendente lite interest was concerned.5.	Issue
It is argued for the appellant that the suit being one based on mortgage, the provision applicable so far as pendente lite interest was concerned, was Order 34 Rule 11 CPC and not Section 34 CPC, as wrongly held by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is pointed out that under Order 34 Rule 11 the Court could exercise discretion, if there were good reasons for doing so, to award a rate of interest which was not necessarily the contractual rate but something less.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have heard the learned counsel for the respondentBank.	Arguments of Respondent
Apart from contending that Section 34 CPC is applicable, learned counsel contends that if the contract rate of interest for the period during which the suit was pending is not applied, the Banks interests would be seriously prejudiced and therefore the High Court rightly applied the contract rate of interest.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned Counsel for the Bank relied also on Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 to contend that section 21A overrides Order 34 Rule 11 CPC and hence Courts cannot reopen the Banking transactions nor reduce the contractual rate of interest.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel placed reliance upon a judgment of this Court in Corporation Bank v. D.S.	Arguments of Respondent
Gowda another, 1994(5) SCC 213 in support of the above contention.	Arguments of Respondent
Before adverting to the issues arising under Order 34 Rule 11, we may state that the trial court considered the matter in some detail and noted in para 11 of its judgment, a ruling of the Karnataka High Court State Bank of Mysore v. G.P. Thulasi Bai ILR 1985 Karnataka 2976 that the Court has a discretion under Order 34 Rule 11 for not granting contractual rate of interest for the period after suit.	None
The trial Court expressly held in para 11 that it was exercising discretion to grant interest only at 6.	None
On the other hand, the High Court held relying only on Section 34 C.P.C  and without referring to Order 34 Rule 11 CPC  that the proviso to section 34 CPC enabled the Court to grant interest at more than 6, pending suit, where commercial transactions were involved.	None
This conclusion was arrived even after noticing that the trial court had said in para 11 of its judgment that it had discretion so far as pendente lite interest was concerned because of State Bank of Mysore v. G.P. Thulasi Bai, ILR 1985 Karn. 2976.	None
Section 34 does not apply to mortgage suits Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure applies to simple monies decrees and payment of interest pending such suits.	None
Order 34 Rule 11 CPC deals with mortgage suits and payment of interest.	None
It is obvious that so far as mortgage suits are concerned, the special provision in Order 34 Rule 11 alone is applicable and not Section 34.	None
This has been laid down in several decisions of this court and also by the Karnataka High Court in Thulasi Bais case.	None
Order 34 Rule 11 CPC We shall next refer to the provisions of Order 34 Rule 11 CPC, as amended in 1929 and 1956.	None
O. 34 R. 11 In any decree passed in a suit for foreclosure, sale or redemption, where interest is legally recoverable, the court may order payment of interest to the mortgagee as follows, namely (a) interest up to the date on, or before which, payment of the amount found or declared due is under the preliminary decree to be made by the mortgagor or other person redeeming the mortgage  on the principal amount found or declared due on the mortgage  at the rate payable on the principal, or, where no such rate is fixed, at such rate as the court deems reasonable.	None
(ii) on the amount adjudged due to the mortgagee for costs, charges and expenses properly incurred by the mortgagee in respect of the mortgage security up to the date of the preliminary decree and added to the mortgage moneyat the rate agreed between the parties, or, failing such rate, at such rate exceeding 6 per cent per annum as the Court deems reasonable, and (b) subsequent interest up to the date of realisation or actual payment on the aggregate of the principal sums specified in clause (a) as calculated in accordance with the clause at such rate as the Court deems reasonable.	None
The word may used in the main part of the section was introduced by the 1929 amendment.	None
Interest provisions under Order 34 Rule 11.	None
It will be noticed that Order 34 deals with suits for foreclosure, sale and redemption of mortgage and the passing of a preliminary decree and final decree in each of these cases.	None
Order 34 Rule 2(c)(i) which deals with suit for foreclosure, requires the Court, to specify while passing a preliminary decree for the payment of the amount due as mentioned in the provision that the payment be made before a particular date.	None
Likewise, Order 34 Rule 4(1) which deals with suits for sale requires the fixation of a time for payment to be fixed.	None
Then Order 34 Rule 7(c)(i) requires in suits for redemption, a date to be fixed for the payment of the amounts specified in the provision.	None
Interest under Order 34 Rule 11 word may introduced by 1929 amendment confers discretionary power on Court under clauses (a) and (b) of Order 34 Rule 11 in regard to future interest The introduction of the word may by the 1929 amendment in the main part of Order 34 Rule 11 has been explained by this court in the undermentioned case.	None
In Soli Pestonji Majoo others v. Gangadhar Khemka, 1969(3)	None
SCR 33, the suit was filed on 5.8.1955 and a preliminary decree was passed on 10.7.1958 for a sum of Rs. 41,172.60 due as on 2.6.1958, and on appeal, the Division Bench fixed the amount at Rs. 38,207 by judgment dated 17.1.1962 and granted interest at 12 per annum with monthly rests even after the date of suit.	None
Before this Court, it was argued for the motgagor that the High Court ought not to have fixed the rate at 12 p.a.	None
with monthly rests even after the date of suit and that the maximum rate which should have been fixed was 6 simple on the principal sum adjudged.	None
This court held that before 1929 the position was that till the period for redemption expired, the matter was considered to be in the domain of contract and therefore interest had to be paid at the rates agreed to in the contract and that it was only after the expiry of the redemption period, the matter would pass into the domain of the Court from the domain of the contract.	None
The rights of the mortgagee would thereafter depend not on the contents of the bond but on the directions in the decree.	None
This Court referred to what was stated by the Privy Council in Jagannath Prasad Singh Chowdhury v. Surajmul Jalal 54, I.A. 1.	None
But after 1929, a new Rule 11 was introduced, which used the words, the Court may order payment of interest.	None
The new Rule was explained by the Federal Court in Jaigobind Singh v. Lachmi Narain Ram, AIR 1940 FC 20 and it was held that this provision gave a certain amount of discretion to the court so far as interest after date of suit was concerned and it was no longer obligatory after the 1929 Amendment on the Courts to direct the interest at the contractual rates upto the date of redemption in all circumstances even if there is no question of the rate being penal, excessive or substantially unfair within the meaning of the Usurious Loans Act, 1918.	Reasoning
Approving the above observations of the Federal Court, this Court held on facts, that the mortgagee should be granted interest on the principal sum at the contractual rate till date of the suit and only simple interest at 6 p.a.	None
on the principal sum adjudged from the date of suit till date of preliminary decree and again at same 6 p.a.	None
from the date of preliminary decree till date of realisation.	None
The 1956 Amendment Before the Amendment of CPC in 1956 clause (a) had three subclauses (i)(ii) and (iii).	None
After the Amendment of 1956, clause (i) was retained, clause (ii) was omitted and in clause (iii) the maximum rate was reduced from 9 to 6.	None
So far as clause (b) is concerned, before the 1956 Amendment, it had two subclauses (i) and (ii) which read as follows  (b) subsequent interest upto the date of reduction or actual payment at such rate as the Court deems reasonable(i) on the aggregate of the principal sums specified in clause (a) and of the interest thereon, as calculated in accordance with that clause and(ii) on the amount adjudged due to the mortgage in respect of said further costs, charges and expenses as may be payable under Rule 10.	None
After the 1956 Amendment, clause (b) has been amended so as to provide for subsequent interest on the amount awarded under Order 34 Rule 11(a)(i) and (iii)  upto the date of realisation or payment, at such rate as the Court may deem reasonable.	None
May governs both clauses (a) (b) of order 34 Rule 11 Interest upto date fixed in preliminary decree clause (a) In view of what the Federal Court has said in Jaigobind case and what this Court has held in Soli Pestonji Majoos case, it is clear that the word may in the main part of Order 34 Rule 11 governs all subclauses of Order 34 Rule 11.	None
Therefore under Order 34 Rule 11, subclause (a) the Court may order payment of interest upto the date on or before which payment of the amount found or declared due as per the preliminary decree, in regard to two distinct amounts firstly under subclause a(i) interest can in the courts discretion, be directed to be paid on the principal amount found due on the mortgagee  at the rate payable on the principal or where no such rate is fixed, at such rate as the Court deemed reasonable secondly under subclause (iii) interest can in the courts discretion, be directed to be paid on costs, charges and expenses at such rate not exceeding 6 per annum as the Court may deem reasonable.	None
In both these situations the discretion is to be exercised subject to the above provisions.	None
Interest after date fixed in preliminary decree clause (b) Then comes subclause (b) of Order 34 Rule 11 which deals with interest for the period  after the date fixed as above in the preliminary decree and upto date of payment, on the aggregate of sums mentioned in clause (a).	None
Here too, the Court could in its discretion direct payment at such rate as it deemed reasonable.	None
Two more rulings of this Court Before summarising the legal position, we shall refer to two other rulings of this Court under Order 34 Rule 11.	None
In Srinivasa Vardachariar others v. Gopala Menon others, 1967(1)	None
SCR 721, this Court was dealing not only with the substantive interest prior to suit (which was reduced to 10 compound) but also with interest after suit.	None
In para 11 of the Judgment, this Court observed that the discretion exercised by the High Court under Order 34 Rule 11 in that case reducing the interest to 6 from date of suit to date of payment was not liable to be interfered with even though the High Court had not given reasons.	None
It was said that it was obvious, on facts, that the mortgages were executed as far back 1936 and 1938 the creditor had waited till 1956 for filing the suit and would, in any event, get interest substantially exceeding the principal amount of the loans .	None
K. Manikchand others v. Elias Saleh Mohamed Sait another, 1969(2) SCR 1061 also related to question of interest before suit and after suit.	None
So far as the interest after suit was concerned, the High Court had granted interest at 6 from the date fixed for redemption till date of realisation.	None
The date of suit was 10.1.1950, the date of decree of the trial Court was 27.3.1952.	None
This court observed that the High Court had arrived at the principal sum as Rs. 37,971.50 and fixed the date for the payment as 19.3.1959.	None
So far as interest under Order 34 Rule 11(a)(i) was concerned, it was to be 9 per annum.	None
So far as interest under Order 34 Rule 11(a)(ii) is concerned, on costs, charges and expenses, interest at 6 as fixed by the Code would be payable.	None
So far as interest under Order 34 Rule 11(b) is concerned, interest from the date fixed in the preliminary decree upto date of realisation was to be 6 as it was a reasonable rate.	None
Resulting legal position under Order 34 Rule 11 CPC From the aforesaid rulings the following principles can be summarised (a) Before 1929, it was obligatory for the Court to direct the contract rate of interest to be paid by the mortgagor on the sum adjudged in the preliminary decree, from the date of suit till the date fixed for payment as per Order 34 Rule 2(c)(i) or Order 34 Rule 4(1) or Order 34 Rule 7(c)(i), respectively in suits for foreclosure, sale or resumption.	None
(b)	None
But after the 1929 Amendment, because of the words used in the main part of Order 34 Rule 11, namely that the Court may order payment of interest it is no longer obligatory on the part of the Court while passing preliminary decree to require payment at the contract rate of interest from date of suit till the date fixed in the preliminary decree for payment of the amount.	None
It has been so held in Jaigobinds Case by the Privy Council (AIR 1940 FC 20) and by this Court in S.P. Majoos Case (1969 (3) SCR 33 ) that the new provision gives a certain amount of discretion to the Court so far as pendente lite interest is concerned and subsequent interest is concerned.	None
(c) It is no longer obligatory to award the contractual rate after date of suit and upto date fixed for redemption as above stated even though there was no question of the contractual rate being penal, excessive or substantially unfair within the meaning of the Usurious Loans Act, 1918.	None
(d) Even if the Court otherwise wants to award interest, the position after the 1929 and 1956 Amendments is that the Court has discretion to fix interest from the date of suit under Order 34 Rule 11(a)(i) upto date fixed for payment in the preliminary decree, the same rate agreed in the contract, or, if no rate is fixed, such rate as the Court deems reasonable  on the principal amount found or declared due on the mortgager is concerned.	None
(e) The Court has also power to award from date of suit under Order 34 Rule 11(a)(iii) a rate of interest on costs, charges and expenses as per the contract rate or failing such rate, at a rate not exceeding 6.	None
This is the position of the discretionary power of the Court, from date of suit upto date fixed in the preliminary decree as the date for payment.	None
(f) Again under Order 34 Rule 11(b) so far as the period after the date fixed for payment is concerned, the Court, even if it wants to exercise its discretion to award interest upto date of realisation or actual payment, on the aggregate sums specified in clause (a) of Order 34 Rule 11, could award interest at such rate as it deemed reasonable.	None
On facts of this case In the present case before us, the trial Court has gone into the facts and stated that the contract rate was not to be granted and that as the Court had discretion to grant interest, it was granting interest only at 6 simple from date of suit.	Reasoning
The Court followed State Bank of Mysore v. G.P.Thulasi Bai ILR 1985 Karn. 2976.	Reasoning
In that case, Jagannatha Shetty, J. (as he then was), speaking for the Bench, observed, referring to S.P. Majoo v. Gangadhar, 1969 (3) SCR 33 in which this Court referred to the Privy Council decision of 1927 and the Federal Courts decision of 1940, that it was no longer obligatory on the part of the Court to award the contractual rate, even if the rate was not penal, excessive or substantially unfair.	Reasoning
In that Karnataka case too, the trial Judges award at 6 per annum simple from date of suit till date of realisation was affirmed.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, the learned Single Judge of the High Court, in the present case before us, though he referred to the above Division Bench Judgment, still said that section 34 CPC was applicable.	Reasoning
This was obviously wrong and contrary to the decisions of this Court and of the Karnataka High Court.20.	Reasoning
We may here point out that so far interest prior to suit is concerned , the trial Judge in para 9 of his judgment reduced that rate also following D.S. Gowda v. Corporation Bank, AIR 1983 Karnataka 143.	Reasoning
(This aspect we shall refer again when we come to Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949).	Reasoning
That part of the judgment has become final.	Reasoning
The judgement in the said case has no doubt been since reversed by this Court in Corporation Bank v. D.S.	Reasoning
Gowda 1994(5)	Reasoning
SCC 213 but the trial Court in para 11 of its Judgment in the present case did not rely on D.S. Gowdas case so far as future interest was concerned.	Reasoning
Hence reversal of D.S.Gowda case has no bearing on this case so far as future interest from the date of suit is concerned.	Reasoning
The Banking Regulation Act, 1949 Sections 21, 35 and Section 21A do not affect Order 34 Rule 11 CPC.	None
Learned Counsel for the Bank has contended that if the interest rates from the date of suit could at the discretion of Court be reduced as stated above, serious prejudice would be caused to all Banks particularly because suits are generally pending in Courts for a long number of years.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel placed strong reliance also upon the recent decision of this Court in Corporation Bank v. D.S. Gowda and another, 1994(5) SCC 213 which dealt with Section 21 and 35 and also Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.	Arguments of Respondent
We do notice the contention that if the Court has discretion to reduce the interest from date of suit and direct payment at a rate below the contractual rate, there could be considerable financial loss to the Banks.	None
But initially we have to deal with the question as one of law and see if Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, as it now stands, would or would not help the Bank as against Order 34 Rule 11 CPC.23.	Reasoning
We shall refer to the provision in Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 as introduced by Act I/1984, w.e.f. 15.2.84.	Reasoning
It reads S. 21A Rates of interest charged by banking companies not to be subjected to scrutiny by Courts  Notwithstanding anything contained in the Usurious Loans Act, 1918 or any other law relating to indebtedness in force in any State, a transaction between a banking company and its debtor shall not be reopened by any Court on the ground that the rate of interest charged by the banking company in respect of such transaction is excessive.	Reasoning
Firstly, it will be noticed that the effect of the nonobstante clause in Section 21A is to override the Central Act, namely, the Usurious Loans Act, 1918 and any other law relating to indebtedness in force in any State.	None
Obviously it does not expressly intend to override the Code of Civil Procedure among the Central statutes.	Reasoning
It is now well settled that the scope and width of the nonobstante clause is to be decided on basis of what is contained in the enacting part of the provision.	Reasoning
(Ashwini Kumar Ghosh v. Arabinde Bose 1953	Reasoning
SCR 1).	Reasoning
Further, by no stretch of imagination can the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 be described as a law relating to indebtedness in force in any State.	Reasoning
As stated above, the provision in Section 21A refers, so far as Central legislation is concerned, only to the Usurious Loans Act, 1918 and not to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and it then refers to other laws relating to indebtedness in force in any State.	Reasoning
Therefore, the provision of section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1984 cannot be held to have intended to override a Central legislation like the CPC or Order 34 Rule 11 CPC.24.	Reasoning
Secondly, as stated by the Federal Court in Jaigobinds case, AIR 1940 FC 20 and by this Court in Soli Pestonji Majoos case, 1969(3)	Reasoning
SCR 33, the discretionary power conferred on the Civil Court under Order 34 Rule 11 to cut down the contract rate of interest for the period from date of the suit and even upto the date fixed for redemption by the Court is very much there, even if there was no question of the rate being penal, excessive or substantially unfair within the meaning of the Usurious Loans Act, 1918.	Reasoning
This Court observed in Soli Pestonji Majoos case (supra) as follows It is apparent that the new rule as inserted by the Amending Act 21 of 1929 provides that the Court may order payment of interest to the mortgagee upto the date fixed for payment as the rate payable on the principal.	Reasoning
It was held by the Federal Court in Jaigobind Singh v. Lachmi Narain in AIR 1940 FC 20 that the language of the rule gives a certain amount of discretion to the Court so far as interest pendente lite and subsequent interest is and it was no longer absolutely obligatory on the Courts to decree interest at the contractual rates upto the date of redemption in all the circumstances even if there is no question of the rate being penal, excessive or susbtantially unfair within the meaning of the Usurious Loans Act, 1918.	Reasoning
In other words, the discretionary power given to the Court under Order 34 Rule 11 is an independent power and the power is neither traceable to Section 74 of the Contract Act nor to any State statutes permitting a Court to scale down contractual rates of interest.25.	None
Coming to the decision of this Court in D.S. Gowdas case, it turned upon the power of the Court to reopen transactions of loan between Banks and its debtors and it was held that the directives circulars issued by the Reserve Bank to Banks in respect of the rates of interest under Section 21 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 could not be declared by the Court as unfair or excessive and those directives circulars were not violative of the Mysore Usurious Loans Act, 1923.	Reasoning
This Court referred to section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 also but said that even if section 21A was not applicable, there was no evidence adduced by the debtor that interest fixed in the directives circulars of Reserve Bank of India were not fair.	Reasoning
It was held that Courts could not question Reserve Bank directives as being irrational.	Reasoning
At the same time it was also held that the Banks could not also ignore Reserve Bank directives circulars and in given case, a Bank ignored the Reserve Bank circular directives, the Court could reopen the transaction as to rate of interest, notwithstanding Section 21A.	Reasoning
We may also state that in an earlier case in Bank of Baroda v. Rednam Nagachaya Devi, 1989(4)	Reasoning
SCC 470 where Section 21A fell for consideration, the question which has now arisen before us did not arise.	Reasoning
The above two rulings are therefore not helpful to the respondentBank.26.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, we therefore do not think that the above decision in Corporation Bank v. D.S. Gowda, 1994(5) SCC 213 can help the respondentBank to contend that Section 21A overrides the provision contained in Order 34 Rule 11 CPC.27.	Reasoning
If, therefore, Section 21A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 does not come to the aid of Banks visavis Order 34 Rule 11 CPC, the question whether for the period during the pendency of mortgage suits in Courts, the Courts discretion should continue or whether it should be fettered and if so to what extent and as to what rate of interest and whether there should be any distinction between different kinds of debtors  these are are all matters of policy for the legislature and it will be for Parliament to lay down its policies and bring forward such legislation as it may deem fit in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons, the appeal is allowed and the rate of 6 from date of suit fixed by the trial Court is restored.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
