 Hidayatullah, J.1.	None
This is a defendants appeal by special leave against the order of the High Court of Punjab dated October 20, 1959 dismissing summarily second appeal filed by the appellants.	Issue
The suit was filed by the respondents for possession of a plot, a house and a Taur and half share in certain lands as preferential heirs of one Pohla after the death of Pohlas widow Punjab Kaur on February 7, 1952.	Facts
The plaintiffs are Mst. Nikko, sister of Pohla and Jarnail Singh, son of Mst.	Facts
Har Kaur who was another sister of Pohla.	Facts
The first appellant Mara is collateral of 4th degree of Pohla and the other two appellants are Maras sons.	Facts
The following genealogy gives the relationship of the parties2.	None
The parties are Jhalli Jats of village Chomon, Tehsil and District Ludhiana.	None
The plaintiffs claimed that the property was nonancestral and according to the Riwaj applicable to the family, sisters excluded collaterals in respect of both ancestral and nonancestral properties.	Facts
It appears that after the death of Punjab Kaur, Mara got one of the fields mutated in his own name and thereafter took possession of the whole property.	Facts
He made gifts to his sons of some of the properties and that is why they were joined in the suit.	Facts
Mara and his elder son Mohinder Singh filed a joint written statement in which they raised many pleas the details whereof need not be given here.	Facts
They claimed that according to the custom applicable to the family, sister and sisters sons were excluded from inheritance in respect of properties whether ancestral or nonancestral.	Facts
They, however, claimed that the property was ancestral and denied the genealogy.3.	None
The Subordinate Judge, Second Class Ludhiana framed six issues of which issues Nos. 2, 3 and 4 alone are important in this appeal.	Issue
Those issues are 2.	None
Whether the property is ancestral qua Pohla and Mara?3.	Issue
Whether the question of the nature of the property is material for the decision of this case?4.	Issue
Whether the plaintiffs are preferential heirs to the estate of Mst.	Issue
Punjab widow of Pohla?4.	None
The parties led voluminous oral evidence in the case but the Subordinate Judge did not rely upon it.	Facts
We have not been referred to any portion of this evidence in this appeal.	Facts
The learned Subordinate Judge held that the suit lands were not ancestral and further that no evidence was produced to prove that the other properties were ancestral.	Facts
On the third issue he referred to question No. 52 from the Riwajiam relating to the settlements of 1882 and 19091910 (Exts. D1 and D2) in which it is stated that among the Jhalli Jats of Tehsil Ludhiana sisters or sisters sons never succeed.	Facts
He, however, held on the authority of Ahmad v. Mohammad, AIR 1936 Lah 809 that such question refers only to ancestral property and that the nature of the property was thus material.	Facts
On the fourth issue he held on the strength of the answer to question No. 52 that sisters and their sons were excluded from ancestral property but as the answer was not applicable to nonancestral property the personal law would apply unless special custom was proved.	Facts
He, therefore, placed the burden on the defendants relying upon Harnam Singh v. Mst.	Facts
Gurdev Kaur, 59 Pun LR 609, Mst.	Facts
Sukhwant Kaur v. S. Balwant Singh.	Facts
AIR 1951 Punj 242 and Mst. Jeo v. Ujagar Singh, 55 Pun LR. 1 (AIR 1953 Punj 177).	Facts
As he had already rejected the oral evidence and there was no other proof that the property was ancestral, he decreed the suit.5.	Facts
On appeal the District Judge, Ladhiana remitted three issues to the trial Judge and they were as followsIssue No. 4Whether there is any custom by which the parties are governed according to which the plaintiffs are entitled to succeed to the ancestral as well as nonancestral property left by the Pohla in preference to Mara defendant?Issue No. 4AWhether under the custom by which parties are governed the defendant Mara is a preferential heir to the plaintiffs in respect of the ancestral as well as nonancestral property of Pohla deceased?Issue	Facts
No. 4BIf the custom set out by the parties is not proved, whether the plaintiffs are preferential heirs to Mara defendant under personal law applicable to the parties?On these issues the report of the Subordinate Judge, First class, Ludhiana was against the contention of the defendants.	Facts
The learned District Judge held, in agreement with the Subordinate Judge, that the lands in suit were not ancestral and he held also that there was no evidence to show that among the Jhalli Jats of Ludihiana collaterals excluded sisters and sisters sons in respect of nonancestral property.	Facts
He referred to Exts.	Facts
9, 10, 12 and 18 which were judgments in other cases as evidencing the contrary.	Facts
He accordingly dismissed the appeal.	Facts
The Second appeal filed thereafter was dismissed summarily by the High Court.6.	Facts
The first question to decide is whether these lands are ancestral or nonancestral.	None
The concurrent finding of the two courts below is that none of the properties in dispute is ancestral.	None
The High Court prima facie saw no reason to differ from any of the conclusions of the courts below.	None
It is contended on the strength of a Kafiat of Thulla Malls prepared at the settlement of 1882 that this land came into possession of one Sekhu who was admittedly a common ancestor in the family and the property, which is now in dispute, must be regarded as ancestral.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that the finding is vitiated because the two courts below did not read this Kafiat along with the extracts from the Records of rights of the years 1882 and 19091910 in which the names of Jaimal and Sunder, sons of Baghela, and of Pir Bux son of Sohila are shown as persons in enjoyment of half shares in these lands.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that the lands in suit are thus proved to be ancestral as they belonged to Sekhu the common ancestor and the Riwajiam as disclosed in question No.52 applies to the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears, however, from the Kafiat as well as the Record of Rights that these lands were once abandoned and when people came back Sekhu got possession of some lands but in addition to these Sekhus descendants had acquired the share of one Dalpat in the Thulla and subsequently the entire estate of another holder, namely, Maidas was purchased by Jaimal, Sunder and Sohila.	None
This shows that the lands in dispute are not entirely ancestral but are made up of lands which may be described as ancestral and nonancestral.7.	None
Now, it has been ruled in the Punjab consistently that where lands are so mixed up that the ancestral and nonancestral portions cannot be separated they must be regarded as nonancestral, unless it is shown which are ancestral and which are not.	Reasoning
This was laid down by the Privy Council in Attar Singh v. Thakar Singh, 35 Ind App. 206 (PC).	Reasoning
It was held by Mr. Justice Kapur (as he then was) in Indar Singh v. Gulzara Singh, AIR 1951 Punj 345 basing himself upon SaifulRahman v. Mohammad Ali Khan, ILR 9 Lah 95 (AIR 1928 Lah 285) and Jagtar Singh v. Raghbir Singh, ILR 13 Lah 165 (AIR 1932 Lah 85) that land ceases to be ancestral if it comes into the hands of an owner otherwise than by descent.	Reasoning
Once these conclusions are reached, it is quite obvious that the decision of the District Judge not to apply the answer to question No. 52 to nonancestral land was right.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that the answers to questions refer to ancestral property only and this is now firmly established.	Reasoning
In fact, it was not denied at the hearing.8.	None
It is, however, contended that there are decisions to show that the right of the collaterals was recognised in respect of even nonancestral land to the exclusion of sisters and their sons.	None
No ruling from the Law Reports has been brought to our notice.	None
Some cases from the Ambala and Amritsar Districts are cited but those obviously cannot be any authority, because, as is wellknown, custom in the Punjab changes from district to district, tehsil to tehsil and pargana to pargana.	None
It has been ruled in this Court that paragraph 24 of Rattigans Digest which excludes sisters from inheritance from nonancestral property is too widely stated.(See Ujagar Singh v. Mst. Jeo, 1959 Supp (2) SCR 781 (AIR 1959 SC 1041 ) and (Waryam Singh v. Smt.	None
Sukhi, Civil Appeal No. 452 of 1961 D  2341963 (SC)).	None
The learned District Judge cited some instances in which the sisters and sisters sons were allowed to succeed in preference to collaterals.	Reasoning
One of the documents filed by the defendants in the suit (Ext. D6) also supports the contention of the respondents.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter it cannot be said that the application of the personal law to the family by the courts below was erroneous.	None
It is contended lastly that the rulings only show that collaterals of 5th degree are excluded and there is no case showing that a collateral of 4th degree was excluded.	None
If personal law applies, as it does, a collateral of the 4th degree is also excluded.9.	None
In our judgment this appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed with costs.10.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
