 Nageswara Rao, J.Leave granted.1.	None
M.P. Power Generation Co. Ltd. formerly known as Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board (hereinafter referred to as the Board) invited proposals for refurbishment of Units 3 and 4 of the Thermal Power Plants at Amarkantak having the capacity of 120 MW by a notice inviting tender dated 24th October, 1996.	Issue
A provisional Letter of Intent for refurbishment of Thermal Power Plant of 2 x 120 MW PhaseII was issued by the Board to Respondent No. 1, ANSALDO Energia SPA (for short the Claimant) on 11th May, 1999.	Facts
Thereafter, on 24th August, 1999 four Agreements were signed between the Claimants and the Board viz.	Issue
Overall Coordination Agreement, Offshore Supply Contract, Onshore Supply Contract and Onshore Services Contract.2.	Facts
A Bank Guarantee dated 22nd February, 2000 was furnished by the Claimants as per Clause 9.2 (a) of the Onshore Supply Contract for Rs. 9,29,20,000/ (10 per cent of the Onshore Supply Contract price).	Facts
Another Bank Guarantee was furnished by the Claimants on 23rd February, 2000 as per the stipulation in Clause 9.2(a) of the Offshore Supply Agreement for US 1,708,100/.	Facts
The above Bank Guarantees were given towards advance payment that was to be made by the Board.	Facts
On 24th February, 2000, a Performance Bond was executed by the ANZ Grindlays Bank Limited on behalf of the Claimants for Rs. 18,48,00,000/ (10 per cent of the total Contract price) pursuant to Clause 4.1 of the Overall Coordination Agreement.	Facts
The Board subsequently made advance payments of the amounts equivalent to the two Bank Guarantees dated 22nd February, 2000 and 23rd February, 2000 given by the Claimant.3.	Facts
The Zero Date (i.e. effective date of Contract) as per Clause 7 of the Overall Coordination Agreement is as follows7.	Facts
Notice to Proceed7.1 Zero Date (Effective Date of Contract)	Facts
The zero date of the Contract shall mean the date on which the all the following conditions are fulfilled(i) Signature of the Contract(ii) Receipt by ANSALDO of the Notice to Proceed(iii) Receipt by MPEB the Bank Guarantee from ANSALDO for the Advance Payment (10 of the Contract Price)(iv)	Facts
Receipt by ANSALDO of the Advance Payment(v)	Facts
Receipt by ANSALDO of the Letter of Credit for the Offshore Supply and Letter of Comfort Support for Onshore Supply and Onshore Services(vi) Financial tieup of PFC loans7.2	Facts
If the Start Date has not occurred on or before six (6) months after the date hereof, then the Contract will automatically expire, without any liability on either side and the price will cease to be valid and will be subject to renegotiation.7.3 MPEB may not issue a Notice to Proceed under any of the Refurbishment Contracts without issuing a Notice to Proceed under all of the Contracts.4.	Facts
It was agreed between the parties that the Zero Date would be 9th March, 2000.	Facts
Thereafter, there was exchange of correspondence and several meetings held between the Claimant and the Board for resolution of certain issues.	Facts
In response to a letter written by the Board on 15th June, 2001, the Claimant wrote to the Board on 21st June, 2001 to treat the Agreement as expired.	Facts
The Claimant stated in the said letter that it was suspending the performance of the Agreement.	Facts
There was a reference to violation of a fundamental condition of the Contract i.e. nonfurnishing of a Letter of Comfort from the Power Finance Corporation as provided in Clause 5.6 of the Onshore Supply Contract.	Facts
The Claimant further complained of a misrepresentation of the warranty contained in Clause 19.2 (vii) of both the Onshore and Offshore Supply Contracts and Clause 20.2 of the Onshore Services Contract.5.	Facts
The Board invoked the three Bank Guarantees on 23rd June, 2001.	Facts
Thereafter, the Board proceeded to issue a notice for default as provided in Clause 16.3 of the Offshore and Onshore Supply Contracts and Clause 17.3 of Onshore Services Contracts on 29th August, 2001.	Facts
The Board complained of substantial breach of Agreement on the part of the Claimant.	Facts
The Claimant was given 30 days time for curing the defaults.	Facts
The Claimant responded by submitting a representation on 8th January, 2000.	Facts
Not satisfied with the explanation given by the Claimant, the Board terminated the contract.	Facts
The Claimant raised a dispute which was referred to Arbitration.	Facts
The Arbitral Tribunal passed an award in favour of the Claimant on 23rd September, 2004 in the following terms1)	Facts
It is declared thata)	Facts
The three Bank Guarantees were wrongfully invoked and encashed by the Respondent.b)	Facts
The agreements were wrongfully terminated by the Respondent.c)	Facts
The agreements are voidable at the option of the Claimants and have been avoided by them.2)	Facts
The Respondent shall pay to the Claimantsi) the sum of Rs. 39,80,98,429/ with interest thereon at the rate of 12 per annum from 5th July, 2001 till the date of the Award and thereafter until payment or realization.ii) the sum of Rs.	Facts
11,14,55,042/ with interest thereon at the rate of 12 per annum from 29th July, 2002, being the date of the claim, till the date of the Award and thereafter until payment or realization.(iii)	Facts
The Respondent shall pay to the Claimants the sum of Rs. 2000000 as and by way of costs, including the costs of the arbitration proceedings.6.	Facts
The Petition filed by the Board Under Section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for short the Act) was allowed by the learned 7th Additional District Judge, Jabalpur and the award dated 23rd September, 2004 of the Arbitral Tribunal set aside.	Facts
The learned Additional District Judge upheld the findings of the Arbitral Tribunal on Issues No. 1 to 7.	Facts
Breach of contract by the Board in view of (a) violation of a fundamental condition of the contract i.e., not furnishing Letter of Comfort from Power Finance Corporation and, (b) misrepresentation by the Board in Clause 19.2 (vii) of the agreements as concluded by the Arbitral Tribunal were approved by the learned Additional District Judge.	Facts
However, the Learned Additional District Judge found fault with the award pertaining to Bank Guarantees and the amounts specified in ExhibitGG of the Claim Petition.	Facts
On the basis of the opinion that the Arbitral Tribunal had acted in excess of its jurisdiction in granting relief to the Claimant under the above heads, the learned Additional District Judge set aside the award.7.	Facts
Aggrieved by the rejection of Issue No. 13 by the Arbitral Tribunal which pertains to amounts mentioned in ExhibitHH to the Statement of Claim (Damages for the wrongful breach of Contract), the Claimant preferred an application Under Section 34 of the Act.	Facts
The said application was dismissed by the learned Additional District Judge.	Facts
The Appeal filed by the Claimant against the judgment of the learned Additional District Judge was later withdrawn and the dismissal has attained finality.	Facts
We are not concerned with the said claim in this case.8.	Facts
The Claimant filed an appeal before the High Court challenging the judgment of the Additional District Judge by which the Award of the Arbitral Tribunal was set aside.	Facts
The High Court set aside the judgment of the learned Additional District Judge and restored the award of the Arbitral Tribunal.	Facts
The High Court held that the Additional District Judge committed a serious error in interfering with the finding of the Arbitral Tribunal on Issues 9 to 12 after upholding the award in respect of Issues 1 to 7.	Facts
The High Court observed that Bank Guarantees are independent contracts between the Bank and the beneficiary.	Facts
Relying upon the conditions in the Bank Guarantees which related to the invocation only on the nonfulfillment of contractual obligations, the High Court approved the findings of the Arbitral Tribunal that the Board could not have invoked the Bank Guarantees without proving breach of contractual obligations on the part of the Claimant.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court, the Board has filed the above Appeal.	Facts
The Agreements9.	None
As stated above, the Contract between the Claimant and the Board pertains to refurbishment of Units 3 and 4 of the Amarkantak Thermal Power Station located in Shahdol District of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
Four Agreements in all were entered into between the Claimant and the Board.	Facts
An Overall Coordination Agreement was executed on 24th August, 1999 which provided for three other Agreements which are(i) Offshore Supply Contract,(ii) Onshore Supply Contract,(iii) Onshore Services Contract.10.	Facts
It is necessary to refer to the relevant provisions of the Agreements for a better understanding of the issues involved in this case.	Facts
As per the Agreements, the target completion period for the first and the second Unit was 18 1/2 months and 22 1/2 months from the issuance of notice to proceed respectively.11.	Facts
Clause 4 of the Overall Coordination Agreement which deals with Performance Guarantees is as follows4.	Facts
Performance Guarantees4.1 ANSALDO shall deliver to MPEB within fifteen days from the Zero Date, as defined in Clause 3 of each of the Offshore Supply Contract, the Onshore Supply Contract and the Onshore Services Contract, a performance bond (as per attachment to this Coordination Agreement) in the sum of ten per cent (10) of the total Contract Price which may be drawn against only in the event that ANSALDO does not perform the activities towards faithful fulfillment of all the terms and conditions of this Agreement except for the fulfillment of the Guaranteed Parameters, which are covered in clauses 4.2 and 4.3 herein.	Facts
The validity of the Bank Guarantee shall expire upon the earlier of(i) the Completion Date plus six (6) months towards Claim Period(ii) the date of termination of this Agreement pursuant to Clause 17 of the Offshore Supply and Onshore Supply Contract or Clause 18 of the Onshore Services Contract plus six (6) months towards Claim Period provided the termination is not due to breach of Contract on part of ANSALDO(iii) upon submission of Guarantee Bond as per Clause 4.3 of this Agreement.4.2 ANSALDO shall deliver to MPEB a Bank Guarantee (as per attachment to this Coordination Agreement in the sum of twelve and one half per cent (12 1/2) of the Total Contract Price to guarantee the successful achievement of the Guarantee Parameters (Indemnity Bank Guarantee).	Facts
Such Bank Guarantee shall be delivered to MPEB on the date ANSALDO submits its initial monthly invoice for payment to MPEB.	Facts
The validity of such Bank Guarantee shall expire on the earlier of(i) Completion Date plus six (6) months towards Claim Period(ii) the date of termination of this Agreement pursuant to Clause 17 of the Offshore Supply and Onshore Supply Contract or Clause 18 of the Onshore Services Contract plus six (6) months towards Claim Period provided the termination is not due to breach of Contract on part of ANSALDO.For the sake of administration of the Indemnity Bank Guarantee, the following will apply(i) Tolerances for the various guaranteed parameters, will be as per the International Standards (BS, ASME, DIN, Japanese and Russian)(ii)	Facts
If there are any shortfalls beyond the tolerances, ANSALDO will be provided reasonable time for rectifying the defects, with no financial implications to MPEB.	Facts
Such reasonable periods will not be considered for computation of the Contractual Delivery Period.(iii)	Facts
Beyond the occurrence of item (i) and (ii) above, the Indemnity Bank Guarantee can be drawn.4.3 ANSLDO shall deliver to MPEB a Bank Guarantee (as per attachment to this Coordination Agreement) in the sum of 15 of the Total Contract Price no later than the First Unit Completion Date which may be drawn only in the event the Guarantee Parameters for Three Years are not met, with respect to each of Unit No. 3 and Unit No. 4 during the applicable Guaranteed Period for Three Years.	Facts
The validity of such Bank Guarantee shall expire at the end of the third year after the date of the Second Unit Completion Date.	None
Clause 9.2 of the Offshore and Onshore Supply Contracts which provides for issuance of Bank Guarantee against submission of advance payment, reads as underOFFSHORE SUPPLY CONTRACT9 Contract Price and Terms of Payment9.1	None
As payment for ANSALDOS performance of the supplies and obligations under this Contract, MPEB shall pay to ANSALDO an amount of Seventeen Million Eighty One Thousand (17.081 Million) US Dollars, as per the price breakdown furnished in the Sixth Schedule.9.2 TERMS OF PAYMENTa) MPEB shall pay to ANSALDO an interest free advance payment the Advance Payment) equal to ten per cent (10 ) of the Contract Price on the date on which MPEB issues the Notice to Proceed Against submission of Advance Payment Bank Guarantee on declining basis, of equivalent value, valid upto the date of completion of the last supplies.	Facts
ONSHORE SUPPLY CONTRACT9.	None
Contract Price and Terms of Payment9.1	Facts
As payment for ANSALDOS performance of the supplies and obligations under this Contract, MPEB shall pay to ANSALDO an amount of Rs.	Facts
Nine Hundred Twenty Nine Million Two Hundred thousand (929.20 Million Rs. ), as per the price breakdown furnished in the Sixth Schedule.9.2 TERMS OF PAYMENTa) MPEB shall pay to ANSALDO an interest free advance payment the Advance Payment) equal to ten per cent (10 ) of the Contract Price on the date on which MPEB issues the Notice to Proceed Against submission of Advance Payment Bank Guarantee on declining basis, of equivalent value, valid upto the date of completion of the last supplies.	Facts
Clause 16.3 of the Offshore Supply Contract requires a written notice to be issued to the defaulting party in case of a substantial breach of the Agreement.	None
A cure period of 30 days is provided in Clause 16.4 to the defaulting party after receipt of the notice under Clause 16.3.	Facts
Termination of the agreement as per Clause 17 is in the following terms17.	Facts
Termination17.1	None
If (i) a substantial breach specified in a notice under Clause 16.3 is not remedied within the Cure Period or (ii) a Force Majeure has occurred and has continued as indicated in Clause 15.5 then the nonDefaulting Party in the circumstances of Subclause (i), and either party, in the circumstances of Subclause (ii), may without prejudice to any other right or remedy in respect of any preexisting breach, terminate this agreement by further notice in writing to the Defaulting Party.17.2 Upon termination of this Agreement, MPEB shall pay to ANSALDO, in full the following(i) the value of the Equipment supplied and any other work performed up to the date of termination which was not previously paid by MPEB(ii) any cost incurred by ANSALDO after the date of termination incurred as a result of the termination due to fault of MPEB17.3 Upon termination of this Agreement, any remaining Equipment for which payment has been received by ANSALDO in the performance of its obligations or delays its performance under this agreement.	Facts
Representations and warranties on the part of the Board are dealt with in Clause 19.2.	None
Clause 19.2 (vii) which is relevant for the purpose of this case reads as under19.2 MPEB represents and warrants to ANSALDO that(vii) Each of Unit No. 3 and Unit No. 4 was designed and constructed to achieve the Operating Parameters, and did in fact operate at 120 MW when operating in accordance with Good Industry Practice.	None
Similar provisions relating to default notice, termination and warranties in the Offshore Supply Contract are there in the Onshore Supply and Onshore Services Contracts as well.	None
Award of the Arbitral Tribunal12.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal framed the following issues for determination of the dispute raised by the Claimant1.	Facts
Whether the Respondent had supplied the technical documents and information to the Claimants as required by Clause 5.8 (iv) of the Onshore Services Agreement?2.	Facts
Whether the Claimants had waived the production of the Letter of Comfort of the Power Finance Corporation as required by Clause 5.6 of the Onshore Supply Contract and Schedule 7?3.	Facts
Thereto and Clause 5.14 of the Onshore Services Contract and Schedule 7 thereto?4.	Facts
Whether the issuance of the Letter Comfort Support by Power Finance Corporation to Asia Power Projects Pvt. Ltd. (Claimant No. 2) (ASPL) was a fundamental condition of the contract agreements?5.	Facts
Whether Units 3 and 4 of the Amarkantak Power Station did in fact operate at a capacity of 120 MW when they were first installed in 1997 when operating in accordance with Good Industry Practice as warranted by the Respondent in Clause 19.2 (vii) of the conditions of contract for Offshore and Onshore Supplies and Clause 20.2 (vii) of the conditions of contract for Onshore Services?6.	Facts
Whether the Respondent cooperated with the Claimants in carrying out the RLA tests?7.	Facts
Whether the Respondents insistence on approving the Claimants vendors was legal?8.	Facts
Whether the unilateral amendment by the Respondent of the Letter of Credit without the consent in writing of ANSALDO Energia S.P.A.  Claimant No. 1 (ANSALDO) was wrongful and whether such amendment required the consent of ANSALDO and of its bankers?9.	Facts
Whether the invocation and encashment by the Respondent of the Bank Guarantees was wrongful, premature, illegal and fraudulent?10.	Facts
Whether the termination of the Contract Agreements by the Respondent was wrongful?11.	Facts
Whether the Claimants are entitled to the amount claimed in Exhibit FF to the Statement of Claim?12.	Facts
Whether the Claimants are entitled to the amount claimed in Exhibit GG to the Statement of Claim?13.	Facts
Whether the Claimants are entitled to the amount claimed in Exhibit HH to the Statement of Claim?14.	Facts
Whether the Respondent is entitled to any of the amounts claimed by it in its Counter Claim?15.	Facts
Whether the Tribunal should award the continuation of the Interim Order of the Jabalpur District Court dated July 6 and 7, 2001?16.	Facts
What order should the Tribunal pronounce for costs?13.	Facts
The Arbitral Tribunal held that there was misrepresentation on the part of the Board in respect of the capacity of the Plant as well as its operating parameters and breach of a fundamental condition of the contract relating to Letter of Comfort not being furnished.	Facts
Termination of the contract was found to be bad in law.	Facts
Issues No. 1 and 4 were answered as followsDealing with Issue No. 4 first, the terms of the representation and warranty Clause needs to be noted.	Facts
The Respondent represents and warrants to the Claimants that each of Unit Nos. 3 and 4 was designed and constructed to achieve the operating parameters and, in fact, operated at 120 MW when operated in accordance with good industry practice.	Facts
The representation that the Respondent made and warranted was twofold first, in respect of the operating parameters that the Units were designed and constructed to achieve and, secondly that the Units did, in fact, operate at 120 MW, when operating in accordance with good industry practice.	Facts
It would appear from the evidence of the Respondents witness Saxena that the first representation and warranty was made only of the strength of the manufacturers plaque attached to the Units, but this representation and warranty is of far less import than the representation and warranty that the Units had, in fact, operated at 120 MW when operated in accordance with good industry practice.	Facts
It is an admitted position that no performance test upon commissioning of the Units had been carried out.	Facts
It is clear upon the evidence that the only record which the Respondent had which showed that the Units had in fact operated at 120 MW were the log sheets of February 23, 26, 27, 1983 for Unit Nos. 3 and December 29, 30 and 31, 1982 and February 24, 25, 26 and 27, 1983 for Unit No. 4.	Facts
In the first place, these do not show and it is not the case that they show that the operation of the Units at those times was in accordance with good industry practice.	Facts
Moreover, even if one were to ignore the inconsistencies pointed by the Claimants witnesses in the log sheets, a representation and warranty of this magnitude was unwarranted for the language of the representation and warranty suggests that the Units were operated over a span of time, of about 25 years, to produce 120 MW when operated in accordance with good industry practice.	Facts
The inconsistencies cannot, however, be ignored for they suggest that what was recorded in the concerned log sheet was not, in fact, the production of 120 MW.	Facts
When, for the same hour of the same day, the production is measured at 120 MW at one spot and 115 MW at another, it cannot be said with any confidence that the production was in fact 120 MW.The representation and warranty given to the Respondent as aforesaid, must, therefore, be held to be a positive assertion in a manner not warranted by the information of the Respondent, of that which was not true, though the Respondent might believe it to be true.	Facts
In other words, the representation and warranty was a misrepresentation as defined by Section 18 of the Contract Act.	Facts
The evidence of the Claimants witness Richetti is that the Claimants entered into the contracts only because of this representation and warranty and his evidence to that effect has not been dented in cross examination.	Facts
Under Section 19 of the Contract Act, when consent to an agreement is caused by misrepresentation, the agreement is a contract voidable at the option of the party whose consent was so caused.	Facts
The Claimants desire to avoid the contracts and we think that, in the circumstances they are entitled to do so.	None
In so far as Issue No. 1 is concerned, the Respondent contracted to make available to the Claimants, free of charge, all relevant records of the power station and the existing Operations and Maintenance Manual of the power station.	Facts
Mr. Agnihotri submitted that the words relevant records meant such records as were in the possession of the Respondent.	Facts
We do not find this interpretation acceptable.	Facts
All relevant records of the power station covers each and every record relating to the power station that is relevant for the purpose of the refurbishment thereof.	Facts
The phraseology used leads to the conclusion that the Respondent was stating that it had in its possession all the relevant records and would make them available to the Claimants, along with the operations and maintenance manual.	Facts
The evidence on record shows clearly that the Respondent possessed very few of the relevant records of the Units.	Facts
The failure of the Respondent to supply to the Claimants the relevant records of the Units was very likely to have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Claimants to perform their obligations under the contract and, as such, was a substantial breach by the Respondent of the contract.14.	Facts
The Arbitral Tribunal determined Issues 2 and 3 in favour of the Claimant by observing that there was no waiver on the part of the Claimant regarding production of the Letter of Comfort.	Facts
The production of the Letter of Comfort was a fundamental condition of the Agreements and the failure to produce the same was a breach on the part of the Board.	Facts
The invocation of Bank Guarantees by the Board was found to be improper by the Arbitral Tribunal in its findings on Issues 8 and 9.	Facts
According to the Tribunal, the Contract could have been terminated only after expiry of 30 days cure period.	Facts
The invocation of Bank Guarantees in this case was done on 23rd June, 2001 which was prior to the issuance of the notice of default on 29th August, 2001.	Facts
The termination of the Agreement by the Board was found to be bad in law.	Facts
ExhibitFF annexed to the Statement of Claim sought for by the Claimant pertains to the return of the amounts for which Bank Guarantees were given by the Claimant and invoked by the Board, along with interest.	Facts
ExhibitGG	Facts
to the Statement of Claim includes amount spent by the Claimant towards the Residual Life Assessment (R.L.A.) Study and other material procured including electric drum level indicator, UPS system 20 KVA, boiler pressure parts, etc.	Facts
After a detailed scrutiny of the evidence on record, the Arbitral Tribunal awarded the Claimant amounts mentioned in ExhibitsFF and GG appended to the Statement of Claim.	Facts
Issue No. 13 was answered against the Claimant.	Facts
Claim forming part of Ex. HH (damages for wrongful termination of contract) to the statement of claim was rejected.	Facts
Submissions15.	None
We have heard Shri Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Counsel for the Appellants and Shri S.U. Kamdar, learned Senior Counsel for the Respondents.	None
Shri Dave submitted that the award of the Arbitral Tribunal suffers from fundamental flaws and requires interference.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied upon the judgments of this Court to contend that the award is perverse and is vitiated due to patent illegality.	Arguments of Petitioner
He found fault with the finding of the Arbitral Tribunal that there was misrepresentation on the part of the Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that the plant was manufactured by BHEL in the year 1972 which certified that the Units have the capacity of 120 MW.	Arguments of Petitioner
Commenting on the representation and warranties found in Clause 19.2 (vii) of the Agreements, he stated that it cannot be said that there was any misrepresentation on the part of the Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
He placed reliance on the log sheets to show that the plant was running to its capacity of 120 MW.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submitted that there were about 13 inspections conducted by experts from the Claimants side and it is inconceivable that they did not know about the capacity and performance of the plant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that all the available records were furnished to the Claimant.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the Claimant had full knowledge about the capacity and the performance of the plant in spite of which they did not perform their part of the Contract for reasons best known to them.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Dave proceeded to submit that after a series of meetings and exchange of letters, the Claimant agreed for the Zero Date as 9th March, 2000.	Arguments of Petitioner
After such agreement, the Claimant is said to have waived its right of claiming the Letter of Comfort from the Power Finance Corporation.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the Letter of Comfort was not a fundamental condition of the Contract and it had no bearing on the performance of the obligation on the part of the Claimant.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further stated that the Claimant was aware of the fact that the amounts advanced to the Claimant were given by the Power Finance Corporation to the Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
He found fault with the finding of the Arbitral Tribunal that the termination of the Contract by the Board was illegal.16.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Dave highlighted the error committed by Arbitral Tribunal in treating all the Bank Guarantees as furnished in pursuance of Clause 4 of the Overall Coordination Agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
The conclusion of the Arbitral Tribunal that the invocation of the Bank Guarantee was not proper as it was done prior to the termination of the Contract was challenged by Shri Dave.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further urged that the award towards Issue No. 12 deserves to be set aside as the Claimant has been awarded compensation for the goods which were not supplied.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Shri Dave, the Claimant neither supplied nor commenced any work according to the Contract in spite of which the Arbitral Tribunal has allowed these claims.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is a lack of judicial approach on the part of arbitral Tribunal for which reason Shri Dave urged that the award deserves to be set aside.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri S.U. Kamdar, learned Senior Counsel contended that the award of the Arbitral Tribunal is well reasoned after taking into account the entire material on record and it does not suffer from any infirmity.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the parameters for exercise of power by the Courts Under Section 34 of the Act are well settled.	Arguments of Respondent
Applying the principles laid down by this Court in several judgments, Shri Kamdar contended that this Appeal should not be entertained.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submitted that a plain reading of the Clause 19.2 (vii) pertaining to the representation and warranties would show that there was a misrepresentation on the part of the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
The Clause which was added after deliberations between the parties is to the effect that both Units 3 and 4 operated at 120 MW when operating in accordance with good industry practice.	Arguments of Respondent
He referred to the evidence on record before the Tribunal to argue that there is no material to show that the plant operated at 120 MW.	Arguments of Respondent
He stated that the incomplete log sheets that were filed by the Board also suffer from internal discrepancies as rightly held by the Arbitral Tribunal.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Kamdar further submitted that the Arbitral Tribunal correctly found furnishing a Letter of Comfort by Power Finance Corporation to be a fundamental condition which was breached by the Board.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied upon Clause 22 of both the Supply Contracts to submit that the counsel for the Board was not right in arguing that there was a waiver on the part of the Claimant.	Arguments of Respondent
He further argued that there is voluminous oral and documentary evidence on record to demonstrate that material was procured and equipment was manufactured for supply as per the terms of the contract.	Arguments of Respondent
He also stated that the equipment which was specially designed for the Thermal Plants at Amarkantak will be of no use to any other plant.	Arguments of Respondent
It was only due to the breach on the part of the Board that the supply did not take place.	Arguments of Respondent
Concluding his submissions, Shri Kamdar submitted that the appeal deserves to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 34 of the Act  Public Policy18.	None
It is necessary to refer to the settled law on the scope of Sections 34 of the Act.	None
In this case we are concerned with the point as to whether an arbitral award can be set aside for being in conflict with the public policy of India.	None
An arbitral award can be set aside if it is contrary to (a) fundamental policy of Indian law, or (b) the interest of India, or (c) justice or morality.	Issue
(Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co. (1994)	None
Supp.	None
1 SCC 644)	None
Patent illegality was added to the above three grounds in ONGC v. Saw Pipes Ltd. (2003) 5 SCC 705.	None
Illegality must go to the root of the matter and incase the illegality is of trivial nature it cannot be held that the award is against the public policy.	None
It was further observed in the said judgment (ONGC v. Saw Pipes (supra)) that an award could also be set aside if it is so unfair and unreasonable that it shocks the conscience of the Court.	None
In Delhi Development Authority v. M s. R.S. Sharma Co. (2008) 13 SCC 80 it was held that an award can be interfered with by the Court Under Section 34 of the Act when it is contrary toa) substantive provisions of law orb)	None
provisions of the 1996 Act orc) against the terms of the respective contract ord) patently illegal ore) prejudicial to the rights of the partiesThe fundamental policy of India was explained in ONGC Ltd. v. Western Geco International Co. Ltd. (2014) 9 SCC 263 as including all such fundamental principles as providing a basis for administration of justice and enforcement of law in this country.	None
It was held inter alia, that a duty is cast on every tribunal or authority exercising powers that affect the rights or obligations of the parties to show a judicial approach.	None
It was further held that judicial approach ensures that an authority acts bona fide and deals with the subject in a fair, reasonable and objective manner and its decision is not actuated by any extraneous considerations.	None
It was also held that the requirement of application of mind on the part of the adjudicatory authority is so deeply embedded in our jurisprudence that it can be described as a fundamental policy of Indian law.	None
This Court further observed that the award of the Arbitral Tribunal is open to challenge when the arbitrators fail to draw an inference which ought to be drawn or if they had drawn an inference which on the face of it is untenable resulting in miscarriage of justice.	None
The Court has the power to modify the offending part of the award in case it is severable from the rest according to the said judgment Western Geco ltd. (supra)).19.	None
The limit of exercise of power by Courts Under Section 34 of the Act has been comprehensively dealt with by Justice R.F. Nariman in the case of Associate Builders v. Delhi Development Authority (2015) 3 SCC 49.	None
Lack of judicial approach, violation of principles of natural justice, perversity and patent illegality have been identified as grounds for interference with an award of the Arbitrator.	None
The restrictions placed on the exercise of power of a Court Under Section 34 of the Act have been analyzed and enumerated in Associated Builders (supra) which are as followsa)	None
The Court Under Section 34(2) of the Act, does not act as a Court of appeal while applying the ground of public policy to an arbitral award and consequently errors of fact cannot be corrected.b)	None
A possible view by the arbitrator on facts has necessarily to pass muster as the Arbitrator is the sole judge of the quantity and quality of the evidence.c) Insufficiency of evidence cannot be a ground for interference by the Court.	None
Reexamination of the facts to find out whether a different decision can be arrived at is impermissible Under Section 34 (2) of the Act.d)	None
An award can be set aside only if it shocks the conscience of the Court.e)	None
Illegality must go to the root of the matter and cannot be of a trivial nature for interference by a Court.	None
A reasonable construction of the terms of the contract by the arbitrator cannot be interfered with by the Court.	None
Error of construction is within the jurisdiction of the Arbitrator.	None
Hence, no interference is warranted.f) If there are two possible interpretations of the terms of the contract, the arbitrators interpretation has to be accepted and the Court Under Section 34 cannot substitute its opinion over the Arbitrators view.	None
Application of the Law20.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal held that the termination of the contract by the Board on 08.01.2002 was illegal.	None
This finding was on the basis that the Board committed a breach of the contract.	None
The breach of the contract on the part of the Board was due to the failure in furnishing Letter of Comfort from the Power Finance Corporation, nonsupply of the technical documents and information as required by Clause 5.8 (iv) of the Onshore Service Agreement and misrepresentation.	Facts
Letter of Comfort and Waiver21.	None
Clause 5.14 of the Onshore Services Contract and Clause 5.6 of the Onshore Supply Contract provide for an irrevocable Letter of Comfort to be issued by the Power Finance Corporation in favour of the Claimant, on the date of issuance of the Notice to Proceed by the Board.	None
There is a further requirement in the said Clauses that the Board shall ensure that the Letter of Comfort is maintained in full force and effect throughout the term of the agreements.	None
The Claimants contention before the Arbitral Tribunal was that the production of the Letter of Comfort was a fundamental condition of the agreements and the failure to produce it was a breach of the contract.	None
The Boards response to such contention was that the Claimant is deemed to have waived the production of the Letter of Comfort.	None
Waiver was pleaded by the Board on the basis of a letter dated 10.03.2000 written by the Claimant accepting the Zero Date as 09.03.2000 and the oral concession made by Sh.	None
G. Ravindran, a representative of the Claimant.22.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal opined that the production of Letter of Comfort was a fundamental condition of the agreements and the Claimant cannot be said to have waived the production of Letter of Comfort.	Reasoning
The contention of oral concession made by Sh.	Reasoning
G. Ravindran was considered by the Arbitral Tribunal with reference to the evidence on record.	Reasoning
The oral evidence of Sh. Saxena, Superintending Engineer and Sh.	Reasoning
Shrivastava, Additional Superintending Engineer of the Board was referred to by the Arbitral Tribunal to hold that they admitted to the fact that there was no waiver to the production of Letter of Comfort in writing by the Claimants.	Reasoning
Sh.	Reasoning
Saxena, Superintending Engineer of the Board stated in his evidence that Sh.	Reasoning
G. Ravinderan made a concession of waiver of production of the Letter of Comfort in a meeting.	Reasoning
However, the details of the meeting could not be given by Sh. Saxena.	Reasoning
The Arbitral Tribunal refused to accept the point canvassed by the Board relating to waiver on the basis of the evidence of Sh. Saxena.	Reasoning
The contents of the letter dated 10.03.2000, written by the Claimant to the Board were examined by the Arbitral Tribunal to conclude that there was no waiver of production of the Letter of Comfort.	Reasoning
According to the Arbitral Tribunal, the Claimant did not insist on the Letter of Comfort to be produced as a precondition to the Zero Date, which did not preclude to their seeking the same at a later date as per Clause 16.5 of the Overall Coordination Agreement and Clause 22 23 of the Supply and Services Contracts respectively.	Reasoning
The production of the Letter of Comfort was a fundamental condition of the agreements and the failure to produce the same was a breach by the Board.	Reasoning
The above findings on the Letter of Comfort are on appreciation of evidence.	Reasoning
We do not see any reason to differ with the said findings.	Reasoning
NonSupply of Documents and Misrepresentation23.	None
The evidence of Sh.	None
Cesare Ricchetti, Electrical Engineer working with the Claimant is to the effect that he took part in the negotiations which led to the signing of the contract.	None
He deposed that he requested for information from the Station Director of the Board at Amarkantak and Sh.	None
B.S. Chouhan, Member Generation, as to whether Units 3 and 4 were originally designed and constructed to achieve a capacity of 120 MW.	None
The Station Director responded to the query and confirmed that the Units had been designed and constructed to achieve a capacity of 120 MW.	None
Sh.	Reasoning
Ricchetti further stated that it was not possible on a visual inspection to assess the originally installed capacity.	None
The capacity could have been assessed by examining the parameters and methods used during the original design, the operational log data and the original performance test.	None
These records were not furnished to the Claimants despite repeated requests by the Claimants.	None
As the Claimants were not satisfied with the material, they insisted on a formal warranty, which was included in Clause 19.2 (vii) of the Onshore Supply Agreement, Clause 19.2(vii) reads as follows19.2 MPEB represents and warrants to ANSALDO that(vii) each of Unit No. 3 and Unit No. 4 was designed and constructed to achieve the operating parameters, and did in fact operate at 120 MW when operating in accordance with good industry practice.24.	None
Sh.	Reasoning
Ricchetti categorically stated in his evidence that Claimants would not have signed the contracts without the above warranty.	None
Sh.	Reasoning
Saxena, Additional Superintending Engineer deposed before the Arbitral Tribunal that the warranty was made on the strength of the manufacturers plaque attached to the Units.	None
He stated that the Units had, in fact, operated at 120 MW when the performance was in accordance with good industrial practice.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal took note of the fact that no performance test was carried out upon commissioning of the Units.	Facts
Considering the log sheets that were filed on behalf of the Board for three days in December, 1982 and four days in February, 1983, the Arbitral Tribunal was of the opinion that the said records do not show that the Units operated at 120 MW was in accordance with good industrial practice.	None
Moreover, the Tribunal found that there were inconsistencies in the readings recorded in the log sheets.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal concluded that the positive averment by the Board that the Units were, in fact, operating at 120 MW for over a period of 25 years was clearly a misrepresentation.	None
According to the Arbitral Tribunal, the Claimant was entitled to avoid the contract as the consent to the contract was obtained by a misrepresentation.25.	None
Sh.	Reasoning
Dave submitted that the Arbitral Tribunal committed a serious error in concluding that there was misrepresentation on the part of the Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also criticized the findings of the Arbitral Tribunal on Section 19 of the contract by relying upon illustration (b) therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
It will be useful to reproduce Sections 18 and 19 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 which read as under18.	None
Misrepresentation definedMisrepresentation means and includes(1)	None
the positive assertion, in a manner not warranted by the information of the person making it, of that which is not true, though he believes it to be true(2) any breach of duty which, without an intent to deceive, gains and advantage to the person committing it, or any one claiming under him by misleading another to his prejudice, or to the prejudice of any one claiming under him(3) causing, however innocently, a party to an agreement, to make a mistake as to the substance of the thing which is the subject of the agreement.19.	None
Voidability of agreements without free consentWhen consent to an agreement is caused by coercion, fraud or misrepresentation, the agreement is a contract voidable at the option of the party whose consent was so caused.	None
A party to a contract, whose consent was caused by fraud or misrepresentation, may, if he thinks fit, insist that the contract shall be performed, and that he shall be put on the position in which he would have been if the representations made had been true.	None
Exception If such consent was caused by misrepresentation or by silence, fraudulent within the meaning of Section 17, the contract, nevertheless, is not voidable, if the party whose consent was so caused had the means of discovering the truth with ordinary diligence.	Arguments of Petitioner
Explanation A fraud or misrepresentation which did not cause the consent to a contract of the party on whom such fraud was practiced, or to whom such misrepresentation was made, does not render a contract voidable.	None
Illustrations(a)(b) A, by a misrepresentation, leads B erroneously to believe that five hundred mounds of indigo are made annually at As factory.	None
B examines the accounts of the factory, which show that only four hundred maunds of indigo have been made.	None
After this B buys the factory.	None
The contract is not voidable on account of As misrepresentation.26.	None
On appreciation of the oral and documentary evidence produced by the parties, the assertion made by the Board that the Units were achieving a capacity of 120 MW when operating in accordance with the good industrial practice, was found to be incorrect by the Arbitral Tribunal.	Reasoning
We do not intend to take a different view on the findings of the fact recorded by the Arbitral Tribunal.27.	Reasoning
Even if the Board believed that Units 3 and 4 were in fact designed for a capacity of 120 MW and operated at 120 MW, if it was found later that the assertion relating to the said capacity and functioning was not true, a clear case of misrepresentation, as per Section 18 of the Contract Act was made out.28.	Reasoning
Mr. Dave relied upon the exception to Section 19.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the exception, a contract is not voidable if the party whose consent was taken had the means of discovering the truth with ordinary diligence, even if the consent was caused by misrepresentation.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also relied upon illustration (b), which deals with sale of a factory by B on the representation of A that 500 mounds of Indigo are made annually in the factory belonging to A. As B purchased the factory after examining the accounts of the factory, the contract was not voidable on account of As misrepresentation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Sh.	Reasoning
Dave relied upon a judgment of the Full Bench of the Judicial Commissioners Court, Nagpur, in (Hazi) Mahomad Hazi Wali Mahomad v. Ramappa AIR 1929 Nagpur 254.	Arguments of Petitioner
In that case, the Defendant in the suit represented to the Plaintiff that the value of the property was about Rs.	None
9,000/. Jackson A.J.C. held that even if such a statement was made by the Defendant, the Plaintiff was not entitled for a decree on the ground that it was impossible to believe that the Plaintiffs solely relied upon the statement of the Defendant as to the value of the property.	None
It was further held that the Plaintiff could have obtained the value of the property without much trouble.	None
In view of the above facts, the Judicial Commission observed as followsUnder Section 19, Contract Act, the rights given to a party who has entered into a contract under fraud or misrepresentation, are to avoid the contract or to insist on the contract being performed.	None
The Section does not entitle the party to insist on an entirely different contract being performed.	None
Moreover, the rights given by Section 19 are given only to a party whose consent to the contract was, in fact, caused by the fraud or misrepresentation.	None
The said judgment has no application to the facts of this case.	None
Similarly, Ganga Retreat Towers Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan (2003) 12 SCC 91 relied upon by Sh.	Reasoning
Dave would not be of any assistance to him.29.	None
As discussed earlier, the evidence on record discloses that the Claimants could not ascertain the actual capacity and the functioning of the Units in spite of their best efforts.	Reasoning
The relevant records were not furnished by the Board to enable the Claimants to ascertain the actual facts.	Reasoning
The evidence on record supports the contention of the Claimants that it was not possible to ascertain the capacity and functioning of the Units only on the basis of visual inspections.	Reasoning
We are afraid that we cannot agree with the submission of Sh.	Reasoning
Dave on the point of misrepresentation as we find no good reason to differ from the view taken by the Arbitral Tribunal.	Reasoning
Ext. GGValue of the Equipments Supplied and Works Performed30.	Reasoning
An amount of Rs. 11,14,55,042/ with interest was claimed towards the value of the RLA study and the performance of work relating to drum level system, UPA system, pressure parts and engineering drawings which could not be supplied due to the termination of the agreements.	Reasoning
A detailed affidavit was filed by Sh.	Reasoning
Fabio Rolla in lieu of his examinationinchief.	Reasoning
Voluminous evidence was produced to show the actual expenditure towards the above works.	Reasoning
There was no meaningful crossexamination of Sh.	Reasoning
Fabio Rolla on behalf of the Board.	Reasoning
The determination of Issue No. 12 by the Arbitral Tribunal holding that the Claimants are entitled to the amounts claimed in Ex. GG annexed to the statement of claim i.e. Rs. 11,14,55,042/ is on the basis of appreciation of evidence.	Reasoning
We have no hesitation in approving the said finding of fact of the Arbitral Tribunal.	Reasoning
Ext. FFRefund of amounts of Bank Guarantees31.	Reasoning
The Claimants furnished three Bank Guarantees.	Reasoning
Two Bank Guarantees dated 22.02.2000 and 23.02.2000 were for Rs. 9.29 crores and US 1,708,100/ towards the advance payment to be paid by the Board.	Reasoning
The third Bank Guarantee was given by ANZ Grindlays Bank, New Delhi on behalf of the Claimant for Rs. 18.48 crores which was towards performance guarantee under Clause 4.1 of the Overall Coordination Agreement.	Reasoning
The Bank Guarantees dated 22.02.2000 and 23.02.2000 were in terms of Clause 9.2 of the Onshore and Offshore Supply Contracts respectively.	Reasoning
All the three Bank Guarantees were invoked by the Board on 23.06.2001.	Reasoning
The Bank Guarantees given on 22.02.2000 and 23.02.2000 were conditional.	Reasoning
The condition for invocation of such Bank Guarantees was nonfulfillment of the contractual obligations by the debtor.	Reasoning
The third Bank Guarantee of 24.02.2000 was an unconditional Bank Guarantee.	Reasoning
The Arbitral Tribunal was of the opinion that the invocation of the Bank Guarantee was improper as it was not preceded by a Notice of Default as contemplated in Clause 16.3 of the Supply Contracts and a subsequent notice of termination under Clause 17.1 of the Supply Contracts.	Reasoning
In view of the finding of the Arbitral Tribunal that the Board committed a serious breach of the contract and wrongfully terminated the contract, the Claimant was held to be entitled to return of the amounts for which the Bank Guarantees were given.32.	Reasoning
The Bank Guarantee given on 24.02.2000 was a Performance Bank Guarantee and the Claimant is entitled for return of the amount for which the Bank Guarantee was given.	Reasoning
The Arbitral Tribunal, however, failed to take notice of the fact that the other two Bank Guarantees were given for the amounts to be advanced by the Board.	Reasoning
In fact, the Board had advanced the said amounts to the Claimants.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the Claimant is not entitled for return of the amounts involved in the Bank Guarantees dated 22.02.2000 and 23.02.2000 as they were towards the amounts advanced by the Board.	Reasoning
The rejection of the claim pertaining to the damages mentioned in Ex. HH of the statement of claim which includes loss of profit, overheads and loss of commercial opportunities clearly indicates that the Arbitral Tribunal never intended to grant any damages to the Claimant.	Reasoning
The claims allowed by the Arbitral Tribunal pertained only to the return of the Claimants money involved in the Bank Guarantees and the amounts actually spent by the Claimants.	Reasoning
Conclusion33.	None
We uphold the award of the Arbitral Tribunal with the modification that the Claimants are not entitled for the amounts involved in the Bank Guarantees dated 22.02.2000 and 23.02.2000 given by the Claimants.34.	Decision
To avoid confusion, the Award of Rs. 11,14,55,042/, with interest at the rate of 12 per annum from 29th July, 2002 until payment or realization towards the claim in Ex. GG and Rs. 18,48,00,000/ with interest thereon at the rate of 12 per annum from 5th July, 2001 until payment or realization, which is the amount pertaining to the Performance Bank Guarantee, is affirmed.35.	Decision
For the aforestated reasons, the appeals are dismissed with the above modification.	Decision
