 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Whether in the facts and circumstances of this case multiplier of 15 ought to have been applied by the High Court in its impugned judgment falls for consideration in this appeal which arises out of a common judgment and order dated 29.08.2006 passed by the High Court of Judicature of Andhra Pradesh in Appeal against Order No. 528 of 2000 and C.M.A. No. 3350 of 1999.	Issue
Before embarking upon the said question, we may notice the basic fact of the matter which is not in dispute.	Facts
Claimant was aged about 38 years on the date of accident which took place on 26.01.1995.	Facts
He was a carpenter working in a company.	Facts
His monthly salary was said to be Rs. 4500/.	Facts
He had 15 years of experience in woodcrafts.	Facts
His parents, wife, two daughters and one son were dependant on him.	Facts
On the night of 25.01.1995, he was coming back to his house.	Facts
When he was riding on a twowheeler, he met with the accident having been hit by a bus belonging to the appellantcorporation.	Facts
He was thrown on the road and dragged to a distance of 10 to 15 yards.	Facts
He suffered serious multiple injuries, viz., fracture of left hand (humour) fracture of left eight ribs rupture of spleen loss of skin and rupture of left hand injury to haemolhorex injury to spinal cord, injury to nerve of contracting to spleen blunt injury to left forehead injury to thoracic lumber blunt injury to thigh rupture of left calf muscle, bruises all over the body closed brain injury with blackouts.	Facts
He underwent an operation.	Facts
A steel rod was inserted in his fractured hand.	Facts
He became permanently disabled and lost his earning capacity.	Facts
He filed an application under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicles Act (for short the Act) claiming a sum of Rs.4,00,000/ as damages.	Facts
The Tribunal awarded a sum of Rs.85,000/ with interest at 12 p.a.	Facts
Respondent preferred an appeal there against.	None
The High Court by reason of the impugned judgment granted further compensation to him for a sum of Rs. 1,62,800/ in addition to the awarded compensation of Rs.85,000/. Application of the multiplier in a structural form was provided in the Second Schedule appended to the Motor Vehicles Act.	Facts
Benefit of applying such structural formula was considered by this Court in General Manager, Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, Trivandrum v. Susamma Thomas (Mrs) and Others (1994) 2 SCC 176 wherein this Court opined The considerations generally relevant in the selection of multiplicand and multiplier were adverted to by Lord Diplock in his speech in Malletts case where the deceased was aged 25 and left behind his widow of about the same age and three minor children.	Facts
On the question of selection of multiplicand Lord Diplock	Facts
observedThe starting point in any estimate of the amount of the dependency is the annual value of the material benefits provided for the dependants out of the earnings of the deceased at the date of his death.	Facts
Butthere are many factors which might have led to variations up or down in the future.	Facts
His earnings might have increased and with them the amount provided by him for his dependants.	Facts
They might have diminished with a recession in trade or he might have had spells of unemployment.	Facts
As his children grew up and became independent the proportion of his earnings spent on his dependants would have been likely to fall.	Facts
But in considering the effect to be given in the award of damages to possible variations in the dependency there are two factors to be borne in mind.	Facts
The first is that the more remote in the future is the anticipated change the less confidence there can be in the chance of its occurring and the smaller the allowance to be made for it in the assessment.	Facts
The second is that as a matter of the arithmetic of the calculation of present value, the later the change takes place the less will be its effect upon the total award of damages.	Facts
Thus at interest rates of 4 per cent the present value of an annuity for 20 years of which the first ten years are at Pounds 100 per annum and the second ten years at Pounds 200 per annum, is about 12 years purchase of the arithmetical average annuity of Pounds 150 per annum, whereas if the first ten years are at Pounds 200 per annum and the second ten years at Pounds 100 per annum the present issue is about 14 years purchase of the arithmetical mean of Pounds 150 per annum.	Facts
If therefore the chances of variations in the dependency are to be reflected in the multiplicand of which the years purchase is the multiplier, variations in the dependency which are not expected to take place until after ten years should have only a relatively small effect in increasing or diminishing the dependency used for the purpose of assessing the damages.	Facts
Placing strong reliance upon the observations made therein, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant corporation would submit that the correct multiplier which should have been applied in this case was 12.Reliance was also placed on Dr. K.G. Poovaiah v. General Manager Managing Director Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (2001) 9 SCC 167 wherein this Court opined 5 However, the assessment of compensation under the head of loss of earning capacity is very much on the lower side.	Arguments of Petitioner
The injury to the right hand, which has left a permanent disability and which has affected the functioning of the limb and in particular the fingers, is a serious handicap to a medical practitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Patients would be reluctant to go to him for treatment and, therefore, the loss of earning capacity would be substantial.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even if we were to assume that it would reduce his earning capacity by 50 and even if we go by his earnings at the date of the accident, the monthly loss would come to Rs.1500 i.e. Rs.18,000 per annum.	Arguments of Petitioner
If this monthly loss of earning is multiplied by 10 years purchase factor the compensation would work out to Rs.1,80,000.	Arguments of Petitioner
To that must be added the compensation allowed under certain other heads, namely, pain and suffering, loss of amenities, medical expenses, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
The total amount comes to Rs.2,38,000.	None
Reliance has also been placed on U.P. State Road Transport Corpn.	None
v. Krishna Bala and Others (2006) 6 SCC 249 wherein it was held In Susamma Thomas case it was noted that the normal rate of interest was about 10 and accordingly the multiplier was worked out.	Arguments of Petitioner
As the interest rate is on the decline, the multiplier has to consequentially be raised.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, instead of 16 the multiplier of 18 as was adopted in Trilok Chandra appears to be appropriate.	Arguments of Petitioner
In fact in Trilok Chandra case, after reference to Second Schedule to the Act, it was noticed that the same suffers from many defects.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that the same is to serve as a guide, but cannot be said to be invariable ready reckoner.	Arguments of Petitioner
However, the appropriate highest multiplier was held to be 18.	Arguments of Petitioner
The highest multiplier has to be for the age group of 21 years to 25 years when an ordinary Indian citizen starts independently earning and the lowest would be in respect of a person in the age group of 60 to 70, which is the normal retirement age.	Arguments of Petitioner
(See New India Assurance Co. Ltd. v. Charlie)	Arguments of Petitioner
As against this, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent would submit that this is not a fit case where this Court should exercise its discretionary jurisdiction and in particular having regard to a recent decision of this Court in Deepal Girishbhai Soni and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v. United India Insurance Co. Ltd., Baroda (2004) 5 SCC 385 AIR 2004 SC 2107	Arguments of Respondent
We have noticed hereinbefore that the accident took place on 26.01.1995.	Reasoning
A few months prior thereto, the Parliament inserted Section 163A of the ActbyAct 54 of 1994 with effect from 14.11.1994.	Reasoning
The said provision contains a nonobstante clause in terms whereof inter alia the owner of the motor vehicle is made liable to pay, in the case of death or permanent disablement, compensation, as indicated in the Second Schedule appended to the Act.10.	Reasoning
Total Disablement has been defined in Section 2(l) of the Workmens Compensation Act, 1923 to mean such disablement, whether of a temporary or permanent nature, as incapacitates a workman for all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident resulting in such disablement.11.	Reasoning
Section 166 of the Act evidently stands on a different footing.	Reasoning
The extent of compensation payable thereunder may vary from case to case.	Reasoning
Various other factors including contributory negligence, earning capacity, extent of negligence on the part of one vehicle or the other, are relevant factors for computation of damages.	Reasoning
Loss of property can also be subject matter of the claim petition.12.	Reasoning
In Deepal Girishbhai Soni (supra), this Court observed Section 163A was, thus, enacted for grant of immediate relief to a section of the people whose annual income is not more than Rs. 40,000/ having regard to the fact that in terms of Section 163A of the Act read with the Second Schedule appended thereto compensation is to be paid on a structured formula not only having regard to the age of the victim and his income but also the other factors relevant therefore.	Reasoning
An award made thereunder, therefore, shall be in full and final settlement of the claim as would appear from the different columns contained in the Second Schedule appended to the Act.	Reasoning
The same is not interim in nature.	Reasoning
The note appended to column 1 which deals with fatal accidents makes the position furthermore clear stating that from the total amount of compensation onethird thereof is to reduced in consideration of the expenses which the victim would have incurred towards maintaining himself had he been alive.	Reasoning
This together with the other heads of compensation as contained in columns 2 to 6 thereof leaves no manner of doubt that the Parliament intended to lay a comprehensive scheme for the purpose of grant of adequate compensation to a section of victims who would require the amount of compensation without fighting any protracted litigation for proving that the accident occurred owing to negligence on the part of the driver of the motor vehicle or any other fault arising out of use of a motor vehicle.	Reasoning
We, therefore, fail to visualise that in a case of this nature a claimant can be deprived of a reasonable amount of compensation despite the fact that he has permanently lost his capacity to earn and remain dependant on other besides physical sufferance of such magnitude as to why the multiplier suggested by the Parliament should not be accepted.14.	Reasoning
We do not, however, intend to lay down a general law.	Reasoning
We wish to point out that minimum compensation payable in a case of this nature should be considered from the sufferings of disability undergone by the victim.	Reasoning
We are not suggesting that in certain situations, the multiplier specified in the Second Schedule cannot and should not be altered but therefore there must exist strong circumstances.	Reasoning
In the year 1995, the rate of interest was lower than the rate of interest taken into consideration in Susamma Thomas (supra).	Reasoning
Application of multiplicative factor should also be considered from that angle.	Reasoning
Susamma Thomas (supra) or the other decisions relied upon by the learned counsel, do not lay down any law in absolute terms.15.	Reasoning
In Krishna Bala (supra), the Division Bench considered that the amount of compensation will have to be determined having regard to the fact as to what capital sum, if invested at a rate of interest appropriate to a stable economy, would yield the multiplicand by way of annual interest.	Reasoning
Rate of interest, therefore, was a relevant factor.16.	Reasoning
Furthermore, in a case of this nature, we are of the opinion that it is not a fit and proper case where we should exercise our discretionary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.17.	Decision
For the reasons aforementioned, there is no merit in this appeal which is dismissed accordingly.	Decision
Appellant shall bear the costs of the respondents.	Decision
Counsels fee assessed at Rs. 25,000/.	Decision
