 Sarkaria, J. 1.	None
This appeal by special leave by the State is directed against the judgment and order, dated November 24, 1970, of the High Court of Gujarat allowing a writ petition of (1) C. G. Desai, (2) B. L. Joshi, and (3) H. N. Shah filed under Article 226 of the Constitution.	Issue
The material facts are not in dispute and may not be stated Respondent No. 1 herein (original petitioner No. 1) was officiating as Deputy Engineer since May 16, 1955, in the P.W.D. Department of the then State of Bombay and he continued in service as such until on December 3, 1959, he was selected and appointed as a result of the competitive examination held by the Public Service Commission, to a post in B.S.E. Class II Service.	Facts
Under the Engineering Service Rules, 1960 (hereinafter called 1960 Rules), a direct recruit is required to undergo training for a period not exceeding one year and thereafter to work on probation as incharge of a SubDivision for a further period of one year.	Facts
Since Respondent No. 1 had already worked as officiating Deputy Engineer, the initial period of one years training in his case was dispensed with and he was directly placed incharge of a SubDivision.	Facts
On completion of his two years probation he was confirmed as Deputy Engineer in Class II with effect from December 3, 1961.	Facts
Sometime in June, 1961, a Committee appointed by the State Government prepared a select list of Deputy Engineers for promotion as officiating Executive Engineers but the case of Respondent No. 1 was not considered for the reason that he had not put in 7 years (reduced to 6 years in 1961)	Facts
service requisite under Rule 7 (ii) for such promotion (hereinafter, for short, called eligibility service).	Facts
The Governments stand was that in the case of Deputy Engineers directly recruited through a competitive examination held by the Public Service Commission, service, if any, rendered by then as officiating Deputy Engineers prior to their appointment to Class II (hereinafter called preselection service) could not be taken into account, in computing their eligibility service.	Facts
The case of Respondent No. 1 herein was that this stand of the Government was wrong and, under the relevant Rules his preselection service (from 1651955 to 2121959) as officiating Deputy Engineer had to be tacked on to his postelection service for calculating the requisite period of his eligibility service.	Facts
When the next select list was prepared in the year 1963, Respondent No. 1 was included in that list and, in consequence, promoted as officiating Executive Engineer.	Facts
Since then he has been working as such in the promoted rank.	Facts
2. Respondents Nos 2 and 3 herein (original petitioners Nos. 2 and 3) were promoted as Deputy Engineers on July 8, 1957, and September 28, 1957, respectively.	Facts
They continued to work in that capacity till December 3, 1959, when they, too like Respondent No. 1, were directly recruited as Deputy Engineers in Class II Service as a result of the competitive examination held by the Public Service Commission.	Facts
On Completion of their probationary period of two years, they were confirmed as Deputy Engineers on December 3, 1961.	Facts
In their case, also, the Government did not count their preselection service from July 8, 1957 to December 3, 1959 for computing their eligibility service, for further promotion and, in consequence, they were also not considered eligible for selection at the time of the preparation of the selectlists of 1961, 1963 and for the subsequent years upto 1966.	Facts
The Respondents (then petitioners) prayed for a writ of mandamus or any other appropriate writ or order directing the State Government to determine and settle their seniority in accordance with the provisions of Rule 8 (i) and (iii) of the Government Resolution dated April 29, 1960.	Facts
3.	None
The main ground taken in the petition before the High Court, was, that the action of the Government in excluding from computation the service rendered by the Respondents as officiating Deputy Engineers prior to their selection as Deputy Engineers Class II Service, was violative of Article 16 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
The contention was that the rule of eligibility for promotion had not been uniformly applied to all Deputy Engineers inasmuch as in the case of person who were recruited to Class II by promotion, their preselection service as Officiating or Temporary Deputy Engineers was computed towards their eligibility service but the same treatment was denied to Deputy Engineers directly recruited.	Facts
4.	None
In the counter filed on behalf of the State, it was averred that this distinction between the direct recruits and promotees in computing their eligibility service for further promotion was observed as a matter of deliberate policy.	Facts
It was added that at the time of the preparation of the select list of Deputy Engineers fit to be promoted as Executive Engineers in 1965, the claims of officiating Deputy Engineers appointed subsequent to 1111956, were not considered while the claims of directly recruited Deputy Engineers though appointed after November 1, 1956, were so considered because of the special provision for the latter category of Deputy Engineers as per Government.	Facts
Resolution, dated 29th April, 1960.	Facts
The Government therefore, felt that as the direct recruits were getting special treatment because of being direct recruits, they should not be allowed a further advantage of counting, for the purpose of further promotion, their preselection service towards the period of their eligibility service.	Facts
5.	None
The High Court found that the differentiation in question made by the Government in the application of the Rules, had no reasonable nexus with the object of promotion and the action of the Government was therefore clearly discriminatory and amounted to a denial of equal opportunity to directly recruited Deputy Engineers like petitioners Nos. 1 to 3.	Facts
In the result, the High Court allowed the application of the present Respondents 1 to 3 and issued a writ of mandamus directing that their case.	Facts
for promotion as officiating.	Facts
Executive Engineers shall be considered on the basis that the preselection service rendered by them as officiating Deputy Engineers prior to their direct recruitment as Deputy Engineers was liable to be taken into account in counting the minimum period of seven years service requisite for promotion as officiating Executive Engineers.	Facts
6.	None
In order to appreciate the controversy, it is necessary to notice briefly the history of these Engineering Services and the relevant rules which are appendages to various Government Resolutions passed from time to time.	Facts
Originally, the Government of Bombay, in the Public Works Department passed a Resolution on 2231937, in pursuance of which Bombay Engineering Service consisting of Class I and Class II was constituted.	Facts
The posts of Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineer and Executive Engineer were placed in Class I, while those of Deputy Engineers were put in Class II.	Facts
The recruitment to both Class I and Class II was partly by direct recruitment and partly by promotion from the lower ranks.	Facts
In 1939, further rules were framed under which recruitment to Class II Service was to be made either (a) by nomination under Rule 11 under the guarantee given to the College of Engineering, Poona or (b) by promotion from the (i) Subordinate Engineering Service (ii) Permanent and Temporary Supervisors and (iii) Temporary Engineers appointed on annual sanction.	Facts
7.	None
On the 27th May 1947, the Government of Bombay withdrew its guarantee of certain appointments given to the students of the Engineering College, Poona and thereafter, appointed a Committee (known as Gurjar Committee) to examine the question of recruitment to the Engineering Services and allied matters.	Facts
In the meantime, the Government of Bombay made direct recruitment to Class I and Class II Service through competitive examination held by the Public Service Commission.	Facts
8.	None
Though the Committee made its recommendations in 1951, yet this provisional arrangement appears to have continued upto April 29, 1960, on which date, the Government of Bombay in the public Works Department passed a Resolution delineating the principles of recruitment to the Bombay Service of Engineers, Class I and Class II Shortly, thereafter the Bombay State was bifurcated but the 1960 Rules continue to be applicable to the Engineering Services of the new State of Gujarat, to which the Respondents herein, were allotted.	Facts
9.	None
By the Resolution of 1960, the existing Class I and Class II Services were continued.	Facts
The appointments to both these Services are to be by direct recruitment through competitive examination held by the Public Service Commission and also by promotion in the ratio of 75 25.	Facts
As per Rule 2, the candidates appointed from either service have to be on probation for a period of two years in the first instance as trainees for a period not exceeding one year, and then in a probationary capacity, in charge of a SubDivision for one year more.	Facts
On satisfactory completion of the period of probation, the candidates recruited from both the Services are confirmed as Deputy Engineers in the cadre of Class II or as Assistant Engineers in Class I, as the case may be.	Facts
10.	None
The provisions of 1960 Rules material for our purpose, are to be found in Rules 6, 7 and 8, which read thus6 (i) (ii) For absorption into Class I, a Class II Officer must be in the permanent Bombay Service of Engineers Class II cadre, should have at least 15 years service to his credit in Class IIin temporary and permanent capacities, and should be holding an officiating divisional rank, at the time of such absorption.	Facts
On such absorption, the Class II Officers shall be confirmed as Executive Engineers.	Facts
(emphasis supplied) (iii) 7 (i) Since the percentages in the superior posts of direct Class I recruits and promotees from Class II is to be about 75 and 25, the number promotions from Class II in any year would be about onethird of the number of directly recruited Assistant Engineers confirmed as Executive Engineers during that year.	Facts
Recruitments in the past, have, however been erratic and insufficient to Class I.	Facts
In order to deal with such situations, the following rules shall be supplemental and exceptional to those in paragraph 6 above (ii) As far as possible promotions as Officiating Executive Engineers shall beso made that the promotes under consideration from Class II has to his credit at least 6 years longer service than a promotee under consideration from Class I, subject as far as practicable, to the condition thata	Facts
Class	Facts
I Officershall not holda divisional rank at less than 4, and, aClass II Officer at less than 7 years service.	None
(emphasis supplied) Subject to availabilities, and the above criteria, an attempt should be made to maintain the percentages, stated in paragraph 6 (i) above, between direct Class I and promoted Class II Officers in the total of permanent plus officiating superior posts.	None
(iii) and (iv) 8 (i) The SubDivisional Posts in the Department are at present, manned by direct recruits to Bombay Service of Engineers Class II Cadre, Deputy Engineers confirmed from subordinate service of Engineers, the temporary Deputy Engineers recruited by the Bombay Public Service Commission, Officiating Engineers and similar other categories.	None
These various categories are being complied into two lists only.	Facts
(i) Bombay Service of Engineers Class II cadre of permanent Deputy Engineers and a List of officiating Deputy Engineers .	Facts
(ii) All direct recruitment of temporary Deputy Engineers have been stopped, further officiating vacancies will be manned from the rank of the subordinate Service of Engineers 11.	Facts
The question that falls for decision is Whether the action of the State Government in treating differently the promotees and direct recruits in Class II, for the purpose of computing the period of their eligibility service requisite for promotion as Officiating Executive Engineers violates the constitutional guarantee of equal treatment enshrined in Art.	Issue
16 of the Constitution?	Issue
12.	None
Mr. Bhandare, learned Counsel for the appellant has in the course of his elaborate arguments stressed these points(1)	Arguments of Petitioner
The two channels of promotion of direct recruits and promotees are separate and there would be no violation of Article 16, if these two classes continue to be treated differently.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) It would be open to the Government to lay down and accept different conditions for these two classes in the matter of their further promotion to Class I Service (3) Since all the direct recruits constitute one class, it is not permissible to the Government to treat the members of the same class differently and to make a distinction in the matter of their promotion by taking into account the preselection service of an officer when he was not a direct recruit in Class II.	Arguments of Petitioner
To do so, would be to give an undue advantage to a direct recruit with preselection service over his collegues who did not have such preselection service to their credit.	Arguments of Petitioner
13.	None
Learned Counsel further urged that there existed a rational basis for this classification and differential treatment of direct recruits and promotees in the matter of their promotion to Class I. Reliance has been placed on two decisions of this Court in Prabhakar Yeshwant Joshi v State of Maharashtra, (1970) 2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 615 (1971 Lab IC (N.) 8) and Ganga Ram v. Union of India, (1970)	Arguments of Petitioner
3 SCR 481 (AIR 1970 SC 2178 )	Arguments of Petitioner
We shall presently examine the effect of those decisions.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	None
Mr Chitley, learned Counsel for the respondents maintained, in reply that rule 7 (ii) does not permit discrimination between promotees and direct recruits in the matter of computing the seven years service as Deputy Engineer requisite for further promotion as Officiating Executive Engineer.	Arguments of Respondent
The point sought to be made out is that if this rule is correctly interpreted and uniformly applied then direct recruits cannot be denied the advantage of tacking their preselection service, if any, to their postselection service in Class II. 15.	Arguments of Respondent
After hearing the learned Counsel on both sides, we think, that the contentions of Mr. Bhandare must prevail.	Reasoning
It is manifest that direct recruits and promotees in Class II constitute two distinct groups or classes.	Reasoning
This classification has a historical background and a rational basis.	Reasoning
The promotees from the lower ranks have only one chance of getting into Class II service, as against three available to the direct recruits.	Reasoning
Further, for a considerable time, recruitment by promotion from the ranks of Temporary officiating Deputy Engineers etc. to Class II Service remained frozen with consequent stagnation and loss of incentive in the service.	Reasoning
Circumstances being what they are, promotees, at the time of their entry into Class II Service, are, broadly speaking, far older than the direct recruits and, many of the promotees may have less than 7 years to go before attaining the age of superannuation.	Reasoning
If in the case of both these groups of promotees and direct recruits, with different background and dissimilar circumstances, the period of seven years eligibility service were to start from the date of their absorption in Class II, then, for most of the promotees there would be a rare chance of ever getting promotion as Officiating Executive Engineer.	Reasoning
The classification is thus based on intelligible differentia.	Reasoning
16.	None
If a person, like any of the respondents, to avoid the long tortuon wait leaves his position in the never ending queue of Temporary Officiating Deputy Engineers etc, looking for promotion, and takes a short cut through the direct channel, to Class II Service, he gives up once for all, the advantages and disadvantages that go with the channel of promotion and accepts all the handicaps and benefits which attach to the group of direct recruits.	Reasoning
He cannot, after his direct recruitment claim the benefit of his preselection service and thus have the best of both the worlds.	Reasoning
It is well settled that so long as the classification is reasonable and the persons falling in the same class are treated alike, there can be no question of violation of the constitutional guarantee of equal treatment.	Reasoning
17.	None
As pointed out by this Court in Ganga Rams case.	None
(1970) 3 SCR 481 (AIR 1970 SC 2178 ) (supra) in applying the wide language of Articles 14 and 16 to concrete cases.	None
doctrinaire approach should be avoided and the matter considered in a practical way.	None
If the claim of the respondents to the counting of their preselection service is conceded, it will create serious complications in running the administration it will result in inequality of treatment rather than in removing it.	None
If the preselection service as Officiating Deputy Engineers of direct recruits having such service, is taken into account for the purpose of promotion, it would create two classes amongst the same group and result in discrimination against those direct recruits who had no such preselection service to their credit.18.	None
The SelectList is prepared on the basis of senioritycummerit, and the inter se seniority of the selected officers in the lower rank is ordinarily to be maintained in the promoted rank.	None
Acceptance of the Respondents contention will make the smooth working and uniform application of this principle of senioritycummerit difficult.	None
The inter se seniority of the selected officers will be seriously disturbed and the Department will be faced with the anomalous situation of a junior officer, with preselection service, becoming eligible to be considered for promotion over the head of his seniors, in the same group, having no such fortuitous preselection service to their credit.19.	None
There is nothing in R. 7 (ii) which compels the interpretation that in the case of direct recruits, also, their preselection service as Officiating Deputy Engineers, if any, should be counted towards their eligibility service.	Reasoning
Rule 7 (ii) is silent with regard to the method of computing the seven years period of eligibility service.	Reasoning
20.	None
The interpretation of this condition of seven years service in Rule 7 (ii) is not res integra.	Reasoning
It came up for consideration before this Court the Prabhakar Yeshwant Joshis case, (1970) 2	Reasoning
SCR 615 (1971 Lab IC (N.) 8) (supra).	Reasoning
The petitioners therein were also direct recruits to the posts of Deputy Engineers in B.S.E. Class II.	Reasoning
The respondents therein had entered Class II Service by promotion.	Reasoning
The petitioners challenged the promotions of the respondents to the posts of Officiating Executive Engineers as being contrary to the principles of natural justice and violative of Arts.	Reasoning
14 and 16 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It was inter alia contended that under the 1960 Rules in force, respondent 2 to 5 therein were only Officiating Deputy Engineers and they had to put in, after confirmation, as Deputy Engineers, seven years of actual service before being eligible for promotion as Officiating Executive Engineer.	Reasoning
Speaking for the Court, Jaganmohan Reddy J. negatived this contention in these termsEven this Rule 7 (ii) does not indicate that the qualifying service of either of six years or of 7 years specified in the rule has to be permanent service.	None
In cl.	None
(ii) of R. 6 it is provided that 15 years of service in Class II for absorption (which means permanent absorption) as Executive Engineer can be in temporary or permanent capacities.	None
There is nothing in R. (ii) to militate against the interpretation that the service specified there can be the total service of any description whether provisional, temporary or permanent.	None
If promotion from Class II as officiating Executive Engineer can only be made after 7 years of permanent service, then there would be no meaning in including the temporary service in Class II for the purpose of absorption as Executive Engineer.	None
Even R. 6 upon which Shri Gupte has laid great emphasis in support of his contention, does not, in our view, justify an interpretation that 7 years service required to entitle persons in Class II for promotion as an officiating Executive Engineer should be permanent service in Class II (within brackets ours) As we have seen earlier, cl.	None
(ii) of R. 7 does not use the word belong but requires only that the person under consideration for promotion should be from Class II service.	None
To be in Class II service the Deputy Engineer promoted from subordinate service has to put in at least 3 years of service as officiating Deputy Engineer before being confirmed and thereafter he can when he is promoted to the next higher rank be confirmed as Executive Engineer if he has put in 15 years in Class II service in temporary or permanent capacities and is holding an officiating divisional rank namely of an Executive Engineer.	Facts
If temporary service can be taken into account for confirmation as an Executive Engineer, so can officiating service, and if officiating service can be taken into consideration, there is no impediment to a Depty Engineer with 7 years service whether officiating, temporary or permanent, to entitle him for promotion as an Executive Engineer	Facts
We cannot, therefore, accept the contention of Shri Gupte that a promotee officiating Deputy Engineer Class II is not entitled to be considered for promotion under R. 7 to the post of an officiating Executive Engineer unless he has put in 7 years of service from the date of confirmation.	None
21.	None
What is quoted above, no doubt, pertains to the case of promotees, with which the Bench was mainly concerned.	None
But the observations in the penultimate paragraph of the judgment excerpted below, incidentally cover the issue now before usNone of the petitioners, it is averred, was included in the Select List of 1964 or 1965 because not only did any of them not have the requisite seven years service as Deputy Engineer at the relevant time The petitioners however denied in their rejoinder that the list were prepared keeping the criteria laid down by the rules, but in our view,it is significant that they did not possess the required length of service in Class IIfor them to be entitled to promotion when the respondents were included in the list and promoted as such they cannot challenge the appointments made as being in violation of Art. 14 or Art.	None
16.	None
(emphasis supplied) 22.	None
In the light of the above discussion, we are of the opinion that the learned Judges of the High Court were in error in holding that the impugned action of the Government suffered from the vice of discrimination and as such was violative of Art.	Decision
16 of the Constitution.	Decision
We, therefore, allow this appeal, set aside the judgment of the High Court and dismiss the writ petition, leaving the parties, in the circumstances to bear their own costs.	Decision
23.	None
Appeal allowed.	Decision
