 SUBBA RAO J. 1.	None
These two appeals by special leave are preferred against the order of the High Court of Kerala in Tax Revision Cases Nos. 52 and 53 of 1960 relating to sales tax assessments made on the respondent for the years 195556 and 195657 respectively	Issue
The facts in the two appeals may be briefly and separately stated 2.	None
The following facts relate to Civil Appeal No. 986 of 1964 in respect of the assessment year 195556	Facts
The respondent has two offices, the head office is at Court Road and the branch office, at Big Bazaar.	Facts
Both the offices are in Kozhikode.	Facts
The branch office does wholesale business and the head office does retail business and they maintain separate accounts.	Facts
The goods sent from the branch office to the head office are entered in the accounts as transfers.	Facts
The head office maintains accounts disclosing the goods so transferred by the branch office and also the goods purchased by it locally.	Facts
The branch office has also transactions with other customers.	Facts
On April 6, 1957, the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Kozhikode, assessed the respondent on the net turnover of his business of Rs. 9, 30, 565105 for the assessment years 195556.	Facts
But later on, on a surprise inspection of the head office by the Intelligence Officer, North Zone, Kozhikode, some books of accounts and records were recovered.	Facts
On October 27, 1958, on the basis of the said books and records, the Sales Tax Officer issued a notice to the respondent proposing to determine to the best of his judgment the turnover which had escaped assessment.	Facts
The respondent agreed to the Sales Tax Officer assessing the turnover of the head office on the basis of the aforesaid secret books recovered from the shop, but objected to a fresh assessment being made in respect of the branch office at Big Bazaar.	Facts
That objection was rejected and the Sales Tax Officer reassessed the turnover of the business of the respondent in the following manner He found that in regard to the head office the transactions disclosed in the secret books were 135 of the turnover recorded in the regular accounts and on that basis added 135 to the turnover disclosed in the regular books of the said office.	Facts
He then applied the same percentage in regard to the assessment of the turnover of the branch office.	Facts
He added 135 to the turnover found in the regular accounts of the branch office.	Facts
He assessed the total turnover of the two offices at Rs. 19, 71, 805135.	Facts
On the basis of the said total turnover the respondent was assessed to sales tax amounting to Rs. 16, 269.37.	Facts
The respondent preferred an appeal against the said order of the Sales Tax Officer to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner without any success.	Facts
The further appeal preferred by him to the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal was also dismissed.	Facts
The said order was taken in revision to the High Court of Kerala in T. R. C. No. 52 of 1960The facts of Civil Appeal No. 987 of 1964 relating to the assessment for the year 195657 are as follows On the basis of the secret accounts discovered in the surprise inspection of the head office, the Sales Tax Officer issued a notice to the respondent proposing to determine to the best of his judgment the turnover which had escaped assessment.	Facts
The respondent had no objection for a reassessment being made in respect of the turnover of the head office on the basis of the secret accounts discovered, but objected to the reassessment of the turnover of his branch office.	Facts
The Sales Tax Officer applied the same principle in regard to the assessments of both the shops as he had adopted in the case of the turnover for the assessment year 195556.	Facts
Taking the head office he found in regard to the general goods that the escaped assessment was 200 of the turnover assessed and in regard to sugar, 500 of the assessed turnover.	Facts
He, therefore, added 200 and 500 to the turnover of the general goods and the turnover of sugar respectively.	Facts
In the same manner in regard to the turnover of the branch office, though no secret books were discovered in respect of that office, he added to the turnover already assessed 200 of the turnover of the general goods and 500 of the turnover of sugar.	Facts
With the result he fixed the total turnover of the two offices at Rs. 39, 66, 37726 made up of the turnover of the head office at Rs. 2, 21, 251145 and of the branch office at Rs. 37, 45, 12541.	Facts
The respondent pursued the matter up to the High Court.	Facts
T. R. C. No. 53 of 1960 was the revision filed by him in the High Court 3.	None
The High Court set aside the orders of the Sales Tax Tribunal in respect of both the assessment years on the ground that the finding of the escaped assessment so far as the branch office was concerned amounted to an error of law, because it was based on conjecture.	None
Rejecting the plea of the State that the matter should be remanded for a fresh assessment, the High Court dismissed the revisions.	Facts
Hence the present appealsMr.	None
Govinda Menon, learned counsel for the State, argued that the High Court was wrong in holding that the best judgment assessment was capricious.	Arguments of Petitioner
He pressed on us to hold that the branch office must have maintained secret accounts corresponding to the secret accounts discovered in respect of the head office, that the respondent had suppressed the said accounts and that, therefore, the Sales Tax Officer acted reasonably in ascertaining the escaped assessment on the basis of the percentage of escaped assessment found in respect of the head office.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further contended that the High Court had no jurisdiction to interfere with the finding of fact arrived at by the Tribunal 4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sreedharan Nambiar, appearing for the respondent, contended that there was no basis for the Sales Tax Officer to hold that the respondent maintained separate accounts in respect of the branch office business, that there was absolutely no material before the Sales Tax Officer to sustain his best judgment assessment, and that, therefore, the said assessment made by the Sales Tax Officer was capricious and arbitrary and was rightly set aside by the High Court At the outset the relevant provisions of the TravancoreCochin General Sales Tax Act, 1125 M. E. (XI of 1125), may be noticed Section 12.(1)	Arguments of Respondent
Every dealer whose turnover is ten thousand Indian rupees or more in a year shall submit such return or returns relating to his turnover, in such manner, and within such periods as may be prescribed (2) (a) If the assessing authority is satisfied that any return submitted under subsection (1) is correct and complete, he shall assess the dealer on the basis thereof (b) If no return is submitted by the dealer under subsection (1) before the date prescribed or specified in that behalf or if the return submitted by him appears to the assessing authority to be incorrect or incomplete, the assessing authority shall assess the dealer to the best of his judgmentrovided that before taking action under this clause the dealer shall be given a reasonable opportunity of proving the correctness and completeness of any return submitted by him Section 15B.Within sixty days from the date on which an order under section 15A, subsection (4) or subsection (6), was communicated to him, the assessee or the Deputy Commissioner may prefer a petition to the High Court against the order on the ground that the Appellate Tribunal has either decided erroneously or failed to decide any question of law . .	None
.	None
5.	None
It is manifest that the jurisdiction of the High Court under section 15B is confined only to the question whether the Tribunal has either decided erroneously or failed to decide any question of law.	Reasoning
As we will point out immediately, the Sales Tax Officer acted capriciously and arbitrarily in assessing the respondent, which he could not do under section 12(2)(b) of the Act and the Tribunal confirmed that order.	Reasoning
It is a clear case where the Tribunal decided erroneously on a question of law 6.	None
What is the scope of section 12(2)(b) of the Act ?	None
The expression to the best of his judgment in the said clause is presumably borrowed from section 23(4) of the Incometax Act.	None
The said expression in the Incometax Act was the subject of judicial scrutiny.	None
The Privy Council in Commissioner of Incometax v. Laxminarayan Badridas has considered those words.	None
Therein it observed He (the assessing authority) must not act dishonestly, or vindictively or capriciously because he must exercise judgment in the matter.	None
He must make what he honestly believes to be a fair estimate of the proper figure of assessment, and for this purpose he must, their Lordships think, be able to take into consideration local knowledge and repute in regard to the assessees circumstances, and his own knowledge of previous returns by and assessments of the assessee, and all other matters which he thinks will assist him in arriving at a fair and proper estimate and though there must necessarily be guesswork in the matter, it must be honest guesswork.	None
In that sense, too, the assessment must be to some extent arbitrary.	None
The Privy Council, while recognizing that an assessment made by an officer to the best of his judgment involved some guesswork, emphasized that he must exercise his judgment after taking into consideration the relevant material.	None
The view expressed by the Privy Council in the context of the Incometax Act was followed when a similar question arose under the Sales Tax Act.	None
A Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Jagadish Prosad Pannalal v. Member, Board of Revenue, West Bengal, confirmed the assessment made by the sales tax authorities, as in making the best judgment assessment the said authorities considered all the available materials and applied their mind and tried their best to come to a correct conclusion.	None
So too, a Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Doma Sahu Kishun Lal Sao v. State of Bihar refused to interfere with the best judgment assessment of a Sales Tax Officer as he took every relevant material into consideration, namely, the situation of the shop, the rush of the customers and the stock in the shop and also the estimate made by the Assistant Commissioners in the previous quarters 7.	None
Under section 12(2)(b) of the Act, power is conferred on the assessing authority in the circumstances mentioned thereunder to assess the dealer to the best of his judgment.	None
The limits of the power are implicit in the expression best of his judgment.	None
Judgment is a faculty to decide matters with wisdom truly and legally.	None
Judgment does not depend upon the arbitrary caprice of a judge, but on settled and invariable principles of justice.	None
Though there is an element of guesswork in a best judgment assessment, it shall not be a wild one, but shall have a reasonable nexus to the available material and the circumstances of each case.	None
Though subsection (2) of section 12 of the Act provides for a summary method because of the default of the assessee, it does not enable the assessing authority to function capriciously without regard for the available materialCan it be said that in the instant case the impugned assessment satisfied the said tests ?	None
From the discovery of secret accounts in the head office, it does not necessarily follow that a corresponding set of secret accounts were maintained in the branch office, though it is probable that such accounts were maintained.	None
But, as the accounts were secret, it is also not improbable that the branch office might not have kept parallel accounts, as duplication of false accounts would facilitate discovery of fraud and it would have been thought advisable to maintain only one set of false accounts in the head office.	None
Be that as it may, the maintenance of secret accounts in the branch office cannot be assumed in the circumstances of the case.	None
That apart, the maintenance of secret accounts in the branch office might lead to an inference that the accounts disclosed did not comprehend all the transactions of the branch office.	None
But that does not establish or even probabilize the finding that 135 or 200 or 500 of the disclosed turnover was suppressed.	None
That could have been ascertained from other materials.	None
The branch office had dealings with other customers 8.	None
Their names were disclosed in the accounts.	None
The accounts of those customers or their statements could have afforded a basis for the best judgment assessment.	None
There must also have been other surrounding circumstances, such as those mentioned in the Privy Councils decision cited supra.	None
But in this case there was no material before the assessing authority relevant to the assessment and the impugned assessments were arbitrarily made by applying a ratio between disclosed and concealed turnover in one shop to another shop of the assessee.	None
It was only a capricious surmise unsupported by any relevant material.	Reasoning
The High Court, therefore, rightly set aside the orders of the TribunalNor can we accede to the request of the learned counsel for the State to remand the matter to the Tribunal for fresh disposal.	Reasoning
The sales tax authority had every opportunity to base its judgment on relevant material but it did not do so.	Reasoning
The department persisted all through the hierarchy of tribunals to sustain the impugned assessments.	Reasoning
The High Court, having regard to the circumstances of the case, refused to give the department another opportunity.	Reasoning
We do not think we are justified to take a different view 9.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeals fail and are dismissed.	None
But, as regards costs, it is not a fit case for awarding costs to the respondent.	None
It has been established that the respondent was keeping secret accounts and that he had not disclosed his entire dealings.	Decision
Therefore there will be no order as to costs 10.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
