 Sikri, J.1.	None
These are two appeals by certificates under S. 66A(2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, against the judgment of the High Court at Calcutta, answering two questions referred to it by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal against the appellant.	Issue
The two questions areWhether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessments on the Administrator General of West Bengal as an individual and not as representing the shares of the various beneficiaries under the Will of the late Raja P. N. Tagore separately was in accordance with law?2.	Issue
If the answer to Question No. 1 be in the affirmative, then whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessment of the said Administrator General in the maximum rate was legal?2.	None
The facts and circumstances referred to are set out in the statement of the case by the Appellate Tribunal and are as follows.	Facts
One Raja Profulla Nath Tagore died on July 2, 1938, leaving an elaborate Will dated March 14, 1927, by which certain legacies were left to specified persons and institutions, the residue being given to five sons.	Facts
The residue was disposed of thus by clause 81 of the Will Save and except the legacies that I have provided for in this my present Will and save my garden house at Allambazar Tagore Villa together with articles of furniture I give to my sons all my remaining moveable and immoveable properties that will be left and also the moveable and immoveable properties whereto my right will accrue in future.	Facts
Subject to the management and payment of these several trusts (Debutter, etc.)	Facts
and the legacies that I have created or I have directed the, creation thereof in this Will my sons shall continue to hold and enjoy all the said moveable and immoveable properties.3.	Facts
Clause 10 of the said Will provided for the payment of the legacies thusThe legacies fixed in this my present Will shall have to be paid in full within 15 years of my death and these 15 years my Estate shall be managed under the supervision of my Executors and Trustees.	Facts
As to the various legacies that I have made a mention of this my Will, my Executors and Trustees shall pay up all the said legacies out of the small savings made from the income of my Estate year after year.	Facts
For paying up the legacies my Executors and Trustees shall not be competent to sell any portion of my Estate or any immoveable property.	Facts
As to what I have arranged to pay to the different parties, in this my present Will, my Executors and Trustees shall not pay any interest on those legacies nor shall the legatees be competent to claim any interest.4.	Facts
It is not necessary to set out the other clauses of the Will, but we may mention that there were numerous legacies which had to be paid before the residue could be ascertained.5.	Facts
Probate of the Will was granted to the said five sons on August 24, 1938, but by an order dated May 10, 1948,the High Court appointed the Administrator General of West Bengal as Administrator and ordered that letters of administration de bonis non of the property and credits of the deceased (Raja Profulla Nath Tagore) with a Copy of the Will annexed thereto be granted and issued out.6.	Facts
The Administrator General of West Bengal, hereinafter referred to as the Appellant, submitted returns in respect of the Assessment Years 195051, and 195152, the accounting years being 194950 (1356 B.S.) and 195051 (1357 B.S.), showing income of Rs. 36,611 for the first year and Rs. 39,630 for the second year.	Facts
He claimed that the income was specifically receivable on behalf of the said five sons of the deceased, and their shares in the said income were definite and determinate.	Facts
The Incometax Officerrejected the claim for the Assessment Year 195051 on the ground that the Administrator General of West Bengal is only an executor of the estate of Raja P. N. Tagore and that the execution is not yet complete.	Facts
Under the circumstances the question of the beneficiaries does not arise and the Administrator General himself is assessable as Executor to estate P. N. Tagore.	Facts
He passed a similar order in respect of Assessment Year 195152.The	None
Appellate Assistant Commissioner upheld the orders of the Incometax Officer.	None
Following the principles laid down in the decisions in V. M. Raghavalu Naidu and Sons v. Commr. of Incometax and Excess Profits Tax, Madras, 195018 ITR 787 (AIR 1950 Mad 790 ) and Asit Kumar Ghose v. Commissioner of Agricultural Incometax, West Bengal, 195222 ITR 177 (Cal), he held that the levy of tax on the separate individual incomes of the beneficiaries can be made only when the administration of the estate has been completed and the residue of the estate has been ascertained.	Facts
It was conceded before him that the administration of the estate was not completed till the end of the accounting year (195051).	None
The Appellate Tribunal also rejected the contention.	None
It held that It is the condition of the application of this section (S. 41) that the Administrator General of West Bengal shall receive the income on behalf of the beneficiaries.	Facts
We have held that having regard to S. 211 of the Indian Succession Act the Administrator General of West Bengal receives it as legal representative of the deceased person and not on behalf of the beneficiaries.	Facts
The latter he can do only if the administration of the estate is complete or if there are specific directions to that effect.	Facts
The proviso goes further and enacts that when such income is not specifically receivable on behalf of one person or where the individual share of the person on whose behalf it was receivable is indeterminate or unknown, tax shall be levied and recoverable in the maximum rate.	Facts
There is no doubt in this case that the Administrator General of West Bengal is not receiving the income specifically on behalf of any beneficiary.	Facts
Further there are certain benefactions and payment in their very nature involving the share income of the beneficiaries being indeterminate or unknown.	Facts
So truly speaking the tax must be levied in the maximum rate.	Facts
But the assesses is not entitled to claim that the income of the beneficiaries must be separately assessed and not together in the hands of the Administrator General of West Bengal.7.	Facts
Then the Appellate Tribunal on the application of the Appellant, referred the two questions reproduced above.	Facts
The High Court held thatthe Administrative General when appointed by the Court is expressly covered by the section ( S. 41) and it cannot be said that because he has the powers of an executor he must be treated differently.	Facts
It further held thatthe income from the properties did not so long as administration was incomplete become theirs.	Facts
It cannot, therefore, be said of the sons that they had any determinate share in the profits or gains of the estate or any part thereof in the accounting years.	Facts
The proviso to S. 41 (1) is, therefore, attracted on the facts of this case, making the tax recoverable at the maximum rate.8.	Facts
The learned counsel for the appellant in Civil Appeal 168 of 1964, Mr. Vishwanatha Sastri, has urged that the High Court was wrong in holding that the shares of the five sons were indeterminate.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said that their shares were 1/ 5th each, and what has to be seen is whether the shares are determinate and not whether the actual sum, which each son would get is variable or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
Income may be variable but the shares of the sons are fixed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection, he relied on the decision in Birendra Kumar Datta v. Commissioner of Incometax, Calcutta, 196142 ITR 661 (AIR 1960 Cal 323 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
He further sold that S. 41 was mandatory and if the proviso to S. 41 did not apply, the Incometax Officer was bound to assess the appellant under S. 41.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned AttorneyGeneral, on behalf of the Revenue, submitted that S. 41 did not apply atall because in the facts and circumstances of the case, the appellant did not receive the income on behalf of the five sons but received it like an executor.	Arguments of Respondent
He said that an executor was not mentioned in S. 41 and was assessable under Ss. 3 and 4 of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In the alternative, he argued that the share of the sons were indeterminate.	Arguments of Respondent
As we are inclined to accept the first submission of the learned Attorney General, we need not express any opinion on the question whether the shares of the five sons were indeterminate or not, within the proviso to S. 41.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 41 reads thus 41.	None
Court of wards, etc. (1) In the case of income, profits or gains chargeable under this Act which the Courts of Wards, the AdministratorsGeneral, the Official Trustees or any receiver or manager (including any person whatever his designation who in fact manages property on behalf of another) appointed by or under any order of a Court, or any trustee or trustees appointed under a trust declared by a duly executed instrument in writing whether testamentary or otherwise including the trustee or trustees under any Wakf deed which is valid under the Mussalman Wakf Validating Act, 1913 (6 of 1913) are entitled to receive on behalf of any person, the tax shall be levied upon and recoverable from such Court of Wards.	None
AdministratorGeneral Official Trustee, receiver or manager or trustee or trustees, in the like manner and to the same amount as it would be leviable upon and recoverable from the person on whose behalf such income, profits or gains are receivable, and all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly Provided that where any such income, profit or gains or any part thereof are not specifically receivable on behalf of any one person, or where the individual shares of the persons on whose behalf they are receivable are indeterminate or unknown, the tax shall be levied and recoverable a the maximum rate but, where such persons have no other personal income chargeable under this Act and none of them is an artificial judicial person, as if such income, profits or gains or such part there of were the total income of an association of persons.10.	None
It is not disputed that before S. 41 can be applied, it must be found that the AdministratorGeneral was entitled to receive income on behalf of a person or persons.	None
It is common ground that the administration of the estate was not completed within the accounting periods in question.	None
So the question boils down to this Did the appellant receive the income on his behalf or on behalf of the five sons during this period?11.	None
It seems to us that during the administration of the estate, the appellant did not receive the income on behalf of the five sons.	Reasoning
When he received the income, he had a discretion to use it either for paying legacy A or legacy B or for meeting other expenses.	Reasoning
If there was a saving in one year, next year he could appropriate it for paying legacy C or D or for meeting other expenses.	Reasoning
What the five sons were entitled to was the residue of the estate and any savings that might be out of the income of the estate would be received by them finally, not as their income but as part of the residue.12.	Reasoning
In England, apart from statutory provisions, a residuary beneficiary is not regarded as taxable on income of an estate in the course of administration a share of residue does not belong to the beneficiary until it is ascertained either in whole or part by transfer or assent to him or by appropriation (Wheatcroft on Law of Incometax, Surtax and Profits Tax, S. 11104).13.	None
The decision in R. v. Incometax Special Commissioners, (1919) 7 Tax Cas 646, supports the contention of the learned Attorney General.	None
The facts may be taken from the headnote.	None
Mr. Denzil Thomson dies on November 15, 1914, leaving the residue of his estate to Dr. Barnardos Homes National Incorporated Association.	None
The Testators nextofkin contested the will and the proceedings were compromised by the Association making over to nextofkin onethird of the residuary estate.	None
The proceedings delayed the division of the residuary estate, and the investments constituting or representing the same remained under the control of the Executors until May 1916, between which date and December 1916, twothirds of the investments were transferred to the Association and onethird to the Testators nextofkin.	None
The income arising from the investments was received under deduction of Incometax and the total amount of tax deducted from such income during the period between the date of the Testators death and the dates of transfer by the Executors amounted to ?	None
498	None
Os. 11d.	None
The Association applied, under S. 105 of the Incometax Act, 1842, to the Special Commissioners of Incometax for repayment of twothirds of that sum, viz., ?	None
332 Os.	None
7d., as being Incometax on income payable to the Association and applicable, and in fact applied, by it solely for charitable purposes.	None
The application being unsuccessful, the Secretary of the Association applied for and obtained a rule nisi calling upon the Special Commissioners of Incometax to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not issue to them commanding them to allow exemption from incometax on the income in question and to repay the sum of ?	None
332 Os.	None
7d.14.	None
The House of Lords held, inter alia, following the decision in Lord Sudeley v. AttorneyGeneral, 1897 AC 11, thatprior to the ascertainment of the residue, the Association as residuary legatee had no interest in the Testators property, that the taxed income of the estate prior to such ascertainment was income of the Executors, and that it was not received by them as trustees on behalf of the Association.15.	None
In the Court of Appeal the Master of Rolls observed thatthe income that they were receiving in the meantime was income which they were receiving not on behalf of themselves as executors for application in the due administration of the estate.	None
16.	None
Viscount Finlay observed as follows It appears to me that the present case is really decided by the decision of this House in Lord Sudeleys case (1897) A.C. 11.	None
It was pointed out in that case that the legatee of a share in a residue has no interest in any of the property of the testator until the residue has been ascertained.	None
His right is to have the estate property administered and applied for his benefit when the administration is complete.	None
The income from which this Incometax was deducted was not the income of the charity.	None
It was the income of the executors.	None
They were, of course, bound to apply it in due course of administration, but they were not trustees of any part of it for the charity.	None
There had been no creation of a trust in favour of the charity in respect of this income, it was never paid over to the charity as income.	None
What was ultimately paid over on the close of the administration was the share of the whole estate, consisting of capital and accumulated income, which fell to the charity.	None
The executors, not the charity, were the recipients of this income, and there is no relation back in the case of the bequest of a residue.	None
If no right of deduction at the source had existed it is the executors and the executors only who could have been made liable for the tax.17.	None
Viscount Cave put the point thus When the personal estate of a testator has been fully administered by his executors and the net residue ascertained, the residuary legatee is entitled to have the residue as so ascertained, with any accrued income, transferred and paid to him but until that time he has no property in any specific investment forming part of the estate or in the income from any such investment, and both corpus and income are the property of the executors, and are applicable by them as a mixed fund for the purposes of administration.	None
This was fully explained in (1897) A.C. JJ.18.	None
Subsequent cases such as the Maria Celeste Samaritan Society of the London Hospital v. Commissioner of Inland Reveune, (1927) 11 Tax Cas 226 and Corbett v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1937) 21 Tax Cas 449, have taken the same view.	None
In the latter case, the decision in Dr. Barnardos case was hold to have laid down a general proposition applicable to all cases of residue which is being ascertained and which cannot be ascertained until the administration is complete.19.	None
Mr. Sastri relied on IN re CunliffeOwen Moutain v. Inland Revenue Commissioner, 19531 Ch 546, but, in our opinion, the Court of Appeal has not taken any different view.	None
The Court of Appeal was concerned with the interpretation of S. 27(1) of the Finance Act, 1949, whereby legacy duty was not payable in certain events.	None
It examined the nature of the title of a residuary legatee, and held thatthe title of a residuary legatee to a residuary estate remains the same both before and after the completion of the administration, notwithstanding that it is not until it is complete that he can say that any particular asset or any particular income is his, and not merely part of the general estate of the testator.	None
It repelled the argument that pending final administration a residuary legatee has only an expectancy, in the eye of law.	None
But this conclusion does not lead to the next step that an executor or administration receives the income on behalf of the residuary legatee.20.	Reasoning
In 195018 ITR 787 (AIR 1950 Mad 790 ), the Madras High Court held that S. 41 of the Act had no application where the administration of the estate had not been completed by the executors.21.	Reasoning
The High Court in this case had repelled the argument on behalf of the Revenue that the AdministratorGeneral did not come within the purview of S. 41 of the Act on the ground that the AdministrationGeneral when appointed by the Court is expressly covered by the section and it cannot be said that because he has the powers of an executor, he must be treated differently.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the fact that the Administratorgeneral is expressly mentioned in S. 41 does not conclude the matter.	Reasoning
The section prescribes another condition and that is that the income must be received by him up behalf of a person or persons.	Reasoning
This condition must be fulfilled before S.41 becomes applicable.	Reasoning
The position of an AdministratorGeneral appointed de bonis non is in no way different from that of an executor visavis the income he receives from the estate.22.	Reasoning
Accordingly, we hold that S. 41 of the Act is not applicable in the present case as the appellant received the income on his behalf and not on behalf of the five sons of the deceased Raja.	Decision
In view of the above, the answers to the two questions set out in the beginning of the judgment must be in the affirmative.	Decision
The appeals are, therefore, dismissed with costs.	Decision
One set of hearing fee.23.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
