 Krishna Iyer, J.1.	None
An intricate point of Hindu Law bearing on an adoption by a widow and its impact on an earlier partition in the coparcenary all prior to the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 arise for decision in this appeal by certificate against the decree of the Mysore (now Karnataka) High Court.	Issue
The plaintiff succeeded in both the Courts and the aggrieved second defendant who is the appellant before us has confined his challenge to two major contentions, although a few minor matters also require our attention in working out the ultimate relief.2.	Issue
Now the facts A small family of Gowd Saraswat Brahmins of Belgaum had, as its head, one Mahadev and as coparceners his two sons Gajanand (Defendant No. 1) and Kashi Nath, who died in 1921 leaving behind a widow, Rakhama Bai (Defendant No. 3) and a daughter Lilavati.	Facts
The plaintiff is Lilavatis son, i.e. the daughters son of late Kashi Nath.	Facts
Gajanand, the first defendant had an only son, Shripad the second defendant.	Facts
Long years after the demise of her husband the third defendant adopted the palintiff on Feb. 16, 1956.	Facts
In the considerable interval that elapsed, a partition took place in the family on April 24, 1944 between the then two living coparcencers, namely, Mahadev and the first defendant.	Facts
The former passed away in 1946 but before his death he gifted his entire share in the joint family derived under the partition of 1944 to the second defendant.	Facts
For completeness sake it must be mentioned that at the partition in 1944, an allotment for the resident and maintenance of the third defendant had been made.	Facts
The second defendant, the donee from Mahadev, alienated some of those properties but the alienees are not parties to the present appeal although they were defendants to the litigation.	Facts
The adopted son, i.e., the plaintiff, filed the present suit on April 20, 1956 ignoring the partition of 1944 and praying for fresh partition by metes and bounds of his half share.	Facts
His case was that the gift was invalid like the partition and that he was entitled to an equal share with the first defendant together with profits attributable to his share.	Facts
The contesting defendant was the second defendant who challenged the factum and validity of the adoption and also the right of the adopted son to reopen the partition or impugned the gift effected prior to the adoption.	Facts
Other contentions had been raised which need not be noticed now.3.	Facts
The Trial Court granted a decree more or less as prayed for upholding the factum and validity of the adoption and the right of the plaintiff to reopen the partition and ignore the gift.	Facts
The decree declared that the plaintiff was entitled to 1/3rd share, the first defendant to a 1/6th share, the second defendant to a half share, and so on.	Facts
Profits that fell to the share of the plaintiff were also decreed.	Facts
The liability of defendants 1 and 2 to pay maintenance to the third defendant under the partition deed of 1944 was to cease from the date of the suit.	Facts
The High Court in appeal upheld the adoption and the right of the palintiff to reopen the partition.	Facts
Certain minor modifications were made which will be referred to, to the extent necessary, later.4.	Facts
Shri Gupte, appearing for the appellant (second defendant), has taken us through the evidence regarding the custom of adopting the daughters son by the widow, and argued that as a source of law  undoubtedly, custom is a source of Hindu law  there was no sufficient material to hold on the trinue aspects of antiquity, adequacy and continuity.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that the adoption was, therefore, invalid even though there was concurrence in the conclusion of the courts below.	Arguments of Petitioner
He did not seriously argue on the factum of the adoption, and even otherwise this is a finding of a fact rendered by the courts below which we are not disposed to reexamine.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the first respondent, Shri Javali, took us through the High Courts discussion of the evidence bearing on custom and we are satisfied that there is ample justification for the finding reached that the adoption of the plaintiff is true and valid, both from the angles of custom and factum.6.	Arguments of Respondent
It is established law that the adoption by a widow relates back to the date of the death of the adoptive father, which, in this case, took place in 1921.	Reasoning
Indeed the complexity of the present case arises from the application of this legal fiction of relation back and the limitations on the amplitude of that fiction visavis the partition of 1944, in the light of the rulings of the various High Courts and of the Judical Committee of the Privy Council, and of this Court, the last of which is Govind v. Nagappa (1972)	Reasoning
3 SCR 200 (AIR 1972 SC 1401).	None
According to the appellant, the rights of the adopted son, armed as he is with the theory of relationback, have to be effectuated retroactively, the guidelines wherefore are available from the decided cases.	None
It is no doubt true that when a member of a joint family governed by Mitakshara law dies and the widow validly adopts a son to him, a coparcenary interest in the joint property is immediately created by the adoption coextensive with that which the deceased coparcener had, and it vests at once in the adopted son.	None
(See Mulla on Hindu Law, 13th edn.	None
Page 516).	None
The same author, however, points out that the rights of an adopted son arise for the first time on his adoption.	None
He may, by virtue of his rights as adopted son, divest other persons in whom the property vested after the death of the adoptive father but all lawful alienations made by previous holders would be binding on him.	None
His right to impeach previous alienations would depend upon the capacity of the holder who made the alienation as well as on the nature of the action of alienation.	None
When the holder was a male, who had unfettered right of transfer, e. g., the last surviving member of a joint family, the adopted son could not impeach the transfer.	None
In case of females who had restricted rights of transfer even apart from any adoption, the transfer would be valid only when they are supported by legal necessity.	None
(ibid pp.	None
516517 para 507).	None
An adopted son is bound by alienations made by his adoptive father prior to the adoption to the same extent as a naturalborn son would be.	None
(ibid p. 517	None
para 508).7.	None
It is settled law that the rights of an adopted son spring into existence only from the moment of the adoption and all alienations made by the widow before the adoption, if they are made for legal necessity or otherwise lawfully, such as with the consent of the next reversioners, are binding on the adopted son.	Reasoning
The narrow but important question that arises here is as to whether the adoption made in 1956 can upset the partition of 1944, validly made under the then conditions, and whether the gift by Mahadev of properties exclusively set apart to him and, therefore alienable by him, could be retroactively invalidated by the plaintiff on the application of the legal fiction of relationback.	Reasoning
It is unlikely that a similar question will arise hereafter since Section 4 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 has practically swept off texts, rules and the like in Hindu Law, which were part of the law in force immediately before the commencement of the Act, till provisions have been made for such matters in the Act.	Reasoning
Since on the husbands death the widow takes an absolute estate, questions of the type which engage us in this appeal will be stilled for ever.	Reasoning
Of course we need not investigate this aspect of the matter as the present case relates to a prestatutory adoption.	Reasoning
Even Section 12 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956, makes it plain that an adopted child shall be deemed to be the child of his or her adoptive father or mother for all purposes with effect from the date of the adoption.8.	Reasoning
We may now proceed to consider the contention of Mr. Gupte that the adopted son cannot challenge the partition and the gift.9.	None
The plaintiff, as the adopted son, for secular and spiritual purposes continues the line of the adoptive father and when the widow adopts, the doctrine of relationback makes sonship retroactive from the moment of death of the late husband.	None
The new entrant is deemed to have been born on the date of the death of the adoptive father.	None
Supposing there was an undivided family in existence when the adoptive father died how far can the legal fiction of anterior sonship disrupt the doings between notional birth and actual adoption?	None
Mulla sums up the result of the rulings thus (p. 496).If, therefore, there was a coparcenary in existence when the adoptive father died, then whether it came to an end by the death of the last surviving coparcener or by subsequent partition among the remaining members, an adoption validly made by the widow of the deceased coparcener would have the effect of divesting the estate in the hands of the heir to the last surviving coparcener in the first case and of putting an end to the partition in the second and enabling the adopted son to claim a share in the family properties as if they were still joint.10.	None
This means that at the partition of 1944 although as a physical fact only Mahadev and Defendant No. 1 were alive, the plaintiff must be deemed to have been alive.	None
The division had denied a share to him while he was eligible, in the eye of law, to a share.	None
There were thus three coparceners and the plaintiff was entitled to a third out of the estate of the joint family as it then existed.	None
Illustration (a) at page 497 of Mulla, based on Surendra Nandan (1891)	None
ILR 18 Cal 385 is apt and readsA and B are undivided brothers governed by the Mitakshara law.	None
A dies leaving authority to his widow to adopt a son to him.	None
On As death his undivided half share in the coparcenary property passes to B, the surviving coparcener.	None
While B is still alive, As widow adopts a son to A. The effect of the adoption is that a coparcenary interest is created in the joint property coextensive with that which A has in the property (that is, onehalf) and it vests in the adopted son.	None
The plaintiffs claim for a share is thus wellfounded  not half, which is tall but onethird which fits the fiction as in 1944.11.	None
Two crucial questions then arise.	Issue
Onethird share out of what?	Issue
Should the gift by Mahadev of what was under the then circumstances his exclusive property be ignored in working out the onethird share?	None
Two principles compete in this jurisdiction and judges have struck a fair balance between the two, animated by a sense of realism, impelled by desire to do equity and to avoid unsettling vested rights and concluded transactions, lest a legal fiction should by invading actual facts of life become an instrumentality or instability.	None
Law and order are jurisprudential twins and this perspective has inarticulately informed judicial pronouncements in this branch of Hindu Law.	Reasoning
In short, the principle of relating the birth of the adopted son to the last day of the adoptive fathers life is put in peaceful coexistence with recognition of rights lawfully vested on the basis of the realities then existing.	Reasoning
The law frowns on divesting vested rights and keeping in cold storage or suspended animation normal legal events like competent transfers and collateral succession, except when compelled by jural mandate.	Reasoning
So viewed, the partition of 1944 was valid so also the gift of his exclusive share by Mahadev, Defendant No. 1 to Shripad, Defendant No. 2.	Reasoning
The plaintiff could reopen the partition only to the limited extent rights flowing from these two facts viz., disruption of jointness and alienation by one share permitted.	Reasoning
Nor is law inhuman or inequitable or abstract, its essence being social engineering.	Reasoning
Therefore, the humane endeavour to work out equities in a given case has engaged the conscience of judges in the reported rulings.	Reasoning
Here, the circumstances that the whole share of Mahadev has gone out of the corpus of the coparcenary on account of the gift inflicts an injustice on the plaintiff if he is to get only onethird of the properties which were allotted to Gajanan whose branch still remained intact equally unjust it would be on Gajanan if out of his allotment the plaintiff were to slice off what is equal to onehalf of the total assets as at the time of partition in 1944 merely because of the misfortune that he had still kept it as the asset of his branch at the time of the adoption.	Reasoning
Equitable considerations would suggest a modification.	Reasoning
When the adoption was made there were only two coparceners and the corpus available only to Gajanans properties.	Reasoning
So a half share out of those items may be fair, in the totality of circumstances.	Reasoning
Maintenance to the mother and profits due to the plaintiff are minor matters and will be gone into last.12.	Reasoning
The broad approach made and the general conclusions reached above do fit into the conspectus of judge made law, as we will presently discuss.	None
May be, a flashback method of reference to the caselaw will be more effective, and that way the recent decision in Govind v. Nagappa, (1972) 3	None
SCR 200 (AIR 1972 SC 1401 ) clears the ground a great deal.	None
Hegde, J., speaking for the Court, drew the lines clearly in the situation of confrontation between the fiction of relationback and the fact of partition, in a way analogous to our case.	None
In asking for a share the adopted son could over look the prior division but in pushing the fiction to its plenary extreme of nullifying the partition so as to reunite a divided family the Court cried halt.	None
The learned Judge observedIt is true that by a fiction of law  well settled by decided cases  that an adopted son is deemed to have been adopted on the date of the death of his adoptive father.	None
He is the continuator of his adoptive fathers line exactly as an aurasa son and an adoption so far as the continuity of the line is concerned, has a retrospective effect Consequently he is deemed to have been a coparcener in his adoptive fathers family when Krishna Rao and Lakshmana Rao partitioned the properties.	None
The partition having been effected without his consent, it is not binding on him.	None
But from this it does not follow that Krishna Rao and Lakshmana Rao did not separate from the family at the time of the partition.	None
It was open to Krishan Rao and Lakshmana Rao to separate themselves from the family.	None
Once they did separate, the appellant and his adoptive mother alone must be deemed to have continued as the members of	None
the familyWhen	None
the partition took place in 1933, the appellant even if he was a coparcener on that day could have only got 1/3rd share.	None
We fail to see how his position can be said to have improved merely because he was adopted subsequent to the date of partition.	None
It is true that because he was not a party to the partition, he is entitled to ask for reopening of the partition and have his share worked out without reference to that partition The doctrine of relation back is only a legal fiction.	None
There is no justification to logically extend that fiction.	None
In fact the plaintiff had nothing to do with his adoptive fathers family when Krishna Rao died The devolution of Krishna Raos property must be held to have taken place at the very moment Krishna Rao died.	None
We know of no legal fiction under which it can be said to have been in a suspended animation till the plaintiff was adopted We see no basis for the contention of the appellant that he can ignore the events that took place in 1933.	None
He can no doubt ignore the actual partition by metes and bounds effected by Krishna Rao and Lakshmana Rao and ask for a repartition of the properties but his adoption by itself does not and cannot reunite the divided family.	None
It is one thing to say that an adopted son can ignore a partition effected prior to his adoption, which affects his rights and it is a different thing to say that his adoption wipes out the division of status that had taken place in his familyFurther the interest of the society is not advanced by engrafting one more fiction to the already existing fiction that an adopted son is deemed to have been born on the date of death of his adoptive father.	None
Acceptance of the new fiction canvassed on behalf of the plaintiff is bound to create various complications.	None
Hindu widows in the past were proverbially long lived because of the child marriage system.	None
Adoptions might take place and have taken place more than half a century after the death of the adoptive father.	None
Meanwhile the other coparceners might have dealt with the family property on the basis of the then existing rights.	None
They might have alienated the property.	None
We see no justification to create chaos by inventing a new fiction unknown to Hindu law texts nor authorised by stare decisis But where the succession to the property of a person other than the adoptive father is involved, the principle applicable is not the rule of relation back but the rule that inheritance once vested cannot be divested.13.	None
By parity of reasoning we have to give the plaintiff a onethird share, which alone even an aurasa son of late Kashinath would have got stirpitally.	Reasoning
To undo the divided status and continue the coparcenary till the date of the suit so as to award a half share to the plaintiff as representing one of the two surviving branches would be legal fiction run riot.	Reasoning
Neither principle nor precedent compels that course.14.	Reasoning
We now sail into still more troubled waters.	Reasoning
Where is this share to come from?	Reasoning
From the coparcenary property, less what has legitimately gone out of it.	Reasoning
If the widow of a deceased coparcener had alienated for binding necessity, such property has to be excluded  although a strict projection of the fiction would mean that the adopted son was alive at the time succession opened and the widow could not have the right to even a limited estate and a fortiori could not competently alienate for necessity or otherwise.	Reasoning
Liberties with the legal fiction have been taken in this and other aspects of the relation back theory.	Reasoning
If a property has validly gone out of the hotchpotch the adopted son cannot recall it.	Reasoning
The fact of partition cannot be drowned by the subsequent adoption because when it was entered into there was no legal impediment in doing it.	Reasoning
Likewise, if a manager or widow alienates for binding necessity the constructive antedated nativity of the adopted son cannot nullify what has taken place before he in actuality entered the coparcenary.	Reasoning
By the same token, a sole surviving coparcener (except perhaps in the Banaras School where unlike in other schools he has no independent power of transferring his share) may dispose of the estate before adoption by a deceased coparceners widow and that act defeats the claim of a later adoptee.	Reasoning
Such is the inexorable operation of time and circumstance on long later adoptions and their proprietary failout.	Reasoning
You cannot put the clock back beyond a certain stage.	None
We may express the view that some observations, clearly obiter, in P. Ammal v. Ramalingam, (1970) 3 SCR 894 (AIR 1970 SC 1730 ) relied on by Shri Javali for the 1st respondent are wider than justified.	None
Legal fictions have legal frontiers.	None
In Srinivas v. Narayan Devji, (1955) 1	None
SCR 1 ,17, 2425 (AIR 1954 SC 379 ), Venkatarama Iyer, J., after referring to the relevant books and cases, cautioned against the application of the defeasance right of the adopted son to cases of collateral succession opening before adoption.	None
The law was thus well settled that when succession to the properties of a person other than an adoptive father was involed, the principle applicable was not the rule of relation back but the rule that inheritance once vested could not be divested.	None
The learned Judge, expressing some dissent from Anant Bhikappa v. Shankar Ramchandra, 70 Ind App 232 (AIR 1943 PC 196 ) stated the proposition thusWhen an adoption is made by a widow of either a coparcener or a separated member, then the right of the adopted son to claim properties as on the date of the death of the adoptive father by reason of the theory of relation back is subject to the limitations that alienations made prior to the date of adoption are binding on him, if they were for purposes binding on the estate.	None
Thus, transferees from limited owners, whether they be widows or coparceners in a joint family, are amply protected.	None
But no such safeguard exists in respect of property inherited from a collateral, because if the adopted son is entitled on the theory of relation back to divest that property, the position of the mesne holder would be that of an owner possessing a title defeasible on adoption, and the result of such adoption must be to extinguish that title and that of all persons claiming under him.	None
The alienees from him would have no protection, as there could be no question of supporting the alienations on the ground of necessity or benefit.	None
And if the adoption takes place long after the succession to the collateral had opened  in this case it was 41 years thereafter  and the property might have meanwhile changed hands several times, the title of the purchasers would be liable to be disturbed quite a long time after the alienations.	None
We must hesitate to subscribe to a view of the law which leads to consequences so inconvenient.	None
The claim of the appellant to divest a vested estate rests on a legal fiction, and legal fictions should not be extended so as to lead to unjust results.15.	None
This Court, in Krishna Murthis case, (1962) 2 SCR 813 (AIR 1962 SC 59 ) also considered the amplitude of and embankments on the relation back stream of adoption by a widow.	None
But there one basic fact deserves attention.	None
The adopted sons claim was as heir to his grandfather whose property devolved, on death, on his daughters, the adoptive father having died long before the grandfather and the adoption having taken place long after the grandfathers death.	None
The Court took the view that the daughters who took as heirs did so on a defeasible title.	None
For one thing, there was no coparcener alive and no joint family  either as a whole or even a branch thereof  at the time of the adoption and the adopted son displaced those who got title only in the absence of a son.	None
Secondly, inheritance stands on a different footing from alienation  or at any rate, the erosion of the relation back doctrine has not affected claiming back from direct heirs.	None
(The adopted sons claim to divest collateral heirs has been negatived in Srinivasa (1955) 1	None
SCR 1 (AIR 1954 SC 379 )	None
Krishnamurthis crucial ratio, giving it full scope, is that property inherited absolutely but subject ot defeasance, fails when the divesting event occurs, and the character of the property does not change from coparcenary property to selfacquired property so long as the possibility of defeasance by a widow of the last coparcener by adding a member by adoption, exists.	None
In the present case, by parity of reasoning, the properties which came to Gajanans share (Defendant No. 1) must remain vulnerable to the claims of the potential coparcener projected into the family by the widows adoption.	None
But this case does not deal with and cannot govern valid alienations which have effectually changed its character as family property.	None
In Bhimji Krishna Rao v. Hanumantrao, 52	None
Bom LR 290 (AIR 1950 Bom 271 ) Chagla, C. J., speaking for himself, and Gajendragadkar, J., (as he then was) affirmed this position.	None
We may usefully extract the headnote hereA joint Hindu family consisted of the sole surviving coparcener and the widow of a deceased coparcener.	None
The surviving coparcencer made alienations of portions of the family property.	None
Subsequently, the widow adopted a son.	None
The son having sued to set aside the alienationsHeld, that at the dates of the alienations the coparcener had full right to treat the family property as if it, was his own property, and that the adoption which was subsequent to the alienations could not affect the property which was already disposed of by the coparcener as a person who acted as the full owner of the property.	None
In considering whether a particular alienation made of joint family property prior to the date of adoption is or is not a lawful alienation, the alienation must be lawful, not in relation to the rights of the adopted son, but it must be lawful at the date when the alienation was made.	None
If it is lawful, it cannot be questioned or challenged by the adopted son whose adoption is subsequent to the alienationThe Court relied on the observations of the Privy Council in Krishnamurthi Ayyar v. Krishnamurthi Ayyar, 54 Ind App 248 (AIR 1927 PC 139 ) and quoted the following passage which illumines the principleWhen a disposition is made inter vivos by one who has full power over property under which a portion of that property is carried away, it is clear that no rights of a son who is subsequently adopted can affect that portion which is disposed of.	None
The same is true when the disposition is by will and the adoption is subsequently made by a widow who has been given power to adopt.	None
For the will speaks as at the death of the testator, and the property is carried away before the adoption takes place,Thus, alienations by a sole coparcener or testamentary dispositions by him are beyond assail by a subsequently adopted son.	None
This proposition was affirmed in a slightly later decision by the same strong bench in N. R. Bijoor v. Padmanabh.	None
ILR (1950)	None
Bom 480 (AIR 1950 Bom 319 ).	None
The headnote sufficiently sums up the law thusThe doctrine of relation back under which a son adopted by a Hindu widow is deemed to have been in existence in the adoptive family at the death of the adoptive father cannot be accepted in its entirety.	None
It is a doctrine with certain definite limitations and exceptions, and one of the important limitations and exceptions is that the adopted son is bound by all the lawful alienations made by his adoptive father if he was the sloe surviving coparcener of a joint family.	None
In this behalf there is no difference in principle between an alienation inter vivos and a disposition made by a will.16.	None
A Full Bench of the Bombay High Court had occasion to touch on a similar issue arising before us although the case was eventually decided on the equities of the situation.	None
We may extract the observations in this case (Krishtappa v. Gopal) AIR 1957	None
Bom 214 , 215 (FB) as, in a way, they reinforce our viewIt is possible to take the view that the position of the members of the divided family is in law the same as that of a sole surviving coparcener.	None
Just as the sole surviving coparcener has every right and authority to dispose of the property as if it was of his absolute ownership, so also after partition the members of the erstwhile coparcenary have equally the right of disposing of the share which came to them on partition as if it was their property.	None
Dealing with a fair working out of rights the Court made observations relevant for us at a later stage of this case.	None
Chagla, C. J., observed in that contextWhenever a partition is reopened, shares must be allocated on a fair and equitable principle, and what was upper most in the minds of these two learned Judges was that, in giving to the adopted son his proper share, no injustice should be done to any coparcener and the adopted son should get his own fair share As Mr. Justice Bavdekar himself observes in the judgment at page 257	None
It is really a question of equity and if the judgment proceeds on a question of equity, we entirely agree with the two learned Judges that equity could only be done provided the basis adopted is the basis suggested by these two learned Judges in their judgment.	None
We, therefore, do not look upon this judgment as in any way impairing the principle which was laid down by this Court in 52 Bom LR 290 (AIR 1950 Bom 271 ).	None
This is not a case of interfering with the right of a divided coparcener to deal with his share as his own nor is this a case of impairing the principle accepted by this Court over a long period that an adopted son is bound by all lawful alienations made prior to the adoption.	None
But we look upon this case as a simple case of doing equities on the reopening of a partition in order that the property should be redivided on a fair and equitable basis.17.	None
Shri Javali pressed before us that Balajis case 47 Bom LR 121 (AIR 1945	None
Bom 229 FB) was a closer parallel to our case, forgetting that as Chagla, C. J., explained in Bhimji, 52 Bom LR 290 (AIR 1950 Bom 271 ) that Lokur, J., decided that case on the footing that a partition was not an alienation and the conclusion would have been different had he treated a partition as a transfer.	None
But now, this Court has laid down that a postpartition adoption cannot reunite the family even though it may not deprive him of a share so long as some coparcenary property existed.	None
The Full Bench case in Sankaralingam Pillai v. Velu Chami Pillai, ILR (1943) Mad 309 (AIR 1943 Mad 43 (FB)) also does not militate against the Bombay view.	None
Leach, C. J., in the course of the judgment, observedIf the law recognises in an adopted son of a deceased coparcener the right to share in the estate as it existed before the partition, propertywhich has not been lawfully alienated in the meantimeis still within his reach.(emphasis supplied).Mysore also has fallen in line with this strand of thought.	None
In Somasekharappa v. Basappa Channabasappa, (1960) 38	None
Mys LJ 687 (AIR 1961 Mys 141) a Bench of that Court laid down the law condensed in the headnote thusA son adopted by a widow of a deceased coparcenr cannot claim the joint family property in the hand of a transferee from the heir of the last surviving coparcener, even though the transfer took place before the adoption.	None
The doctrine of relation back will not extend to a case where a transfer has already been made either by the sole surviving coparcener or by his heir.	None
The principle is that when a disposition is made inter vivos by one who has full power over property under which a portion of that property is carried away, no rights of a son who is subsequently adopted can affect that portion which is disposed of.	None
True the decision under appeal before us also is from Mysore and takes the opposite view.18.	None
We reach the end of the journey of precedents, ignoring as inessential other citations.	Reasoning
The balance sheet is clear.	Reasoning
The propositions that emerge are that i)	Reasoning
A widows adoption cannot be stultified by an anterior partition of the joint family and the adopted son can claim a share as if he were begotten and alive when the adoptive father breathed his last ii)	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the factum of partition is not wiped out by the later adoption iii) Any disposition testamentary or inter vivos, lawfully made antecedent to the adoption is immune to challenge by the adopted son iv) lawful alienation, in this context, means not necessarily for a family necessity but alienation made competently in accordance with law v) A widows power of alienation is limited and if  and only if  the conditions set by the Hindu Law are fulfilled will the alienation bind a subsequently adopted son.	Reasoning
So also alienation by the Karta of an undivided Hindu family or transfer by a coparcener governed by the Banaras school vi) Once partitioned validly, the share of a member of a Mitakshara Hindu family in which his own issue has no right by birth can be transferred by him at his will and such transfers, be they by will, gift or sale, bind the adopted son who comes later on the scene.	Reasoning
Of course, the position of a void or voidable transfer by such a sharer may stand on a separate footing but we need not investigate it here.19.	Reasoning
Applying the above formulations to the present facts, the conclusion is clear.	Reasoning
The plaintiff will be eligible to get onethird of the available joint family property.	Reasoning
In computing net property the gift by Mahadev to the 2nd defendant has to be excluded.	Reasoning
But the allotment for maintenance of the 3rd defendant will have to be ignored, brought into the corpus and, in the division by metes and bounds allotted to the share of the plaintiff.20.	Reasoning
One more problem, rather ticklish, remains  the equitable effectuation of the partition.	Reasoning
The Full Bench decision of the Bombay High Court in Krishtappa, AIR 1957	Reasoning
Bom 214 (FB) emphasized that the adopted sons right, arising long after other proprietary events, should be worked out not rigidly but justly.	Reasoning
Chagla, C. J., laid down the guidelines already extracted while dealing with the case earlier.	Reasoning
We agree with this sensitive approach and proceed to adopt it here.	Reasoning
The plaintiff has to be given his onethird share as in 1944, when the partition took place.	Reasoning
Assuming that the entire estate was then worth 3 lakhs, the adopted son would have got a lakh of rupees, say.	Reasoning
But Mahadevs share has been entirely gifted away and must be ignored.	Reasoning
Which means that the plaintiffs onethird share valued at one lakh will have to come out of Gajanans properties which, on our arithmetical assumption, would be onehalf of three lakhs, i. e. 11/2 lakhs.	Reasoning
It would be unfair to deprive Gajanan of a lions share out of his allotment merely because, before adoption, he had not parted with his properties.	Reasoning
It would be eminently just to make the first defendant bear only onehalf the burden cast by the notional reentry of the plaintiff into the coparcenary and we direct a division into two equal shares of such of the properties which fell to the first defendants share in the 1944 partition as were with the first defendant at the date of adoption, and award one share to the plaintiff.	Reasoning
The justice and equity of the situation, not any inflexible legal principle, prompts this course.	Reasoning
We confess that the prestatutory law of adoption, in its conflict between fiction and fact, has had zigzag course in Courts and we have read the diverse dicta imbued by the Holmseian thought that the life of the law is not logic but experience.21.	Reasoning
We are informed that the first defendant is now no more and rival claims to his inheritance are being agitated in some other litigation.	Decision
We do not take note if it in this decree.	Decision
Nor do we think it necessary to direct inter se partition between the first and the second defendants as was done in the courts below.	Decision
In substantial allowance of the appeal, we direct that a decree be passed a) allowing the plaintiff a half share out of such of the properties allotted to the original first defendant under the 1944 partition as were with the first defendant at the date of adoption, including among the items to be divided the item set apart for the maintenance of defendant No. 3 b) directing profits to be paid to the plaintiff on the basis of the onehalf share of the divisible assets and c) directing the cessation of maintenance to be payable by the first defendants branch to the 3rd defendant.	Decision
Parties to bear their costs throughout.22.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
