 G. Balakrishnan, J. These appeals are filed against the acquittal of 7 persons by the High Court of Bombay reversing the conviction passed by the Sessions Court, Panaji, Altogether, 14 accused were tried by the Sessions Judge and out of them six were found guilty of the offences punishable under Sections 143, 147, 148, 452, 325 and 304 Part II read with Section 49 IPC.	Issue
A7 Arthur Viegas was found guilty for offences under Sections 143, 147, 148, 452 325 read with Section 149 IPC.	Issue
In February, 1987, the employees of Madras Rubber Factory (hereinafter being referred to as MRF) at Ponda in Goa went on strike and the accused persons were members of that striking group of employees.	Facts
The management of the MRF recruited some new persons as employees and in order to give them training, some senior supervisors working in the factory of MRF at Chennai were brought to Goa and these persons were given accommodation by the company at its guest house Vailankani situated at Miramar.	Facts
They were staying in flats which formed part of the guest house.	Facts
According to prosecution, on 13.3.1987, at about 9.15 p.m., the accused persons came there with lathies, rods and chains and attacked the supervisors and had come from Chennai.	Facts
Some of the accused attacked one Venugopal with iron rods and lathies.	Facts
They also assaulted D. Gopalakrishnan and Danial.	Facts
When these persons called out for help, the accused persons left the place immediately.3.	Facts
PW10 E.M. Mathai, General Manager of MRF at Ponda, was informed of the incident and he came to the Vailankani guest house.	Facts
The injured were shifted to GMC Hospital.	Facts
Injured Venugopal was in serious condition and he was shifted to Vaidya Hospital at Panaji where he died on 25.3.1997.	Facts
The police filed the chargesheet against the accused persons.	Facts
The Sessions Judge found the accused guilty as aforestated and he was of the opinion that the accused were properly identified by the injured persons who were examined as prosecution witnesses.	Facts
The High Court reversed this finding on the ground that the witnesses including the injured witnesses had no previous acquaintance with the accused persons and their identification was extremely doubtful.	Facts
This finding is challenged before us.4.	Facts
The Sessions Court held that the injured persons who were examined as eyewitnesses had an occasion to see the accused persons who were also the members of the striking employees and were often seen sitting near the security gate of the factory shouting slogans.	Facts
The witnesses who had been going to the factory had an opportunity to see them and in that way all the accused had been identified properly by the witnesses.	Facts
PW 6 Gopal Krishnan, PW7 Danial Thomas and PW8 C. Ravindranath are the witnesses who were examined to prove the incident.	Facts
These witnesses deposed that they had been working at the MRF factory situated at Ponda for about 25 days.	Facts
PW5 William Johnson is one of the eyewitnesses who deposed that the Police Officer showed him several photographs in an album with the names of the persons written underneath and he immediately identified accused A3 Gokuldas Babi Gaonkar and A12 Cypriano DCosta.	Facts
The learned counsel for the respondentsaccused submitted that the eyewitnesses were questioned by the Police Officer with an album and the photographs were shown to them and at that time.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 161 statements were recorded.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents learned Counsel relied on the statement of PW10 E.M. Mathai, General Manager who deposed that the Police Officer wanted the photographs of the employees and he had been given instruction to give it on the same day and	Arguments of Respondent
PW 13 Investigating Officer, who registered the complaint made by PW10 E.M. Mathai, General Manager deposed that PW10 General Manager had supplied the photographs of the striking workers of the MRF on 14.3.1987 itself and that he had shown the photographs to the witnesses while recording their statements.	Arguments of Respondent
Admittedly, no identification parade was conducted in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel for the appellant vehemently contended that showing of photographs to the witnesses for the purpose of identification is permissible under law.	Arguments of Petitioner
He even drew our attention to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, 1984 which is in force in England and submitted that the provisions of the said statute permit the showing of photographs to the witnesses for the purpose of identification and there is nothing in law which prohibits such action being taken by the Investigating Officer.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case, the witnesses had not described the physical features of the accused or any identifying characteristics as to how they identified the assailants.	None
To such a witness, showing of photograph would only lead the investigating officer to make the wrong conclusion regarding the identification.	None
Even under the provisions of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, 1984 which is prevalent in England the photographs could be shown to the witnesses only under certain specified conditions.	None
Annexure E of the Act are the guidelines and it says that before showing the photographs of the suspect, the supervising officer must first confirm that the description of the suspect given by the witness has been recorded, and if the supervising officer is unable to confirm the description, the officer shall postpone the showing of the photographs.	None
The other condition as stated in Annexe E of the statute says that a witness must not be shown photographs or computerized or artists composite or similar likeness or pictures if the identify of the suspect is known to the police and suspect is available to take part in a video identification, an identification parade or group identification.	None
There are no statutory guidelines in the matter of showing photographs to the witnesses during the stage of investigation.	Reasoning
But nevertheless, the police is entitled to show photographs to confirm whether the investigation is going on in the right direction.	Reasoning
But in the instant case, it appears that the investigating officer procured the album containing the photographs with the names written underneath and showed this album to the eyewitnesses and recorded their statements under Section 161 Cr.P.C.	Reasoning
The procedure adopted by the police is not justified under law as it will affect fair and proper investigation and may sometimes lead to a situation where wrong persons are identified as assailants.	Reasoning
During the course of the investigation, if the witness had given the identifying features of the assailants, the same could be confirmed by the investigating officer by showing the photographs of the suspect and the investigating officer shall not first show a single photographs but should show more than one photograph of the same person, if available.	Reasoning
If the suspect is available for identification or for video identification, the photograph shall never be shown to the witness in advance.8.	Reasoning
In the instant case, the High Court held that the witnesses had no occasion to properly identify the assailants as they had no previous acquaintance with them.	Reasoning
The witnesses had been travelling in a vehicle while going to the factory, and if a group of workers were seen by them while travelling, it may not be easier for them to identify them.	Reasoning
It cannot be said that the High Court had made a perverse appreciation of evidence, and the view taken is plausible and this is not a fit case where this Court can interfere with the acquittal passed by the High Court.	Reasoning
The criminal appeals are without any merits and they are dismissed.	Decision
