 Sikri, C.J.1.	None
In this petition under Art.	Issue
32 of the Constitution 17 petitioners complain that they had been discriminated against by the Govt.	Issue
in violation of their fundamental rights under Arts.	Issue
14 and 16 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The relevant facts are these.2.	None
The petitioners are employed with the Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Dehra Dun.	Facts
This Institute is a department of the Government of India, Ministry of Food and Agricultural.	Facts
The petitioners are Research Assistants and fall within Class III of the NonGazetted Technical Posts.	Facts
It is alleged that the qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the post of Research Assistant Grade II are Bachelors Degree in Science (B.Sc.) and B. A. or B.Sc. with Mathematics and knowledge of statistics for computers.3.	Facts
On August 21, 1957 the Government of India set up a Commission of Enquiry, hereinafter referred to as the Second Pay Commission, to enquire into the emoluments and conditions of service of the Central Government employees.	Facts
The terms of reference of the Commission were (i) examine the principles which should govern the structure of emoluments and conditions of service of the Central Government employees(ii) consider and recommend what changes in the structure of emoluments and conditions of service of different classes of Central Government employees are desirable and feasible(iii) recommend, in particular, the extent to which benefits to Central Government employees can be given in the shape of amenities and facilities4.	Facts
In Chapter II of the report, in para 1 it is stated For the purposes of our enquiry we have taken all persons in the civil services of the Central Government or holding civil posts under that Government, and paid out of the Consolidated Fund of India, to be Central Government employees.	Facts
Those in the service of public corporations and other semiautonomous bodies under the Central Government are thus excluded and employees of the Union Territories are included.	Facts
In view, however, of certain practical difficulties to which we refer in a later chapter, and in consultation with the Government we have examined only the principles on which the emoluments of the employees of the Union Territories should be determined, and have not gone into details of pay scales.5.	Facts
The Second Pay Commission submitted its report on August 24, 1959.	Facts
In Chapter XV the report deals with Scientific Staff.	Facts
In Part II of the Chapter dealing with Class III employees in the Scientific Branch, the Commission compiled Table V which deals with 4329 posts.	Facts
59 persons having the scale from Rs. 80220 were referred to in para 36.	Facts
The Commission summed up its recommendations as followsTABLE6.	None
In para 39 the Commission dealt with the remaining 441 posts as follows It should not be difficult to fit in the remaining 441 posts, which are on typical scales, on the scales recommended by us.	Facts
Generall speaking scales carrying a maximum of Rupees 500/ may be repealed by scale (j) those with a maximum of Rs. 300 and above (except in the Department of Atomic Energy) by scale (ii), unless in the case of posts with a maximum of Rs. 400 or Rs. 450 (30 posts in all according to our information) the qualification for recruitment and the nature of duties are such that they can be more appropriately placed on scale (i) scales with a maximum of Rs. 200 or Rs. 250 by scale (iii) and those with a maximum of Rs. 150 and Rs. 130 by scale (iv).	Facts
As regards the posts on the scale of Rs. 100300 for which a university degree is not required, a suitable remuneration may be fixed in the light of our recommendations  after reexamining the question of qualifications for recruitment.7.	Facts
It is the contention of the petitioners that their case was also covered by the recommendations of the Commission.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
On August 2, 1960 the Government issued a notification giving effect to the recommendations of the Pay Commission.	Facts
On June 21, 1962 the Government of India revised the pay scales of the petitioners in the Forest Research Institute and Colleges, Dehra Dun, giving them the revised scales as follows TABLEBut it was stated in the order dated June 21, 1962 that the revision of the pay scales mentioned in column 4 above will take effect from the date of issue of these orders, and that refixation of the pay of the incumbents of these posts will be done under the provisions of the Fundamental Rules only.9.	Facts
The Research staff protested by letter dated October 18, 1962.	Facts
They stated therein that the revised pay scales of similar posts in other similar sister institutions (except F.R.I.) of this Institute under this very Ministry as well as other ministries have been implemented from 1st July, 1959 according to the 2nd Pay Commission recommendations accepted by the Government of India.	Facts
They requested that the benefit of the retrospective date, i.e. July 1, 1959 be given to them in accordance with the recommendations of the Pay Commission.10.	Facts
The Government replied on January 30, 1963 that the revision of pay scales in respect of Research Assistants and Computers at this Institute has been done on the basis of the duties attached to these posts and not on the basis of the recommendations of the Pay Commission.	Facts
In view of this the pay scale of Rs. 150300 now given would have effect from the date of issue of the orders and pay fixation in this case has to be done under F. R. only.11.	Facts
Representation was also made to the President of India.	Facts
Again in their representation to the President of the Forest Research Institute and College, it was requested that the reasons on the basis of which revision with retrospective effect is said to be not possible may be made known to them.	Facts
In his reply dated March 23, 1967 the President replied that the points are being examined and if necessary Ministry will be consulted.12.	Facts
In his letter dated May 16, 1967 the President of the Forest Research Institute and Colleges stated as follows The Government of India to whom a reference on the subject was made again by this office have informed that the posts of Research Assistants Grade II and Computers at Forest Research Institute and Colleges were not specifically included in the list of Scientific Posts mentioned in para 28 of Chapter XV of the 2nd Pay Commissions Report, hence the revised pay scales for these posts could not have retrospective effect from 1759.13.	Facts
In the affidavit, in reply, the same stand is reiterated.	Facts
It is submitted that the posts held by the petitioners were not covered by para 36 of Chapter XV and para 8 of Chapter XVIII of the Report of the Second Pay Commission.	Facts
Reference is only made to para 36 and no reference is made to para 39 of the Report.14.	Facts
Mr. Dhebar on behalf of the Government maintains the same position and he says that the Pay Commission Report did not deal with the case of the petitioners.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept this contention.	Reasoning
The terms of reference are wide, and if any category of government servants was excluded material should have been placed before this Court.	Reasoning
The Pay Commission has clearly stated that for the purposes of their enquiry they had taken all persons in the civil services of the Central Government or holding civil posts under that Government and paid out of the Consolidated Fund of India, to be Central Government employees.	Reasoning
It is not denied by Mr. Dhebar that the petitioners are paid out of the Consolidated Fund of India.15.	None
Mr. Dhebar contends that it was for the Government to accept the recommendations of the Pay Commission and while doing so to determine which categories of employees should be taken to have been included in the terms of reference.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to appreciate this point.	None
Either the Government has made reference in respect of all Government employees or it has not.	Reasoning
But if it has made a reference in respect of all Government employees and it accepts the recommendations it is bound to implement the recommendations in respect of all Government employees.	Reasoning
If it does not implement the report regarding some employees only it commits a breach of Arts.	Reasoning
14 and 16 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
This is what the Government has done as far as these petitioners are concerned.16.	None
The learned counsel next contends that there has been great delay in bringing this petition and we should not exercise our discretion.	Arguments of Respondent
There has been some delay but on the facts of this case we are of the opinion that there has not been undue delay, especially as in his letter dated March 23, 1967 the President, Forest Research Institute and Colleges said that the points were being examined and if necessary the Ministry would be consulted.17.	Reasoning
In the result the petition is allowed and it is directed that the revised pay scales of the petitioners will have effect from July 1, 1959 in accordance with the recommendations of the Pay Commission.	Decision
We further direct that the petitioners should be paid the amount payable to them as a consequence of the revision of the pay scales with effect from July 1959.The petitioners will have the costs of this petition.18.	Decision
Petition allowed.	Decision
