 Hegde, J. 1.	None
These are crossappeals by certificate.	None
They arise from the decision of the Calcutta High Court in a Reference under Section 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
At the instance of the assessee as well as the Commissioner, the Incometax Tribunal B Bench, Calcutta stated a case and submitted as many as five questions to the High Court for obtaining its opinion.	Issue
Some of the questions referred to the High Court have not been pressed before this Court.	Issue
Therefore we shall not refer to them.	Issue
The questions that were pressed before us are (1) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the proceedings under Section 34 (1) (a) have been validly initiated ?	Issue
(2) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, any capital gains within the meaning of Section 12B could be said to arise by the transaction involving transfer of the investments held by the assessee to the Company, admission of the Company as a partner in the assessee firm and issue of shares of the Company to the public and (3) Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was justified in law in computing the capital gains at Rs.	Facts
46,76,784/ ?	None
2.	None
The High Court answered the first question in the affirmative and in favour of the Revenue.	Facts
So far as the second question is concerned, it split the same into two questions viz.	Facts
whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case any capital gains within the meaning of Section 12B could be said to arise by the transaction involving transfer of investments held by the assessee to the Company and whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case any capital gains within the meaning of Section 12B could be said to arise by the admission of the Company as a partner in the assessee firm and issue of shares of the Company to the public ?	Facts
It answered the first part of the question in the affirmative and in favour of the Revenue and the second part in the negative and against the Revenue.	Facts
As regards the 3rd question, the High Court opined that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the capital gains should have been computed at Rs. 27,04,772/. Aggrieved by this decision the Commissioner of Incometax has brought Civil Appeal No. 1452 of 1969 and the assessee has brought Civil Appeal No. 1502 of 1969.	Facts
3.	None
The only contentions urged in the assessees appeal were that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case proceedings under Section 34 (1) (a) have not been validly initiated and to the facts of this case Section 12B is not attracted.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the appeal by the Commissioner, the question for decision is what is the correct amount that has to be brought to tax under Section 12B as capital gains.	None
The Counsel for the Revenue did not contest the conclusion of the High Court that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, no capital gains within the meaning of Section 12B could be said to have arisen by the admission of the Company as a partner of the assessee company and issue of shares of the Company to the Public.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence all that we have to decide in these cases is (1) whether the proceedings initiated under Section 34 (1) (a) are valid, (2) Whether Section 12B is attracted to the facts of the case and (3).	None
If Section 12B is attracted what is the amount of the capital gains made ?	Issue
4.	None
For pronouncing on the questions aboveformulated it is necessary to set out the material facts.	Facts
The assessee is a registered firm which was carrying on business mostly as managing agents of number of companies.	Facts
Till the end of February 1947, the firm consisted of four partners namely (1) A. C. Gladstone (2) S. D. Gladstone (3) T. S. Gladstone and (4) Glendye Limited, each of them having 30 per cent, 39 per cent, 30 per cent and 1 per cent shares respectively in the profits of the firm.	Facts
We are coencerned with the assessment of the assessee firm for the assessment year 194748 for which the previous year was the financial year ended on March 31, 1947.	Facts
5.	None
On February 28, 1947, the assessee firm through its partners entered into an agreement for sale of some of the shares and securities held by it in favour of Gillanders Arbuthnot and Co. (to be hereinafter referred to as the Company) for a sum of Rs. 75 lakhs.	Facts
The shares and securities sold under the document are enumerated at the foot of the document.	Facts
Clause (2) of that agreement provides In consideration of the sum of Rupees Fourteen Lakhs and Ninety thousand the existing partners shall admit the company as a partner in the firm upon and subject to the partnership deed (a drft whereof has been already approved by the existing partners and the company), the shares of the company in the goodwill and in the profits of the Firm being ninetynine per cent, thereof.	Facts
6.	None
The only other clause which is relevant for our present purpose is Clause (3) which reads The said two sums of Rupees Seventyfive lakhs and Rupees Fourteen lakhs and Ninety thousand payable in accordance with Clauses 1 and 2 hereof shall be paid and satisfied as follows (a)	Facts
As to the sum of Rupees Sixtyfour lakhs and Ninety thousand by an allotment to the existing partners or their nominees of sixtyfour thousand and nine hundred Ordinary Shares of rupees one hundred each credited for all purposes as fully paid up.	Facts
(b) As to the sum of Rupees Twentyfive lakhs by an allotment to the existing partners or their nominees of Twentyfive thousand Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares of Rupees one hundred each credited for all purposes as fully paid up.	Facts
7.	None
One other document that came into existence on the same day viz.	Facts
February 28, 1947 is the deed of partnership.	Facts
That day the assessee firm was reconstituted and a new partnership came into existence.	Facts
The new partnership consisted of five partners viz.	Facts
(1) The company (2) A. C. Gladstone (3) S. D. Gladstone (4) T. S. Gladstone and (5) Glendye Limited.	Facts
In this new partnership the Company had 99 per cent.	Facts
share in its profits.	Facts
The remaining four partners had only 1/4th per cent.	Facts
share each in the profits of the new partnership.	Facts
8.	None
Before proceeding further, it is necessary to mention that the Company was previously a Private Ltd. Company.	Facts
In 1946, the Company applied to the Examiner of Capital Issues for permission to convert itself into a Public Ltd. Company and sell its shares at a premium.	Facts
Originally the proposal of the Company was to sell its shares of the face value of Rs. 100/ to the public at a premium of Rs. 145 to Rs. 175/ and its preferential share of the face value of Rs. 100/ at a premium of Rs. 1 to 5.	Facts
The Examiner of Capital Issues did not agree to that proposal.	Facts
Later on after further correspondence, the Examiner of Capital Issues permitted the Company to convert itself into a Public Ltd. Co. and offer its ordinary shares of the face value of Rs. 100/ to the public at a premium not exceeding Rs. 125/ per share and 25,000 Redeemable Cumulative Preference Shares of the face value of Rs.	Facts
100/ each at premium not exceeding Rs. 5/ per share.	None
9.	None
We have earlier noticed that a substantial number of ordinary as well as the preference shares were transferred to the assessee firm at its face value.	Facts
10.	None
The original assessment of the assessee firm for the assessment year 194748 was made on August 28, 1948 on a total income of Rs. 12,90,829/. Thereafter the Incometax Officer initiated proceedings under Section 34 (1) (a) on May 2, 1949 and completed the fresh assessment on January 16, 1956 bringing to charge capital gains determined at Rupees 1,03,16,786/.	Facts
The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
It raised various contentions before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner.	Facts
It is not necessary to refer to those contentions.	Facts
Suffice it to say for our present purpose that it challenged the validity of the initiation of the proceedings under Section 34 (1) (a) and further it contended that there was no capital gain at all.	Facts
On the other hand it claimed that it incurred certain capital loss.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner rejected the contention of the assessee that the proceedings under Section 34 (1) (a) were not validly initiated.	Facts
He came to the conclusion that there were capital gains but he computed the same at Rs. 7,09,124/.	None
On further appeal by the assessee the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the capital gains made by the assessee were only Rs. 46,76,784/. In the Reference mentioned earlier the High Court came to the conclusion that the capital gains made by the assessee were Rs. 27,04,772/. 11.	Facts
The first question that arises for decision is whether Section 34 (1) (a) proceedings were validly initiated by the Incometax Officer.	Issue
That provision says If the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that by reason of the omission or failure on the part of an assessee to make a return of his income under Section 22 for any year or to disclose fully and trully all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax have escaped assessment for that year or have been underassessed, or assessed at too low a rate, or have been made the subject of excessive relief under the Act, or excessive loss or depreciation allowance has been computed 12.	None
In the present case all that we have to see is whether the Incometax Officer had reason to believe that the assessee had not disclosed fully and truly all the material facts necessary for its assessment for the assessment year in question.	Issue
The scope of the expression failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment has been examined by this Court in several decisions.	None
13.	None
The leading case on the subject is Calcutta Discount Co. Ltd. v. Incometax Officer.	None
Companies DistrictI, Calcutta, 41 ITR 191 (AIR 1961 SC 372 ).Therein	None
this Court by majority held that to confer jurisdiction under Section 34 to issue notice in respect of an assessment beyond a period of four years, but within a period of eight years, from the end of the relevant year, two conditions have to be satisfied.	None
The first is that the Incometax Officer must have reason to believe that the income, profits or gains chargeable to incometax had been underassessed the second is that he must have reason to believe that such underassessment had occurred by reason of either (1) omission or failure on the part of the assessee to make a return of his income under Section 22 or (2) omission or failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year.	None
Both these conditions are conditions precedent to be satisfied before the Incometax Officer gets jurisdiction to issue a notice for the assessment or reassessment beyond a period of four years but within a period of eight years from the end of the year in question.	None
This Court further ruled therein that the words omission or failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for that year used in Section 34 postulate a duty on every assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment.	None
What facts are material and necessary for assessment differs from case to case.	None
In every assessment proceeding.	None
the assessing authority would for the purpose of computing and determining proper tax due from an assessee, require to know all the facts which help him in coming to the correct conclusion.	None
From the primary facts in his possession whether on disclosure by the assessee or discovered by him on the basis of the facts disclosed or otherwise, the assessing authority has to draw inferences as regards certain other facts and ultimately from the primary facts and further facts inferred from them the authority has to draw the proper legal inferences ascertain, on a correct interpretation of the taxing enactment, the proper tax leviable.	None
So far as the primary facts are concerned, it is the assessees duty to disclose all of them including particular entries in the accountbooks, particular portions of documents and documents and other evidence which could have been discovered by the assessing authority from the documents and other evidence disclosed.	None
The duty, however, does not extend beyond the full and truthful disclosure of all primary facts.	None
Once all the primary facts are before the assessing authority, it is for him to decide what inferences of facts could be reasonably drawn and what legal inferences have ultimately to be drawn.	None
It was not for anybody else  far less the assessee  to tell the assessing authority what inferences whether of facts or of law should be drawn.	None
If there are in fact some reasonable grounds for the Incometax Officer to believe that there had been any nondisclosure as regards the primary facts which could have a material bearing on the question of underassessment that would be sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Incometax Officer to issue the notice under Section 34.	None
Whether those grounds were adequate or not for arriving at the conclusion that there was a nondisclosure of material facts is not open to the Courts investigation.	None
In other words all that is necessary to give jurisdiction is that the Incometax Officer had when he assumed jurisdiction some prima facie grounds for thinking that there had been some nondisclosure of material facts.	None
14.	None
The rule laid down in Calcutta Discount Cos case 41 ITR 191 (AIR 1971 SC 372 ) (supra) was reiterated by this Court in Commr. of Incometax, West Bengal v. Hemchandra Kar, 77 ITR 1 (AIR 1971 SC 2331 ).	None
The same view was again expressed by this Court in Commr. of Incometax Gujarat v. Bhanji Lavji, 79 ITR 582 (AIR 1971 SC 717 ) as well as in Commr. of Incometax, Calcutta v. Burlop Dealers Ltd., 79 ITR 609 (AIR 1971 SC 1635 ).	None
15.	None
Bearing in mind the rule laid down in these decisions now let us proceeds to examine the facts of this case to find out whether the assessee had failed to disclose fully and trully all material facts for his assessment for the assessment year in question.	None
In this case we are dealing with capital gains.	Reasoning
Hence the material facts that had to be disclosed were those bearing on capital gains.	Reasoning
Though at the time of the original assessment of the assessee, the partnership deed entered into by the five partners was before the Incometax Officer, the sale deed executed by the partners of the assessee firm in favour of the Company on February 28, 1947 had not been placed before him.	Reasoning
There was no material before the Incometax Officer on the basis of which he could have concluded that the assessee firm had sold any shares and securities to the Company nor was there any material before the Incometax Officer as to the value of those shares and securities as on January 1, 1939.	Reasoning
Further no material was placed before him to show that those shares and securities had been sold to the Company for a sum of Rs. 75 lakhs.	Reasoning
In fact the assessee submitted its return for the assessment year in question in an old form which did not contain Pt. VII which dealt with particulars of income from capital gains.	Reasoning
The statement enclosed also did not contain specific particulars about consideration for the sale of goodwill or for the sale of shares of the Company.	Reasoning
It is not without significance that the assessee did not challenge the validity of the proceedings under Section 34 (1) (a) before the Incometax Officer.	Reasoning
Even before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, the only point that appears to have been urged was that since the firm was reconstituted and the reconstituted firm was granted registration under Section 26A in the assessment year 194748, it should be presumed that the Incometax Officer while making the original assessment was aware of all the material facts.	Reasoning
We agree with the Tribunal and the High Court that there is hardly any doubt that the assessee had failed to disclose fully and truly all material facts for the purpose of ascertaining whether it had made any capital gains or not.	Reasoning
16.	None
This takes us to the question whether the assessee had made any capital gains in the relevant accounting year, if so, what is the extent of its capital gains.	Issue
The provision relating to capital gains is found in Section 12B.	None
We shall now read the relevant portion of that provision S. 12B (1).	None
The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head Capital Gains in respect of any profits or gains arising from the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer of a capital asset effected after the 31st day of March, 1956, and such profits and gains shall be deemed to be income of the previous year in which the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer took place.	None
(The provisos to subsection (1) are not relevant for our present purpose).	None
Subsection (2) of S. 12B says The amount of a capital gain shall be computed after making the following deductions from the full value of the consideration for which the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer of the capital asset is made namely (i) expenditure incurred solely in connection with such sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer (ii) the actual cost to the assessee of the capital asset, including any expenditure of a capital nature incurred and borne by him in making any additions or alterations thereto, but excluding any expenditure in respect of which any allowance is admissible under any provision of Sections 8, 9, 10 and 12 Provided that where a person who acquires a capital asset from the assessee, whether by sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer is a person with whom the assessee is directly or indirectly connected and the Incometax Officer has reason to believe that the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer was effected with the object of avoidance or reduction of the liability of the assessee under this section, the full value of the consideration for which the sale, exchange relinquishment or transfer is made shall, with the prior approval of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Incometax be taken to be the fair market value of the capital asset on the date on which the sale, exchange, relinquishment or transfer took place.	None
(The remaining portion of Section 12B is not relevant for our present purpose).	None
17.	None
The Incometax Officer opined that the market value of the shares and securities sold was much more than 75 lakhs.	None
Admittedly their original cost on January 1, 1939 was Rs.	None
47,95,728/.	None
Hence according to him, the Company secured those shares and securities at below market value.	None
The Incometax Officer further observed that the partners of the assessee firm were the sole partners of the Company and further held that the sale had been effected at a lower price with the object of reducing the liability to capital gains tax.	None
On the basis of the Incometax Officers computation the capital gains on the sale of the investments were Rs. 75,86,960/.	None
As regards the goodwill the Incometax Officer valued the same as on January 1, 1939 at Rs. 87,56,200/ and 99 per cent, thereof would work out to be Rs. 86,67,648/. The assessee received for goodwill the sum of Rs. 14,90,000/.	None
The Company took over 99 per cent of the capital deficiency of the partners amounting to Rs.	None
19,98,849/ and 99 per cent.	None
thereof came to Rs. 19,78,861/. The Incometax Officer estimated the value of 99 per cent of the goodwill at Rs. 1,13,97,474/ involving capital gain of Rs. 27,29,826/.	None
Thus according to the Incometax Officer the total capital gains on account of transfer of shares and securities and goodwill amounted to Rs. 1,3,16.786/. As seen earlier this amount was substantially reduced by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and again by the Tribunal as well as by the High Court.	None
18.	None
The first question for decision is whether the first proviso to S. 12B is attracted to the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
The sale with which we are concerned in this case took place on February 28, 1947.	Reasoning
Section 12B was incorporated into the Act with effect from April, 1 1947.	Reasoning
That being so at the time the sale transaction took place Section 12B was not a part of the Act.	Reasoning
Hence there is no basis for saying that the transfer was effected with the object of avoidance or reduction of the liability of the assessee  see Commr. of Incometax, West Bengal v. George Hendrson and Co. Ltd., (1967)	Reasoning
66 ITR 622 (SC).	None
Hence the question for decision is whether the facts of this case fall within the scope of Section 12B (1) read with subsection (2) of that section.	None
19.	Issue
We have earlier seen that the Incometax Officer in computing the total capital gains had taken into consideration the capital gains said to have been earned as a result of the sale of the shares and securities as well as the goodwill.	Reasoning
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner in his order did not say anything specific about any capital gains earned as a result of the sale of the goodwill.	Reasoning
The Tribunal rejected the case of the Department that there were any capital gains made as a result of the sale of goodwill.	Reasoning
It also rejected the claim of the assessee that there was some capital loss as a result of the sale of goodwill.	Reasoning
On this point the High Court agreed with the conclusions reached by the Tribunal.	Reasoning
The conclusion of the High Court on this point was not challenged before us either by the Revenue or by the assessee.	Reasoning
Therefore there is no need to go into the same.	None
Hence the only question remaining to be considered is whether there were any capital gains made as a result of the transfer of the shares and securities by the assessee to the Company.	None
If so what is that amount ?	Issue
20.	Issue
The first question that we have to decide in this connection is whether the transaction entered into under the agreement for sale dated February 28, 1947 is a sale or exchange or merely a readjustment.	Reasoning
It was contended on behalf of the Revenue that it was in effect an exchange though in form it was a sale.	Reasoning
According to the assessee, it was a mere readjustment.	Arguments of Respondent
The Revenue did not contend before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner or the Tribunal or even the High Court that the said transaction was not a sale.	Reasoning
It was for the first time before this Court the contention was taken that it was not a sale.	Reasoning
The contention of the assessee that it was merely readjustment had been rejected by the authorities under the Act as well as by the High Court.	Reasoning
21.	None
Properly understood the effect of the contention of the Revenue as well as of the assessee is that in finding out the true nature of a transaction the Court must take into consideration the substance of the transaction and not the legal effect of the agreement entered into  a proposition which receives some support from some of the decided cases.	Reasoning
In Sir Kikabhai Premchand v. Commr. of Incometax (Central), Bombay, 24 ITR 506 (AIR 1953 SC 509 )	None
this Court observed that it is well recognised that in revenue cases regard must be had to the substance of the transaction rather than to its mere form.	None
22.	None
The observations of this Court in Sir Kikabhai Premchands case, 24 ITR506 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) (supra) were made the basis of the decision of the Bombay High Court in Commr. of Incometax, Bombay City v. Sir Homi Mehtas Executors, 28 ITR 928 (AIR 1956 Bom 415 ).	None
23.	None
In Rogers and Co. v. Commr. of Incometax Bombay CityII, (1958) 34 ITR 336 (Bom) High Court of Bombay ruled that the transfer of the assets of the firm to the company was substantially and really merely a readjustment made by the members to enable them to carry on their business as a company rather than as a firm and no profits in the commercial sense were made thereby the transfer of the assets of the firm to the company was, therefore, not a sale.	None
24.	None
The same view was taken by the Calcutta High Court in Commr. of Incometax (Central), Calcutta v. Mugneeram Bangur and Co., (1963) 47 ITR 565 (Cal) .	None
25.	None
This Court in Commr. of Incometax, Gujarat v. B. W. Kharwar, 72 ITR 603 (AIR 1969 SC 812 ) held that the observations in Sir Kikabhai Premchands case (supra) to the effect that in revenue cases regard must be had to the substance of the transaction rather than its mere form cannot be read as throwing any doubt on the principle that the true legal relation arising from a transaction alone determines the taxability of a receipt arising from the transaction.	None
The observation in question was considered as casual and that the same was not necessary for the purpose of the case.	None
In Kharwars case, 72 ITR 603 (AIR 1969 SC 812 ) (supra), this Court also disapproved the decisions in Sir Homi Mehtas Executors case, 24 ITR 506 (AIR 1953 SC 509 ) (supra), Rogers and Cos case, (1958) 34 ITR 336 (Bom) (supra) and Mugneeram Bangur and Co.s case, (1963) 47 ITR 565 (Cal) (supra).	None
Therein this Court ruled that it is now well settled that the taxing authorities are not entitled, in determining whether a receipt is liable to be taxed, to ignore the legal character of the transaction which is the source of the receipt and to proceed on what they regard as the substance of the matter.	None
The taxing authority is entitled and is indeed bound to determine the true legal relation resulting from a transaction.	None
If the parties have chosen to conceal by a device the legal relation, it is open to the taxing authority to unravel the device and to determine the true character of the relationship.	None
But the legal effect of a transaction cannot be displaced by probing into the substance of the transaction.	None
This principle applies alike to cases in which the legal relation is recorded in a formal document and to cases where it has to be gathered from evidence  oral and documentary  and conduct of the parties to the transaction.	None
26.	None
In the instant case, the Tribunal has held that the agreement for sale entered between the assessee firm and the company is a genuine transaction and the same evidences a sale.	None
This is essentially a finding of fact.	None
The High Court has affirmed that finding.	None
In that view, we are unable to accept the contention of the Revenue that the transaction in question was an exchange and not a sale.	None
We are equally unable to accept the contention of the assessee that it was merely a readjustment.	None
27. Clause (1) of the agreement in specific terms says that the existing partner shall sell and the company shall purchase the shares and securities for a sum of Rupees seventyfive lakhs.	Reasoning
Clause (3) of that agreement merely provides a mode of satisfaction of the sale price.	Reasoning
The sale price fixed by the parties for the shares and the securities sold is 75 lakhs and nothing more.	Reasoning
It may be that because of the allotment of the shares of the Company in satisfaction of the sale price, the assessee firm got certain benefits but that does not convert the sale into an exchange.	Reasoning
28.	None
In Commr. of Incometax Kerala v. R. R. Ramkrishna Pillai, (1967) 66	None
ITR 725 (SC) this Court distinguishing an exchange from a sale observed that where the person carrying on the business transfers the assets to a company in consideration of allotment of shares, it would be a case of exchange and not of sale and the true nature of the transaction will not be altered because for the purpose of stamp duty or other reason the value of the assets transferred is shown as equivalent to the face value of the shares allotted.	Reasoning
On the other hand a person carrying on business may agree with a company floated by him that the assets belonging to him shall be transferred to the company for a certain money consideration and that in satisfaction of the liability to pay the money consideration shares of certain face value shall be allotted to the transferor.	Reasoning
In such a case there are in truth two transactions, one transaction of sale and the other a contract under which the shares are accepted in satisfaction of the liability to pay the price.	Reasoning
The fact that as a result of the transfer of the shares of the Company to the assessee firm, the latter obtained considerable profits, will not alter the true nature of the transaction  see the decision of this Court in Chittoor Motor Transport Co. (P) Ltd. v. Incometax Officer, Chittoor, 59 ITR 238 (AIR 1966 SC 570 ).	Reasoning
29.	None
For the reasons above stated, we have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that the transaction evidenced by the agreement for sale between the company and the assessee was a sale.	Reasoning
30.	None
Now let us see what is the impact of Section 12B (2) on that transaction ?	Reasoning
Under that provision, the amount of capital gains has to be computed after making certain deductions from the full value of the consideration for which the sale is made.	Reasoning
What exactly is the meaning of the expression full value of the consideration for which sale is made ?	Reasoning
Is it the consideration agreed to be paid or is it the market value of the consideration ?	Issue
In the case of sale for a price, there is no question of any market value unlike in the case of an exchange.	Reasoning
Therefore in cases of sales to which the first proviso to subsection (2) of S. 12B is not attracted, all that we have to see is what is the consideration bargained for.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier to the facts of the present case, the first proviso is not attracted.	Reasoning
As seen earlier, the price bargained for the sale of the shares and securities was only rupees seventyfive lakhs.	Reasoning
The facts of this case squarely fall within the rule laid down by this Court in (1967)	Reasoning
66	Reasoning
ITR 622 (SC) (supra).	Reasoning
Therein this Court observed In a case of a sale, the full value of the consideration is the full sale price actually paid.	Reasoning
The legislature had to use the words full value of the consideration because it was dealing not merely with sale but with other types of transfer, such as exchange, where the consideration would be other than money.	Reasoning
If it is therefore held in the present case that the actual price received by the respondent was at the rate of Rs. 136 per share  the full value of the consideration must be taken at the rate of Rupees 136 per share.	None
The view that we have expressed as to the interpretation of the main part of Section 12B (2) is borne out by the fact that in the first proviso to Section 12B (2) the expression full value of the consideration is used in contradistinction with fair market value of the capital asset and there is an express power granted to the Incometax Officer to take the fair market value of the capital asset transferred as the full value of the consideration in specified circumstances.	Reasoning
It is evident that the legislature itself has made a distinction between the two expressions full value of the consideration and fair market value of the capital asset transferred and it is provided that if certain conditions are satisfied as mentioned in the first proviso to Section 12B (2), the market value of the asset transferred, though not equivalent to the full value of the consideration for the transfer, may be deemed to be the full value of the consideration.	Reasoning
To give rise to this fiction the two conditions of the first proviso are (1) that the transferor was directly or indirectly connected with the transferee, and (2) that the transfer was effected with the object of avoidance or reduction of the liability of the assessee under Section 12B.	Reasoning
If the conditions of this proviso are not satisfied the main part of Section 12B (2) applies and the Incometax Officer must take into account the full value of the consideration for the transfer.	Reasoning
31.	None
It may be noted that in that case the market value of the shares which were allotted at Rs. 136/ per share was Rs. 620/ per share.	Reasoning
32.	None
Applying the principles enunciated in that decision we think that the full value of the sale price received by the assessee was only rupees seventyfive lakhs.	Reasoning
That being so the capital gains made by the company were Rs. 2,74,772/ as held by the High Court.	Reasoning
33.	None
In the result both these appeals fail and they are dismissed with costs.	Decision
34.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
