 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted in the special leave petitions.	None
A common question, as to whether an employee who opts for the voluntary retirement pursuant to or in furtherance of a scheme floated by the Nationalised Banks and the State Bank of India would be precluded from withdrawing the said offer, is involved in this batch of appeals which arise out of the judgments of various High Courts.	None
The State Bank of India has been constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955 whereas the other banks (hereinafter referred to as the Nationalized Banks, for the sake of brevity) were taken over in terms of the provisions of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings), Act, 1970 (hereinafter referred to as 1970 Act).	None
The banks were said to be overstaffed.	Facts
For the purpose of effective management, man power planning was contemplated by the Ministry of Finance, Government of India, pursuant whereto and in furtherance whereof, the Government considered the desirability of introducing voluntary retirement scheme to help the banks to rightsize their force.	Facts
In a letter dated 22.5.2000, the Director (IR BOII), Ministry of Finance, intimated to the concerned banks that different committees and experts opined that most of the banks have 25 surplus manpower.	Facts
It was observed While there is a need for inducting new workforce, which had adequate knowledge of new skills such as modern technology, foreign exchange, venture capital, ecommerce, money management, etc.	None
it is also essential to rationalize the existing manpower.	None
In doing so, it has to be ensured that there should be adequate opportunities for promotions for all and proper balance between promoted and direct recruit officers at entry level.	None
Sufficient promotional opportunities should be created for the entrants in nonexecutive grades by creating graded scales within the cadre and giving age relaxation and special coaching to enable them to compete for direct recruitment also.	None
Thus for entry in officers cadre, 50 quota for promotion should suffice.	None
That will enable banks to recruit 50 officers from open market in accordance with the needs of the banks to ensure continuous intake of persons with desired qualifications in accordance with the changing skill needs.	None
It was, therefore, requested that the concerned banks should undertake the exercise of manpower planning on priority basis and send the same to the Banking Division for approval of the Board.	Facts
A Committee was constituted by the Central Government for consideration of various issues as specified in the report of the Committee on Human Resource Management in Public Sector Banks.	Facts
The said Committee in its report, inter alia, observed 3.15.1.	None
The Committee feels that the high establishment cost and law business per employee are important contributory factors for the low profitability of several public sector banks.	None
The Committee feels that without rightsizing the staff, it would be difficult for public sector banks to complete with other banks operating in the country and their profitability will remain under severe strain.	None
Optimising the existing work force is also necessary to facilitate recruitment of personnel with specialised skills required for appropriate use of information technology in banking transaction, compliance with prudential norms and consequent emphasis on improved risk management and assert liability management, as also Banks foray into new business area such as insurance, capital markets, etc. 3.15.2.	None
Different committees and experts have in the recent past perceived excess staff in banks especially in the public sector banks.	None
The extent of surplus may however differ from bank to bank.	None
Banks are at various stages of making a proper assessment of human resource including manpower planning exercise.3.15.4.	None
The Committee further reiterates that the Government may consider rolling back the age of retirement for officers from 60 years to 58 years.	None
This will not only reduce the manpower in the age group of 58 to 60 but will also result in considerable savings.	None
Pursuant to or in furtherance of the said purported policy decision, the State Bank of India as well as the Nationalised Banks adopted separately but almost identical scheme known as Employees Voluntary Retirement Scheme.	Facts
We may, however, observe that the scheme adopted by the State Bank of India (hereinafter referred to SBIVRS) in certain respects differ from the scheme of the Nationalised Banks (hereinafter referred to the said scheme).	Facts
For our purpose, we would consider them separately.7.	Facts
The said scheme was applicable in relation to employees who on the date of application had completed 15 years of service or 40 years of age.	Facts
The employees specified therein including specialised officers were not eligible to seek voluntary retirement.	Facts
However, in certain scheme they were ordinarily ineligible for being considered.	Facts
The period during which the said scheme was to remain operative varies from bank to bank.	Facts
However, as far as Punjab National Bank was concerned, the said scheme was to remain in operation from 1.11.2000 to 30.11.2000.	Facts
In terms of the said scheme those who sought for voluntary retirement were entitled to exgratia payments as specified therein as as also other benefits which are as follows AMOUNT OF EXGRATIAAn employee seeking voluntary retirement under the scheme will be entitled to the exgratia amount mentioned below in para (a) or (b), whichever is lessa) 60 days salary (pay plus stagnation increments plus special pay plus dearness relief) for each completed year of serviceORb) salary for the number of months service leftOTHER BENEFITSAn employee seeking voluntary retirement under the scheme will be eligible for the following benefits in addition to the exgratia amount mentioned in para 6 above of this schemei)	Facts
Gratuity as per Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 or Gratuity payable under the Service Rules as the case may be, as per existing rulesii) a) Pension (including commuted value of pension) as per PNB (Employees) Pension Regulations, 1995.ORb) Banks contribution towards PF as per existing rules.iii) Leave encashment as per existing rules.	Facts
The Scheme contained an eligibility criteria, namely, the employees against whom disciplinary proceedings were contemplated or pending would not be eligible for seeking voluntary retirement.	Facts
It states that the employees seeking voluntary retirement were eligible for all other retirement benefits.	Facts
Under the existing said scheme the bank has reserved with itself the right to withdraw the scheme at any time it thinks fit and its decision in this behalf was to be final.9.	Facts
Para 9 of the said scheme specifies different competent authorities for accepting voluntary retirement of different categories of officers and workmen.	Facts
The following general conditions now need the noticed 10.4.	None
A mere request of an employee seeking voluntary retirement under the Scheme will not take effect until and unless it is accepted in writing by the Competent Authority.10.5.	None
It will not be open for an employee to withdraw the request made for voluntary retirement under the scheme after having exercised such option.10.6.	None
The Competent Authority shall have absolute discretion either to accept or reject the request of an employee seeking Voluntary Retirement under the scheme depending upon the requirement of the bank.	Reasoning
The reasons for rejection of request of an employee seeking voluntary retirement shall be recorded in writing by the competent authority.	None
Acceptance or otherwise of the request of an employee seeking voluntary retirement will be communicated to him in writing.10.11.	Reasoning
An employee who would seek voluntary retirement under this scheme will not be eligible for reemployment in the bank or any of its subsidiaries.10.13.	None
The benefits payable under this scheme shall be in full and final settlement of all claims of whatsoever nature, whether arising under the scheme or otherwise to the employee (or to his nominee in case of death).	None
An employee who voluntarily retired under this scheme will not have any claim against the bank of whatsoever nature and no demand or dispute or difference will be raised by him or on his behalf, whether for reemployment or compensation or back wages including employment of any of his relative on compassionate grounds in the service of the bank or for any other benefit whatsoever.10.14	None
The vacancy caused by voluntary retirement shall not be filled up by new recruitment.10.15 The exgratia payable to an employee on opting for Voluntary Retirement under this scheme would be paid to him within 45 days from the date of his relieving.	None
PROCEDUREAn employee eligible to seek voluntary retirement under this scheme should make a request on the prescribed application enclosed with this scheme as AnnexureA or Annexure A1 as the case may be through proper channel addressed to the Competent Authority before the last date prescribed under this Scheme.	None
Further one copy of the application be directly sent to the Dy.	None
General Manager (P) at Head Officer New Delhi.	None
AnnexureA appended to the said Scheme is the format of an application for offer to seek voluntary retirement which reads thus Application for Offer to seek voluntary retirement from the service of the Bank.(For workmen employees officers upto	None
scaleIII)The Dy.	None
General ManagerPersonnel DivisionHead OfficeNew Delhi(Through proper channel)Sir,SUB VOLUNTARY RETIREMENTI hereby offer to seek voluntary retirement from the services of the Bank in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in the PNB Employees Voluntary Retirement Scheme  2000 circulated vide Personnel)	None
Division Circular No. 1755 dated 29.9.2000, which I have carefully read and understood the contents of the same.2.	None
I accept the terms and conditions stipulated in PNB Employees Voluntary Retirement Scheme  2000 unconditionally and irrevocably.3.	None
I furnished the requirement particulars in the APPENDIX enclosed for consideration of my offer to seek voluntary retirement from the service of the Bank under the above scheme.	None
Yours faithfully,Signature of the EmployeePlaceDateNameDesignation BO Division A large number of employees (1,01,000 employees approx) submitted their applications out of whom a small under of employees (200 employees approx) withdrew their offer.	None
Despite withdrawal of their offer the same was accepted.	Facts
In some cases offers despite withdrawal thereof were accepted within the period during which the scheme was operative and in some beyond the same.	None
The scheme was introduced by the banks with the approval of the Board of Directors.13.	Facts
Questioning the action on the part of the banks, in accepting the applications of the concerned, employees despite their withdrawal, writ petitions were filed in the Punjab Haryana High Court, Bombay High Court, Uttaranchal High Court etc.14.	Facts
Before the Punjab Haryana High Court, the legality or validity of the said scheme also come to be questioned.	Facts
Writ applications were also filed by some employees seeking for issuance of writ of mandamus directing the respective banks to pay unto them their lawful dues strictly in terms of the scheme.15.	Facts
The Punjab Haryana High Court by reason of its judgment impugned herein 3.4.2002, inter alia, held That the V.R. Scheme as framed is not a valid piece of subordinate legislation inasmuch as the provision of Section 19 sub clause (1) and sub clause (4) of the Act have not been complied with and has, therefore, to be set aside.	Facts
Even if it is assumed for the sake of arguments that the scheme is validily framed, it would be open to an employee to withdraw his option before the same has been accepted and effectively enforced.	Facts
For the reasons recorded above, we allow 71 writ petitions i.e. C.W.P. Nos. 1458, 1472 of 2001 and C.W.P. Nos. 303 an d1765 of 2002 etc. etc. in which the petitioners have made a prayer for the withdrawal of their options and the impugned orders accepting the options of voluntary retirement stand quashed.	Facts
All these petitioners shall be reinstated in service with all consequential benefits.	Facts
It is however, made clear that those petitioners who have received the benefits under the scheme including the exgratia payment whether with or without protest, shall return the entire amount received by them with interest at the rate of 9 per annum from the date of the receipt of the said amount till the date of return.	Facts
On return of the aforesaid amount the consequential benefits regarding the payment of arrears of salary and allowances from the date of their release to the date of reinstatement shall be given to them by the respondents.	Facts
These petitioners shall also have the benefit of continuity of service and the interregnum period shall be regularised in accordance with law and regulations.	Facts
Since we have already declared this scheme as bad, therefore, we are not in a position to give any relief to the writ petitioners of 10 writ petitions i.e. C.W.P. Nos. 6072, 7277, 7448, 9191, 14325, 15686, 15689 19393, 19711 and 19803 of the year 2001, and in our opinion, these writ petitions are liable to be dismissed.	None
When all rights flow from a valid scheme and the moment the scheme is declared bad on account of statutory restrictions then the petitioners of these 10 writ petitions cannot ask for any advantage or benefit.	Facts
Now we want to make some observations with regard to those employees who had taken the benefit under the VRS Scheme but they have not approached this court as they appear to be satisfied with the amount benefits already received by them.	Facts
With regard to them we want to make it clear that the Banks are not obliged to recall these employees for employment.	Facts
The Bombay High Court and the other High Courts, on the other hand, held that clause 10.5 of the scheme or the scheme framed framed by the other banks is not operative as the employees have indefeasible rights to withdraw their offer before the same is accepted.	Facts
In arriving at its aforementioned finding, the High Courts, inter alia, relied on the following decisions of this Court in Union of India and others vs. Gopal Chandra Misra and others (1978) 2 SCC 301 ), Balram Gupta vs. Union of India and another (1987) Supp.	Facts
SCC 228), Punjab National Bank vs. P.K. Mittal (1989) Supp.2 SCC 175), Union of India and another vs. Wing Commander T. Parthasarathy (2001) 1 SCC 158 ) and Shambhu Murari Sinha vs. Project Development India Ltd. and another (2002) 3 SCC 437 ).	Facts
Assailing the judgment of the High Court, Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned Attorney General for India, inter alia, submitted that having regard to the purport and object sought to be achieved by the scheme, clause 10.5 of the General Conditions cannot be said to be illegal as by submitting themselves thereto, the concerned employees must be held to have resigned in prasenti and in that view of the matter of contractual bar contained therein cannot be held to be bad in law.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Attorney General would urge that the High Court proceeded on a wrong premise insofar as it failed to take into consideration that the scheme would amount to a regulation which would attract the provision of Section 19 of 1970.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that power to fix the terms and conditions of service of their employees by the Banks is provided for under Section 7 of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would contend that it is not the case of the writ petitionerrespondents that the aforementioned clause 10.5 is arbitrary or otherwise opposed to public policy or suffers from lack of mutuality and, thus, the High Court must be held to have arrived at a wrong conclusion.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such a clause being an offer, the learned Attorney General would contend, is not violative of any provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 or the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Taking us through the decisions of this Court in Gopal Chandra Misra (supra), T. Parthasarthy (supra), Balram Gupta (supra) as also Shambhu Murari Sinha (supra), the learned Attorney General would urge that therein this Court has laid down that such a provision leads to laudable object and only in absence of such a provision prospective resignation can be withdrawn before its acceptance.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that as each of the employees had made irrevocable and unconditional offer of terms and conditions laid down in the scheme, they could not have withdrawn therefrom and particularly as some of them accepted the exgratia payment and, thus, they having elected for the scheme and thus, were estopped and precluded from questioning the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
Those employees, Mr. Sorabjee would submit, who accepted the exgratia payment could not have been permitted by the High Court to approbate or reprobate.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of the said contention, reliance has been placed in Brijendra Nath Bhargava and another vs. Harsh Wardhan and others (1988) 1 SCC 454 ), Shri Lachoo Mal vs. Shri Radhey Shyam (1971) 1 SCC 619 ), Halsburys Laws of England, Fourth Edition, Volume 16, para 957 and American Jurisprudence, 2d, Volume 28, pages 677 to 680.18.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the finding of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that the scheme is ultra vires having regard to the fact that the same was not laid before the Parliament as required under Section 19(4) of 1970 Act, it was contended that such a provision being directory one, failure on the part of the Central Government to lay the said scheme before the Parliament could not vitiate the scheme itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
Strong reliance, in this connection, has been placed in Jan Mohammed Noor Mohammad Begban vs. State of Gujarat and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1966) 1 SCC 505) and M s. Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd. and others vs. The State of Haryana, (1979) 2 SCC 196 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the entire scheme was offered to the employees as a package and the same had to be treated as such and in that view of the matter, it being within the realm of contract, statutory regulations cannot be said to have any application whatsoever.19.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. V.R. Reddy who appeared for the Punjab National Bank in the matters arising out the judgment and orders passed by the Bombay High Court, inter alia, would submit that the High Court erred in proceeding on the basis as if the employees are the Government servants and enjoy a status.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, having regard to the provisions of the 1970 Act, the terms and conditions of services of the employees of the Nationalised Banks are governed by contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Reddy would urge that the purpose of scheme being down sizing of the employees, the same was required to be considered having regard to the age profile, skill profile, the extent of the response received from the employees and several other relevant factors.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the aforementioned situation, the learned counsel would submit that clause 10.5 was inserted so that in the event, those who had opted for the scheme resile therefrom, the banks may not face practical difficulties.	Arguments of Petitioner
The requirement of the bank, the learned counsel would submit, must prevail over the requirement of the individual employees.20.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the validity of clause 10.5, the learned counsel would submit that the same was at the threshold stage of leading to a major contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Strong reliance, in this connection, has been placed Ansons Law of Contract, 28th Edition, paras 235 and Chitty on Contracts, 28th Edition (1999) pages 3160 and 3161 and Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Edition, Volume 9, para 235 at page 106.21.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Mukul Rohtagi appearing on behalf of the Bank of India would contend that as the writ petitions involved enforcement of contract qua contract, they were not maintainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel place strong reliance in Har Shankar and others vs. The Dy.	Arguments of Petitioner
Excise and Taxation Commr.	Arguments of Petitioner
others (1975) 1 SCC 737 ).22.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Rajeev Dhawan and Mr. Harish Salve, appearing on behalf of the State Bank of India, submitted that the High Court completely misdirected itself insofar as it failed to take into consideration that the provisions of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 materially differ from 1970 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, the terms and conditions of employment are government under Sections 17 and 43 of 1955 Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been pointed out that having regard to the difficulties which may be faced by some of the employees, although the scheme dated 27.12.2000 was to remain in force for a short time, implementation thereof was contemplated in a timebound manner i.e. Opportunity to the employees to apply for voluntary retirement during the period 15.1.2001 to 31.1.2001b)	Arguments of Petitioner
Opportunity to the employees to withdraw, if so desired by 15.2.2001c) Employees whose request for voluntary retirement is accepted, were to stand retired on 31.3.2001 and paid accordingly.	Arguments of Petitioner
Having regard to the difficulties which may be faced by some of the employees, by a circular a cutoff date of 15.2.2001 was fixed thereby granting opportunities to the employee to withdraw the option exercised by him.	Reasoning
The logic and necessity therefor, inter alia, was i) the purpose of the SBIVRS was inter alia to have overall reduction in the existing strength of the employees.	Reasoning
However, the bank were also required to control the outflow according to its requirements, for which the bank retained the discretion to limit the number of employees allowed to retire.ii) A decision was taken by the bank that around 10 employees may be allowed to retire under the VRS the petitioners bank had to process the applications of all the employees who had opted for VRS.	Reasoning
This ratio of 10 could be achieved only after the bank receives a definite figure about the number of persons opting for VRS and withdrawing later.iii)	Reasoning
Further the final decision of the category of persons eligible under VRS could be taken only after the petitioner bank had the final tally regarding the last and final figure of number of the persons who had opted under the VRS.iv)	Reasoning
The scheme was purely voluntary and the conscious decision of the employees, hence there could be no reason for his withdrawal of application at a later date.	Reasoning
However, keeping in view the interest of the employee, it was decided that the employee might be permitted to withdraw the application on or before 15.2.2001.v)	Reasoning
It was a time bound scheme whereunder the employee was to be relieved and paid entire monetary benefits by 31.3.2001, for which arrangements were to be made.	Reasoning
It has been pointed out that around 35,380 employees had applied under the said scheme and around 1,996 employeees had withdrawn before the cut off date.	None
Around 21,000 employees had been granted voluntary retirement under the scheme, excluding the ineligible.	None
It was contended that the scheme if read in its entirety would clearly show that the same was an offer and not an invitation to offer and in terms thereof an enforceable rights and duties had been conferred upon both employer and employee which would, subject to certain exception, be enforceable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that as the concerned employee did not exercise his option of withdrawal within the specified date, namely, 15.2.2001, his case had been considered on the premise that he has not withdrawn his offer.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would contend that a contract of employment can be terminated unilaterally, even a tenure of contract of employment can be curtailed by an agreement and in that view of the matter voluntary retirement scheme cannot be said to be illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance, in this connection, has been placed on Chitty on Contract paras 37114 and 37115.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Nageshwar Rao, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents in civil appeal arising out of SLP(C) CC No. 7966, inter alia, would submit that the decisions of this Court in Balram Gupta (supra) and Parathasary (supra) in so unmistakable terms laid down the law that an offer of resignation can be withdrawn before the same is accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, the matter relating to the scheme is merely an invitation to offer and option pursuant thereto on the part of an employee would constitute an offer.	Arguments of Respondent
Such an offer, the learned counsel would contended, had been made by the concerned employee on dotted lines.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, the learned counsel would submit, that having regard to the provision contained in Section 5 of the Contract Act, the concerned employee had an absolute right to withdraw the same before a concluded contract is arrived at.	Arguments of Respondent
Clause 10.5 of the Punjab National Bank VRS is, thus, ultra vires Section 5 of the Contract Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance, in this connection, has been placed on Rajendra Kumar Verma vs. State of Madhya Pradesh others (AIR 1972 MP 131 ), Abdus Salam Choudhary vs. The State of Assam and others (AIR 1991 Gauhati 9) and Devi Krishan Goyal and District Inspector of Schools, Ghaziabad others (J.T. 1988 (4) SC 201) .	None
Mr. Gopal Subramanium, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent in Civil Appeal arising out of SLP(C) Nos. 19373404 of 2002, would submit that the scheme formulated by other public sector banks including Punjab and Sind Bank is identical to that of Punjab National Bank.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, the entire scheme has to read as a whole.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that the scheme had a limited duration from 1.12.2000 to 31.12.2000, and a cumulative consideration of the relevant clauses would clearly show that the relationship between the master and servant comes to an end only upon acceptance of the offer.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that the offer is required to be considered at the level of the Branch Manager and Zonal Manager and upon their recommendation the same was ultimately to be taken up by the Personnel Department will clearly go to show that irrevocable nature of option would be relevant only if the same culminates into an acceptance.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel would submit that mere declaration given by an offerer that he would not withdraw or cancel the offer would not destroy his locus.	Arguments of Respondent
Strongly relying upon the decisions of this Court in J.N. Srivastava vs. Union of India and another (1998) 9 SCC 559 ), Gopal Chandra Misra (supra), Parthasarathy (supra), Shambhu Murari Sinha (supra), Balram Gupta (supra), the learned counsel would submit that even after acceptance, the offer could be withdrawn, such an action on the part of the optioner is permissible even after the acceptance of the offer and in that view of the matter the application of contractual bar must be held to be applicable only in a case where offerer has been relieved from his part not prior thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
The decisions of this Court, Mr. Suramanium would submit, lay down the following principles (1) Juridical relationship of employer and employee continues till the employee is relieved from his duties (2) It is a bilateral action, (3) Offer being not in prasenti  its acceptance is necessary, (4) only exception to the said rule would be where prejudice may be caused.	None
Mr. Subramanium would urge that in the instant case, it cannot be said that the statutory regulation has nothing to do with the Scheme as pension was to be calculated in terms thereof.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel pointed out that after the offer had been made, the concerned banks had issued a circular, pursuant whereto or in furtherance whereof a proviso to Regulation 28 was sought to be added in terms whereof the concerned employees were deprived of the benefit of additional five years of service towards, qualifying service so as to get pension in terms of clause (4) of Regulation 19 as thereby instead and in place of full pension of the principle of pro rata pension was introduced.	Arguments of Respondent
Such amendment in the scheme as a result whereof the employees were gravely prejudiced, the concerned employees derived a legal right to withdraw from the said scheme.31.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents in Civil Appeals arising out of SLP(C) Nos. 19373405 of 2002, would contend that the offending clause having been unilaterally prescribed would not amount to a contractual bar.	Arguments of Respondent
Such a contractual bar, the learned counsel would submit, must be based on consideration.	Arguments of Respondent
A contractual scheme must not offend the right of the employee under Section 5 of the Indian Contract Act, in terms whereof the offerer is entitled to revoke his proposal offer at any time before the communication of the acceptance.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying upon or on the basis of a large number of decision by different High Courts, namely, Zorayarmal vs. Gopal Das (AIR 1922 Mad, 486, 491), Secretary of State vs. Bhaskar Krishnaji (AIR 1925 Bom. 485 ,487 488), Somu Sundram Pillai vs. Provincial Government (AIR 1947 Mad, 366, 368) Raghunandan vs. State of Hyderabad (AIR 1963 AP 110 , 113), T. Linga Godar vs. State of Madra (AIR 1971 Mad. 28), Rajendra K. Verma vs. State of M.P. (AIR 1972 M.P. 131), Sri Durga Saw Mills vs. State of Orissa (AIR 1978 Orissa 41, 43), Managing Committee vs. State of Bihar (AIR 1981 Patna 271, 272) Janardhan Misra vs. State of U.P. (AIR 1981 Allahabad 213, 216217), M s. Suraj Besan Rice Mills vs. FCI (AIR 1988 Delhi 224), A.S. Khongphai vs. Special Judicial Officer (AIR 1981 Gau 9), it was argued that in absence of any statute or statutory rules governing the field, Section 5 of the Indian Contract Act would be attracted and in that view of the matter clause 10.5 is neudum pactum and thus being a nullity is not enforceable.	None
According to the learned counsel, the terms and conditions of service of employees being governed by a statute or statutory regulations, they enjoy a status.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that as such voluntary retirement scheme affects the status of an employee, a contractual bar cannot be imposed.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance, in this connection, has been placed on Delhi Transport Corporation vs. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress and others (1991) Supp.	Arguments of Respondent
(1) SCC 600) .	Arguments of Respondent
In a case, Mr. Dwivedi would urge when the employee has voluntarily withdrawn the offer, the doctrine of election will have no application as by reason thereof the employee has not received the benefit in one part of the contract and then questioned the rest thereof.32.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Jagdeep Dhankar would, inter alia, submit that in some cases the letters of withdrawal reached the option.	Arguments of Respondent
In any event, as the orders had been passed in many cases on 8.1.2001 i.e. well after the expiry of the period of the scheme, namely, 31.12.2000, the the competent authority had no jurisdiction to accept the same.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Panda appearing for the Appellant in Civil Appeal No. 955 of 2002 would draw the attention of this Court to the fact of the matter and submitted that the concerned respondent had withdrawn his offer on the very next day of filing his application, but despite the same he had been relieved from his duties on 30.12.2000.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel would contend that the offending clause seeks to obliterate the right of the employee to which he would have been otherwise entitled to in terms of Regulation 19(4) and thus the same must be held to be illegal.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance, in this connection, has been placed in V.T. Khanzode and others vs. Reserve Bank of India and Anr.	None
(1982) 2 SCC 7 ).	None
Mr. Panda contended that by reason of the impugned judgment the Uttaranchal High Court dismissed a writ petition filed by an employee, inter alia, on the ground that as he is bound himself by the terms not to withdraw the application for voluntary retirement, the writ petition was not maintainable.	None
According to the learned counsel, for the reasons stated by the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Bombay High Court and the other High Courts, the said decision cannot be sustained.	None
Mr. D. Goburdhan, appearing on behalf of the respondentemployee of the State Bank of India would submit that his client, who had completed 19 years, 10 months of service, had made the offer as he wanted pensionary benefits having regard to the circular issued by the Indian Banks Association of which the State Bank of India is manager, namely, that who had completed 15 years of service may opt therefor, but withdraw the same as he was informed that he would not get his pensionary benefits.35.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Pradeep Gupta appearing in Civil Appeal Nos. 538081 of 2002 on behalf of the concerned employees of Allahabad Bank, would submit that as the respondent therein was working in a foreign exchange branch, and having been doing a specialised would not have ordinarily come within the purview of the scheme.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that his letter of withdrawal was strongly recommended by the Branch Manager but despite the same, by reason to the writ petition, the competent authority accepted the same without assigning any reason.	Arguments of Respondent
The said order, contends the learned counsel, suffers from vice of nonapplication of kind inasmuch as in a case of this nature, the concerned authority should have passed a speaking order.36.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel appearing in SLP(C) CC No. 7966 would submit that the Punjab and Haryana High Court had rejected ten writ petitions filed by the petitioners, inter alia, on the ground that as the scheme is ultra vires, no relief can be granted in their favour.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned counsel contended, that as the scheme is contractual in nature, the benefits which were otherwise available to them in terms of the scheme could not have been curtailed.37.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we advert to the rival contentions, we may take note of the relevant provisions of 1970 Act.	None
Sections 7(2), 19(1), 19(2)(f) and 19(4) of 1970 Act read as follows 7(2)	None
The general superintendence, direction and management of the affairs and business of a corresponding new bank shall vest in a Board of Directors which shall be entitled to exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as the corresponding new bank is authorised to exercise and do.	None
Power to make regulations (1) The Board of Directors of a corresponding new bank may, after consultation with the Reserve Bank and with the previous sanction of the Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any scheme made thereunder to provide for all matters for which provision is expedient for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act. 19(2)	None
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the regulations may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely, (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) the establishment and maintenance of superannuation, pension, provident or other funds for the benefit of officers or other employees of the corresponding new bank or of the dependants of such officers or other employees and the granting of superannuation allowances, annuities and pensions payable out of such funds.	None
19(4)	None
Every regulation shall, as soon as may be after it is made under this Act by the Board of Directors of a corresponding new bank, be forwarded to the Central Government and that Government shall cause a copy of the same to be laid before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the regulation or both Houses agree that the regulation should not be made, the regulation shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that regulation.	None
Pursuant to or in furtherance of the power conferred upon the Bank under clause (f) of subsection (2) of Section 19 of 1970 Act, the Punjab National Bank (Employees) Pension Regulation, 1995 was framed the relevant provisions being Regulations 28 and 29 thereof read thus Superannuation Pension Superannuation pension shall be granted to an employee who has retired on his attaining the age of superannuation specified in the Service Regulations or Settlements.	None
Pension on voluntary Retirement	None
On or after the 1st day of November, 1993, at any time after an employee has completed twenty years of qualifying service he may, by giving notice of not loss than three months in writing to the appointing authority retire from service Provided that this subregulation shall not apply to an employee who is on deputation or on study leave abroad unless after having been transferred or having returned to India he has resumed charge of the post in India and has served for a period of not less than one year Provided further that this subregulation shall not apply to an employee who seeks retirement from service for being absorbed permanently in an autonomous body or a public sector undertaking or company or institution or body, whether incorporated or not to which he is on deputation at the time of seeking voluntary retirement Provided that this subregulation shall not apply to an employee who is deemed to have retired in accordance with clause (1) of regulation 2.	None
An employee, who has elected to retire under this regulation and has given necessary notice to that effect to the appointing authority shall be precluded from withdrawing his notice except with the specified approval of such authority.	None
It is not in dispute that on or about 23.12.2000 a proviso to Regulation 28 was sought to be introduced, which is as follows Provided that, pension shall also be granted to an employee who opts to retire before attaining the age of superannuation, but after having served for a minimum period of 15 years in terms of any scheme that may be framed for the purpose by the Banks Board with the concurrence of the Government.	None
The said amendment, however, has been carried into effect recently in 2002.	None
The relevant portion of the SBI Voluntary Retirement Scheme is as follows SBI Voluntary Retirement Scheme (SBIVRS) 1.	None
xxx Objectives To have a balanced age profile providing for mobility, training, development of skills and succession plans for higherlevel positions.	None
II.	None
To provide an exit for employees who have an honest feeling that they should now retire and take rest or that there are better opportunities elsewhere.	None
III.	None
To have our all reduction in the existing strength of the employees and to increase productivity and profitability.	None
Eligibility.	None
The scheme will be open to all permanent employees of the Bank, except those specifically mentioned as ineligible, who have put in 15 years of service or have completed 40 years of age as on 31st December, 2000.	None
Age will be reckoned on the basis of the date of birth as entered in service record.	None
Ineligible The following categories of employees are ineligible under the scheme Staff members who have executed bonds and have not completed it staff members serving abroad under the special arrangements bonds.	None
The Board of Directors may, however, waive, this, subject to fulfillment of the bond other requirements.	None
ii.	None
Employees against whom Disciplinary Proceedings are contemplated pending or who are under suspension.	None
This will also include employees against whom action has been initiated by Government Agencies other law enforcing agencies.	None
iii.	None
Employees appointed on contract basis.	None
iv.	None
Watch and ward staff.	None
Specialist Officers.	None
vi.	None
Highly skilled and qualified staff.	None
4. xxx Amount of Exgratia The staff members whose request for retirement under SBIVRS has been accepted by Competent Authority will be paid an amount of exgratia of 60 days salary (pay plus stagnation increments plus special pay plus dearness allowance for each completed year of service (for this purpose fraction of service of six months and above will be taken as one year and accordingly service of less than six months will not be counted) or salary for the number of months service is left, whichever is less.	None
Fraction of a month, if any, will be ignored.	None
Other benefits Gratuity as payable under the extent instructions on the relevant date.	None
Provident Fund contribution as per State Bank of India Employees Provident Fund Rules as on relevant date.	None
Pension in terms of State Bank of India Employees Pension Fund Rules on the relevant date (including commuted value of pension).	None
Encashment of balance of Privilege Leave, as applicable, on the relevant date.	None
Respective facilities extended to officers others such as retention of accommodation, telephone, car, continuation of housing loan etc. will be extended to officers others retiring under SBIVRS as per present dispensation, at the discretion of Competent Authority.	None
However, in such cases of retention of physical facilities, 50 of the amount of exgratia payable will be released only after the employee surrenders the facility.	None
No interest however, will be paid for the amount so withheld.	None
All other outstanding loans advances will have to be repaid before date of retirement under SBI VRS, failing which the amount of exgratia and other terminal benefits payable to the employee will be appropriated towards the outstanding loans advances and the balance amount only will be payable to the employee.	None
Other features The Bank intends to control the outflow according to its requirements.	None
Towards this end, the Bank retains the discretion to limit the number of employees allowed to retire in each category of staff viz.	None
officer clerical cash subordinate, to be covered under SBIVRS.	None
As such the Bank will have the sole discretion as to the acceptance or the rejection of the request for retirement under SBIVRS depending upon the requirements of the Bank.	None
For the purpose of exercising discretion in this regard, category wiselists of eligible applicants would be prepared in descending order of their age and applications of employees coming in higher age groups above cutoff age would be accepted, the cutoff age in each category will of course depend upon the acceptable number of employees who can be permitted to retire.	None
No voluntary retirement shall be deemed to have come into effect unless the decision of the Competent Authority has been communicated in writing.	None
General conditions Staff members desirous of availing benefits under the scheme will have to submit a written application to the Competent Authority, through proper channel, in the specified format, within the period for which the Scheme is kept open.	None
ii.	None
A staff member retired under the scheme will not be eligible for reemployment in the Bank or its subsidiaries Associates joint ventures (including officers outside India).	None
iii.	None
The employees seeking retirement under SBIVRS will not be entitled to dispute the payments received under the scheme on any ground whatsoever.	None
The retiring staff member and or their nominees or legal heirs shall have no right claim demands against the Bank on any matter relating to the scheme.	None
iv.	None
As SBIVRS is voluntary, it shall not be negotiable and shall not be deemed or construed as a subject matter of right or contract of service.	None
It will not be a subject matter of any industrial disputes under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and shall not be cited as precedent, custom, convention, usage or practice any time in future.	None
As SBIVRS in voluntary in nature, the employee seeking retirement under the SBIVRS will not be eligible for any retrenchment compensation payable under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. vi.	None
SBIVRS is independent of and without prejudice to the rights of the Bank to dispense with the services of an employee either under the contract of employment, service rule, awards or under the applicable Standing Orders Law Rules terms and conditions of service as may be applicable to the employee concerned.	None
vii.	None
The SBIVRS shall not be construed as a revision of any of the previous retirement schemes of the Bank and as such no claim from the employee who has retired will be retiring under the existing schemes shall be entertained.	None
vii.	None
In case of disputes as to the interpretation of any of the terms and conditions of the scheme, the decision of the Bank shall be final and binding on all the parties concerned.	None
ix.	None
Bank reserves the right to modify, amend or cancel any or all of the aforesaid clauses and to give effect thereto from any dates it may deem fit.	None
Pursuant to in furtherance of the powers conferred under Section 50(3), the Reserve Bank of India with the previous sanction of the Central Government made the State Bank of India General Regulations, 1955.	Reasoning
It is also not in dispute that in exercise of the power conferred under Section 43(1) of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 the Central Board of the State Bank of India made the State Bank of India Officers Services Rules determining the terms and conditions of the appointment and services of officers in the Bank.	Reasoning
Following legal issues arise for determination in these appeals Whether an application by an employee to secure voluntary retirement under the Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) can be withdrawn by such an employee before the same is accepted by the Competent Authority though the scheme contained an express stipulation that an application made thereunder is irrevocable and the employee will have no right to withdraw the application once submitted?	None
Whether upon making an application under VRS the employer bank secures the authority to unilaterally determine one way or the other the jural relationship of master and servant between the parties?	None
The moot question which is required to be posed and answered is whether the voluntary retirement scheme is an offer proposal or merely an invitation to offer.	None
The question is whether the banks intended to make an offer or merely issued an invitation to treat is essentially a question of fact.	None
As would appear from the discussions made hereinafter there appears to be some difference in the schemes floated by the State Bank of India and the nationalized banks.	None
We may consider the cases of nationalized bank first.	Reasoning
The circular dated 20.8.2000 and the scheme framed by the banks are required to be read together for the purpose of ascertaining the true intendment thereof.	Reasoning
The scheme essentially was floated as has been mentioned herein before with a purpose of downsizing the employees.	Reasoning
Such a scheme although may incidentally be beneficial also to the employees but was primarily beneficial to the banks.	Reasoning
The ultimate aim and object of floating such a scheme as has been stated in the circular letter issued by the Ministry of Finance was for the purpose of effective functioning of the banks so as to enable them to compete with the private banks.	Reasoning
The employees of the nationalized bank may not enjoy a status as is the case of government employees or the statutory authorities whose terms and conditions of service are governed by the constitutional provisions and or the statutes and the statutory rules but there is no gainsaying that the employees of the Nationalized banks enjoy security of their employment.	None
So far as the employees of the State Bank of India are concerned their terms and conditions of services, as noticed hereinbefore, are governed by statutory rules.	None
However, so far as the employees of the nationalized banks are concerned except for the matter of grant of pension which is covered by the regulations framed in terms of Section 19 of the 1970 Act, other terms and conditions of their service are not statutory in nature.	Reasoning
But the State Bank of India as also the nationalized banks are States within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
The services of the workman are also governed by several standing orders and bipartite settlements which have the force of law.	Reasoning
The banks, therefore, cannot take recourse to hire fire for the purpose of terminating the services of the employees.	Reasoning
The banks are required to act fairly and strictly in terms of the norms laid down therefor.	Reasoning
Their actions in this behalf must satisfy the test of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
Having regard to the intendment of the scheme each and every employee would not be entitled to the benefit of the said scheme.	Reasoning
Those who are facing disciplinary proceedings or working in a particular class of employment are not eligible therefor.	Reasoning
An offer indisputably can be made to a group of persons collectively which is capable of being accepted individually but the question which has to be posed and answered is as to whether having regard to the service jurisprudence the principles of Indian Contract Act would be applicable in the instant case.	None
It is the specific case of the Banks that the schemes had been floated by way of contract.	None
It does not have any statutory flavour.	None
Reference to the pension scheme framed under the regulations was made for computation of the pension.	None
It is difficult to accept the contention raised in the Bar that a contract of employment would not be governed by the Indian Contract Act.	None
A contract of employment is also a subject matter of contract.	None
Unless governed by a statute or statutory rules the provisions of the Indian Contract Act would be only applicable at the formulation of the contract as also the determination thereof.	None
Subject to certain just exceptions even specific performance of contract by way of a direction for reinstatement of a dismissed employee is also permissible in law.	None
It is in the aforementioned backdrop, the questions are required to be answered.	None
It is now wellknown that the use of the term offer or proposal is not decisive.	None
It, as noticed, would depend upon the fact involved in the matter.	None
In Ansons Law of Contract, 26th Edn.	None
at p.25 it is stated Offers and Invitations to Treat It is sometimes difficult to distinguish statements of intention which cannot, and are not intended to result in any binding obligation from offers which admit of acceptance, and so become binding promises.	None
A person advertise goods for sale in a newspaper, or announces that he will sell them by tender or by auction a shopkeeper displays goods in a shop window at a certain price or a bus company advertises that it will carry passengers from A to Z and will reach Z and other intermediate stops at certain times.	None
In such cases it may be asked whether the statement made is an offer capable of acceptance or merely an invitation to make offers, and do business.	None
An invitation of this nature, if it is not intended to be binding, is known as an invitation to treat.	None
Chitty on Contract states the law thus Tenders A statement that goods are to be sold by tender is not normally an offer to sell to the person making the highest tender, it merely indicates a readiness to receive offers.	None
Similarly, an invitation for tenders for the supply of goods or for the execution of works is, generally, not an offer, even though the preparation of the tender may involve very considerable expense.	None
The offer comes from the person who submits the tender and there is no contract until the person asking for the tenders accepts one of them.	None
These rules, may, however, be excluded by evidence of contrary intention e.g. where the person who invites the tenders states in the invitation that he binds himself to accept the highest offer to buy (or as the case may be, the lowest offer to sell or to provide the specified services).	None
In such cases, the invitation for tenders may be regarded either as itself an offer or as an invitation to submit offers coupled with an undertaking to accept the highest (or, as the case may be, the lowest) offer and the contract is concluded as soon as the highest offer to buy (or lowest offer to sell, etc.) is communicated In Treitels The Law of Contract, it has been stated thus When parties negotiate with a view to making a contract, many preliminary communications may pass between them before a definite offer is made.	None
One party may simply respond to a request for information (e.g. by stating the price at which he might be prepared to sell a house), or he may invite the other to make an offer he is then said to make an invitation to treat.	None
The question whether a statement is an offer or an invitation to treat depends primarily on the intention with which it was made.	None
It has also been stated in the said book The question whether a statement is an offer or an invitation to treat depends primarily on the intention with which it was made.	None
A statement is only an offer if the person making it intends to be bound as soon as the person reasonably believes that it was made with this intention.	None
It follows that a statement is not an offer, if it expressly provides that the person making it is to to be bound merely by the other partys notification of assent, but only when he himself has signed the document in which the statement is contained.	None
The law relating to offer and acceptance is not simple.	None
In Hamilton, Rau and Winthraub on Contracts, the learned authors referred to a decision of Habaska Seed Co. vs. Harsh 98 Nob 89, 152 NW 310 wherein the purported offer I want 2.25 cent per cent for this seed fobcowell, was held not be an offer on the ground that the defendant did not say I offer to sell you.	None
At page 346 of the said treatise, it is stated The rules of offer and acceptance are usually favourites of law students they are easily stated and tend to be rather mechanical in their operation.	None
They also involve situations that are relatively easy to grasp and in which various policy consideration are close to the surface.	None
However, one should not assume that one has mastered the law of contracts simply because one is conversant with rules of offer and acceptance.	None
In deed the writings of modern contracts scholars tend to deprecate the importance of the rules of offer and acceptance.	None
See Generally G Gilmore, the Death of Contract (1974)	None
L. Freidman, Contract Law in America (1965).	None
In Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Edition, Volumes9, meaning of offer has been stated in paragraph 227 at page98 in the following terms 227 Meaning of offer.	None
An offer is an expression by one person or group of persons or by agents on his behalf, made to another of his willingness to be bound to a contract with that other on terms either certain or capable of being rendered contain.	None
An offer may be made to an individual or to a group of persons or to the world at large.	None
It may be made expressly by words, or it may be implied from the product of the offerer.	None
The request of employees seeking voluntary retirement was not to take effect until and unless it was accepted in writing by the competent authority.	Reasoning
The Competent Authority had the absolute discretion whether to accept or reject the request of the employee seeking voluntary retirement under the scheme.	Reasoning
A procedure has been laid down for considering the provisions of the said scheme to the effect that an employee who intends to seek voluntary retirement would submit duly completed application in duplicate in the prescribed form marked offer to seek voluntary retirement and the application so received would be considered by the competent authority on first come first serve basis.	Reasoning
The procedure laid down therefor, suggest that the applications of the employee would be an offer which could be considered by the bank in terms of the procedure laid down therefor.	Reasoning
There is no assurance that such an application would be accepted without any consideration.55.	Reasoning
Acceptance or otherwise of the request of an employee seeking voluntary retirement is required to be communicated to him in writing.	Reasoning
This clause is crucial in view of the fact that therein the acceptance or rejection of such request has been provided.	Reasoning
The decision of the authority rejecting the request is appealable to the Appellate authority.	Reasoning
The application made by an employee as an offer as well as the decision of the bank thereupon would be communicated to the respective General Managers.	Reasoning
The decisions making process shall take place at various levels of the banks.	None
The following, therefore, can be deduced The banks treated the application from the employees as an offer which could be accepted or rejected.	None
ii) Acceptance of such an offer is required to be communicated in writing.	None
iii)	None
The decision making process involved application of mind on the part of several authorities.	None
iv) Decision making process was to be formed at various levels.	None
The process of acceptance of an offer made by an employee was in the discretion of competent authority.	None
vi)	None
The request of voluntary retirement would not take effect in praesenti but in future.	None
vii)	None
The Bank reserved its right to alter rescind the conditions of the scheme.	None
From what has been noticed herein before, it is apparent that the Nationalized banks in terms of the scheme had secured for themselves an unfettered and unguided right to deal with the jural relationship between themselves and their employees.58.	Reasoning
It is not a case where on mere making of option on the part of the employee the offer is to be accepted or even there will be reasonable certainty that some norms should be maintained.	Reasoning
There is no consideration for the contractual bar clause.	Reasoning
The submission of the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the banks that the proposal to the effect that the option made by an employee would be considered, is a consideration cannot be accepted.59.	Reasoning
Once it is held that the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 would be applicable, the scheme admittedly being contractual in nature, the provisions of the Act shall apply.	Reasoning
The Scheme having regard to its provisions as noticed hereinbefore would merely constitute invitation to treat and not an offer.	Reasoning
A proposal is made when one person signifies to another his willingness to do or abstain from doing anything with a view to obtaining the assent of the other to such act or abstinence (See Section 2(a).	None
Herein the banks by reason of the scheme or otherwise have not expressed their willingness to do or abstain from doing anything with a view to obtaining assent of the employees to such act.	None
It will bear repetition to state that not only the power of the bank to accept or reject such application is absolutely discretionary, it, as noticed herein before, could also amend or rescind the scheme.	None
The Scheme, therefore, cannot be said to be an offer which, on the acceptance by the employee, would fructify in a concluded contract.	None
The proposal of the employee when accepted by the Bank would constitute a promise within the meaning of Section 2(b) of the Act.	None
Only then the promise becomes an enforceable.	None
In the instant case the banks when floating the scheme did not signify that on that employees assenting thereto a concluded contract would come into being in terms whereof they would be permitted to retire voluntarily and get the benefits thereunder.	None
Furthermore, in terms of the said scheme no consideration passed so as to constitute an agreement.	None
Once it is found that by giving their option under the scheme, the employees did not derive an enforceable right, the same in absence of any consideration would be void in terms of Section 2(g) of the Contract Act as opposed to Section 2(h) thereof.	Reasoning
Furthermore, even by opting for the scheme as floated by the banks, no consideration is passed far less amounting to reciprocal promise.	None
Once it is found, as would appear from the position rendered by this court that the employees do not have an enforceable right upon making an option the same would be void in terms of Section 2(g) of the Contract Act as opposed to Section 2(h) thereof.	Reasoning
The distinction between an offer and invitation to treat has been dealt with some clarity in Gibson vs. Manchester City Council reported in 1979 All.	None
E.R. 972.	None
In that case the council adopted a policy of selling councils house to Mr. Gibson.	None
The council wrote a letter to Mr. Gibson that it may be prepared to sell the house to you at the purchase price of Pounds 2,725 less 20 Pounds 2180 (free hold).	None
He was invited to make a formal application which he did.	None
Before the documents could be executed the control of the council changed hands as a result whereof policy of selling the council house was reversed.	None
When it was claimed by Mr. Gibson that the transaction amounted to a binding contract, the House of Lords negativing the same held that the letter in question was an invitation to treat and Mr. Gibsons application was an offer and not an acceptance.	None
In the instant case, there was even no reasonable certainty that the scheme would be acted upon.	Reasoning
Furthermore terms and conditions thereof could be amended and even the scheme itself could be rescinded.69.	Reasoning
We, therefore, have no hesitation in coming to the conclusion that the voluntary scheme was not a proposal or an offer but merely an invitation to treat and the applications filed by the employees constituted offer.70.	Reasoning
Once the application filed by the employees is held to be an offer Section 5, in absence of any other independent binding contract or statute or statutory rules to the contrary would come into play.	Reasoning
In Cheshire, Fifoot Furmstons Law of Contract (14th edition) at Page 62 the law is stated as under It has been established ever since the case of Payne vs. Cave in 1789 that recovation is possible and effective at any time before acceptance up to this moment ex hypothesi no legal obligation exists.	None
Nor, as the law stands, is it relevant that the offeror has declared himself ready to keep the offer open for a given period.	None
Such an intimation is but part and parcel of the original offer, which must stand or fall as a whole.	None
The offeror may, of course, bind himself, by a separate and specific contract, to keep the offer open but the offeree, if such is his allegation, must provide all the elements of a valid contract, including assent and consideration.	None
In Routledge vs. Grant the defendant offered on 18 March to buy the plaintiffs house for a certain sum, a definite answer to be given within six weeks from the date.	None
Best CJ held that the defendant could withdraw at any moment before acceptance, even though the time limit had not expired.	None
The plaintiff could only have held the defendant to his offer throughout the period, if he had bought the option by a separate and binding contract.	None
This principle, as noticed herein before, has been accepted in a large number of decisions relied upon by Mr. Nageshwar Rao and Mr. Dwivedi (supra).	None
We may, however, only refer to Devi Krishan Goyal (supra).	None
The relevant rule, interpretation whereof fell for consideration of this Court therein as under These rules shall be applicable to the Teachers of those State Government Aided Higher Secondary Schools which are working under any local body or any nonadministrative management, within the ambit of Salary Disbursement Act, 1971 on 30th June, 1978 or thereafter and who will give their option in favour of retirement at the age of 58 years, within six months of the Publication of these Rules.	None
An option, once used will be deemed to be final.	None
The date of retirement shall be the end of session.	None
Interpreting the said rule this court held we are of the view that the High Court should not have rejected the writ application.	None
It has not been disputed anywhere that option stood withdrawn before it was accepted.	None
The provision in the rule an option once used will be deemed to be final would not mean that when an offer made it is not open to be withdrawn before it is accepted.	None
The respondent No.1 obviously acted under the wrong notion and the High Court did not appreciate this aspect.	None
We would accordingly hold that the appellant was entitled to withdraw the option.	None
We may at once point out that the stands of the learned counsel appearing on behalf of banks is inconsistent and selfcontradictionary.	Reasoning
Whereas once it was argued that the offer was made by the bank by floating the scheme and once an application is filed, the same would amount to acceptance of offer one the same breath they took recourse to the doctrine of option which is applicable only at the instance of the offeror, who in this case would be the employees.75.	Reasoning
The submission in our considered opinion proceed on a total misconception.	Reasoning
By reason of making such option or firm offer the offeror must get some benefit or the offeree must incur some detriment.76.	Reasoning
The contracts in which the said principle can be applied would be a case where there would usually be a money payment.	Reasoning
In the instant case apart from the fact that no consideration is passed, the banks standing in the category of offeree either expressly or impliedly had not promised to do or refrain from doing something in exchange for the offerors promise not to revoke the offer.	Reasoning
In all fairness to Mr. Reddy, we may set out hereunder the authorities relied upon by him.	Reasoning
In Ansons Law or Contract (28th edition page 53), it is stated Firm Offers It will be noted that in Offord vs. Davies, discussed above, the mere fact that the defendants promised to guarantee payment for 12 months did not preclude that from revoking before that period had elapsed.	None
It is a rule of English law that a promise to keep an offer open needs consideration to make it binding and would thus only become so if the offeror gets some benefit, or the offeree incurs some detriment, in respect of the promise to keep the offer open.	None
The offeree in such a case is said to purchase an option, that is, the offeror, in consideration usually of a money payment, sometimes nominal, makes a separate contract not to revoke the offer during a stated period.	None
The position is similar where the offeree expressly or impliedly promises to do or refrain from doing something in exchange for the offerors promise not to revoke the offer.	None
For example, the offeree may promise not to negotiate with anyone else for a fixed period.	None
Again, a building tendering for a construction contract may have invited quotations for a fixed period (i.e. firm offers) from electricity or carpentry subcontractors and expressly or impliedly promised to use the figures contained in those offers in its tenders.	None
In these cases the offeror by its promise precludes itself from exercising its right to revoke the offer but where it receives no consideration for keeping the offer open, it says in effect, You may accept within such and such a time, but this limitation is entirely for my benefit, and I make no binding promise not to revoke my offer in the meantime.	None
The Law Revision Committee recommended that an agreement to keep an offer open for a definite period of time or until the occurrence of some specified event shall not be unenforceable by reason of the absence of consideration.	None
Despite this criticism, subject to two exceptions, it seems to be good law.	None
In Chitty on Contract, it is stated Firm offers, By a firm offer is meant one containing a promise not to revoke it for a specified time.	None
The mere fact that such a promise has been made does not prevent the offeror from revoking the offer within that period since normally the promise will be unsupported by consideration.	None
Most obviously such consideration will be provided if the offeree pays (or promises to pay) a sum of money for the promise and so buys an option.	None
Consideration may also be provided by some other promise for example, in the case of an offer to sell a house, the offeree may provide consideration for the offerors promise not to revoke the offer for a specified time by promising not to dispose of those shares elsewhere during that time.	None
The performance of the offerees promise to keep the offer open.	None
In one case a vendor of land entered into a socalled lockout agreement by which he promised a prospective purchaser not to consider other offers if that purchaser would exchange contracts within two weeks and it was said that the promise by the (purchase) to get on by limiting himself to just two weeks constituted consideration for the vendors promise not to consider other offers.	None
The case is not strictly one of a firm offer since the vendors promise would not in terms have prevented him from simply deciding not to sell at all but the practical effect of a binding lockout agreement may be to prevent the vendor from withdrawing his offer and the reasoning quoted above could apply to the case of a firm offer.	None
The reasoning gives rise to some difficulty in that it does not appear that the purchaser made any promise to exchange contracts within two weeks.	None
It seems more plausible to say that the vendors promise had become binding as a unilateral contract under which the purchaser had provided consideration by actually making efforts to meet the deadline, even though he had not promised to do so.	None
Similar reasoning can apply if a seller of land promises to keep an offer open for a month, asking the buyer during that period to make efforts to raise the necessary money.	None
If the buyer makes such efforts (without promising to do so), it is arguable that he has by part performance accepted the sellers offer of a unilateral contract to keep the principal offer open.	None
Similarly, it is possible for a person, to whom a promise not to revoke an offer for the sale of a house has been made, to provide consideration for that promise by incurring the expense of a survey.	None
On the other hand, the equitable principle applied in Hughes vs. Metropolitan Ry.	None
and the High Trees case will not avail the offeree since it only operates defensively and does not create new causes of action where none existed before.	None
Nor does it seem probably that the offeree will be able to claim damages in tort under the principles laid down in Hedley Byne Co. Ltd v.	None
Heller Partners Ltd.	None
In Halsburys Laws of England (4th Ed.), Para 235 at Page 160, the law is stated as under Options.	None
A contract of opinion is one whereby the grantor of the option offers to enter into what may be called a major contract with a second person and makes a separate contract to keep his offer open.	None
Usually, but not necessarily, the person to whom the grantor of the option binds himself to keep the offer open is that second person, who may be conveniently referred to as the optionholder.	None
The contract of option may make it possible for the rights of the optionholder to be assigned.	None
The contract of option may be unilateral or bilateral.	None
It may exist either as a separate option contract, or as part of a larger contract such as one of the following a lease with an option in the lessee to renew the lease or but the reversion a hire purchase agreement a sale with an option of repurchase granted to either the seller or the buyer a sale with an option for the buyer to make further purchases on similar terms service or agency agreement with an option in either party to renew.	None
Certain contracts of option have been made void or illegal by statute.	None
With regard to the envisaged major contract, the effect of the contract of option is to create an irrevocable offer and a power of acceptance.	None
The offer is irrevocable in the sense that it is a breach of the contract of option to revoke it, and its effect is to create a power of acceptance in the optionholder good against the grantor of the option and sometimes also against third parties.	None
Thus the grantor of the option is under a conditional duty, and the optionholder has a conditional right of performance of the option offer, that condition being the exercise of the power of acceptance by the optionholder as the envisaged major contract may be bilateral or unilateral, that condition may be an acceptance or other act by the optionholder.	None
Furthermore, the exercise of the option may itself subject to certain conditions precedent, such as a time limit, or the occurrence of a certain event, or the duration of a major contract of which it forms a part, or the mode in which it may be exercised.	None
In Chitty on Contract (28th edition para 3161) it is stated that the position being uncertain as the rule can still cause hardship a legislation limiting the right to withdraw firm offers is desirable.	None
In Ansons Law of Contracts it is stated at page 51 Revocation of the Offer The law relating to the revocation of an offer may be summed up in two rules (1) an offer may be revoked at any time before acceptance, and (2) an offer is made irrevocable by acceptance.	None
Revocable before acceptance The first of these rules may be illustrated by the case of Offord v. Davies D made a written offer to O that, if he wanted discount bills for another firm, they (D) would guarantee the payment of such bills to the extent of Pound 600 during a period of twelve calendar months.	None
Some bills were discounted by O, and duly paid, but before the twelve months had expired D, the guarantors, revoked their offer and notified O that they would guarantee no more bills.	None
O continued to discount bills, some of which were not paid, and then sued D on the guarantee.	None
It was held that the revocation was a good defence to the action.	None
The alleged guarantee was an offer, for a period of 12 months, of promises for acts, of guarantee for discounts.	None
Each discount turned the offer into a promise, pro tanto, but the entire offer could at any time be revoked except as regards discounts made before notice or revocation.	None
The learned author, as noticed from the passage quoted herein before, clearly stated that an offer may be revoked even before it is accepted.82.	Reasoning
Furthermore, a large number of employees have withdrawn then offer only when a proviso is sought to be added to Regulation 28 aforementioned.	Reasoning
In terms of the Scheme the employees, who expected to get benefits of clause 4 of Regulation 29 would be deprived therefrom.	Reasoning
It is not in this dispute that the qualifying period for pension qualifying for receiving pension was 20 years.	Reasoning
Only upon completion of 20 years, in terms of the statutory regulation contained in Regulation 29, an employee could opt for voluntary retirement and in terms thereof, the would be entitled to the benefits specified therein.	Reasoning
The said regulations had specifically been mentioned for the purpose of computation which would include invocation of Subregulation 4 of Regulation 29 providing for relaxation of 5 years towards the qualifying period.	Reasoning
The employees must have proceeded on the basis that despite the fact that they have merely rendered 15 years of service which was not a qualifying service under the regulations, they would be entitled to the pensionary benefits in terms of the scheme.	Reasoning
By introducing the proviso to Regulation 28 pension was sought to be made pro rata in place of full pension.83.	Reasoning
The basic concept of the scheme, therefore, underwent a change which also goes to show that the banks had sought to invoke its power of amending the scheme.	Reasoning
Once the scheme is amended and or an apprehension is created in the mind of the employees that they would not even receive the entire benefits as envisaged under the scheme, they were entitled to revoke their offers.	Reasoning
Their action in our considered option is reasonable.	Reasoning
It may be that some of the employees only opted for the provident fund benefit which did not undergo any amendment but the same would not change the attitude on the part of the banks.84.	Reasoning
We, therefore, do not find any error in the judgment of the High Court on this score.	Reasoning
However, the case of the State Bank of India stand slightly on a different footing.	None
Firstly, the State Bank of India had not amended the scheme.	None
It, as noticed here before, even permitted withdrawal of the applications after 15th February.	None
The scheme floated by the State Bank of India contained a clause (clause 7) laying down the mode and manner in which the application for voluntary retirement shall be considered.	None
The relevant clause as referred to herein before creates an enforceable right.	None
In the event the State Bank failed to adhere to its preferred policy, the same could have been specifically enforced by a court of law.	None
The same would, therefore, amount to some consideration.	None
Furthermore in the case of State Bank of India, the Punjab and Haryana High Court failed to take into consideration the provisions of the State Bank of India Act, 1955.	None
It further failed to take into consideration that the matter relating to grant of pension was not covered by any statutory regulation.	None
We, are, however, not prepared to accept the submission of Mr. Salve to the effect that by reason of the said scheme, merely the tenure of service has been curtailed to some extent which is permissible in law.	None
Mr. Harish Salve in support of its contention has relied upon para 37115 from Chitty on Contracts.	None
The said paragraph itself shows that for bringing into a change in the tenure of contract, the existing contract of service must be substituted or amended by another contract.	None
The later contract also must be an enforceable contract.	None
Once it is held the later contract is not a contract within the meaning of the provisions of the Indian Contract Act, the question of invoking this aforementioned principle would not arise.	None
We may at this juncture notice the decisions of this court covering the subject.	None
In Gopal Chandra Misras case (supra) this court was considering a question where a Judge of a High Court in terms of Article 217 of the Constitution of India withdraw the resignation submitted by him.	None
Resignation by a constitutional authority is a unilateral act.	None
In the case of resignation by a constitutional authority, it is governed by the constitutional provisions as resignation of a constitutional authority does not require an express acceptance.	None
The same being unilateral in character, it was observed The substantive body of this letter (which has been extracted in full in a foregoing part of this judgment) is comprised of three sentences only.	None
In the first sentence, it is stated I beg to resign my office as Judge, High Court of Judicature at Allahabad.	None
Had this sentence stood alone, or been the only content to his letter, it would operate as a complete resignation in praesenti, involving immediate relinquishment of the office and termination of his tenure as Judge.	None
But this is not so.	None
The first sentence is immediately followed by two more, which read I will be on leave till July 31, 1977.	None
My resignation shall be effective on August 1, 1977.	None
The first sentence cannot be divorced from the context of the other two sentences and construed in isolation.	None
It has to be read along with the succeeding two which qualifying it.	None
Construed s a whole according to its tenor, the letter dated May 7, 1977, is merely an intimation or notice of the writers intention to resign his office as Judge, on a future date, viz., August 1, 1977.	None
In that case, thus, a resignation which was not in praesenti has been held to be capable of being withdrawn.	None
It did not constitute a juristic act.	None
We may notice that in Jai Ram v. Union of India (AIR 1954 SC 584 )	None
it was held It may be conceded that it is open to a servant, who has expressed a desire to retire from service and applied to his superior officer, to give him the requisite permission, to change his mind subsequently and ask for cancellation of the permission thus obtained but, he can be allowed to do as long as the continues in service and not after it has terminated.	None
Yet again in Raj Kumar v. Union of India (1968) 3	None
SCR 857 it was held When a public servant has invited by his letter of resignation determination of his employment, his services normally stand terminated from the date on which the letter of resignation is accepted by the appropriate authority, and in the absence of any law or rule governing the conditions of his service to the contrary, it will not be open to the public servant to withdraw his resignation after it is accepted by the appropriate authority.	None
Till the resignation is accepted by the appropriate authority in consonance with the rules governing the acceptance, the public servant concerned has locus poenitentiae but not thereafter.	None
In Balram Guptas case his court was dealing with Central Civil Service (Pension) Rules, 1972 which is a statutory rule.	None
Subrule (4) of Rule 48A prevented withdrawal of resignation letter except with the approval of the authority.	None
The validity of the said rule was not in question.	None
In that case the approval of the authority to withdraw was not given.	None
It was in the aforementioned situation observed That has been done.	None
The approval of the authority was, however, not given.	None
Therefore, the normal rule which prevails in certain cases that a person can withdraw his resignation before it is effect would not apply in full force to a case of this nature because here the government servant cannot withdraw except with the approval of such authority.	None
Having regard to the fact that the issue involved therein stood on a different footing, this Court made a mere observation to the following effect It may be a salutary requirement that a government servant cannot withdraw a letter of resignation or of voluntary retirement at his sweet will and put the government into difficulties by writing letters of resignation or retirement and withdrawing the same immediately without rhyme or reason.	None
Therefore, for the purpose of appeal we do not propose to consider the question whether subrule (4) of Rule 48A of the Pension Rules is valid or not.	None
Validity of such a rule was, therefore, not in question.	None
As indicated hereinbefore, the bar of withdrawing the resignation was contained in the statutory rule and, thus Section 5 of the India Contract Act would not have been applicable in that case.	None
However, it is advantageous to notice the following observation made in the said decision We do not see how this could not be a good and valid reason.	None
It is true that he was resigning and in the notice for resignation he had not given any reason exception to state that he sought voluntary retirement.	None
We see nothing wrong in this.	None
In the modern age we should not put embargo upon peoples choice or freedom.	None
If, however, the administration had made arrangements acting on his resignation or letter of retirement to make other employee available for his job, that would be another matter but the appellants offer to retire and withdrawal of the same happened in such quick succession that it cannot be said that any administrative set up or arrangement was affected.	None
It was further observed In the modern and uncertain age it is very difficult to arrange ones future with any amount of certainly a certain amount of flexibility is required, and if such flexibility does not jeopardize government or administration, administration should be graceful enough to respond and acknowledge the flexibility of human mind and attitude and allow the appellant to withdraw his letter of retirement in the facts and circumstances of this case.	None
In P.K. Mittals case (supra), a question arose as to whether in contravention of Rule 20 of the Punjab National Bank (Officers) Service Rules, 1979, the bank can reduce the notice period.	None
Ranganathan, J. speaking for the bench held that the same could not have been done and the concerned employee was entitled to withdraw his resignation before it became effective.	None
In Power Finance Corporation Ltd. v. Pramod Kumar Bhatia (1997) 4 SCC 280 a scheme of voluntary retirement was floated and pursuant thereto the Respondents therein had applied for voluntary retirement but subsequently the Corporation had withdrawn the scheme although the offer had been accepted.	None
Such acceptance was to take effect from 31121994.	None
This court held that the acceptance of his offer to voluntarily retire being subject to adjustment of the amount payable to him the same did not attain finality.	None
It was held It is now settled legal position that unless the employee is relieved of the duty, after acceptance of the offer of voluntary retirement or resignation, jural relationship of the employee and the employer does not come to an end.	None
Since the order accepting the voluntary retirement was a conditional one, the conditions ought to have been complied with.	None
Before the conditions could be complied with, the appellant withdrew the scheme.	None
Consequently, the order accepting voluntary retirement did not become effective.	None
Thereby no vested right has been created in favour of the respondent.	None
The High Court, therefore, was not right in holding that the respondent has acquired a vested right and, therefore, the appellant has no right to withdraw the scheme subsequently.	None
This decision is an authority for the proposition that even after acceptance of the offer made by the employee, the scheme can be withdrawn and, if it is so done, the employee does not acquire any vested right.	None
In J.N. Srivastavas case (supra), it was held In is now well settled that even if the voluntary retirement notice is moved by an employee and gets accepted by the authority within the time fixed, before the date of retirement is reached, the employee has locus poenitentiae to withdraw the proposal for voluntary retirement.	None
In Wg. Cdr.	None
T. Parthasarathys case the fact of the matter was as follows The Respondent submitted an application on 2171985 praying for premature retirement with effect from 3181986.	None
He also furnished a certificate stating that he was aware that any request made by him for cancellation of his application for premature retirement would not be accepted.	None
On 6111985 he moved an amendment to earlier application stating that the actual date of his release could be decided taking into account the pensionary recommendations requirements of the Fourth Pay Commissions Report which was expected to come in November, 1985.	None
He subsequently withdrew his offer on 1921986.	None
The Respondent received a letter dated 20th February, 1986 that he would prematurely retire from service with effect from 3181986.	None
On a Writ Petition moved by the Respondent before the Karnataka High Court, it was held that having regard to the offer made on 1921986, the subsequent action taken by the Department on 20th February, 1986 had no effect.	None
In this Court an argument was advanced that having regard to the policy decision to which the Respondent was aware and having given a certificate at the time of submission of application for premature retirement that he was aware of the fact that his request for withdrawal or cancellation subsequently would not be accepted, the impugned judgment of the High Court was erroneous but rejecting the same this court held We have carefully considered the submissions of the learned counsel appearing on either side.	None
The reliance place for the appellants on the decision reported in Raj Kumar Case is in appropriate to the facts of this case.	None
In that case this Court merely emphasized the position that when a public servant has invited by his letter of resignation determination of his employment his evidence clearly stand terminated from the date on which the letter of resignation is accepted by the appropriate authority and in the absence of any law or rule governing the condition of the service to the contrary, it will not be open to the public servant to withdraw his resignation after it is accepted by the appropriate authority and that till the resignation is accepted by the appropriate in consonance with the rules governing the acceptance, the public servant concerned had locus poenitentiae but not thereafter.	None
In Shambhu Murari Sinhas case it was held Coming to the case in hand the letter of acceptance was a conditional one inasmuch as, though option of the appellant for the voluntary retirement under the Scheme was accepted	None
but it was stated that the release memo along with detailed particulars would follow.	None
Before the appellant was actually released from the service, he withdrew his option for voluntary retirement by sending two letters dated 781997 and 2491997, but there was no response from the respondent.	None
By office memorandum dated 2591997 the appellant was released from the service and that too from the next day.	None
It is not disputed that the appellant was paid his salaries etc. till his date of actual release i.e. 2691997, and, therefore, the jural relationship of employee and employer between the appellant and the respondents did not come to an end on the date of acceptance of the voluntary retirement and the and relationship continued till 2691997.	None
The appellant admittedly sent two letters withdrawing his voluntary retirement before his actual date of release from service.	None
Therefore, in view of the settled position of the law and the terms of the letter of acceptance, the appellant had locus poenitentiae to withdraw his proposal for voluntary retirement before the relationship of employer and employee came to an end.	None
In may be that therein there did not exist a clause to the effect that once an option to voluntary retirement is accepted, the employee cannot withdraw the same, but the law laid down therein would apply herein also.	None
The submission of learned Attorney General that as soon as an offer is made by an employee, the same would amount to resignation in praesenti cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
The scheme was in force for a fixed period.	Reasoning
A decision by the authority was required to be taken and till a decision was taken, the jural relationship of employer and employee continued and the concerned employees would have been entitled to payment of all salaries and allowance etc.	Reasoning
Thus it cannot be said to be a case where the offer was given in praesenti but the same would be prospective in nature keeping in view of the fact that it was come into force at a later date and that too subject to acceptance thereof by the employer.	Reasoning
We, therefore, are of the opinion that the decision of this Court, as referred to herein before, shall apply to the facts of the present case also.104.	Reasoning
However, it is accepted that a group of employees accepted the ex gratia payment.	Reasoning
Those who accepted the ex gratia payment or any benefit under the scheme, in our considered opinion, could not have resiled therefrom.	Reasoning
The Scheme is contractual in nature.	None
The contractual right derived by the concerned employees, therefore, could be waived.	None
The employees concerned having accepted a part of the benefit could not be permitted to approbate and reprobate nor can they be permitted to resile from their earlier stand.	None
In Lachoo Mals case (supra) the law is stated in following terms The general principle is that every one has a right to waive and to agree to waive the advantage of a law or rule made solely for the benefit and protection of the individual in his private capacity which may be dispensed with without infringing any public right or public policy.	None
Thus the maxim which sanctions the nonobservance of the statutory provision is cuilibet licet renuntiare juri pro se introducto.	None
(See Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes, Eleventh Edition, pages 375 and 37(6).	None
If there is any express prohibition against contracting out of a statute in it then no question can arise of any one entering into a contract which is no prohibited but where there is no such prohibition it will have to be seen whether an Act in intended to have a more extensive operation as a matter of public policy.	None
In Halsburs Laws of England, Volume 8, Third Edition, it is stated Paragraph 248 at page 1432	None
As a general rule, any person can enter into a binding contract to waive the benefits conferred upon him by an Act of Parliament, or, as it is said, can contract himself out of the Act, unless it can be shown that such an agreement is in the circumstances of the particular case contrary to public policy.	None
Statutory conditions may, however, be imposed in such terms that they cannot be waived by agreement, and, in certain circumstances, the Legislature has expressly provided that any such agreement shall be void.	None
In Brijendra Nath Bhargavas case (supra), the law is stated in following terms It clearly goes to show that if a party gives up the advantage he could take of a position of law it is not open to him to change and say that he can avail of that ground.	None
In Dawsons Bank Ltd. case their Lordships were considering the question of waiver as a little different from estoppel and they observed as under On the other hand, waiver is contractual, and may constitute a cause of action it is an agreement to release or not to assert a right.	None
If an agent, with authority to make such an agreement on behalf of his principal agrees to waive his principals rights then (subject to any other question such as consideration) the principal will be bound, but he will be bound by contract But in the context of the conclusion that we have reached on the basis of circumstances indicated above that it could not be held that the tenant had constructed his dochatti or balcony a wooden piece without the consent express or implied of the landlord, in our opinion, it is not necessary for us to dilate on the question of waiver any further and in this view of the matter we are not referring to the other decisions on the question of waiver.	None
106	None
In Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Edition, Vol. 16 (Reissue) 957 at page 844 it is stated On the principle that a person may not approbate and reprobate a special species of estoppel has arisen.	None
The principle that a person may not approbate and reprobate expression two propositions That the person in question, having a choice between two course of conduct is to be treated as having made an election from which he cannot resile.	None
That he will be regarded, in general at any rate, as having so elected unless he has taken a benefit under or arising out of the course of conduct, which he has first pursued and with which his subsequent conduct is inconsistent In American Jurisprudence.	None
2nd Edition.	None
Volume 28, 1966, Page 677680 it is stated Estoppel by the acceptance of benefits Estoppel is frequently based upon the acceptance and retention, by one having knowledge or notice of the facts, of benefits from a transaction, contract, instrument, regulation which he might have rejected or contested.	None
This doctrine is obviously a branch of the rule against assuming inconsistent positions.	None
As a general principle, one who knowingly accepts the benefits of contract or conveyance is estopped to deny the validity or binding effect on him of such contract of conveyance.	None
This rule has to be applied to do equity and must not be applied in such a manner as to violate the principles of right and good conscience.	None
We also accept the contention raised by the learned counsel for the respondents that the concerned appellants could not have accepted the offer of voluntary retirement after expiry of the scheme.	Reasoning
All actions by the Banks were required to be taken strictly in terms of the said scheme.	Reasoning
We are furthermore not in a position to accept the arguments of Mr. Mukul Rohtagi to the effect that writ petitions were not maintainable as thereby the writ petitioners intended to enforce a contract.	None
The writ petitioners filed the writ petitions, inter alia, questioning the validity of the scheme.	None
In any event validity of clause 10.5 of the said scheme was in question.	None
The appellants herein are State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India.	None
The questions raised by the writ petitioners thus could be raised in a proceeding under Article 226 of the constitution of India.	None
Furthermore, in the even it be held that the action of the appellants was arbitrary and unreasonable, the same would attract the wrath of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.	None
Furthermore, the right of the employee to continue in employment, which is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India could not have been taken away except in accordance with law.	None
The decision of this Court in Har Shankar and Ors.	None
v. The Dv.	None
Excise and Taxation Commr, and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1975) 1 SCC 737 is not apposite.	None
In that case, this Court was concerned with the question as to whether enforcing the terms and conditions of a contract of supply of liquor which is a privilege would be permissible in a writ proceeding?	None
In the aforementioned situation, the writ was held to be not maintainable.	None
Such is not the position herein We may may now deal with that part of the order of the Punjab Haryana High Court whereby it has been held that the entire scheme is ultra vires being violative of subregulation 4 of Regulation 19 of the Regulations.111.	Reasoning
We do not agree with the decision of the High Court on that count for more than one reason.112.	Reasoning
Firstly, the scheme is not a part of the statutory regulation.	Reasoning
It was in the realm of contract.	Reasoning
That being so it was not necessary for the Central Government to place the same before the Parliament.113.	Reasoning
Secondly, even if the same was a regulation, the laying down rule is merely a directly one and not mandatory.	Reasoning
In Jan Mohammads case (supra), the law is stated in following terms Finally, the validity of the rules framed under the Bombay Act 22 of the 1939 was canvassed.	None
By s. 26(1) of the Bombay Act the State Government was authorised to make rules for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Act.	None
It was provided by subs.	None
(5) that the rules made under s. 26 shall be laid before each of the House of the Provincial Legislature at the session thereof next following and shall be liable to be modified or rescinded by a resolution in which both Houses concur and such rules shall, after notification in the Official Gazette, be deemed to have been modified or rescinded accordingly.	None
It was argued by the petitioner that the rules framed under the Bombay Act, 22 of 1939 were not placed before the Legislative Assembly or the Legislative Council at the first session and therefore they had no legal validity.	None
The rules under Act 22 of 1939 were framed by the Provincial Government of Bombay in 1941.	None
At that time there was no Legislature in session, the Legislature having been suspended during the emergency arising out of World War II.	None
The session of the Bombay Legislative Assembly was convened for the first time after 1041 on May 20, 1946 and that session was prorogued on May 24, 1946.	None
The second session of the Bombay Legislative Assembly was convened on July 15, 1946 and that of the Bombay Legislative Council on September 3, 1946 and the rules were placed on the Assembly Table in the second session before the Legislative Assembly on September 2, 1946 and before the Legislature Council on September 3, 1946.	None
Section 26(5) of Bombay Act 22 of 1939 does not prescribe that the rules acquired validity only from the date on which they were placed before the Houses of Legislature.	None
The rules are valid from the date on which they are made under s. 26(1).	None
It is true that the Legislature has prescribed that the rules shall be placed before the Houses of Legislature, but failure to place the rules before the Houses of Legislature does not affect the validity of the rules, merely because they have not been placed before the Houses of the Legislature.	None
Granting that the provisions of subs.	None
(5) of s. 26 by reason of the failure to place the rules before the House of Legislature were violated, we are of the view that subs.(5) of s. 26 having regard to the purposes for which it is made, and in the context in which it occurs, cannot be regarded as mandatory.	None
The rules have been in operation since the year 1941 and by virtue of s. 64 of the Gujarat Act 20 of 1964 they continue to remain in operation.	None
In Atlas Cycle Industries case (supra) the same view has been reiterated.	None
We, therefore, are of the opinion that the scheme in question cannot be said to be bad in law.117.	Reasoning
The Punjab and Haryana High Court in its impugned judgment has refused to grant any relief in ten writ petitions wherein prayers were made to the effect that the bank should be directed to act in terms of the said scheme.	Reasoning
the relief prayed for by the concerned petitioners were denied by the High Court on the ground that the same was not enforceable.	Reasoning
We have not accepted that part of the judgment of the High Court.	Reasoning
In that view of the matter, the High Court must now consider the claim of the said writ petitioners on merits and pass an appropriate order in accordance with law.	Reasoning
The said matters are, therefore, remitted to the High Court for consideration thereof afresh.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, we direct that1.	Decision
The appeals preferred by the Nationalised Banks arising from the High Courts are dismissed except the cases where the concerned employees have accepted a part of the benefit under the scheme However, in respect of such of the employees who despite acceptance of a part of the retirement benefit under the scheme had continued under the orders of the High Court and has retired on attaining the age of superannuation, this order shall not apply2.	Decision
The appeals filed by the State Bank of India are allowed3.	Decision
The appeals arising from the judgments of the Uttaranchal High Court are allowed and the judgments of the said High Court are set aside4.	Decision
The appeals arising from the judgments of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in relation to ten writ petitions which were filed by the employees for a direction upon the Bank that the benefits under the scheme be paid to them are set aside and the matters are remitted to the High Court for consideration thereof afresh on merits and in accordance with law119.	Decision
These appeals are disposed of on the above terms.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the parties shall pay and bear their own costs throughout.	Decision
