 H. Kapadia, J. Leave granted.	None
A short question which arises for determination in these civil appeals is  whether the decision of the Bid Evaluation Committee (EC for short) dated 6.5.2008 rejecting the Bid Proposal made by the Consortium led by M s Zoom Developers Pvt.	Issue
Ltd. as nonadmissible in terms of RFP and thus excluding the said Consortium from the zone of consideration was unjustified, arbitrary and bad in law, as held by the impugned judgment of the Kerala High Court dated 4.12.2008 in Writ Appeal No. 1460/2008.	Issue
Facts3.	Facts
Government of Kerala (GoK) vide G.O. No. 9/07/FPD dated 9.3.2007 decided to invite bids for the Development of International Deepwater Seaport and Container Transshipment Terminal at Vizhinjam under PublicPrivate Partnership.	Facts
Vide G.O. dated 15.6.2007 GoK decided on the key provisions in the Request For Proposal (RFP for short) documents for the bidding of the above Project.	Facts
A competitive bid process was thus initiated by M s Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd. (VSL for short).	Facts
VSL was the Sponsor.	Facts
IL FS Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDC for short) was the Project Advisor.	Facts
Accordingly, on 8.8.2007, Press Notification was issued by M s VSL inviting RFP for the development of the Project.	Facts
On 23.1.2008 a Bid Opening Committee was constituted vide G.O. of the same date.	Facts
Thirtythree firms obtained the RFP documents.	Facts
Vide G.O. dated 19.2.2008, Bid Evaluation Committee headed by the Chief Secretary was also constituted to Evaluate the Bid Proposals.	Facts
Ultimately, bids were received from the following five Consortia by 31.1.2008 (which was the last date stipulated for receiving the Bids), they were(i) Apollo Enterprises led consortium(ii) Nagarjuna Construction Co. led consortium(iii) Videocon Industries Ltd. led consortium(iv) Lanco Kondapalli Power Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad, led consortium(v)	Facts
Zoom Developers Pvt. Ltd., Mumbai led consortium.4.	Facts
The bidders were required to submit their proposals in four covers, namely, the Outer Cover (containing details of the bidder, power of attorney in favour of the lead member, consortium agreement entered amongst the members of the consortium, legal opinion, security of Rs. 50 million in the form of bank guarantee etc.),	Facts
Cover1 (Statement of Qualification), Cover2 (Technical Proposal) and Cover3 (Financial Proposal).	Facts
In this case, evaluation was done in three stages.	Facts
In the first stage, there was evaluation of Outer Cover and Cover1 to check the admissibility of bids and evaluation of qualifications as stipulated in the RFP.	Facts
It may be noted that evaluation of the Technical Proposal had to be done only of those bidders who met the Qualification Criteria (vide second stage).	Facts
The third stage contemplated evaluation of the Technical Proposal.	Facts
As stated above, only five bids were received.	Facts
These bids (Outer Cover and Cover1) were opened on 31.1.2008 by the Bid Opening Committee.	Facts
The said firms were found to have satisfied prima facie the requisite requirements.	Facts
The bids were accepted by the Bid Opening Committee for further scrutiny.	Facts
The bids submitted were considered at the meeting of the EC on 25.2.2008.	Facts
In the said meeting it was observed that, with regard to the bid submitted by the consortium led by M s Zoom Developers Pvt. Ltd. (ZDL for short), the Power of Attorney and the Consortium Agreement were unstamped and they needed to be stamped.	Facts
It was further pointed out by the EC that the lead member in terms of the RFP, namely, M s ZDL was required to hold a minimum equity of 26 in the Special Purpose Company (SPC for short), which has not been expressly mentioned in the Consortium Agreement.	Facts
The EC further pointed out to M s ZDL that one of the consortium member, namely, M s Portia Management Services Ltd. (PMS for short) had signed the consortium agreement on behalf of Peel Ports Ltd. (PPL for short) but M s PPL is not a member of the consortium.	Facts
Additional information regarding the financials of M s PMS (on its own) and of M s ZDL were also called for.	Facts
On 25.2.2008, accordingly the EC granted ten days time to remove the above defects.	Facts
M s ZDL sought extension of time.	Facts
Ultimately, time was extended up to 4.4.2008.	Facts
In short, meetings of the EC took place on 25.2.2008, 13.3.2008, 8.4.2008 and 6.5.2008.	Facts
By 2.4.2008, M s ZDL submitted all the relevant documents duly updated.	Facts
It may be noted that M s Universal Legal, Bangalore, were appointed as Legal Advisor of the Project by the EC.5.	Facts
As stated above, on 2.4.2008 M s ZDL submitted their modified documents.	Facts
On 4.4.2008 the said M s Universal Legal furnished their opinion that the Consortium Agreement submitted by the Consortium led by M s ZDL had complied with the requirements of the RFP and that they had removed all defects pointed out to them by the EC and accordingly the EC may consider their Bid Proposals.	Facts
However, in the third meeting held on 8.4.2008, the EC after having considered the documents submitted by the Consortium led by M s ZDL came to the conclusion that in the modified consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008, M s PMS has signed the consortium agreement on its own whereas in its original consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007, M s PMS has signed the consortium agreement on behalf of M s PPL.	Facts
Accordingly, the opinion of the Law Secretary (Invitee to the Meeting) was sought.	Facts
The Law Secretary opined that the modified consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008 cannot be treated as a part of the Original Proposal as the modified consortium agreement stood entered into by a new member, namely, M s PMS, without the authorization of M s PPL.	Facts
According to the Law Secretary, there was one more defect.	Facts
There was no provision in the modified consortium agreement to the effect that the consortium members shall be jointly and severally liable for the execution of the Project and that the only expression used was joint and several responsibility, which, according to the Law Secretary, was a concept different from joint and several liability.	Facts
This opinion of the Law Secretary was placed before the EC in its meeting held on 6.5.2008 in which meeting the EC concluded that the Bid submitted by the consortium led by M s ZDL was nonresponsive nonadmissible in terms of the RFP.	Facts
Accordingly on 24.5.2008, GoK issued Government Order approving the proposal given by Lanco Kondapalli Power Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad (hereinafter referred to as Lanco led Consortium).	Facts
Thus, the Bid Proposal of the consortium led by M s ZDL came to be rejected.6.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said decision, M s ZDL preferred Writ Petition (C) No. 15570/2008 in the Kerala High Court which came to be dismissed by the learned single Judge on 3.7.2008.	Facts
It was held by the learned Single Judge that the concept of liability was different from responsibility.	Facts
It was further held that since the consortium members led by M s ZDL had not undertaken joint and several liability, the EC was right in treating the bid proposal as nonresponsive.	Facts
It was further held by the learned single Judge that the original consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 was signed by M s PMS on behalf of M s PPL though no such authorization was found in that regard.	Facts
According to the learned single Judge, in the modified consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008, M s PPL, which was the party to the original consortium agreement, stood deleted and M s PMS had emerged as a member of consortium for the first time only under the modified consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008 without explaining under whose authority such change was made and consequently, the EC was right in treating the Bid Proposal made by M s ZDL as nonresponsive.	Facts
Accordingly, the writ petition stood dismissed.	Facts
Aggrieved by the said decision, M s ZDL preferred Writ Appeal No. 1460/2008, which stood allowed by the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court, hence, these civil appeals are filed by the State of Kerala (licensor),	Facts
M s Lanco Kondapalli Power Pvt. Ltd. and M s Vizhinjam International Sea Port Ltd. (Sponsors).	Facts
Contention On behalf of State of Kerala, Shri K. Parasaran, learned senior counsel submitted that after 31.1.2008 (the cutoff date) there was a change in M s ZDL led Consortium which was impermissible in terms of the RFP and, therefore, the Bid Evaluation Committee was right in treating the Bid submitted by M s ZDL led Consortium as nonresponsive nonadmissible in terms of the RFP.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention, learned senior counsel submitted that as per clause 3.4 of RFP, only the Lead Member could be changed and that too with the written consent of M s VSL (Sponsor).	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, RFP did not permit change of consortium member after the cutoff date.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be noted that the Proposals of the Bidders were to be submitted on or before 31.1.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel pointed out that along with the Proposal, M s ZDL submitted the Consortium Agreement dated 4.10.2007 in which M s PMS signed the consortium agreement on behalf of M s PPL, UK.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, according to the learned counsel, M s PMS singed the Consortium Agreement dated 4.10.2007 as an agent of M s PPL, UK.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, in the Consortium Agreement dated 4.10.2007, M s ZDL did not stipulate that as a Lead Member it would hold a minimum equity of 26 in the SPC.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Consortium Agreement dated 4.10.2007 was not notarized and stamped.	Arguments of Petitioner
That apart, the said consortium did not submit documents from M s PPL, UK authorizing M s PMS to sign the Consortium Agreement on behalf of M s PPL, UK.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, all the above circumstances came to be considered by the EC in its meeting held on 25.2.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
The EC, according to the learned counsel, recorded in its Minutes that since M s PPL was the member of the Consortium in terms of Consortium Agreement dated 4.10.2007, but, since M s PPL was not shown in the Outer Cover, therefore, a query was raised by the EC in its letter dated 3.3.2008 to the effect that although M s PMS has signed the Consortium Agreement on behalf of M s PPL, the latter was not a member of the Consortium.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, in the said letter dated 3.3.2008, there was no direction from the EC to M s ZDL to delete the words on behalf of M s PPL and consequently, after the cutoff date, it was not open to M s ZDL led Consortium to submit a fresh Consortium Agreement dated 11.3.2008 deleting the words on behalf of M s PPL.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, therefore, there was a change in the membership of the Consortium led by M s ZDL and that too after 31.1.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, according to the learned counsel, it was not a case of curing of defect.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, change of consortium membership after the cutoff date made the Proposal of M s ZDL led Consortium nonadmissible in terms of the RFP.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri K. Parasaran, learned senior counsel, next contended that vide clause 3.5 of the RFP, all members of the Consortium were jointly and severally liable for execution of the Project in terms of the Licence Agreement and a statement to that effect was required to be stated in the consortium agreement, which statement was not incorporated in consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 nor in the consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned senior counsel, the two words, namely, liabilities and responsibilities are not interchangeable.	Arguments of Petitioner
They are distinct and different concepts.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, RFP required a statement regarding joint and several liability to be incorporated in the consortium agreement because the word liability represented an objective criteria, which criteria has not been satisfied despite opportunity being given to M s ZDL led Consortium to incorporate such a statement in the consortium agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel submitted that despite opportunity being given to M s ZDL led Consortium, even in the fresh Agreement dated 11.3.2008, M s ZDL led Consortium had insisted on using the words joint and several liabilities in support of the words joint and several responsibilities.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, for noncompliance of the said criteria, the EC was right in treating the Bid Proposal of M s	Arguments of Petitioner
ZDL led Consortium as nonadmissible nonresponsive in terms of RFP.	Arguments of Petitioner
In short, on two of the aforestated grounds, namely, change of consortium membership and non incorporation of joint and several liability Clause in the consortium agreement, learned counsel for the State of Kerala submitted that the EC was right in treating the Bid Proposal of M s ZDL as nonresponsive.	Facts
9A.	None
Shri A. Sharan, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of M s VSL substantially adopts the contentions advanced by Shri K. Parasaran, learned senior counsel for the State of Kerala.	None
Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of M s Lanco led Consortium submitted in addition to the above contentions that, in any event, the figures submitted by M s ZDL led Consortium indicated that, on its own M s PMS did not fulfill the financial parameters of net worth, total turnover and cash accruals and that M s PMS was solely dependent upon the financials of M s PPL, UK, consequently, the Bid Proposal of M s	Arguments of Respondent
ZDL led Consortium was not admissible in terms of RFP.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned senior counsel further submitted that in the Consortium Agreement dated 4.10.2007, there was a clause under the caption Relationship of Parties.	Arguments of Respondent
Reading of that clause, according to the learned counsel, indicated that the consortium members were to act on principaltoprincipal basis and despite opportunity, even in the fresh Consortium Agreement dated 11.3.2008, the said clause stood retained.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, according to the learned counsel, the criteria of joint and several liability was not satisfied by M s ZDL led Consortium.11.	Arguments of Respondent
On the other hand, it was submitted on behalf of M s ZDL led Consortium that the interpretation given by the Sponsor Advisor on various terms and conditions of the RFP should be read as a standard to evaluate the admissibility of the bids.	Arguments of Respondent
According to Shri Harish N. Salve, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of M s ZDL, the Minutes of the EC held on 25.2.2008 indicated that the words responsibility and liability were used interchangeably.	Arguments of Respondent
That, it is only after the Law Secretary gave his opinion that the question of the connotation of the two words liability and responsibility were made an issue, which was clearly an afterthought.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, the said hairsplitting exercise was undertaken as an afterthought only after the Law Secretary gave his opinion, which opinion was off the record advice (which expression is used by the Law Secretary in his affidavit).	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, there was no change in the membership of the Consortium led by M s ZDL because right from the inception, at the time of submitting the Proposals, it was made clear that M s PMS would be the member of M s ZDL led Consortium.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that M s PMS was the subsidiary of M s PPL, UK, and the words on behalf of were used in the Consortium Agreement dated 4.10.2007 only to indicate the relationship between M s PMS and M s PPL, UK.	Arguments of Respondent
This position, according to the learned counsel, is indicated by the Bid documents submitted on 31.1.2008, Power of Attorney dated 18.10.2007, Notary Certificate, Covering letter dated 31.1.2008 and annexures to the Bid documents submitted by M s ZDL.12.	Arguments of Respondent
On the question of financials, Shri Arun Jaitley, learned senior counsel for M s ZDL, submitted that the Chart submitted before this Court by the learned counsel for M s Lanco led Consortium was defective because the Financials for FY 20062007 has not been projected.	Arguments of Respondent
In this connection, it was pointed out that M s ZDL had submitted the details for FY October, 2003 to September, 2004, October, 2004 to September, 2005 and October, 2005 to September, 2006 as on 31.1.2008.	Arguments of Respondent
It was pointed out that, M s ZDL was following the Accounting Year from October to September.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the last date for submission of Bids was 31.10.2007 initially, which stood extended later on till 31.1.2008.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, the Balance Sheet for FY 20062007 was in the process of being prepared when the Bid documents were submitted on 31.1.2008 and consequently, the Balance Sheet for FY 20062007 could not be submitted.	Arguments of Respondent
According to the learned counsel, if the Financials for the year including FY 20062007 are taken into account, then M s ZDL lead Consortium satisfies all the financial parameters of net worth, turnover and cash accruals.	Arguments of Respondent
Points for Consideration(A) Whether the modified Consortium Agreement dated 11.3.2008 resulted in a change in the constituents membership of the Consortium led by M s ZDL.(B)	Reasoning
Whether use of the expression joint and several responsibility in place of joint and several liability would justify rejection of the Bid Proposal made by the Consortium led by M s ZDL as nonresponsive nonadmissible in terms of the RFP.	Issue
Findings on Point No.	None
(A)14.	None
As per the scheme of RFP, at the stage of Submission of Proposals, the bidders were required to furnish the names of the Lead Member and other members of the consortium.	Reasoning
In this case, one of the members of the consortium was M s PMS.	Reasoning
While furnishing Details of Bidders, the name of the consortium member was shown as PMS.	Reasoning
Similarly, against the column Brief Description of the Company, the name of M s PMS was mentioned as the international arm of M s PPL.	Reasoning
Therefore, at the stage of Submission of Proposals, M s ZDL had stated that M s PMS was the member of its Consortium.	Reasoning
There was one more column which was required to be filledin by the bidders, namely, Ownership of the Organisation.	Reasoning
In this column, M s ZDL indicated that M s PMS was a consortium member which was the wholly subsidiary company of M s PPL, UK.	Reasoning
It may be noted that, under the Scheme of RFP, the bidders had to offer a firm commitment to form SPC to implement and operate the above Project in Kerala, should the Sponsor (M s VSL) select one of the five bidders as Licensee.	Reasoning
Therefore, the Proposal had to be made in a prescribed format.	Reasoning
On reading the said Proposal, therefore, it becomes clear that on the date, namely, 31.1.2008, being the cutoff date (when the bids were opened), M s PMS was the memberconstituent of the consortium led by M s ZDL.	Reasoning
At this stage, one must keep in mind that Section 212 of the Companies Act, 1956 which makes it obligatory on behalf of the holding company to annex to its Balance Sheet the Balance Sheet and PL account and other financial particulars of its subsidiary.	Reasoning
Section 212 requires the legal relationship of holding company and subsidiary company to be disclosed to all its members.	Reasoning
In the world of globalization, we have consortium agreements joint venture agreements.	Reasoning
It appears from the particulars given by the consortium led by M s ZDL that M s PMS is a part of an international group of companies headed by M s PPL, UK.	Reasoning
The prescribed Form warranted Disclosure giving particulars of the consortium members.	Reasoning
The particulars furnished indicate that the Lead Member was M s ZDL.	Reasoning
It is an Indian company.	Reasoning
One of the consortium member was M s PMS, which is incorporated in UK.	Reasoning
It is the 100 subsidiary of M s PPL, UK.	Reasoning
This information also became necessary because the format required the Bidder to disclose Ownership of the membercompany.	Reasoning
Therefore, if one reads the Proposal of the Lead Member, M s ZDL, in the form prescribed, which Proposal was of 31.1.2008, one finds that M s PMS alone on its own was indicated as a member of the consortium and M s PPL was not shown as the member of the consortium.	Reasoning
However, the original consortium joint venture agreement dated 4.10.2007 signed by the memberconstituent of the consortium led by M s ZDL stood signed by M s PMS on behalf of M s PPL, UK.	Reasoning
Therefore, on 3.3.2008, IDC (Project Advisor) wrote to M s ZDL inter alia pointing out the defect in the consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 in the following words M s PMS has signed consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 on behalf of M s PPL but M s PPL is not a member of the consortium.	Reasoning
Thus, the Project Advisor treated the above irregularity in the execution of the consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 as a curable defect for which time was given to M s ZDL up to 4.4.2008.	Reasoning
Further, the Project Advisor clearly understood the Proposal to have had been given by M s ZDL as the Lead Member of the Consortium, whose constituent inter alia included M s PMS and not M s PPL.	Reasoning
By the said letter, the Project Advisor also called for Annual Reports of three financial year of M s ZDL and Annual Reports of last 3 years of M s PMS (its own).	Reasoning
This query indicates that the Project Advisor not only treated the above irregularity in the execution of the consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 as the curable defect but it further shows that even, according to the Project Advisor, M s PMS alone was the constituent member of the consortium led by M s ZDL and it is for this reason that the Project Advisor called for the annual reports of M s PMS (its own).	Reasoning
This defect was cured by M s PMS within the extended period.	Reasoning
It is interesting to note that the question of authorization by M s PPL,UK, was not raised by the Project Advisor in its letter dated 3.3.2008.	Reasoning
That aspect was raised only by the Law Secretary who came to be Invited as a special invitee by the Chief Secretary in the meetings of the EC held on 8.4.2008 and 6.5.2008 (which is after the extended date 4.4.2008).	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that M s PPL, UK is the holding company of M s PMS.	Reasoning
M s PMS is a subsidiary company.	Reasoning
It is the separate legal entity.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that at the stage of Submission of Proposal itself and right from the inception, it was M s PMS, who alone was the constituent member of the consortium.	Reasoning
The question of authorization raised by the Law Secretary, in his opinion, is clearly an afterthought.	Reasoning
In fact, there is a contradiction in his opinion.	Reasoning
If M s PPL was the member of the consortium, as construed by the Law Secretary, there was no need for M s PPL to authorize M s PMS to execute the consortium agreement.	Reasoning
On the other hand, if M s PMS being the separate legal entity was a member of the consortium it had to sign the consortium agreement in its own capacity.	Reasoning
The modified consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008 is supported by a Resolution.	Reasoning
The said consortium agreement is in line with the Proposal submitted on 31.1.2008.15.	Reasoning
One more aspect needs to be pointed out.	Reasoning
The RFP prescribes the form in which a bidder has to make his proposal.	Reasoning
However, bidder was free to submit the consortium agreement in its own format.	Reasoning
M s Universal Legal (legal advisor to the Sponsor) cleared the proposal on 4.4.2008 stating that all requisite defects stood cured.	Reasoning
It is only after 4.4.2008 that the Law Secretary came into picture and gave an opinion to the contrary.	Reasoning
Moreover, as found by the High Court in the impugned judgment, when the Law Secretary was asked to file his affidavit he came out with the statement that his advice was off the record advice.	Reasoning
It was not given through Official Channel.	Reasoning
At this stage, we may also point out that no material has been placed before the High Court as to the reference made by the Chief Secretary to the Law Secretary.	Reasoning
Whenever opinion is sought, the persons seeking opinion has to formulate the query for which opinion is sought.	Reasoning
We do not know the query raised by the Chief Secretary before the Law Secretary.	Reasoning
No material has been placed before us in this regard.	Reasoning
In fact, the very purpose of routing the query through Official Channel is that the querist formulates the query on which opinion is given.	Reasoning
In this case, there is no formulation of such a query.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, we find that the High Court was right in not giving weightage to the off the record advice of the Law Secretary.	Reasoning
This is one of the circumstances which vitiates the process of decision making by the EC.	Reasoning
The bid was declared as nonadmissible in the IVth meeting of the EC held on 6.5.2008.	Reasoning
The Minutes indicate that, before the EC, there were two Opinions.	Reasoning
First opinion was that of M s Universal Legal and the second opinion was that of the Law Secretary.	Reasoning
There is nothing to indicate in the Minutes as to why the opinion of the legal advisor, M s Universal Legal, stood rejected.	Reasoning
There is no reason given as to why the opinion of the Law Secretary came to be accepted.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, we are of the view that the modified consortium agreement was between members of the consortium led by M s ZDL in which the member was M s PMS and not M s PPL, UK, right from the inception.	Reasoning
Therefore, the entire exercise was to cure the defect.	Reasoning
Time was given to M s ZDL to cure the defect which in fact was cured before 4.4.2008.	Reasoning
For the aforestated reasons, we hold that there was no change in the membership of the consortium led by M s ZDL after 31.1.2008.	Reasoning
In fact, even prior to the IVth meeting the EC did not call upon M s ZDL PMS to obtain Letter of Authority from M s PPL, UK.16.	Reasoning
For the above reasons we hold that there was no change in the membership of the Consortium led by M s ZDL.Findings on Point No. (B) As stated above, the second ground for treating the Bid Proposal of the consortium led by M z ZDL as nonresponsive was that, in the consortium agreement, M s ZDL has failed to incorporate the expression joint and several liability.	None
That, M s ZDL has incorporated the clause under the expression joint and several responsibility in place of joint and several liability and consequently, the Bid Proposal became nonadmissible nonresponsive in terms of the RFP.	Issue
This was the basic argument advanced on behalf of GoK. At the outset, it may be stated that in letter dated 3.3.2008 no such point was ever raised by the Project Advisor.	None
As stated above, by the said letter dated 3.3.2008 curable defects were pointed out regarding M s PMS having signed the consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 on behalf of M s PPL, UK, but no query was ever raised on the above point.	None
On the contrary, as can be seen from the Minutes of the meetings held prior to 8.4.2008, the Project Advisor Sponsor has used the word responsibility interchangeably with the word liability.	None
It is only in the opinion of the Law Secretary that, for the first time, the above objection is taken.	None
Be that as it may, the question is whether in the modified consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008 responsibilities and allocation of works stood clearly demarcated between the members of the consortium?	None
We have examined the consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008.	None
It clearly indicates that M s ZDL is an Indian company.	Reasoning
It is a lead member of the consortium.	Reasoning
The agreement further indicates that there were two members in the consortium apart from M s ZDL, namely, M s PMS and M s Peter Fraenkel Partners.	Reasoning
The agreement indicates that M s ZDL shall be responsible for implementation of the Project along with M s PMS and M s Peter Fraenkel Partners.	Reasoning
M s	Reasoning
ZDL had to submit technical and financial bids.	Reasoning
M s ZDL had to act as project developers and principal coordinators.	Reasoning
M s ZDL had to arrange finances.	Reasoning
On the other hand, M s Peter Fraenkel Partners had to do the work of designing and budget preparations whereas M s PMS had to provide operational support during the implementation of the Project.	Reasoning
Therefore, under the said Agreement, duties and responsibilities of each of the members stood carved out.	Reasoning
Vide clause 7, members of the consortium were made jointly and severally responsible for every stage of implementation of the Project.	Reasoning
The only objection raised by the GoK is that the word liable ought to have been used instead of the word responsible in clause 7 and since that word has not been used, the Bid Proposal of M s ZDL needs to be dismissed.	Reasoning
As stated above, in the meetings held prior to 8.4.2008, no such objection was ever raised.	Reasoning
In fact, no opportunity was given to M s ZDL to cure this defect though it was given to the consortium led by M s Apollo (see page 81 of the SLP paper book in SLP (C) Nos. 3020430205/2008 entitled State of Kerala v. M s Zoom Developers Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd.	Reasoning
Ors.).	Reasoning
The important point is that the EC treated the above objection as a curable defect.	Reasoning
It is only after the Law Secretary came on the scene that the above objection was raised even after the clearance by M s Universal Legal.	Reasoning
Therefore, it is clearly an afterthought.	Reasoning
Further under the consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008, it was stated that M s ZDL, PMS and Peter Fraenkel Partners shall be fully responsible for their individual portions of work.	Reasoning
Under the said Agreement, it was further stated that, in case the Project stood awarded to the Consortium, the Consortium commits to hold a minimum stake of 51 in the SPC.	Reasoning
This shows that in the matter of liability, the Consortium Agreement was only a stepinaide to the formation of SPC.	Reasoning
Further, as rightly held by the High Court in the impugned judgment, the apprehension of GoK that in the event of disputes between members of the consortium or in the event of nonimplementation of the Project, GoK would not be in a position to enforce its claim was illfounded because the licence agreement between the successful bidder and the licensor (GoK) was yet to be entered into in which a provision as to joint and several liability had to be made, as mentioned in the RFP.	Reasoning
The consortium agreement was only an assurance or a commitment to abide by the licence agreement.	Reasoning
Lastly, it may be stated that the word responsibility is no doubt different from the word liability.	Reasoning
What is submitted before us is that the expression joint and several liability was required to be incorporated in the consortium agreement in terms of RFP.	Reasoning
What was submitted before us was that the said expression constituted an objective criteria.	Reasoning
What was submitted before us was that since the above expression in the RFP was treated as an objective criteria, the manner in which the said expression stood understood by the EC was irrelevant.	Reasoning
We do not find merit in this argument.	Reasoning
As stated above, though the Form of Proposal was prescribed, the bidder was free to submit the consortium agreement in its own Form.	Reasoning
In our view, in the absence of a prescribed format and in the absence of the definition of the word responsibility visvis the word liability in the RFP, it cannot be said that the said expression joint and several liability was an objective criteria.	Reasoning
It is true that in terms of RFP, the bidder was required to stipulate the words joint and several liability in the consortium agreement.	Reasoning
But it is equally true that in certain cases objective words can be interpreted subjectively.	Reasoning
For example, the word regulate.	Reasoning
It has several times been decided that the power to regulate does not extend to a power to prohibit.	Reasoning
But this very word has been held in some other cases to include the power to prohibit.	Reasoning
In U.K., the Railway Board was entitled to impose a ban on smoking in trains under this very power to regulate.	Reasoning
Therefore, one has to construe each of these words in that context.	Reasoning
(see Administrative Law by H.W. Wade and Forsyth 9th ed.	Reasoning
at pp. 432435).	Reasoning
In this very case, various bids were considered by the Project Advisor Sponsor.	Reasoning
They have themselves used the words liability and responsibility interchangeably.	Reasoning
They have treated this defect as a curable defect.	Reasoning
They have not rejected the Bid Proposal on 25.2.2008 in the first meeting on the above ground because the EC thought that the said defect was a curable defect.	None
It was vehemently urged on behalf of M s Lanco led Consortium that in the consortium agreement dated 4.10.2007 as well as in the consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008, there was a clause under the heading Relationship of Parties which indicated that each member of the consortium shall deal with the other on principaltoprincipal basis till the formation of SPC.	Arguments of Respondent
In the said clause, it was further stated that, nothing contained in the agreement shall be deemed to constitute any of the parties as agent of the other.	None
Therefore, the members of the consortium led by M s ZDL cannot be said to be jointly and severally liable at every stage of implementation of the Project.	Reasoning
We do not find merit in this argument.	Reasoning
As stated above, the consortium agreement dated 11.3.2008 spelt out the work allocation and the responsibility of each member of the consortium.	Reasoning
It made the consortium responsible jointly and severally for implementation of the Project.	Reasoning
The clause dealing with relationship of the parties merely stated that till the formation of the SPC, each member shall be related to each other on principaltoprincipal basis.	Reasoning
This is because the consortium is formed to make a bid for this Project only.	Reasoning
Till the formation of SPC and till the consortium becomes a successful bidder, the parties relate to each other on principaltoprincipal basis.	Reasoning
But once that consortium becomes a successful bidder and commits to hold the minimum equity stake of 51 in the SPC, then the question of joint and several liability would certainly arise.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court rightly held that the licence agreement between GoK and the successful bidder (consortium) has still to be executed and it is at that stage that, in any event, the clause of joint and several liability shall stand incorporated in the licence agreement.21.	Reasoning
Before concluding, an attempt was made on behalf of M s Lanco Kondapalli Power Pvt. Ltd. (appellant in the civil appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 30305/2008) to demonstrate before us that but for the financials of M s PPL, the consortium led by M s ZDL would not have met the financial qualification criteria as on the date of the submission of the Bid Proposal (31.1.2008).	Reasoning
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of M s Lanco Kondapalli Power Pvt.	Reasoning
Ltd. submitted a Chart in support of his above contention.	Reasoning
We find no merit in this argument.	Reasoning
The said Chart refers to the Financial Years October, 2003 to September, 2004, October 2004 to September, 2005, October, 2005 to September, 2006 as far as M s ZDL is concerned.	Reasoning
However, it may be noted that initially the last date for submitting the bid was 31.10.2007, which was extended to 31.1.2008.	Reasoning
The Balance Sheet and PL account of M s ZDL for the year ending 30.9.2007 stood adopted after audit only on 20.3.2008.	Reasoning
If the figures for that year are taken into account then the financial qualification criteria stands satisfied.	Reasoning
For the aforestated reasons, we find no infirmity in the impugned judgment of the Division Bench of the Kerala High Court which has given a declaration to the effect that the Outer Cover and Cover1 submitted by the consortium led by M s ZDL is admissible responsive in terms of RFP.	Decision
Consequently, we declare that the Technical and Financial Proposals submitted by the said Consortium (respondent no. 1) are liable to be considered within 15 days from the date of this judgment.23.	Decision
Accordingly, the civil appeals stand dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
