RUMA PAL, J. Leave granted.	None
The scope of the protection afforded to guarantors under Section 22(1) of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (referred to as SICA) is in issue in these appeals.	Issue
The Pradeshiya Industrial and Investment Corporation of U.P. Ltd., respondent No. 1 herein (referred to as PICUP hereafter) had given loans to a company, M s Shefali Papers Ltd., the respondent No. 2 before us (hereinafter referred to as the company).	Facts
By way of security the company mortgaged its immovable properties and hypothecated its assets to PICUP.	Facts
In addition the appellants executed bonds of guarantee in consideration for the grant of loans to the company.3.	Facts
On 1st December 1997, the Company was declared sick by the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) in terms of Section 3(1)(o) of the SICA.	Facts
The BIFR appointed IFCI as the operating agency under Section 17(3) of the Act to examine the viability and submit its report for revival of the company.	Facts
While the proceedings before the BIFR were pending, on 6th February 2002 three separate notices of demand were served on the appellants as personal guarantors in respect of the loans granted to the company by PICUP.	Facts
The total amount claimed was Rs.8,90,84.259.06p.	Facts
Each of the appellants was called upon to pay the demand within 30 days along with the interest at the rates specified in the notice failing which PICUP said that it would take legal measures to recover its outstanding dues from each guarantor.	Facts
The appellants replied to the notice stating that because of the decisions of this Court on the scope of Section 22(1) of the Act, PICUP could not enforce its demand against the appellants.	Facts
PICUP rejected the stand of the appellants and called upon the appellants to liquidate its dues failing which recovery certificates would be issued against the appellants.4.	Facts
The appellants did not pay.	Facts
Instead they filed a writ petition which was ultimately dismissed on 23rd May 2002.	Facts
The decision of the High Court is the subject matter of the present appeals.	Facts
Recovery certificates which have been issued against the appellants have been stayed by this Court pending disposal of the special leave petitions.	Facts
The submission of the appellants is that Section 22(1) of SICA specifically prohibited the filing of a suit for the recovery of the money for the enforcement of any guarantee in respect of any loan or advance granted to an industrial company.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has been placed on Maharashtra Tubes Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
S.I.I. Corpn. of Maharashtra 1993(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
SCC 144, Kanhaiyalal Vishindas Gidwani Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Arun Dattatray Mehta 2001 (1) SCC 78 , LIC V. Escorts Ltd. 1986 (1) SCC 264 ,	Arguments of Petitioner
P.L. Kantha Rao Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
State of A.P. 1995 (2) SCC 471 , Ghantesher Ghosh	Arguments of Petitioner
Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Madan Mohan Ghose 1996 (11) SCC 446 , Pandurang R. Mandlik Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shantibair Ghatge 1989 Supp.(2) SCC 627 to submit that the word suit in Section 22 (1) should be understood as including any proceeding including certificate proceedings for the enforcement of such a guarantee.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that this Court in Patheja Bros.	Arguments of Petitioner
Forgings Stampings Vs. ICICI Ltd. 2000 (6) SCC 545 had clearly held that the legislative intent was to protect the guarantors since the guarantee given in respect of an industrial company which was being revived under the Act is a fundamental part of its restructuring process.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that no rational distinction should be made between a creditor who would have to file a suit to enforce a guarantee and creditors like PICUP which could recover its dues without approaching the Court by summary proceedings as an arrear of land revenue.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is claimed that if a proceeding for recovery through a court of law were prohibited under Section 22(1), there was no reason why such protection should be refused when action was sought to be taken without recourse to Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel appearing on behalf of PICUP has submitted that the word suit in Section 22(1) must be understood as a judicial or at least an adjudicatory process.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that PICUP was entitled to enforce its claim under the U.P Public Money (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1972.	Arguments of Respondent
Under the U.P Act a distinction is drawn between a proceeding and a suit.8.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 3 specifically states that no suit for the recovery of any sum shall lie in the Civil Court against any such person to whom a certificate was issuable under Section 3(1).	Arguments of Respondent
It is submitted that since a suit was already barred by the U.P. Act, the question it being further barred under Section 22(1) did not arise.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also pointed out that in Section 22(1) of SICA, Parliament has drawn a distinction between the word proceeding and suit.	Arguments of Respondent
It is pointed out that this Court in its decision in Maharashtra Tubes (supra) had construed the word proceeding to include proceedings under the State Financial Corporation Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The section was subsequently amended by the introduction of the prohibition relating to the filing of a suit inter alia to enforce a guarantee in respect of loans advanced to a sick industrial company.	Arguments of Respondent
It is argued that had the Parliament intended to include proceeding like those under the U.P Act within the word suit, it would have used the word proceeding and not consciously used the word suit.	Arguments of Respondent
The respondents have relied upon the decision of this Court in Assistant Collector of Central Excise Vs.	Arguments of Respondent
Ramdev Tobacco Company 1991 (2) SCC 119 to contend that the word suit did not cover any proceeding which was not in a Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It is then contended that the proceedings under the U.P. Act were really in the nature of recovery proceedings under S.22(1) of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Recovery proceedings were prohibited only against the industrial company itself and not against the guarantor.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the High Court had given liberty to the appellants to approach the BIFR under Section 22(3) of the Act but the appellants had not availed of that remedy.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 128 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 provides that the liability of the surety is coextensive with that of the principal debtor, unless it is otherwise provided by the contract.	None
The clauses of the guarantees executed by the appellant in favour of PICUP clearly show that the liability of the guarantors was to remain unaffected by either the failure of PICUP to enforce its mortgage and hypothecation against the assets of the company.	None
Clauses 6, 7, 15, 16 and 17 are relevant in this context and they specifically provide The guarantee herein contained shall be enforceable against the Guarantors notwithstanding that the securities specified in the mortgage or any of them shall at the time when proceedings are taken against the Guarantors hereunder be outstanding or unrealised.	None
The guarantee herein contained shall be enforceable against the Guarantors notwithstanding that no action of any kind has been taken by the Corporation against the Company Borrower and an intimation in writing sent to the Company by the Corporation that a default or breach has occurred shall be treated as final and conclusive proof as to the facts stated therein.	None
The Guarantors herein agree that it shall not be necessary for the Corporation to sue the said Company Borrower before suing Guarantors for the amount due hereunder.	None
The Guarantors also hereby agree that the liability to repay the amount due to the Corporation shall arise on demand being made by the Guarantors by a registered notice addressed to the Guarantors on their addresses hereinafter contained.	None
The guarantors hereby agree that any amount due from them hereunder to the Corporation shall be recoverable under the U.P. Public Money (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1972 (as amended from time to time) as arrears of land revenue and further that it shall not be necessary for the Corporation to take recovery proceedings against the said Company Borrower before taking recovery proceedings under the said Act against the Guarantors.	None
The Guarantors further agree for the applicability of relevant provisions of the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951.	None
There is therefore nothing in the contracts which can in any way be construed as contrary to the joint and severally liability created under Section 128.	None
Under the guarantees PICUP could raise and enforce a demand against the appellants under the U.P Public Demands (Recovery of Dues) Act, 1972 (referred to as the UP Act).	None
Section 3 of the U.P Act provides for the issuance of a certificate to the Collector by a financial corporation like PICUP in respect of sums from persons specified in subsection (1) of Section 3 requesting that such sums together with the costs of the proceedings should be recovered as if it were an arrear of land revenue.	None
Subsection 2 of Section 3 of the U.P. Act provides that the Collector on receiving the certificate shall proceed to recover the amount stated therein as an arrear of land revenue.	None
Therefore, the procedure prescribed under the U.P. Act does not necessitate that PICUP must enforce its rights through any legal forum nor indeed after any adjudicatory process.	None
This is clear also from the proviso to subSection 4 to Section 3 of the U.P. Act which provides In the case of any agreement referred to in subsection (1) between any person referred to in that sub section and the State Government or the Corporation, no arbitration proceedings shall lie at the instance of either party either for recovery of any sum claimed to be due under the said subsection or for disputing the correctness of such claimProvided that whenever proceedings are taken against any person for the recovery of any such sum he may pay the amount claimed under protest to the officer taking such proceedings, and upon such payment the proceedings shall be stayed and the person against whom such proceedings were taken may make a reference under or otherwise enforce an arbitration agreement in respect of the amount so paid, and the provisions of Section 183 of the Uttar Pradesh Land Revenue Act, 1901, or Section 287A of the Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 1950 as the case may be, shall mutatis mutandis apply in relation to such reference or endorsement as they apply in relation to any suit in the civil court.	None
In other words payment pursuant to the certificate must be made before the dispute can be referred to arbitration.	None
The U.P. Act has, as rightly contended by counsel for PICUP also drawn a distinction between certificate proceedings, suits and arbitrations and the demand and its enforcement are not required to be determined or realised through Court or after any adjudicatory process.	None
That the guarantees are enforceable by PICUP against the appellants under the U.P. Act is in fact not in issue before us.	None
The limited question is whether PICUP is prohibited by Section 22(1) of the Act from doing so.	None
Prior to 1994, Section 22(1) of the SICA read as follows Suspension of legal proceedings, contracts, etc.	None
(1) Where in respect of an industrial company, an inquiry under section 16 is pending or any scheme referred to under section 17 is under preparation or consideration or a sanctioned scheme is under implementation or where an appeal under section 25 relating to an industrial company is pending, then, notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956, or any other law or the memorandum and articles of association of the industrial company or any other instrument having effect under the said Act or other law, no proceedings for the winding up of the industrial company or for execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of the industrial company or for the appointment of a receiver in respect thereof shall lie or be proceeded with further, except with the consent of the Board or, as the case may be, the Appellate Authority.	None
In Maharashtra Tubes Ltd.	None
Vs.	Arguments of Petitioner
S.I.I. Corporation of Maharashtra Ltd. (supra), when a question arose whether a State Financial Corporation could take action against an industrial concern under Section 29 and or Section 31 of the State Financial Corporation Act, 1951, notwithstanding the bar of Section 22 of SICA, this Court held that the expression proceeding in Section 22(1) should not be limited to legal proceedings as understood in the narrow sense but would include proceedings under Sections 29 and 31 of the State Financial Corporation Act.	None
It was said The purpose and object of this provision is clearly to await the outcome of the reference made to the BIFR for the revival and rehabilitation of the sick industrial company.	None
The words or the like which follow the words execution and distress are clearly intended to convey that the properties of the sick industrial company shall not be made the subjectmatter of coercive action of similar quality and characteristics till the BIFR finally disposes of the reference made under Section 15 of the said enactment.	None
The legislature has advisedly used an omnibus expression the like as it could not have conceived of all possible coercive measures that may be taken against a sick undertaking.	None
The action contemplated by Section 29 of the 1951 Act is undoubtedly a coercive measure directed at the take over of the management and property of the industrial concern and confers a further right on the Financial Corporation to transfer by way of lease or sale the properties of the said concern and any such transfer effected by the Financial Corporation would vest in the transferee all rights in or to the transferred property as if the transfer was made by the owner of the company.	None
So also under the said provision the Financial Corporation will have the same rights and powers with respect to goods manufactured or produced wholly or partly from goods forming part of the security held by it as it had with respect to the original goods.	None
It is, therefore, obvious on a plain reading of Section 29 of the 1951 Act that it permits coercive action against the defaulting industrial concern of the type which would be taken in execution or distress proceedings the only difference being that in the latter case the concerned party would have to use the forum prescribed by law for the purpose of securing attachment and sale of property of the defaulting industrial concern whereas in the case of a Financial Corporation that right is conferred on the creditor corporation itself which is permitted to take over the management and possession of the properties and deal with them as if it were the owner of the properties.	None
If the Corporation is permitted to resort to the provisions of Section 29 of the 1951 Act while proceedings under Sections 15 to 19 of the 1985 Act are pending it will render the entire process nugatory.	None
In such a situation the law merely expects the corporation and for that matter any other creditor to obtain the consent of the BIFR or, as the case may be, the appellate authority to proceed against the industrial concern.	None
The law has not left them without a remedy.	None
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the word proceedings in Section 22(1) cannot be given a narrow or restricted meaning to limit the same to legal proceedings.	None
Such a narrow meaning would run counter to the scheme of the law and frustrate the very object and purpose of Section 22(1) of the 1985 Act.	None
It appears that there were three reasons why this Court construed that the word proceeding as including action which may be taken under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporation Act The recovery proceedings were against an industrial company, the revival of which was one of the objects of the Act2.	None
The use of the omnibus eexpression or the like after the word proceeding3.	None
The fact that the entire Scheme as contained in Sections 16 to 19 of SICA would be rendered nugatory and the process shortcircuited of State Financial Corporations were allowed to recover their dues from the assets of the company.	None
After this decision was rendered, Section 22(1) was amended by the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Amendment Act (12 of 1994).	None
The following words were inserted in Section 22(1) and no suit for the recovery of money or for the enforcement of any security against the industrial company or of any guarantee in respect of any loans or advance granted to the industrial company There is an apparent distinction between the expressions proceeding and suit used in Section 22(1).	None
While it is true that two different words may be used in the same statute to convey the same meaning, that is the exception rather than the rule.	None
The general rule is that when two different words are used by the same statute, prima facie one has to construe these different words as carrying different meanings.	None
In Kanhaiyalal Vishnidas Gidwani (supra) this Court found that words subscribed and signed had been used in the Representation of People Act, 1951 interchangeably and, therefore, in that context the Court came to the conclusion that when the Legislature used the word subscribed it did not intend anything more than signing.	None
The words suit and proceeding have not been used interchangeably in SICA.	None
Therefore, the reasons which persuaded this Court to give the same meaning to two different words in a statute cannot be applied here.	None
In none of the decisions cited before us, has the word suit been defined in a context similar to that of SICA.	None
The decisions cited by the appellants do not relate to the same or similar statutes nor do they seek to define the word suit in contradistinction to the word proceeding.	None
The decision in Ghantesher Ghose Vs.	None
Madan Mohan Ghose (supra) was given in the context of the Partition Act where a distinction between filing a suit for partition and suing for partition has been drawn.	None
It was held that suing for partition was a wider phrase than the phrase suit for partition without defining what a suit meant.	None
The decision in Assistant Collector of Central Excise Vs.	None
Ramdev Tobacco Company (supra) related to the construction of the bar of suit section in the Central Excise and Salt Act, 1944.	None
The section as it stood at the relevant time provided that no suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be instituted for anything done or ordered to be done under the Act. .	None
The Court held There can be no doubt that suit or prosecution are those judicial or legal proceedings which are lodged in a court of law and not before any executive authority, even if a statutory one.	None
A definition of the word suit has been given in Pandurang R. Mandlik Vs.	None
Shantibai R. Ghatge (supra) but in the context of Section 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
This is what the Court said In its comprehensive sense the word suit is understood to apply to any proceeding in a court of justice by which an individual pursues that remedy which the law affords.	None
The modes of proceedings may be various but that if a right is litigated between parties in a court of justice the proceeding by which the decision of the court is sought may be a suit.	None
According to these decisions, a suit is an action taken in a Court of law.	None
Having regard to the judicial interpretation of the word suit, it is difficult to accede to the submission of the appellants that the word suit in Section 22 (1) of the Act means anything other than some form of curial process.	None
Apart from the semantic difference between the words suit and proceeding there is the absence of expansive words or the like which appear after the expression proceedings, after the word suit.	None
The exclusion of such omnibus expression after the word suit must be given some weight in interpreting the word.	None
As held by this Court in LIC Vs.	None
Escorts Ltd. (supra)	None
The distinction made by Parliament in the several provisions of the same Act cannot be ignored or strained to be explained away by us.	None
That is not the way to interpret statutes.	None
The proper way is to give due weight to the use as well as the omission to use the qualifying words in different provisions of the Act.	None
The significance of the use of the qualifying word in one provision and its nonuse in another provision may not be disregarded.	None
Since the Legislature has expressly chosen to make a distinction between the suits for recovery of the money and enforcement of guarantees and proceedings for the recovery of money, that must be given effect to.	None
Furthermore, the Parliament must be taken to be aware of the decision in Maharashtra Tubes and the fact that the word proceeding used in Section 22 (1) had been widely construed to include proceedings for recovery of dues by State Financial Corporation as arrears of land revenue.	None
The deliberate choice of the word suit in the circumstances would indicate that Parliament intended to limit the ambit of the amendment introduced to particular modes for the recovery of money or enforcement of guarantees.	None
One of the reasons for the word proceeding in Section 22(1) being construed widely by this Court in Maharashtra Tubes was that the proceedings were against the company itself.	None
Having regard to the object of the Act viz.	None
, if possible to revive the company, as also the operation of the various sections towards this end, the Court held that it would be unreasonable to give such meaning to the word proceeding as would result in dealing a death blow to the Company so that the entire procedure envisaged under the SICA would be set at naught.	None
We have been unable to find a corresponding reason for widening the scope of the word suit so as to cover proceedings against the guarantor of an industrial company.	Reasoning
The object for enacting the SICA and for introducing the 1994 amendment was to facilitate the rehabilitation or the winding up of sick industrial companies.	Reasoning
It is not the stated object of the Act to protect any other person or body.	Reasoning
If the creditor enforces the guarantee in respect of the loan granted to the industrial company, we do not see how the provisions of the Act would be rendered nugatory or in any way affected.	Reasoning
All that could happen would be that the guarantor would step into the shoes of the creditor visavis the company to the extent of the liability met.	Reasoning
It is true that this Court in Patheja Bros.	Arguments of Petitioner
Forgings Stampings Vs. ICICI Ltd. (supra) construed the 1994 amendment to section 22(1) to hold For our purpose, therefore, the relevant words are no suit.	None
for the enforcement .	None
of any guarantee in respect of any loans or advance granted to the industrial company shall lie without the consent of the Board or the appellate authority.	None
The words are crystal clear.	None
There is no ambiguity therein.	None
It must, therefore, be held that no suit for the enforcement of a guarantee in respect of a loan or advance granted to the industrial company concerned will lie or can be proceeded with, without the sanction of the Board or the appellate authority under the said Act.	None
This is in keeping with the well established principle of statutory interpretation that where the language of the provision is explicit the language of the statute must prevail.	Reasoning
The appellants have, however, sought to draw sustenance from the following passage in the judgment The argument on behalf of the first respondent is that while this provision provides for the continuation of proceedings against the industrial company, there is no provision in the said Act which provides for the continuation of any heldup proceeding against the guarantor of a loan or advance to such company and that, therefore, Section 22 should be read as applying only to a suit against the industrial company and not a guarantor.	None
Apart from the fact that, as indicated above, the language of Section 22 is explicit, the scheme would provide for the repayment of the loan or advance, and, therefore, would take within its ambit the claim on the guarantee the question of proceeding with the suit against the guarantor would not arise.	None
On the other hand, if the industrial company cannot be revived by a scheme, the embargo under Section 22 would cease to operate.	None
(Emphasis ours)	None
These observations do not mean that when the words used are unambiguous, other extrinsic interpretative aids such as the objects of the statute, or the difficulties that would be faced by creditors will be relevant in interpreting the expression.	Reasoning
The Court in Pathejas case merely observed that the creditor could recover its sum from the principal debtor under the scheme and, therefore, the claim on the guarantee would not arise if the amount is so recovered under the scheme.	Reasoning
We do not read the observations quoted as holding that protection of guarantors of loans to a sick company is an object of the 1994 amendment which object must colour our interpretation of the amendment.	Reasoning
Till 1994 no protection was afforded to the guarantors under the Act at all.	Reasoning
A limited protection has been given in 1994.	Reasoning
The expression used being clear and unambiguous, it is not for us to question the wisdom of the legislature in giving the limited protection it did or why such protection was necessary at all.35.	Reasoning
Finally, the phrase introduced by the 1994 amendment relates to the predecretal stage because recovery proceedings by way of execution is already covered under the first half of subsection (1) of Section 22.	Reasoning
If the procedure under the U.P. Act is covered under the word proceeding in the first limb of Section 22(1) of SICA, which it is according to Maharashtra Tubes, it is not a suit for recovery under the second limb of that Section.	Reasoning
As rightly contended by learned counsel appearing for PICUP, the proceedings under the U.P. Act are really recovery proceedings within the meaning of the word proceeding as defined in Maharashtra Tubes.	Reasoning
Since Section 22(1) only prohibits recovery against the industrial company, there is no protection afforded to guarantors against recovery proceedings under the U.P. Act.	Reasoning
The appeals are dismissed with costs.	Decision
