 Hegde, J.1.	None
These are crossappeals under Section 116A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act) arising from an election petition filed by the first respondent (who for the sake of convenience will hereinafter be referred to as the respondent), before the High Court of Patna.2.	None
During the last mid term election for the Bihar Legislative Assembly held in the beginning of 1969, the appellant, the respondent and 11 others contested from the Arrah Assembly Constituency.	Facts
The last date for filing the nomination was January 8, 1969, and the date of scrutiny was January 9, 1969.	Facts
The poll took place on February 9, 1969, and the votes were counted on the next day.	Facts
The appellant was declared elected as having obtained the highest number of votes, i.e., 13, 556.	Facts
His nearest rival was the respondent who secured 12, 278 votes.	Facts
The appellant was the nominee of the Socialist Party and the respondent was the nominee of the Congress Party.3.	Facts
After the publication of the results in the official Gazette, the respondent filed the election petition challenging the validity of the appellants election on various grounds.	Facts
The principal ground taken by her was that the result of the election had been materially affected by the improper acceptance of the appellants nomination papers.	Facts
She also charged the appellant with the commission of various corrupt practices to which reference will be made at a later stage.	Facts
The learned trial Judge accepted the contention of the respondent that the result of the election had been materially affected by the improper acceptance of the appellants nomination.	Facts
He accordingly set aside the election of the appellant but he rejected the contention of the respondent that the appellant was guilty of any corrupt practice.	Facts
Aggrieved by the decision of the High Court, the appellant has filed Civil Appeal No. 1384 of 1970 and the respondent has filed Civil Appeal No. 1584 of 1970.4.	Facts
The principal questions that arise for decision are (1) Whether the defects found in the nomination paper of the appellant are of substantial character within the meaning of that expression in Section 36(4) of the Act, and(2) Whether it is established that the acceptance of the nomination of the appellant had materially affected the result of the election.5.	Issue
After dealing with these questions, we shall proceed to consider the appeal of the respondent challenging the conclusion of the Trial Court regarding the corrupt practices alleged to have been committed by the appellant.6.	Issue
Before proceeding to consider the relevant provisions in the Act, it is necessary to set out a few more facts.	None
The appellant has been contesting from the Arrah Constituency from about the year 1962.	None
He represented that Constituency before the dissolution of the Bihar Legislative Assembly.	None
He was registered as an elector in the Sandesh Assembly Constituency of the Bihar State.	None
His name continued to be on the electoral roll of that Constituency even at the time he filed his nomination from the Arrah Constituency on January 6, 1969, i.e., two days before the last date for filing the nomination.	None
It appears that in 1968, his name was also entered in the electoral roll of Arrah Constituency.	None
But later on, evidently because his name stood entered in the Sandesh Constituency, the same was deleted from the Arrah Constituency.	None
But this deletion was done without notice to the appellant.	None
The deletion was shown in a separate supplemental list.	None
In the main electoral roll, his name continued to be shown in the Arrah Constituency.	None
According to the appellant when he came to file his nomination paper, he was not aware of the fact that his name was entered in the electoral roll of the Arrah Constituency.	None
Therefore he had brought with him a certified copy of the electoral roll of the Sandesh Constituency.	Reasoning
But in the morning of January 6, 1969, he came to know that his name was also in the Arrah Constituency.	None
At that time he did not notice the deletion of his name which was in a separate list.	None
Therefore in his nomination paper, he entered his electoral roll No. as shown in the electoral roll of Arrah Constituency.	None
But at the same time he showed to the Returning Officer the certified copy of the Sandesh Constituency wherein his name had been entered.	Reasoning
The Returning Officer supports this version of the appellant.	None
After checking the name of the appellant as well as his electoral number as found in the electoral roll of Arrah Constituency, and also the names and electoral roll number of his proposers, the Returning Officer received the nomination paper filed by him.	None
At the time of the scrutiny, no one objected to the nomination of the appellant.	None
The Returning Officer accepted his nomination as a valid nomination.	None
The objection to the acceptance of the nomination of the appellant was put forward for the first time in the election petition.	None
We have now to consider whether the appellant was validly nominated.7.	None
Section 5 of the Act prescribes the qualifications for membership of Legislative Assembly.	None
It says that A person shall not be qualified to be chosen to fill a seat in the Legislative Assembly of a State unless (a) X X X(b) X X X(c) in the case of any other seat, he is an elector for any Assembly constituency in that StateX X X.8.	None
It is not denied that the appellant possesses all the qualifications prescribed either under the Constitution or under the Act and further that he has none of the disqualifications mentioned either under the Constitution or under the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
All that is said against his nomination is that his nomination paper was not properly filled in.	Arguments of Respondent
The law requires that the nomination of a candidate should be in the prescribed form and among others it should contain the name of the person nominated, his proposers name as well as the electoral roll numbers of the candidate and his proposer.	None
Subclause (4) of Section 33 provides that On the presentation of a nomination paper, the Returning Officer shall satisfy himself that the names and electoral roll numbers of the candidate and his proposer as entered in the nomination paper are the same as those entered in the electoral rolls Provided that no misnomer or inaccurate description or clerical, technical or printing error in regard to the name of the candidate or his proposer or any other person, or in regard to any place, mentioned in the electoral roll or the nomination paper and no clerical, technical or printing error in regard to the electoral roll numbers of any such person in the electoral roll or the nomination paper shall affect the full operation of the electoral roll or the nomination paper with respect to such person or place in any case where the description in regard to the name of the person or place is such as to be commonly understood and the Returning Officer shall permit any such misnomer or inaccurate description or clerical, technical or printing error to be corrected and where necessary, direct that any such misnomer, inaccurate description, clerical, technical or printing error in the electoral roll or in the nomination paper shall be overlooked.9.	None
Subsection (5) of Section 33 provides that where a candidate is an elector of a different constituency, a copy of the electoral roll of that constituency or of the relevant part thereof or a certified copy of the relevant entries in such roll shall unless it has been filed along with the nomination paper be produced before the Returning Officer at the time of the scrutiny.10.	None
Section 36 of the Act prescribes the mode of scrutiny of the nomination.	None
Subsection (2) of that section says The returning officer shall then examine the nomination papers and shall decide all objections which may be made to any nomination and may, either on such objection or on his own motion, after such summary enquiry if any, as he thinks necessary, reject any nomination on any of the following grounds (a) that on the date fixed for the scrutiny of nomination the candidate either is not qualified or is disqualified for being chosen to fill the seat under any of the following provisions that may be applicable namely Articles 84, 102, 173 and 191 X X X(b) that there has been a failure to comply with any of provisions of Section 33 or Section 34 or(c) that the signature of the candidate or the proposer on the nomination paper is not genuine.11.	None
Subsection (4) of that section commands the Returning Officer not to reject any nomination paper on the ground of any defect which is not of a substantial character.	None
Subsection (6) of that section prescribes thatThe returning officer shall endorse on each nomination paper his decision accepting or rejecting the same and, if the nomination paper is rejected, shall record in writing a brief statement of his reasons for such rejection.12.	None
The only other relevant provision which we need consider is subsection (1) of Section 100 which prescribes the grounds for declaring election to be void.	None
That section reads Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) if the High Court is of opinion (a) that on the date of his election a returned candidate was not qualified, or was disqualified, to be chosen to fill the seat under the Constitution or this Act or the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 or(b) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or his election agent or(c) that any nomination has been improperly rejected or(d) that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected (i) by the improper acceptance of any nomination, or(ii) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent, or(iii) by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any vote or the reception of any vote which is void, or(iv) by any noncompliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act of any rules or orders made under this Act, the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.13.	None
The first question that we have got to decide is whether the defects found in the nomination paper of the appellant are of substantial character.	None
As mentioned earlier, the appellant was fully qualified to be nominated for the election.	Reasoning
The only thing said against his nomination is that his nomination paper was not properly filled in.	Reasoning
We have earlier seen that a duty is imposed on the Returning Officer by subsection (4) of Section 33 to look into the nomination paper when it is presented and to satisfy himself that the names and the electoral roll numbers of the candidate and that of the proposer as entered in the nomination paper are the same as those entered in the electoral roll.	Reasoning
In this case it is proved that the Returning Officer did look into the nomination paper	Reasoning
but unfortunately he also did not notice that the name of the appellant had been removed from the electoral roll of Arrah Constituency.	Reasoning
If he had noticed that fact, he would have asked the appellant either to correct the mistake or to file a fresh nomination paper.	Reasoning
We have earlier noticed that the appellant filed his nomination paper on January 6, 1969, and the last date for filing the nomination paper was the 8th of that month.	Reasoning
That being so, there would have been no difficulty for him either to correct the nomination papers filed or to file a fresh nomination paper.	Reasoning
We have earlier noticed that the appellant had with him a certified copy of the electoral roll of the Sandesh Constituency and he had shown the same to the Returning Officer.	Reasoning
Mistakes complained of occurred because both the appellant as well as the Returning Officer merely looked into the main voters list but overlooked the deletion noted in a separate list.	Reasoning
But the implication of Section 33(4) is that a wrong entry in a nomination paper as regards the name of the candidate or the proposer or their electoral roll numbers is not a matter of substantial importance.	Reasoning
That is why the Legislature requires the Returning Officer to look into them and if there are any mistakes to get them corrected.	Reasoning
What is of importance is an election is that the candidate should possess all the prescribed qualifications and that he should not have incurred any of the disqualifications mentioned either in the Constitution or in the Act.	Reasoning
The other information required to be given in the nomination paper is only to satisfy the Returning Officer that the candidate possesses the prescribed qualification and that the is not otherwise disqualified.	Reasoning
In other words those information relate to the proof of the required qualifications.14.	Reasoning
It may also be noted that the Legislature itself has made distinction between the acceptance of a nomination and the rejection of a nomination.	Reasoning
The Returning Officer is required to give reasons for rejecting a nomination whereas he is not required to give reasons for accepting a nomination.	Reasoning
Further subsection (2) of Section 36 says that he may reject the nomination paper.	Reasoning
It is further seen that the proviso to subclause (4) of Section 33 says that no accurate description in regard to the name of the candidate or his proposer or in regard to any place mentioned in the nomination paper shall affect the full operation of the nomination.15.	Reasoning
From a combined reading of Sections 33 and 36, it is clear that a misdescription as to electoral roll number of the candidate or of the proposer in the nomination paper is not to be considered as a material defect in the nomination paper.16.	Reasoning
In Karnail Singh v. Election Tribunal Hissar and Others, (X ELR 189) the tribunal held that the nomination paper of one of the candidates was wrongly rejected on the ground that Column No. 8 in the nomination paper was not duly filled up.	None
The only defect pointed out was that the name of the subdivision was not stated therein.	None
But on the evidence it was quite clear that there was no difficulty in identifying the candidate and the candidate himself pointed out to the returning officer the entry of his name in the electoral roll.	None
Agreeing with the tribunal this Court held that the defect in those circumstances was a technical one and the tribunal was perfectly right in holding that the defect was not of a substantial character and that the nomination paper should not have been rejected.17.	None
In Rangilal Choudhury v. Dehu Sao and Others, ((1962) 2	None
SCR 401 AIR 1962 SC 1248 )	None
this Court held that the fact that the name of the constituency was wrongly mentioned as Bihar instead of Dhanbad in the nomination paper did not vitiate the nomination as it was clear from a reading of the entire nomination paper that the respondent was seeking election from the Dhanbad Constituency.	None
In reaching that conclusion this Court referred to the requirements of Section 33(4), Section 36(2)(b) and (4).	None
After referring to those provisions this Court observed The result of these provisions is that the proposer and the candidate are expected to file the nomination papers complete in all respects in accordance with the prescribed form but even if there is some defect in the nomination paper in regard to either the names or the electoral roll numbers, it is the duty of the Returning Officer to satisfy himself at the time of the presentation of the nomination paper about them and if necessary to allow them to be corrected, in order to bring them into conformity with the corresponding entries in the electoral roll.	None
Thereafter on scrutiny the Returning Officer has the power to reject the nomination paper on the ground of failure to comply with any of the provisions of Section 33 subject however to this that no nomination paper shall be rejected on the ground of any defect which is not of a substantial character.18.	None
In Namdeo Chimanji Tapre and Another v. Govinddas Ratanlal Bhatia and Others, (ILR 1964 Bom 114 ) the High Court of Bombay held that as the identify of the candidate was not in dispute, the rejection of the nomination paper by the Returning Officer was not valid having regard to the provisions in Section 33 and Section 36 of the Act.19.	None
In Dev Kanta Barooah v. Kusha Ram Nath and Others, (XXI ELR 459) a Assembly contained a recital in the heading that the respondent was thereby nominated as a candidate for election from the Nowgong Assembly Constituency, but against Column No. 2 of the nomination paper relating to the electoral roll number of the proposer and Column No. 5 relating to the electoral roll number of the candidate, the entry was Assam Legislative Assembly Constituency, Part No. 10 of the Electoral Roll of village Phulaniati, Mouza Hatichung, Police Station Sadar, Nowgong,	None
Poll	None
No	None
The Returning Officer rejected the nomination paper on the ground that the name of the constituency to which the electoral roll related was not mentioned in Columns 2 and 5 as required by Section 33(4) of the Act.	None
This Court agreeing with the tribunal and the High Court held that the rejection of the nomination was improper.20.	None
Our attention has not been invited to any decision either of this Court or of any High Court or even of a tribunal where the Returning Officer had accepted the nomination paper of a qualified candidate, the same was found to be improper because of some defect in the nomination paper.	None
The case of rejection of a nomination paper by the Returning Officer stands on a footing different from that of an acceptance of a nomination paper.	None
In the latter case the main, though not the only question, to be considered is whether the candidate is qualified to be a candidate.	None
The very fact that the law requires the Returning Officer to look into the nomination paper, when filed and get any mistake regarding the name or electoral number of the candidate or his proposer corrected shows that the mistakes regarding them is not a material defect.21.	None
Learned counsel for the respondent has sought to place reliance on some decisions of this Court in support of his contention that the appellants nomination paper was improperly accepted.	None
We shall now refer to the decisions relied on by him.22.	None
In Narbada Prasad v. Chhagan Lal and Others, ((1969) 1	None
SCR 499 ) a candidates nomination paper was rejected by the Returning Officer on the ground that he did not produce the proof required under Section 33(5) of the Act.	None
That rejection was upheld by this Court.	None
We fail to see how that decision lends any support to the respondents case.	None
Without the required proof, the Returning Officer could not satisfy himself that the candidate was qualified to seek election.23.	None
Reliance was next placed on the decision of this Court in Ram Dayal v. Brijraj Singh and Others.	None
((1970) 1	None
SCR 530 ).	None
Therein the proposer of the candidate was an illiterate person.	None
He had not got authenticated or attested the mark put by him in the nomination paper by one of the designated officers as required by the relevant provisions of the Act and the rules framed thereunder.	None
Hence the nomination paper was rejected by the Returning Officer.	None
That rejection was upheld both by the High Court as well as by this Court.	None
No nomination can be held to be valid unless the candidate is duly proposed.	None
If the mark put by the proposer is not authenticated in the manner required by law, it cannot be said that the candidate has been properly nominated.24.	None
In Brijendralal Gupta and Another v. Jawala Prasad and Others, ((1960) 3	None
SCR 650 AIR 1960 SC 1049 )	None
this Court observed that the word defect in Section 36(4) included an omission to satisfy the details prescribed in the nomination.	None
It further observed that the distinction laid down in English cases between omission and inaccurate description depended on the specific provisions of the English statute which did not obtain under the Indian law.	None
This decision, again has no bearing on the point in issue.25.	None
For the reasons mentioned above we are of the opinion that the defect in the appellants nomination paper was not a substantial defect.	Reasoning
Hence the High Court was not justified in allowing the election petition on the ground that his nomination was improperly accepted.26.	Reasoning
In view of the conclusion reached above, it is not necessary for us to go into the question as to the true interpretation of Section 100(1)(d).	Reasoning
We shall merely notice the arguments advanced on either side on that question.	Reasoning
According to the appellant the Legislature has made a clear distinction between improper rejection and improper acceptance of a nomination.	Reasoning
In the case of improper rejection, the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void but in the case of improper acceptance before the election of the returned candidate can be declared void, the election petitioner will have to establish that the result of the election in so far as it concerns the returned candidate has been materially affected.	Reasoning
At this stage we may notice that prior to the amendment of the Act in 1956, improper rejection and improper acceptance were placed in the same category, Clause (c) of Section 100(1) as it stood then read If the Tribunal is of opinionX X X X(c) that the result of the election has been materially affected by the improper acceptance or rejection of any nomination the Tribunal shall declare the election to be wholly void.27.	None
This Court is Vasishth Narain Sharma v. Dev Chandra and Others, ((1955) 1	None
SCR 509 ) observed in the course of its judgment that where the person whose nomination has been improperly accepted is the returned candidate himself, it may be readily conceded that his nomination has materially affected the result of the election.	None
This observation was not the ratio of that decision.	None
That apart, after this observation was made, the Parliament has amended the relevant provision and has made a distinction between improper rejection and improper acceptance of a nomination.	None
It was urged on behalf on the appellant that in view of the amendment the observation made by this Court in Vasishth Narain Sharmas case (supra), can no more govern the point in issue.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the learned counsel, clause (d) of Section 100(1) as it now stands definitely requires that in the case of improper acceptance of any nomination, the election petitioner must establish that the result of the election in so far as it concerns the returned candidate has been materially affected.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that the word any in Section 100(1) (d)(1) means every nomination.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand it was urged on behalf of the respondent that the amendment of Section 100(1) did not affect the correctness of the observation made by this Court and that observation had been quoted by this Court in two cases arising under the amended provision.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of our earlier finding about the validity of the appellants nomination, it is not necessary to decide the controversy relating to the interpretation of Section 100(1)(d).28.	Arguments of Petitioner
For the reasons mentioned above, differing from the view taken by the learned trial judge, we have come to the conclusion that the nomination of the appellant was properly accepted.29.	Reasoning
This takes us to the appeal filed by the respondent.	Reasoning
As mentioned earlier, the High Court has rejected the charges of corrupt practices levelled by the respondent against the appellant.	Reasoning
Those charges were sought to be established only by oral evidence.	Reasoning
The learned trial Judge was unable to accept the evidence adduced in support of the alleged corrupt practices.	Reasoning
Ordinarily this Court does not reappreciate oral evidence.	Reasoning
Our attention has not been invited to any exceptional circumstance in this case requiring us to go into the evidence afresh.	Reasoning
It is well known that the factious feelings generated during elections continue even after the election and hence the contesting parties are able to produce before court large number of witness, some of whom may be seemingly disinterested.	Reasoning
But that by itself is no guarantee of the truth of the evidence adduced.	Reasoning
Mr. Tarkunde, learned for the respondent put forward three broad contentions in support of the appeal preferred by the respondent.	Reasoning
They are (1) that the High Court failed to take an overall view of the evidence adduced it merely contented itself by examining evidence relating to each one of the instances.	Reasoning
(2) The High Court erred in not relying on the evidence relating to an instance when the same is spoken to by a single witness and (3) the High Court erred in rejecting the testimony of some of the witnesses on the ground that they were chance witnesses.	Reasoning
None of these contentions appear to have any merit.	Reasoning
Each instance of a corrupt practice pleaded had to be established separately.	Reasoning
If every one of those instances are not proved, all of them put together cannot be accepted as true because of the volume of evidence.30.	Reasoning
Now coming to the instances sought to be proved by the evidence of a single witness, the learned trial judge observed in the course of his judgment that those instances were not seriously pressed by the Counsel for the respondent.	Reasoning
Evidently those charges were given up.	Reasoning
In appreciating evidence of the witnesses, the courts have to take into consideration the probability of their being present at the time of the alleged incident.	Reasoning
Courts have always viewed with suspicion the evidence of chance witnesses.	Reasoning
There was nothing wrong in the learned judge not being able to place much reliance on the evidence of chance witnesses Hence we see no merit in the appeal filed by the respondent.31.	None
For the reasons mentioned above we allow Civil Appeal 1384 of 1970 and dismiss Civil Appeal No. 1584 of 1970.	Decision
In the result the election petition stands dismissed with costs both in the High Court as well as in this Court  in this Court the appellant is entitled to only one hearing fee.	Decision
