(MRS.)	None
RANJANA PRAKASH DESAI, J. The appellant  Punjab Sind Bank (for short, the plaintiffbank) has challenged in this appeal, judgment and order dated 4/6/2003 passed by the Kerala High Court whereby the appeal filed by original defendants 1, 2, 4, 7 and 8 challenging the judgment and decree of the Ist Additional SubJudge, Ernakulam, decreeing the plaintiff banks suit for realization of money was allowed.2.	Facts
The title of the proceedings underwent changes during the course of time on account of death of some of the partners and or guarantors and also on account of orders passed by the courts.	Facts
There are also certain typographical errors in the amended cause title of the appeal.	Facts
It is not necessary for us to give details of various changes which were brought about in the title.	Facts
Suffice it to say that respondent 1 herein is the partnership firm i.e. original defendant 1 and the other respondents are either its partners and or heirs of the partners or guarantors and or heirs of the guarantors.	Facts
By order dated 29/1/2003, the High Court has added the Kerala State Electricity Board (for short, KSEB) as respondent 6 and it is respondent 10 herein.	Facts
We shall, however, for the sake of convenience refer to the parties as per their status in the trial court.3.	Facts
At the outset, we must make it clear that we have reached a conclusion that the defendants have taken a dishonest stand to evade the liability to make payment to the plaintiffbank.	None
At the cost of making this judgment prolix, we need to make a detailed reference to the pleadings of the parties because our conclusion, to a large extent, is substantiated by the pleadings.	None
The facts, as disclosed by the plaintiffbank in the plaint, are as undera) Defendant 1 is a partnership firm engaged in the business of engineering works and defendants 2, 3 and 4 are its partners, who undertook the execution of certain civil engineering works awarded to them by KSEB.	Facts
As per the terms of the tender, defendants 1 to 4 had to furnish Bank Guarantees to KSEB.	Facts
They approached the plaintiffbank for issuance of Bank Guarantee for an aggregate amount of Rs.20 lakhs on their behalf in favour of KSEB.	Facts
The plaintiffbank agreed to do so on certain terms and conditions.	None
Defendants 1 to 4 accepted the said conditions.	Facts
The plaintiffbank on 11/5/1983 executed and offered a Bank Guarantee on behalf of defendant 1 to KSEB for Rs.1 lakh as and by way of security deposit as per the terms of the tender.	Facts
Thereafter, the plaintiffbank on 24/6/1983 further executed and offered on behalf of defendant 1 another Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs to enable defendants 1 to 4 to avail of the amount of Rs.19 lakhs as mobilization advance from KSEB for the purpose of execution of the work undertaken by defendant 1.b)	Facts
According to the terms of the Bank Guarantee dated 11/5/1983, the amount of Bank Guarantee not exceeding Rs.1 lakh was payable to KSEB on demand at any time during its currency without any demur.	Facts
In consideration of the aforementioned Bank Guarantee, defendant 1 by its partners i.e. defendants 2, 3 and 4 agreed and undertook to indemnify the plaintiffbank by a Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee dated 11/5/1983 together with all costs and charges which may be incurred or become payable by the plaintiffbank in connection with the Guarantee given to KSEB.	Facts
As further security, defendants 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 also undertook and agreed to indemnify the plaintiffbank from and against all claims, demands, losses, charges and expenses which the plaintiffbank may sustain in respect of any liability incurred by it and also guaranteed to make payment of the amount together with interest, costs, commission and charges payable thereon by the plaintiffbank.	Facts
As security for the aforementioned Bank Guarantee of Rs.1 lakh, defendant 2 deposited the title deeds of his property situated in Kottayam Village on 11/5/1983.	Facts
He confirmed the deposit of title deeds by memorandum of deposit of title deeds.	Facts
Defendant 5 as security for the aforementioned Bank Guarantee deposited the title deeds of her properties comprised in Survey No.10/6/2 situated in Kottayam Village with intent to create a security thereon by way of mortgage in favour of the plaintiffbank on 11/5/1983, at the plaintiff banks office at M.G. Road, Ernakulam in the City of Kochin.	Facts
Defendant 5 also confirmed the deposit of title deeds by Memorandum of deposit of title deeds executed on 11/5/1983.	Facts
Defendant 6 through his power of attorney holder  defendant 4, deposited the title deeds of his property comprised in Survey No.983/5 of Ernakulam Village with intent to create a security by way of mortgage in favour of the plaintiffbank on behalf of defendant 1.	Facts
He executed a Memorandum confirming the said deposit of title deeds through his agent and power of attorney holder.	Facts
Defendants 7 and 8 also deposited with the plaintiffbank on 11/5/1983 at their Branch at M.G. Road, Ernakulam the title deeds of their properties comprised in Survey No.51/9B of Vijayapuram Village in Kottayam Taluka with intent to create a security thereon by way of mortgage in favour of the plaintiffbank.	Facts
Defendants 7 and 8 also confirmed the said deposit of title deeds of their properties by executing Memoranda of deposit of title deeds.	None
Defendant 4 charged and assigned the fixed deposit receipt for the sum of Rs.25,000/ in favour of the plaintiffbank as per the security for the said amount of the Guarantee.c)	Facts
In the trial court the plaintiff bank produced the Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee executed by defendants 2, 3 and 4 with a copy of the Bank Guarantee for Rs.1 lakh, the Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee executed by defendants 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 as further security, title deeds deposited by defendant 2 as security by way of equitable mortgage in favour of the plantiffbank in respect of Bank Guarantee of Rs.1 lakh, Memorandum dated 11/5/1983 executed by defendant 2 confirming the deposit of the said title deeds, title deeds deposited by defendant 5, the Memorandum dated 11/5/1983 executed by defendant 5 confirming deposit of title deeds and Memoranda of deposit of title deeds executed by defendant 6 through his Power of Attorney holder defendant 4 and by defendants 7 8 confirming the deposit of title deeds of their properties.d) Defendant 1 wanted to avail of a mobilization advance of Rs.19 lakhs from KSEB.	Facts
KSEB, as security for such payment of mobilization advance, required defendant 1 to furnish Bank Guarantee for the amount of Rs.19 lakhs.	Facts
Defendant 1 requested the plaintiffbank to furnish the Bank Guarantee in favour of KSEB for the amount of Rs.19 lakhs.	Facts
The plaintiffbank agreed to furnish the said Bank Guarantee on certain conditions which defendant 1 accepted.	Facts
Accordingly, the plaintiffbank executed and offered the Bank Guarantee on behalf of defendant 1 to KSEB for the sum of Rs.19 lakhs.	Facts
According to the said Bank Guarantee, the sum of Rs.19 lakhs was payable to KSEB on demand by the Chief Engineer (Civil) General at any time, during the currency including the period covered by its extension without any demur and on a mere demand.	Facts
The Guarantor had agreed that such demand made on the plaintiffbank shall be conclusive as regards the amounts due and payable under the Bank Guarantee and the Guarantor had to make the payment without any demur.	Facts
As consideration for giving the said Bank Guarantee, defendant 1 by its partners viz.	Facts
defendants 2, 3 and 4 undertook to indemnify the plaintiffbank by a Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee from all claims, amounts, charges, damages and expenses which may be caused or sustained by the plaintiffbank or for which it may become liable by reason of having given the said Bank Guarantee.	Facts
It was also specifically agreed that in connection with the said Guarantee, the plaintiffbank without going into the question whether the terms of the agreement or any obligations with the Chief Engineer (Civil) General or KSEB had been fulfilled or not on notice of demand from the beneficiary of the Guarantee, was entitled in its own absolute discretion to make payment of the whole or part of the amount of the Guarantee as may be called upon to do so by KSEB without any reference to the defendants and that the defendants shall not have any right to question in any way whatsoever the making of such payment by the plaintiffbank.	Facts
As further security, defendants 2 to 8 also undertook to indemnify the plaintiffbank from and against all claims, demands, loss, charges and expenses which the plaintiffbank may sustain or incur in respect of any liability incurred or might be incurred and guaranteed to make payment on demand of the amount of the Guarantee together with interest, commission, costs and charges payable thereon by the plaintiffbank.	Facts
As further security for the aforementioned Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs, defendants 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 extended and created the mortgage by deposit of title deeds of their respective properties which were already charged and mortgaged in favour of the plaintiff bank to cover and apply to the pecuniary liability in respect of the amount of Rs.19 lakhs together with costs, charges, interests, etc. to the plaintiff bank.	Facts
The said defendants further declared at their personal visit to the plaintiffbanks branch on 24/6/1983 that the mortgage by deposit of title deeds already created on their respective properties on 11/5/1983 shall also apply and stand extended to and cover the further Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs also.	Facts
The said defendants confirmed by Memoranda dated 24/6/1983 the deposit of the title deeds creating the mortgage of their respective properties in favour of the plaintiffbank and, thereafter, applying and extending the security by way of mortgage of deposit of title deeds for the Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs.	Facts
Defendant 1 charged and assigned the fixed deposits for the sum of Rs.4,75,000/ which amount was deposited with the plaintiffbank as security for the aforementioned facility or liability incurred by the plaintiffbank.	Facts
The plaintiffbank produced in the trial court the Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee executed by defendants 2, 3 and 4 together with a copy of Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 Lakhs, the Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee executed by defendants 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 8 as further security and the Memoranda dated 24/6/1983 of deposit of title deeds of various properties executed by the defendants confirming deposit of title deeds of their properties.	Facts
Defendant 1 availed of Rs.19 lakhs as mobilization advance from the KSEB on the strength of the second Guarantee mentioned hereinabove.f)	Facts
KSEB by its letter dated 19/6/1984 called upon the plaintiffbank under Clause 5 of Deed of Guarantee to pay a sum of Rs.19 lakhs being the full amount of the said Guarantee to KSEB.	Facts
The plaintiffbank informed defendant 1 by telephone, telegram and by letter about the invoking of the Bank Guarantee by KSEB and called upon defendant 1 to remit Rs.19 lakhs with interest at 18.5 per annum immediately in terms of counter Guarantee executed by them to enable the plaintiffbank to make payment to KSEB.	Facts
KSEB insisted upon compliance with its demand in accordance with Clause 5 of the Bank Guarantee.	Facts
The plaintiffbank was bound to pay the sum of Rs.19 lakhs being the amount of the second Bank Guarantee and accordingly the plaintiffbank paid the said amount by way of Demand Draft dated 23/6/1984 to KSEB.g)	Facts
The plaintiffbank called upon the defendants to pay the amount of the Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs.	Facts
The defendants gave assurances that the amount would be paid but did not make any payment.	Facts
The plaintiffbank, therefore, appropriated a sum of Rs.4,56,962.80 being the balance amount of the fixed deposit after adjusting the over paid interest on the fixed deposit.	Facts
After appropriating and adjusting the said amount, a sum of Rs.14,43,037.92 together with interest at 20 per annum remained due and payable by the defendants in respect of the second Bank Guarantee as on 24/5/1986 being the date on which the suit was filed by the plaintiffbank.	Facts
Defendant 1 requested the plaintiffbank to extend the Bank Guarantee in favour of KSEB for Rs.1 lakh executed on 11/5/1983 for a further period of one year from 11/5/1984 till 11/5/1985.	Facts
The plaintiffbank, accordingly, extended the said Bank Guarantee upto 11/5/1985.	Facts
It appears that the KSEB terminated the contract given to defendant 1 on account of breach of the terms and conditions of the contract.	Facts
KSEB by its letter dated 15/10/1984 called upon the plaintiffbank to pay a sum of Rs.1 lakh being the amount of the first Bank Guarantee executed by the plaintiff bank on behalf of defendant 1 to KSEB.	Facts
The plaintiffbank, in turn, intimated to defendant 1 and called upon them to remit the said amount.	Facts
However, the defendants did not make the payment.	Facts
The plaintiffbank had to pay to KSEB a sum of Rs.1 lakh on 5/8/1985 by Demand Draft as per the terms of the Bank Guarantee.	Facts
Thus, in all, the plaintiffbank had to pay Rs.20 lakhs in aggregate under two Bank Guarantees furnished on behalf of defendant 1 to KSEB.	Facts
Since despite letters, notices and repeated requests, the defendants did not pay the balance amount, the plaintiffbank filed a suit in the Court of 1st Additional SubJudge at Ernakulam for an amount of Rs.21,54,464.20 with future interest from 1/5/1986 at 20 per annum.4.	Facts
In their joint written statement, defendants 1, 2 and 4 did not deny the issuance of Bank Guarantees by the plaintiffbank, but denied the dates thereof.	Facts
They put the plaintiffbank to proof regarding the dates of the said Guarantees as, according to them, the dates were within the knowledge of the plaintiffbank only.	None
They admitted that for the purpose of Guarantees furnished by the plaintiffbank on behalf of defendant 1firm, defendant 1firm deposited 25 of the amount in cash with the plaintiffbank.	None
They, however, denied that any mortgage was created in favour of the plaintiffbank by any one of the defendants.	None
They denied the execution of documents referred to in the plaint.	Facts
They did not admit the Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee dated 11/5/1983 but stated that the Managing Partner of defendant 1 had given a power of attorney in favour of the plaintiffbank authorizing the plaintiffbank to adjust 5 of the bill amount due to defendant 1 from KSEB through the plaintiffbank and, the amount so withheld was allowed to be held as security by defendant 1 in case KSEB invoked the Bank Guarantee.	Facts
They denied that defendants 2 to 8 went to the plaintiffbank on 11/5/1983 to deposit the title deeds of their properties.	Facts
It was, however, admitted that defendant 4 had by his letter dated 4/4/1983 forwarded to the plaintiffbank title deeds of the properties described in the Schedule for the purpose of scrutiny.	Facts
They admitted that on the insistence of KSEB to furnish the Bank Guarantee, the plaintiffbank was requested to furnish Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs in favour of KSEB.	Facts
They put the plaintiffbank to proof regarding the terms and conditions of the said Bank Guarantee.	None
Securities and Deed of Indemnities were not admitted.	Facts
They denied that any of the defendants went to the plaintiffbank on 24/6/1983 to make any declaration.	None
They admitted the assignment of fixed deposit of a sum of Rs.4,75,000/. They admitted that mobilization advance of Rs.19 lakhs was availed of by defendant 1.	None
They, however, stated that it was not availed of on the strength of Bank Guarantee but the basis thereof was supplementary agreement executed between KSEB and defendant 1 in which, there was no stipulation to furnish any Bank Guarantee.	Facts
They put the plaintiffbank to proof regarding the amounts which are said to have been paid by it to KSEB.	None
They denied their liability to pay the amount to KSEB since, according to them, the invocation of Bank Guarantee and the alleged payment made by the plaintiff bank was not done in terms of the Guarantee and also because according to them KSEB had illegally terminated the contract.	Facts
They contended that the appropriation of Rs.4,56,962.80 is illegal and the plaintiffbank had no right to reduce the rate of interest to 5 on the amount deposited by defendant 1.	Facts
They denied that the plaintiff bank had extended the Bank Guarantee of Rs.1 lakh for a further period of one year in favour of KSEB.	Facts
They contended that defendant 1 had already filed a suit for recovery of an amount of Rs.19 lakhs and interest thereon against the plaintiffbank for illegal reversal cancellation of entry of the amount which was already credited in the account of defendant 1.	Facts
According to these defendants, the story regarding countermanding of the cheque was created for the purpose of escaping the liability to pay the amount to defendant 1.5.	Facts
Defendants 6 to 8 filed joint written statement contending that they are not partners of defendant 1firm and they are not concerned with the Bank Guarantees.	Facts
They denied that they had created equitable mortgage in respect of their properties in favour of the plaintiffbank.	None
They denied the execution of Deed of Indemnity and Guarantee dated 11/5/1983 and their alleged visit to the plaintiffbank on 11/5/1983.	None
They contended that defendant 4 had forwarded the title deeds of their properties to the plaintiffbank only for scrutiny.	Facts
They contended that the plaintiffbank had taken blank signed papers from them on or about 11/5/1983 when the first Bank Guarantee for Rs.1 lakh was issued in favour of KSEB and these signed blank papers were utilized for creating equitable mortgage, indemnity, guarantee and other documents.	Facts
According to these defendants, the said documents are not genuine but are fabricated subsequently on the blank signed papers obtained from them.6.	Facts
Though initially, defendants 1, 2 and 4 did not allege that the plaintiffbank had fabricated any documents they subsequently amended their written statement and contended that the plaintiffbank had taken blank signed papers from them on 11/5/1983 when the first Bank Guarantee for a sum of Rs.1 lakh was issued in favour of KSEB.	Facts
These papers were used for the purposes of creating documents in favour of the plaintiffbank.	None
They contended that all the documents like counter guarantees, confirmation of deposit of title deeds, etc. more particularly described in paragraph 2 of the plaint were fabricated by the plaintiff bank by utilizing some of the said signed blank papers and, therefore, they are not binding on the defendants.7.	Facts
By judgment and order dated 1/1/1991, the trial court decreed the suit.	Facts
It directed the defendants to pay Rs.19,00,000/ with interest at the rate of 18.5 per annum from 23/6/1984 till date of the suit with future interest on Rs.14,43,037.20 (Rs.19,00,000/ minus Rs.4,56,962.80 adjusted by the plaintiffbank) at the rate of 18.5 per annum from the date of suit till realization.	Facts
The trial court further directed the defendants to pay to the plaintiffbank Rs.1,00,000/ with interest at the rate of 18.5 per annum from 15/10/1984 till realization.	None
The trial court held that the plaintiffbank is entitled to realize the above amounts and costs by sale of the properties shown in the Schedule to the plaint and directed that, in case, the plaintiffbank is unable to realize the full amounts due to it by sale of the hypothecated properties, the plaintiffbank will have the right to proceed against defendants 2 to 4 personally and against the assets of defendants 1 to 4 to realize the balance amounts due to it.8.	None
Being aggrieved by the said decree, defendants 1, 2, 4, 7 and 8 preferred an appeal in the High Court.	None
By the impugned order, the High Court allowed the appeal.	None
The High Court, inter alia, held that since the originals of the Bank Guarantees were not produced by the plaintiffbank, the plaintiffbank cannot successfully lay its claim on the said two Bank Guarantees.	None
The plaintiffbank has challenged the said judgment and order in this appeal.	None
We have heard learned counsel for the parties, at some length.	None
We have also carefully perused the written submissions filed by them.	None
Counsel for the plaintiffbank submitted that the High Court wrongly reversed the decree passed by the trial court because the originals of the Bank Guarantees were not produced.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court overlooked several mterial documents produced by the plaintiffbank and the evidence of PW2 and PW3, the officials of KSEB, who have deposed about the Bank Guarantees and their invocation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Pertinently, there is no denial of the evidence given by these witnesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counter Guarantees executed by the defendants and the Confirmation of deposit of title deeds by the defendants are a pointer to the genuineness of the case of the plaintiffbank.	None
The story that the plaintiffbank fabricated documents on blank papers signed by the defendants is totally unpalatable.	None
Counsel submitted that the High Court has misconstrued the provisions of the Evidence Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel submitted that in the circumstances, the impugned judgment and order needs to be set aside and the decree of the trial court needs to be restored.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel for the defendants have reiterated the stand taken by their respective clients in their written statements, which we have extensively quoted hereinabove.	None
They have banked on the fact that the originals of the Bank Guarantees are not produced.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on J. Yashoda v. K. Shobha Rani (2007 (5) SCC 730 ) and Roman Catholic Mission v. State of Madras (AIR 1966 SC 1457 ), it is contended that if the original of a document is not available, then secondary evidence must be led by laying down foundation for leading secondary evidence in terms of Section 65 of the Evidence Act which the plaintiffbank has not done in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel contended that in any case, even the photocopy of Bank Guarantee dated 11/5/1983 (ExA19) and Bank Guarantee dated 24/6/1983 appended to the CounterGuarantee of the same date (ExA16) are incomplete and, therefore, they cannot be considered as secondary evidence.	Arguments of Respondent
Drawing our attention to Section 91 of the Evidence Act, counsel submitted that in the circumstances, no other evidence including the statement of witnesses can be used by the plaintiffbank to prove the execution of the Bank Guarantees.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that it is not stated in the plaint in whose possession the original documents were and, hence, there is violation of the procedure prescribed under Order VII Rule 14 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(1999 (8) SCC 436 ), counsel submitted that invocation of Bank Guarantees is illegal because the Bank Guarantees can be invoked only by the person named therein.	Arguments of Respondent
In this case, according to the defendants, the Bank Guarantees are invoked by the Secretary, KSEB when, in fact, they should have been invoked by the Chief Engineer (Civil), General, who is named in the Bank Guarantees.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that whereas in the plaint, it is submitted that the Bank Guarantees were invoked by Secretary, KSEB, reliance is placed on ExA82 and ExA3 which are letters dated 14/11/1983 and 9/5/1984 respectively written by the Chief Engineer allegedly invoking the Bank Guarantees.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that since these letters are not referred to in the plaint, they cannot be relied upon.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on State of Maharashtra v. Dr. M.N. Kaul (AIR 1967 SC 1634 ), counsel submitted that Bank Guarantee (ExA19) dated 11/5/1983 was not enforceable as it was invoked after it had expired.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel relied on Delhi Development Authority v. Skipper Construction Co.	Arguments of Respondent
(P) Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
Anr.	Arguments of Respondent
(2003 (1) SCC 547 ), where in the context of issuance of Bank Guarantees, this court directed inquiry to ascertain loss suffered by the public sector banks on account of malfeasance and misfeasance of their officials.11.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that the Counter Guarantees, Indemnity Bonds, Confirmation Letters and Memorandum of deposit of title deeds on which reliance is placed are of no use to the plaintiffbank because they are not complete documents.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, they do not prove creation of equitable mortgage by deposit of title deeds.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel submitted that it is alleged that defendant 9 had, through power of attorney holder  defendant 6, created equitable mortgage of his property.	Arguments of Respondent
This is, however, incorrect inasmuch as the power of attorney dated 21/4/1983 clearly shows that it was given for availing housing loan and not for depositing the title deeds in support of the Bank Guarantee.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on Syed Abdul Khader v. Rami Reddy (1979 (2) SCC 601 ), it was submitted that the power of attorney has to be given strict interpretation.	Arguments of Respondent
In short, counsel contended that no interference is necessary with the impugned order.	Arguments of Respondent
The High Court has nonsuited the plaintiffbank primarily on the ground that the plaintiffbank has not produced originals of the Bank Guarantees and it has not adduced any secondary evidence after giving explanation as to the nonproduction of the originals (Roman Catholic Mission).	None
The High Court has observed that the Bank Guarantees produced by the plaintiffbank are not complete and, therefore, the terms and conditions thereof and rights and liabilities of the parties arising therefrom cannot be ascertained.	None
The High Court has also held that as per the copies of the Bank Guarantees produced on record, they could be invoked only by the Chief Engineer (Civil) General, however in this case, they were invoked by the Secretary, KSEB.	None
Therefore, the invocation is illegal (Hindustan Construction Co. Ltd. and Dr. M.N. Kaul).	None
The High Court has not accepted the case of the plaintiffbank that the Bank Guarantees were invoked vide plaintiffbanks letters (ExA4 and ExA82).	None
It is observed that these documents create suspicion about the manner in which the Bank Guarantees are executed.	None
The High Court has observed that the Counter Guarantees produced by the plaintiffbank are incomplete.	None
The High Court was impressed by the case of the defendants that the title deeds were forwarded to the plaintiffbank for scrutiny and it virtually come to the conclusion that there was no deposit of title deeds as security for the Bank Guarantees.	None
It was impressed by the defendants case that the plaintiffbank had concocted the documents.	None
We need to ascertain how far the defendants case is truthful.	None
They admit the plaintiffbanks basic case, but try to evade their liability to pay through their inconsistent, contradictory and evasive stand.	None
From the narration of the written statements of the defendants, it is clear that so far as defendants 1, 2, 3 and 4 are concerned, they have clearly admitted issuance of the Bank Guarantees.	None
They have admitted that for the purpose of Bank Guarantees furnished by the plaintiffbank on behalf of defendant 1firm, defendant 1firm has deposited 25 of the amount in cash with the plaintiffbank.	None
Instead of coming out with the correct facts surprisingly, they have put the plaintiffbank to the proof regarding the dates and terms and conditions of the Bank Guarantees contending that the dates were within the knowledge of the plaintiffbank only.	None
They have also put the plaintiffbank to the proof regarding the amounts which have been paid to KSEB.	None
Their version about the execution of bank guarantees is hard to digest.	None
They have denied that any mortgage was created in favour of the plaintiffbank and they contended that they do not admit the Deed of Indemnity and Counter Guarantee dated 11/5/1983 but stated that the Managing Partner of defendant 1 had given a power of attorney in favour of the plaintiffbank authorizing the plaintiffbank to adjust 5 of the bill amount due to defendant 1 from KSEB through the plaintiffbank and the amount so withheld was allowed to be held as security by defendant 1 in case KSEB invoked the Bank Guarantee.	Facts
It is pertinent to note that though they have denied that defendants 2 to 8 went to the plaintiffbank on 11/5/1983 to deposit the title deeds of their properties, they have admitted that defendant 4 had by his letter dated 4/4/1983 forwarded the title deeds of his properties to the plaintiffbank.	None
Their case, however, is that the title deeds were sent for scrutiny.	None
It is not understood for what purpose the scrutiny of the title deeds was necessary and done.	None
They admitted the assignment of Fixed Deposit Receipts in the sum of Rs.4,75,000/ and availment of mobilization advance of Rs.19 lakhs by defendant 1, but stated that it was not availed of on the strength of Bank Guarantees but the basis thereof was supplementary agreement executed between KSEB and defendant 1 in which, there was no stipulation to furnish any Bank Guarantee.	Facts
This case is not substantiated by them.	None
Though they initially did not come out with a case that the plaintiff bank fabricated any document, they subsequently amended the written statements and contended that the plaintiffbank had taken blank signed papers from them on 11/5/1983 when the first Bank Guarantee was issued in favour of KSEB and these papers were used for fabricating the documents in favour of the plaintiffbank.	Facts
They contended that all the documents were fabricated by the plaintiffbank by utilizing the signed blank papers taken from them by the plaintiff bank.	None
Thus, they denied that any equitable mortgage was created as security for the Bank Guarantees.	None
Similarly, defendants 6 to 8 denied that any equitable mortgage was created.	None
They came out with the case that the Deeds of Indemnity, Counter Guarantees, Memoranda of deposit of title deeds and Confirmation Letters were fabricated by the plaintiffbank by using the blank signed papers taken from them on or about 11/5/1983 when the first Bank Guarantee for Rs.1 lakh was issued in favour of KSEB.	Facts
The defendants case regarding blank signed papers is not substantiated by any evidence except their say so.	Reasoning
The trial court has rightly rejected this story and we concur with the trial court.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that there is nothing on record to establish the case of the defendants that the plaintiffbank was party to such a fraud of creating fabricated documents after obtaining blank signed papers from the defendants, it also does not stand to reason that the defendants and its partners and other defendants are so gullible as to hand over to the plaintiffbank several signed blank papers.	Reasoning
Falsity of their case is seen from the documents on record.15.	Reasoning
The title deeds are at ExA39 to ExA43, ExA45 to Ex A48, ExA53, ExA54 and ExA63.	None
The tax and revenue receipts relating to the properties are at ExA57 to ExA62, ExA65 and ExA67.	None
Encumbrances certificates upto April, 1983 are at ExA44, ExA49, ExA50, ExA51, ExA55, Ex A56, ExA64 and ExA66.	None
Confirmation letters regarding deposit of title deeds are at ExA24, ExA30, ExA34 and Ex A72.	Reasoning
We have carefully perused these letters.	Reasoning
It is impossible to come to a conclusion that the plaintiffbank has fabricated these letters on the blank signed papers allegedly given to it by the defendants.	Reasoning
There is no manner of doubt that they are genuine documents.	Reasoning
There are Memoranda of deposit of title deeds duly signed by the defendants giving details of the properties.	Reasoning
They are at Ex A9 to ExA15, ExA22, ExA23, ExA25, ExA26, ExA28, Ex A29, ExA32 and ExA33.	None
We have seen these exhibits also.	Reasoning
We are convinced that they are genuine documents.	Reasoning
The defendants have not been able to give any valid acceptable explanation as to how so many original title deeds came in the custody of the plaintiffbank.	None
Pertinently, the trial court has noted that defendant 1 has filed O.P. No.62 of 1986 in the SubCourt at Ernakulam against the plaintiffbank for recovery of Rs.18,99,900/. In the schedule of properties under the heading assets of the partners, it is clearly stated that these properties are mortgaged to the Bank as security for Bank Guarantee of Rs.20 lakhs.	None
The trial court has further noted that when DW1 was confronted with this fact, he had no reply.	None
At the cost of repetition, it needs to be stated that it is the case of defendants 6 to 8 in their written statement that they are not partners of defendant 1	Reasoning
they have no connection with the Bank Guarantee and, hence, there is no question of there being any equitable mortgage that the original title deeds were only given for scrutiny and that the plaintiffbank had taken blank signed papers from them when the first Bank Guarantee for Rs.1 lakh dated 11/5/1983 was taken.	Reasoning
This explanation itself falsifies the case of defendants 6 to 8.	Reasoning
They have admitted that the first Bank Guarantee of Rs.1 lakh dated 11/5/1983 was executed.	Reasoning
Even assuming without admitting that some blank papers with their signatures were taken by the plaintiffbank from them, unless they were concerned with the Bank Guarantee, such documents would not be demanded from them nor would they have given such documents to the plaintiffbank.	None
Their efforts to disassociate themselves from defendant 1firm and the Bank Guarantees cannot, therefore, be countenanced.	None
It is equally impossible to accept that these documents were taken for scrutiny by the plaintiffbank.	None
None of the defendants have successfully explained why and for what purpose, the scrutiny of their documents was necessary.	None
We concur with the trial court that all these documents cut at the very root of the defence regarding the nonexistence of the equitable mortgage.	Reasoning
The case of the defendants that there was no equitable mortgage will have to be, therefore, rejected.16.	Reasoning
The defendants contention that the plaintiffbank illegally encashed the Fixed Deposit Receipts in the sum of Rs.4,75,000/ must also be rejected.	Reasoning
It is the plaintiff banks case that this amount was deposited as security for the Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs availed of by the plaintiffbank and the liability incurred by it.	Reasoning
The defendants contend that the said Fixed Deposit Receipts were given to the plaintiffbank for safe custody.	None
Against the background of the aforementioned facts, the story that the Fixed Deposit Receipts were deposited with the plaintiffbank for the purposes of safe custody, does not stand to reason.	None
Except for oral evidence, there is nothing on record to substantiate this case.	None
In the facts of this case, we have no hesitation in rejecting this case of the defendants.	None
In our opinion, the said Fixed Deposit Receipts have rightly been encashed by the plaintiffbank.	None
So far as invocation of Bank Guarantees is concerned, in our opinion, there is no infirmity in the case of plaintiff bank.	None
It is true that in the plaint, there is a reference to Ex A4 and ExA7, which indicates that the invocation is done by the Secretary of KSEB but when an objection was raised by the defendants that the invocation was not proper, the plaintiffbank has produced ExA82 and ExA3 which show that the invocation was done by the Chief Engineer (Civil) General as per the terms of the Bank Guarantees.	Reasoning
It is significant to note that ExA4 is subsequent to ExA82 and relates to Bank Guarantee of Rs.19 lakhs and ExA7 is subsequent to ExA3 and relates to Bank Guarantee of Rs.1 lakh.	None
The trial court has rightly held them to be genuine documents.	Reasoning
The invocation of Bank Guarantees was also done when they were in force, in view of their extension.	Reasoning
Perhaps the most significant piece of evidence which has not been noticed by the trial court and though referred to by the High Court but not appreciated by it, is the letter dated 7/7/1984 (ExA6) in which the Managing Partner of defendant 1 has admitted execution of Bank Guarantees and expressed willingness to pay the amount.	None
This is a letter written by defendant 1 to the plaintiffbank in response to the demand notice dated 23/6/1984 issued to defendant 1.	None
DW1 in his evidence has admitted that the said letter (ExA6) was written by defendant 1.	None
We deem it appropriate to quote the said letter entirely.	None
In response to the demand notice dated 2361984 issued to me and after prolong discussion with the officials concerned, we give you this reply placing certain conditions and suggestions for a smooth banking transaction between us.	None
A bank guarantee for a sum of Rs. 19,00,000/ was arranged by you for a contract work which we have entered into with the K.S.E.Board (Kakkad Hydro Electric Tunnel Project, costing Rs. 6.5 Crores).	None
The work is going on in a full swing and for the continuation of the work we have invested a huge amount for the purchase of machineries and other things.	None
It is relevant to state here that the contract is for a sum of Rs.6.5 crores.	None
Unfortunately, allegations were levelled against the concerned Minister regarding this contract and this matter as referred for a finding before Justice Janaky Amma Commission.	None
The Commission came to the conclusion that all the charges levelled against the Minister were false.	None
Not satisfied with this finding, the opposition parties of the Kerala Legislative Assembly have now raised certain questions regarding this matter in the Assembly.	None
All allegations levelled against the Minister was regarding allowing a sum ofRs.19,00,000/ as mobilization advance.	None
As per the agreement, we have entered into with the K.S.E.Board, we are entitled to get a sum of Rs.20 lakhs.	None
To be immune from the allegations the Board has withdrawn the amount advanced to us without even issuing a notice either to us or to the Bank.	None
We could have approached before a civil court and obtained a stay, but we avoided it only to maintain a good relationship with KSEB for a smooth execution of the contract.	None
Now you have issued a notice asking us to remit the outstanding amount of Rs. 14,43,037.92.	None
Since we have invested a huge amount and since we want to proceed with the work and since we have not so far as received any amount from the department for the work we have done till the date, we are now not in a position to remit the entire amount.	None
As per the conclusion of the discussion with the bank officials on 67 1984, we hereby undertake to remit 10 of the amount of every bill from our coming running part payments.	None
To face the financial situation, we have reconstituted our partnership by including new partners who are substantially rich and well experienced in the field of contract work and by way of increasing the capital.	None
Now we are approaching you for an clean overdraft for a sum of Rs.	None
20,00,000/ (Rupees Twenty Lakhs only) and for sanctioning it we are prepared to give sufficient additional securities the bank requires.	None
Being an outstanding contract, without this much of amount we cannot proceed with the work and only to face this circumstance we make this request and it is just from the part of the bank to sanction our request.	None
We hereby make a suggestion that we would make arrangements from some sources to deposit a substantial amount to the bank.	None
We make this arrangement to face the financial condition, if any, of the bank.	None
Hence, it is prayed that in the circumstances mentioned above, your goodself may be pleased to make immediate arrangements to sanction the request we have made above.	None
In this letter defendant 1 has accepted the case of the plaintiffbank and undertaken to remit 10 of the amount of every bill from the running part payments receivable by it.	Reasoning
Once defendant 1 admits execution of the Bank Guarantees and expresses its desire to repay the amount and when Counter Guarantees, number of title deeds, encumbrance certificates and confirmation letters are on record, in the facts of this case, decree must follow.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the conduct of the defendants needs to be deprecated.	Reasoning
After having taken the benefit of the Bank Guarantees, the defendants have tried to persuade the court to absolve them of the liability to repay the amount by taking up untenable and false contentions.	Reasoning
In O.P. No.62 of 1986 in the schedule of properties under the heading assets of partners, defendant 1 has categorically stated that the said properties are mortgaged to the Bank as security for Bank Guarantee of Rs.20 lakhs.	Reasoning
It is surprising that to evade their liability to make payments, defendant took a contrary stand in this case and tried to mislead the court.	Reasoning
The trial court was, therefore, right in decreeing the suit.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, the plaintiffbank must succeed.	None
We must, however, express our extreme displeasure about the conduct of the officers of the plaintiffbank.	None
The plaintiff bank is a nationalized bank.	None
It is surprising how the originals of the Bank Guarantees could not be produced by it in the trial court.	Reasoning
Such conduct is not expected from the officers of the plaintiffbank who deal with public money.	Reasoning
They have dealt with this matter with extreme casualness.20.	None
In view of the above, we set aside the impugned order dated 4/6/2003.	Decision
We restore the judgment and decree of the trial court dated 1/1/1991.	Decision
We direct the Registry to forward a copy of this judgment to the Chairman of the Punjab and Sind Bank for information.21.	Decision
The appeal is disposed of in the aforestated terms.	Decision
