 	Issue
These appeals are directed against the judgment and order dated 9111999 passed by the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (now The Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal) (for short, Appellate Tribunal) in Order Nos. 10451050/99C 2002 (147) E.L.T. 1144 (Tribunal).	Issue
2.	None
The short question of law that arises for consideration is whether an assessee who has accepted the classification under the Central Excise Tariff Act (for short, the Act) is liable to pay duty as per the said classification without insisting on a notice under Section 11A of the Act.	Issue
3.	None
For the purposes of the present case, on the basis of the statements made at the Bar, we have taken into account the facts in Damodar Poly Fab (P) Ltd., one of the assessee in the present appeals, and have proceeded on the basis that our answer to the question posed in the facts of the said case would govern all the other similarly situated assessees.	Facts
4.	None
The respondentassessee had claimed classification of the HighDensity Polyethylene (HDPE) tapes, fabrics and sacks manufactured by them under Chapter subheading 3926.90 of the Act.	Facts
The appellantRevenue claimed that Chapter subheading 5406.90 was more appropriate.	Facts
The Collector (Appeals) upheld the classification insisted upon by the Revenue Department on the basis of which as many as 10 notices under Section 11A of the Act were issued to the respondentassessee for payment of differential short paid duty under Chapter SubHeading 5406.90.	Facts
5.	None
While the aforesaid showcause notice(s) were yet to be finally adjudicated, the Learned Appellate Tribunal by order dated 2991992 held that the subject goods were correctly classifiable under Chapter subheading 3920.32.	Facts
Thereafter, it appears that an adjudication order dated 3091993 was passed determining the duty liability of the respondentassessee on the basis of the classification made by the Learned Appellate Tribunal under Chapter subheading 3920.32 by order dated 2991992.	Facts
This was notwithstanding the fact that the earlier show cause notices issued covered the period(s) preceding the order dated 2991992 passed by the Learned Appellate Tribunal and the said show cause notices were issued demanding duty on the basis of Chapter subheading 5406.90 which was holding the field prior to the order of the Learned Appellate Tribunal dated 2991992.	Facts
In this regard, it may be further noted that the demand of the respondentassessee for a fresh show cause notice was negatived by the Learned Adjudicating Authority, inter alia, on the ground that the adjudication was being made pursuant to an order of the High Court passed for determination of the entitlement of the respondentsassessees to MODVAT Credit as per the status of the parties prior to the order of the Learned Appellate Tribunal dated 2991992 classifying the subject goods under Chapter subheading 3920.32.	Facts
6.	None
The respondentassessee challenged the order dated 3091993 of the Assistant Collector in further appeal which was answered in its favour by the Learned Collector (Appeals) as well as the Learned Appellate Tribunal.	Facts
Aggrieved, the Union has filed the present statutory appeal(s).	Facts
7.	None
We have heard the Learned Counsels for the parties and perused the relevant material.	None
8.	None
The argument of the appellantRevenue made by Shri K. Radhakrishna, Learned Senior Counsel, in short, is to the effect that as the respondentassessee had accepted the classification made by the Tribunal by its order dated 2991992 under Chapter subheading 3920.32 there is no requirement of any further notice under Section 11A of the Act, as acceptance of the classification amounts to an acknowledgment of the duty liability following such classification.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	None
The above position has been contested by Shri Saurabh Suman Sinha, Learned Counsel appearing for the assesseerespondent No. 1, who submits that the requirement of giving a reasonable opportunity under Section 11A of the Act is statutory in character and acceptance of a classification under a particular Chapter SubHeading is by no means an acceptance of the duty liability which would depend on several other circumstances which ideally would be a matter to be adjudicated on the response of the assessee to the notice.	Arguments of Respondent
10. Section 11A of the Act enjoins a duty on the concerned Central Excise Officer to show cause an assessee as to why the assessee should not pay the duty not levied or not paid or shortlevied or short paid or erroneously refunded, as the case may be, details of which are required to be mentioned in the show cause notice.	Reasoning
On cause being shown by the assessee, the notice(s) is required to be adjudicated upon by the Central Excise Officer issuing such notice under Section 11A which order can be the subject matter of further proceedings under the Act.	Reasoning
Section 11A of the Act statutorily engrafts the principle of reasonable opportunity which would cast a mandatory duty on the Central Excise Officer to comply with the said requirement.	Reasoning
While it is correct that duty has to be paid as per classification determined, acceptance of classification may not necessarily amount to acknowledgment of the liability to pay duty.	Reasoning
This is because the particular Chapter SubHeading under which classification has been made and which has been accepted by the assessee may be covered by an exemption notification or the question of exemption may be reasonably argued in the reply of the assessee, as may be.	Reasoning
Alternatively, Section 11A contemplates a period of limitation for giving of the notice which gets extended in case of suppression, misstatement etc.	Reasoning
This could be another defence open to an assessee in support of his claim of nil duty liability while, at the same time, accepting the classification made.	Reasoning
11.	None
The situations in which an assessee can legitimately deny its liability to pay duty even after accepting a classification may be so myraid that it is not for the Court to speculate the same.	Reasoning
The very fact that the requirement of giving notice has been statutorily engrafted casting a mandatory character to the said requirement is sufficient for the Court to take the view that in the present appeals the demands raised for payment of duty following the classification under Chapter subheading 3920.32 without giving the assessee an opportunity as contemplated by Section 11A of the Act is legally impermissible and therefore would not be tenable in law.	Reasoning
12.	None
For the aforesaid reasons, we affirm the order and conclusion of the Learned Tribunal and dismiss the appeals of the Revenue.	Decision
