 BEG, C.J. (for self and on behalf of D. A. Desai J. on 2121978)1.	None
The ninetyone writ petitions before us for delivery of our reasons in support of our order dated 23 Nov. 1977 dismissing them, raised a common question of the validity of an order (hereinafter referred to as the Control Order), passed on 30th September, 1977, by the Ministry of Civil Supplies and Cooperation of the Government of India, which runs as follows New Delhi, the 30th September, 1977.	Facts
S.O.	Facts
WHEREAS the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary and expedient so to do for securing equitable distribution and availability at fair prices, of mustard oilNOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the following orders namely1.	Facts
Short title, extent and commencement.  	Facts
(1) This order may be called the Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order, 1977.(2) It extends to the whole of India.(3)	Facts
It shall come into force at once.2.	Facts
Definition  In this Order, dealer means a person engaged in the business of the purchase, sale or storage for sale of mustard oil.3.	Facts
Price at which a dealer may sell.	Facts
No dealer shall either by himself or by any person on his behalf, sell or offer to sell any mustard oil at a retail price exceeding Rupees 10/ per kilogram exclusive of the cost of container but inclusive of taxes.	Facts
Sd (T. Balakrishnan), Joint Secretary to the Govt. of India (File No. 26(16)/77ECR)2.	None
The Control Order was passed in exercise of the powers conferred upon the Central Government by S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (hereinatter referred to as the Act).	Facts
This provision lays down S. 3(1) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at fair prices, or for securing any essential commodity for the defence of India or the efficient conduct of military operations it may, by order, provide for regulating or prohibiting the production, supply and distribution thereof and trade and commerce therein.(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by subsection (1), an order made thereunder may provide.(a)	Facts
xxx xxx xxx(b)	Facts
xxx xxx xxx(c) for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold(d) for regulating by licences, permits or otherwise the storage, transport, distribution, disposal, acquisition, use or consumption of, any essential commodity(e) for prohibiting the withholding from sale of any essential commodity ordinarily kept for sale(f) for requiring any person holding in stock, or engaged in the production, or in the business of buying or selling, of any essential commodity,(a) to sell the whole or a specified part of the quantity held in stock or produced or received by him, or(b) in the case of any such commodity which is likely to be produced or received by him, to sell the whole or a specified part of such commodity when produced or received by him, to the Central Government or a State Government or an officer or agent of such Government or to a Corporation owned or controlled by such Government or to such other person or class of persons and in such circumstances as may be specified in the matter.	Facts
Explanation 1.  	Facts
An order made under this clause in relation to foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils, may, having regard to the estimated production, in the concerned area, of such foodgrains, edible oilseeds and edible oils, fix the quantity to be sold by the producers in such area and may also fix, or provide for the fixation of, such quantity on a graded basis, having regard to the aggregate of the area held by, or under the cultivation of, the producers.	Facts
Explanation 2.  	Facts
For the purpose of this clause, production with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions includes manufacture of edible oils and sugar We are not concerned here with other provisions of Section 3(2).3.	Facts
Section 3(3), which will be relevant for the purposes of interpretation, runs as follows 3(3) Where any person sells any essential commodity in compliance with an order made with reference to cl.	Facts
(f) of subsec.	Facts
(2), there shall be paid to him the price therefor as hereinafter provided (a) Where the price can, consistently with the controlled price, if any, fixed under this section, be agreed upon, the agreed price(b) where no such agreement can be reached, the price calculated with reference to the controlled price, if any(c) Where neither Cl.	Facts
(a) nor Cl.	Facts
(b) applies, the price calculated at the market rate prevailing in the locality at the date of sale.	None
Again, subsection (3A) lays down (3A)(i) If the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary so to do for controlling the rise in prices, or preventing the hoarding, of any foodstuff in any locality, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (3), the price at which the foodstuff shall be sold in the locality in compliance with an order made with reference to Cl.	Facts
(f) of subsection (2) shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.(ii)	Facts
Any notification issued under this subsection shall remain in force for such period not exceeding three months as may be specified in the notification.(iii) Where, after the issue of a notification under this subsection, any person sells foodstuff of the kind specified therein and in the locality so specified, in compliance with an order made with reference to Cl.	Facts
(f) of subsection (2), there shall be paid to the seller as the price therefore (a) where the price can, consistently with the controlled price of the foodstuff, if any, fixed under this section, be agreed upon, the agreed price(b) Where no such agreement can be reached, the price calculated with reference to the controlled price, if any(c) where neither clause (a) nor cl.	Facts
(b) applies, the price calculated with reference to the average market rate prevailing in the locality during the period of three months immediately preceding the date of the notification.(iv)	Facts
For the purpose of subcl.	Facts
(c) of Cl.	Facts
(iii), the average market rate prevailing in the locality shall be determined by an officer authorised by the Central Government in this behalf, with reference to the prevailing market rates for which published figures are available in respect of that locality or of a neighbouring locality, and the average market rate so determined shall be final and shall not be called in question in any court.4.	Facts
Additional subsections (3B) and (3C) will also require consideration in order to arrive at the correct meaning of Section 8(2).	Facts
They read as follows (3B) Where any person is required by an order made with reference to cl.	Facts
(f) of subsec.	Facts
(2), to sell to the Central Government or a State Government or to an officer or agent of such Government or to a Corporation owned or controlled by such Government, any grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils in relation to which no notification has been issued under subsection (3A), or such notification having been issued has ceased to be in force, there shall be paid to the person concerned notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subsection (3), an amount equal to the procurement price of such foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils, as the case may be specified by the State Government, with the previous approval of the Central Government having regard to (a) the controlled price, if any, fixed under this section or by or under any other law for the time being in force for such grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils(b) the general crop prospects(c) the need for making such grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils available reasonable prices to the consumers, particularly the vulnerable section of the consumers and(d) the recommendations, if any, of the agricultural prices commission with regard to the price of the concerned grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils (3C) Where any producer is required by an order made with reference to clause (f) of subsection (2) to sell any kind of sugar (whether to the Central Government or a State Government or to an officer or agent of such Government or to any other person or class of persons) and either no notification in respect of such sugar has been issued under subsection (3A) or any such notification, having been issued, has ceased to remain in force by efflux of time, then, notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (3), there shall be paid to that producer an amount therefor which shall be calculated with reference to such price of sugar as the Central Government may, by order, determine, having regard to (a) the minimum price, if any, fixed for sugarcane by the Central Government under this section(b) the manufacturing cost of sugar(c) the duty or tax, if any, paid or payable thereon and(d) the securing of a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar.and different prices may be determined from time to time for different areas or for different factories or for different kinds of sugar.	Facts
Explanation  For the purposes of this subsection, producer means a person carrying on the business of manufacturing sugar.5.	Facts
It is necessary to keep other clauses of S. 3 also in ones mind to get a true picture of the statutory context of the power of price control.	Facts
The drastic measures which the Central Government may adopt, extending to virtually taking over of management of appointing Authorised Controllers of particular undertakings, so as to carry out the objects stated in S. 3(1) of the Act, and the mechanism of control visualised to ensure due and proper exercise of the statutory powers are also very significant.	Facts
The provisions containing these are 3(4)	None
If the Central Government is of opinion that it is a necessary so to do for maintaining or increasing the production and supply of an essential commodity, it may, by order, authorise any person (hereinafter referred to as an authorized controller) to exercise, with respect to the whole or any part of any such undertaking engaged in the production and supply of the commodity as may be specified in the order such functions of control as may be provided therein and so long as such order is in force with respect to any undertaking or part thereof (a) the authorized controller shall exercise his functions in accordance with any instructions given to him by the Central Government, so, however, that he shall not have any power to give any direction inconsistent with the provisions of any enactment or any instrument determining the functions of the persons in charge of the management of the undertaking, except in so far as may be specifically provided by the order and(b) the undertaking or part shall be carried on in accordance with any directions given by the authorized controller under the provisions of the order, and any person having any functions of management in relation to the undertaking or part shall comply with any such directions.3(5)	Facts
An order made under this section shall, (a) in the case of an order of a general nature or affecting a class of persons, be notified in the Official Gazette and(b) in the case of an order directed to a specified individual be served on such individual (i) by delivering or tendering it to that individual, or(ii) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered, by affixing it on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of the premises in which that individual lives, and a written report thereof shall be prepared and witnessed by two persons living in the neighbourhood.3(6)	Facts
Every order made under this section by the Central Government or by any officer or authority of the Central Government shall be laid before both Houses of Parliament, as soon as may be, after it is made.6.	Facts
It has also to be remembered that if the mechanism of price control of some essential commodities fails, there is under our Constitution, with its socialistic orientation and objectives, the provision in Art. 19(6)(ii) for the carrying on by the State, or by a corporation owned or controlled by the State, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or otherwise.7.	Facts
The petitioners assail the control order on four grounds firstly, that it violates the fundamental rights of the petitioners to property under Art. 19(1)(f) and to carry on their trade and business guaranteed by Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution secondly, that the petitioners are denied the benefits of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 of the Constitution thirdly, that the order is hit by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
301 of the Constitution and, fourthly, that the Central Order is outside the scope of Section 3 of the Act.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
We need not consider Art.	Reasoning
301 of the Constitution as the petitions do not beyond citing the provision, set out any facts to show how this Article is involved.	Reasoning
This Article is meant for protecting interState as well as intraState freedom of trade, commerce, and intercourse.	Reasoning
But, Art. 302 provides Parliament may by law impose such restrictions on the freedom of trade, commerce or intercourse between one State and another or within any part of the territory of India as may be required in the public interest.9.	None
Although, Art. 302 does not speak of reasonable restrictions, yet, it is evident that restrictions contemplated by it must bear a reasonable nexus with the need to serve public interest.	Reasoning
If the tests of Section 3 of the Act are satisfied by an Order, it could not fail to serve public interest.	Reasoning
Hence, from this point of view also it is enough if we consider whether the Control Order fails within S. 3 of the Act.	Reasoning
It was evidently for this reason that, beyond mentioning Art. 301, counsel for the petitioners did not, quite rightly, advance much argument to show how Art. 301 in involved here We will, therefore, not consider it any more here.10.	Reasoning
It was however, vehemently urged on behalf of the petitioners that the Control Order is assailable for violating Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
14 and 19(1)(f) and (g)	Arguments of Petitioner
despite the fact that the Act itself was placed in 1976 in the 9th Schedule of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The result of placing it there by a constitutional amendment is that S. 3 of the Act became free from any limitations based on the provisions of Part III of the Constitutions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Article 31B, providing for a removal of the protection to fundamental rights given by Part III of our Constitutions, lays down 31B. Validation of certain Acts and Regulations  Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in Art.	None
31A none of the Acts and Regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule nor any of the provisions thereof shall be deemed to be void, or ever to have become void, on the ground that such Act, Regulation or provision is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by, any provisions of this part, and notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or tribunal to the contrary, each of the said Acts and Regulations shall subject to the power of any competent Legislature to repeal or amend it, continue in force.11.	None
It is evident that Art.	Reasoning
31B protects only Acts and Regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule from the Vice of invalidity for inconsistency with provisions of Part III of the Constitution but not anything done or to be done in future under any of the provisions of any Act so specified, such as an order passed under S. 3 of the Act.12.	Reasoning
If Section 3 of the Act, which was held in Hari Shankar Bagla v. State of Madhya Pradesh 1955 1 SCR 380 (AIR 1954 SC 465 ) to pass the tests of validity imposed by Arts. 14 and 19(1)(f) and (g), read with Art. 19(5) and (6), a Control Order passed under S. 3 would also be required to pass these tests as its scope could not be wider than that of the provision which authorises its promulgation.	Reasoning
A delegated or derivative power could not rise higher or travel beyond the source of that power from which it derives its authority and force.	Reasoning
If Gaglas case (supra) is good law (no party has questioned its correctness) Arts. 14 and 19(1)(f) and (g) could be deemed to be, if one may so put it, Written into S. 3 of the Act itself.	Reasoning
They would control the scope of orders which could be passed under it.	Reasoning
That is, undoubtedly, the way in which guarantees of fundamental rights could and should function if the Act containing Section 3 itself had not been placed in the Ninth Schedule so as to take away the guarantees of fundamental rights from the substance of it.13.	Reasoning
The question of interpretation before us is What is the effect of putting the Act in the Ninth Schedule upon Control Orders passed under Section 3 of the Act ?	None
The answer to this question must necessarily depend upon the effect of such a change of the legal position upon the provisions of S. 3 itself which authorise control orders passed under it.	None
If the effect was to widen the orbit of S. 3 of the Act or to remove the limitations put by Arts.	Reasoning
14 and 19 upon the exercise of powers under it, the logical and natural result would be to enlarge also the scope or sweep of the Orders passed under it.	Reasoning
But, if it has no such effect upon S. 3 of the Act itself.	Reasoning
Orders passed under it would continue to be subject to provisions of S. 3 of the Act as controlled by Arts.	Reasoning
14 and 19 of our Constitution so that they will have to satisfy what may be described as a dual test firstly, that of provisions of Section 3 of the Act itself and, secondly, that of provisions of Chap.	Reasoning
III of the Constitution containing fundamental rights.14.	Reasoning
Learned for the petitioners suggested that the placing of the Act in the Ninth Schedule protected only the grant of powers under S. 3 of the Act but not their exercise.	None
Article 31B, no doubt, speaks of specified Acts and Regulations.	None
But, it makes no distinction whatsoever between any grants of powers and their exercise.	None
Powers are granted or conferred so as to be exercised and not to be kept in cold storage for purposes of some kind of display only as though they were exhibits in a show case not meant for actual use.	None
The whole object of a protection conferred upon powers meant for actual use is to protect their use against attacks upon their validity based upon provisions of Part III.	None
If this be the correct position, it would, quite naturally and logically, follow that their use is what is really protected.15.	None
In practice, it is the exercise of power which is generally assailed and not the mere conferment of it which raises the somewhat different question of legislative competence.	Reasoning
Indeed, the Ninth Schedule does not provide any protection at all against attacks based upon either the vice of excessive delegation or want of legislative competence defects which could be said to vitiate the grant of powers despite their place in the Ninth Schedule.	Reasoning
But, questions of conflict with fundamental rights and transgression of legitimate or reasonable limits upon their exercise arise when citizens complain of unreasonable impediments to the exercise of their fundamental rights.	Reasoning
The distinction between protection to a mere grant of powers and to their exercise, therefore, seems specious in the context of the protection.	Reasoning
It cannot explain why, if S. 3 is protected by the Ninth Schedule, the exercise of power granted by it, which manifests itself in control orders, is not protected.	Reasoning
It would be so protected, if at all, not because the Orders to be made in future, as such, are protected, but because the power actually conterred and found in existence in S. 3 is protected.	Reasoning
The protection is given to a power which is specified and in existence which has to be used for certain purposes and not to what may be specified in future.16.	Reasoning
If orders passed under S. 3 of the Act also get a protection it would be what may be described as a derivative protection so long as the Orders are covered by Section 3 of the Act.	Reasoning
It is available only so long as and because the source of their authority  Section 3 of the Act  is protected by the Ninth Schedule.	Reasoning
Orders purporting to be made under S. 3 of the Act must, however, satisfy the tests found in S. 3 itself in every case.	Reasoning
They can never escape the basic tests whether S. 3, the source of their authority, is protected by the Ninth Schedule or not.	Reasoning
The further tests imported by Arts. 14 and 19 of the Constitution into Section 3 could be applied to these orders only so long as these added tests are attached to or can be read into S. 3 of the Act, but not after they have been deliberately delinked or removed from S. 3, if one may so describe the effect of the inclusion of the Act in the Ninth Schedule.17.	Reasoning
The SolicitorGeneral contended that S. 3 of the Act constituted what he described as skeleton legislation, over which the exercise of powers given by S. 3 built, so to say, a body of flesh and blood.	Arguments of Respondent
The term skeleton legislation is used sometimes for denoting the broad outlines of a particular scheme found in an Act of which details are to be filled in later by administrative orders of experts.	None
It is doubtful whether the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, could be spoken of as a piece of skeleton legislation.	Reasoning
Section 3, subsection (1) of the Act provides for delegation of powers to the Central Government in order that it may carry out certain purposes by framing appropriate schemes and evolving policies which may meet the purposes of the Act.	Reasoning
These schemes and policies to serve the stated purposes may differ as regards the nature of means adopted and even in the particular objectives sought at particular times to accord with changing circumstances.18.	Reasoning
Orders passed under S. 3 of the Act, in pursuance of such schemes or policies, do not become parts of the Act for the purposes of the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution.	Reasoning
On the strength of the views expressed by this Court in Godavari Sugar Mills Ltd. v. S. B. Kamble, 1975 3 SCR 885 (AIR 1975 SC 1193 ) with which we respectfully agree, the most one can say is that orders passed under the Act, before its inclusion in the Ninth Schedule, could also be said to be protected directly by the Ninth Schedule it mentioned there.	Reasoning
But, there could be no independent and direct protection of this Schedule conferred upon orders passed under the Act before us just as none could be given to either the amendments of an Act or to regulations passed under the Act which were considered in Godavari Sugar Mills case (supra).18A. As already indicated above, the impugned control order is assailed mainly on the ground that it violates Articles 14 and 19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is alleged that the manufacturers of oil having invested a great deal of capital in mustard oil manufacturing industry and having purchased oil seeds at higher rates than those which have entered into the calculation of the Government in fixing the price of mustard oil for the consumer cannot be made to sell oil, into which mustard seed is converted, at prices below those at which they could themselves produce oil.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that to require them to do so amounts to confiscation of property contrary to law as well as a restriction upon the right guaranteed by Art. 198(1)(g) of the Constitution upon them to carry on an industry or business free from unreasonable restrictions.	Arguments of Petitioner
Valid restrictions, it is submitted, can only be reasonable and in the interests of the general public.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was suggested that the protection of Art. 31(1) against deprivation of property contrary to law was also involved here.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main question to be decided, therefore, is whether Part III of the Constitution is available at all to test the validity of the impugned control order.19.	None
In Latafat Ali Khan v. State of U.P., 1971 Supp SCR 719 (AIR 1973 SC 2070 ) a constitution Bench of this Court decided such a question quite rightly in our opinion as follows (at P. 720) (of Supp SCR) (at p. 2071 of AIR)	None
It seems to us that if a statutory rule is within the powers conferred by a section of a statute protected by Art.	None
31B, it is difficult to say that the rule must further be scrutinised under Arts.	None
14, 19 etc.	None
Rule 4(4) seems to us to be a rule which does not go beyond the powers conferred under Section 6(xvii), read with Section 44 of the Act.	None
At any rate, S. 6(xvii) and R. 4(4) are part of a scheme of land reform in U.P. and would be protected from attack under Art.	None
31A of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the rule made under the provisions of the Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act, 1960 of U.P. was under attack The section under which the rule was made enjoyed the protection of both Arts.	None
31A and 31B of the Constitution.	None
Hence, it was held that the rule was not to be questioned if it fell within the empowering provision of the Act.	None
The position before us is very similar.	None
The control order passed under S. 3 of the provisions of the Act before us, included in the Ninth schedule, is assailed on the ground that, although S. 3 of the Act may be protected by the 9th Schedule of the Act, yet, an order passed under this provision is not so protected.	None
Although, we agree that the impugned order is not protected for this reason, yet, if the section under which it was passed is protected from any attack based on the provisions of Part III of the Constitution, the only question which survives is whether the control order is covered by the protected empowering provision.	None
If it falls outside the empowering provision it would be invalid in any case.	None
If it falls within the empowering provision but could be found to be struck by the provisions of Art. 19(1)(f) and (g) of the Constitution, an attack on the control order, by reason of Article 19(1)(f) or (g), would be really one against the empowering provision itself which is protected.	Reasoning
The control order, therefore, enjoys what may be called a derivative protection.	Reasoning
All that has to be shown by the Central Government is that it falls within the empowering provision.	Reasoning
No further test, based on fundamental rights in Chapter III of the Constitution, can be applied to it in such a case.20.	Reasoning
All the tests of validity of the impugned price control or fixation order are, therefore, to be found in S. 3 of the Act. A. 3 makes necessity or expediency of a control order for the purpose of maintaining or increasing supplies of an Essential Commodity or for securing its equitable distribution at fair price the criteria of validity.	Reasoning
It is evident that an assessment of either the expediency or necessity of a measure, in the light of all the facts and circumstances which have a bearing on the subjects of price fixation, is essentially a subjective matter.	Reasoning
It is true that objective criteria may enter into determinations of particular selling prices of each kilogram of mustard oil at various times.	Reasoning
But, there is no obligation here to fix the price in such a way as to ensure reasonable profits to the producer or manufacturer.	Reasoning
It has also to be remembered that the object is to secure equitable distribution and availability at fair prices so that it is the interest of the consumer and not of the producer which is the determining factor in applying any objective tests at any particular time.	Reasoning
Hence, the most important objective fact in fixing the price of mustard oil, which is consumed generally by large masses of people of limited means.	Reasoning
Is the playing capacity of the average purchaser or consumer.21.	None
Statistics of rise in prices of mustard oil throughout the country indicated a very sharp rise during the period preceding the control order.	None
It was no longer available at a reasonable price to the average consumer.	None
It is difficult to understand how the average consumer could buy mustered oil at more than Rs. 10/ for each kilogram of mustard oil unless his purchasing capacity was increased by pumping money into his pocket artificially.	None
This would necessarily imply a general rise in wages of the working classes and salaries of middle classes which do not share the profits of an inflationary economy.	None
In other words, a fixation of price above Rs. 10/ per kg. of mustard oil could have contributed to push the country down the slippery slope of inflation towards economic crises and disaster.22.	None
Price control and planning may have been forced upon all nations of the world due to the needs and exigencies of modern total warfare.	None
But, as has been observed, the problems of the aftermath or of the peace and reconstruction, which follow (according to some they break out) are no less demanding.	None
In addition, it is common knowledge that the population explosion, unemployment, and rising prices in our country, due to the inflationary spiral, pose problems with no less grave implications for the whole country than a war.	None
It would be no exaggeration to say that the fate of every government depends ulitimately upon a satisfactory solution of these problems, and, particularly, on its capacity to check rise in prices of essential commodities.23.	None
We have listened to long arguments directed at showing us that producers and sellers of oil in various parts of the country will suffer so that they would give up producing or dealing in mustard oil.	None
It was urged that this would, quite naturally, have its repercussions on consumers for whom mustard oil will become even more scarce than ever ultimately.	None
We do not think that it is the function of this Court or of any Court to sit in judgment over such matters of economic policy as must necessarily be left to the Govt.	None
of the day to decide.	None
Many of them, as a measure of price fixation must necessarily be, are matters of prediction of ultimate results on which even experts can seriously err and doubtless differ.	None
Courts can certainly not be expected to decide them without even the aid of experts.24.	None
It is impossible for any Court to take evidence from all over the country to determine whether particular concerns or parties which have come up before this Court could or could not reasonably produce mustard oil at a cost which could make it reasonable for them to sell it at Rs. 10/ per kg.	None
Learned Counsel before us have tried to perform this impossible task.	None
We think that it should not even have been attempted in a case of this kind because the price at which mustard oil was sold commonly in the market not very long ago and the, price which prevailed at the time when the control order of 30th September, 1977, was passed are matters of common knowledge.	None
All that the Govt.	None
need have done was to take a policy decision based on what could reasonably be the paying capacity of the average buyer of mustered oil and the likely effects of the intended price fixation.	None
It seems to us to have done that.	None
It is true that sufficient material, from these points of view was not placed before us by the Union of India.	None
Nevertheless, the matter is so obvious and glaring that we do not think that detailed statistics are needed.	None
We deliberately do not go into the great mass of materials which have been sought to be placed before us from the point of view of present cost of producing mustard oil and the fixation of a reasonable price based on a determination of that.	None
The more essential questions to answer, from the point of view of provisions of Section 3 of the Act were Can the mass of ordinary consumers pay more than Rs. 10/ per kg ?	None
Even it the price of mustard oil is fixed at less than the cost price to the producers, it is not necessary to take such a measure in order to break the vicious inflationary spiral and bring down prices ?	Issue
The last question could only be answered by waiting and watching the ultimate effects of a particular price fixation on prices of mustard seed and cost of production of mustered oil ultimately.	None
If the object of price fixation suggested by this question is very necessary to take into account, from the point of view of availability of mustard oil at fair prices to consumers, as we think it is, the actual cost of production to the purchasers could certainly not be the sole or the decisive factor.	Reasoning
It could only be one out of a number of relevant facts and circumstances.25.	Reasoning
The net result of the mass of statistics placed before us on behalf of the petitioners is that the price fixed should have been about Rs. 3/ per kg.	Reasoning
more, that is to say, about Rs. 13/ per kg.	Reasoning
Even if we accept this to be a correct estimate for normal times, when fair and reasonable profits to the producers could be an important consideration, we think that a price fixed at Rs. 10/ per kg., as a part of an attempt to break the vicious inflationary circle, is not at all an unreasonable step.26.	Reasoning
Students and observers of economic systems tell us that inflation is no problem in socialist countries because the whole economy is so completely controlled that there is no question of a rise in prices.	Reasoning
Under our what is known as a mixed economy planning and price fixation are part of that social control which becomes inevitable under certain conditions.	Reasoning
Indeed, it seems often quite unavoidable under any system which adopts socialistic measures to achieve the common good.	Reasoning
The argument on behalf of the Union is that the result of this fixation, even below cost price, will necessarily produce desired effects upon the free sector in which price of mustard seed is still not controlled.	Reasoning
The control imposed will make it impossible for producers to offer excessive prices for mustard oil seed demanded by the growers.	Reasoning
Hence, it was argued that the cost of production was bound to come down in course of time if petitioners could only wait a little.	Reasoning
Fixation at even uneconomic selling price implied temporary loss to the producers, so as to serve their own ultimate interests and those of general welfare.	Reasoning
Such sacrifices ought, it was suggested, to be readily borne by producers of mustard oil in a system like ours.	Reasoning
If they were not able to bear them, they could close down their factories.	Reasoning
They could not claim a right to carry on business or manufature on their own terms.	Reasoning
Such is not the right granted even by Art. 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
However, as we have already indicated, it seems that the Act was put in the Ninth Schedule to prevent the invocation of Articles 14, 19 and 31 for obstructing measures so necessary as price fixation of essential commodities is for promoting the objectives of a socialist welfare economy.	Reasoning
This, in our opinion, would be a sufficient answer to all the arguments which had been put forward at considerable length before us on the unconstitutionality of fixing the price of mustard oil below what is claimed to be the cost price.27.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned, en passant, that even during the interval between the passing of our order dismissing Writ Petitions for the enforcement of fundamental rights protected by Part III of the Constitution and the delivery of these reasons, so beneficial was the effect of the order of 30th September, 1977, that price of mustard oil has fallen in the neighbourhood of Rs.	Reasoning
7/ per kg.	Reasoning
Apparently, this is enough to cover reasonable profits of producers as well as middlemen.	Reasoning
We are informed that the impugned Control Order has itself been withdrawn by the Central Government.	Reasoning
We can take judicial notice of these facts which illustrate the extreme inadvisability of any interference by any court with measures of economic control and planning directed at maximising general welfare.	Reasoning
It is not the function of the Courts to obstruct or defeat such beneficial measures devised by the Govt.	Reasoning
of the day.	Reasoning
Courts cannot pass judgments on the wisdom of such actions, unless actions taken are so completely unreasonable that no law can be cited to sanction them.28.	Reasoning
If the impugned order of 30th September, 1977, falls within this provision, as we think it does, no question of violating a fundamental right could arise.	Reasoning
If an impugned order were to fall outside Section 3 of the Act, no question of applying any test of reasonableness contemplated by Article 19(6) need arise because it would then be a purely illegal restriction upon the right conferred by Article 19(1)(g) which would fail for lack of authority of any law to support it.29.	Reasoning
We have also heard considerable argument on principles of fair fixation of price which, it was submitted, must take into account the cost of production as well as a reasonable amount of profit to the manufacturer and the middleman.	Reasoning
As indicated above, such principles apply only in those cases where there is an obligation upon the price fixing authority to take certain matters into account which have a bearing on cost of production and are designed to secure fair share of profits to the producers.	Reasoning
Section 3 of the Act set out above, as already indicated, has very different purposes in view.	Reasoning
It may be that the cost of production and reasonable amount of profits to the manufacturers have an indirect bearing on matters set out in Section 3(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
But, in cases where the effects of a policy or a measure adopted in achieving purposes set out in Section 3(1) are matters of guess work, after experimentation, the actual consequences can be indicated with a fair amount of certainty only by giving some time for a policy to work and reveal its results.	Reasoning
Presence of such features in a case cannot invalidate price fixation of which the direct objects are set out in Section 3(1) of the Act.30.	Reasoning
Mr. Kacker, learned Solicitor General has rightly drawn our attention to a distinction between merely regulatory orders and those of price fixation or price control under Section 3(2)(c) of the Act.	None
A price fixation to meet the general purposes set out in Section 3(1) of the Act, aimed at reversing the vicious inflationary spiral of rising prices, may appear arbitrary or unreasonable judged by standards applicable to price fixation aimed at giving reasonable profits to producers which is not the object of Section 3(1) of the Act.	None
The whole evidence of the petitioners is misdirected inasmuch as it proceeds on the assumption that what could be no more than a relevant consideration is the whole and sole object of Section 3(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
About other matters there is practically no evidence so that we are left in the region of guesswork.31.	None
No case has been cited before us to show that an Order meant to serve a purpose the execution of which may, as indicated above, require fixation of price even below cost price for the time being, is outside Section 3(1) of the Act.	None
It was rightly urged on behalf of the Union that the Control order is a temporary and experimental device for achieving a particular purpose, covered by Section 3(1) of the Act at a particular time, in a particular state of affairs.	None
It was submitted that, after the purpose is achieved, the order could be and will be withdrawn by the Govt.	Reasoning
of India.	Reasoning
As already stated above, that order has been withdrawn because the purpose has been achieved.	Reasoning
Even if that purpose had not been achieved, the order could be withdrawn if it became evident to the Government that such control would not achieve the desired object.	Reasoning
It is extremely hazardous for Courts to enter the sphere of experimentation in matters of economic policy which must be left to the Government of the day.32.	Reasoning
It will be seen from the provisions of Section 3(3) of the Act that price fixation on certain given principles is enjoined only when there is an order under Section 2(f) of the Act compelling the sale of a whole stock or a specified part of it to the Central or a State Government or to authorities or persons as directed by them.	None
Again, Section 3(a)(iii) provides a machinery for price fixation in special cases.	None
Similar is the position with orders under subsecs.	None
(3B) and (3C).	None
The whole machinery of control of supplies with a view to their equitable distribution and securing their availability at fair prices, it will be seen, is much more comprehensive than the machinery for price fixation in special cases on given principles.33.	None
The cases cited before us on price control relate to the sphere in which the criteria for fixation of prices were indicated either by a statutory provision or by orders made thereunder.	None
In Panipat Cooperative Sugar Mills v. Union of India, 1973 2 SCR 860 (AIR 1973 SC 537 ) this Court said Two principal questions arise in these appeals (1) what is the true interpretation of S. 3(3C) and (2) whether the price of Rs. 124.63 was in accordance with the provisions of S. 3(3C).Thus, statutory principles for price fixation were under consideration there.	None
Again, in Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Union of India, 1974 2 SCR 398 (AIR 1974 SC 366 ) there were directions given under the Cotton Textiles Control Orders prescribing sales through certain channels.	None
The principles on which the sale prices of textiles were to be fixed in accordance with relevant rules, were explained by this Court.34.	None
In Meenakshi Mills case (supra), (AIR 1974 SC 366 )	None
Ray, C.J., disapproved of the decision of this Court in Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Union of India (AIR 1972 SC 1690 )	None
in the following words The Premier Automobiles (supra) decision does not consider that the concept of fair prices varies with circumstances in which and the purposes for which the price control is sought to be imposed.	None
This decision because of the special agreement there does not consider that the fixation of fair price with a view to holding the price line may be stultified by allowing periodic increase in price.	None
It was also observed there In Premier Automobiles case (supra) this Court said that the concept of fair price fixed under Section 18G takes in all the elements to make it fair for the consumer leaving a reasonable margin of profit to the manufacturer without which no one will engage in any manufacturing activity.	None
These observations were made on the basis of the agreement of the parties there that irrespective of technical or legal points the Court should base its judgment on examination of correct and rational principles and should direct deviation form the report of the Commission of inquiry appointed by it with the concurrence of the parties only when it is shown that there has been a departure from the established principles or the conclusions of the commission are shown to be demonstrably wrong or erroneous.	None
In other words, that judgment was not to provide a precedent for anything similar to be done by Courts in other cases.35.	None
In Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. Union of India 1975 1	None
SCR 956 (AIR 1975 SC 460 ) the cases mentioned above were discussed by this Court in the context of Sugar Control Order, 1966, where Clause (7) laid down certain matters to be considered in determining fair price.	None
It was held there Price fixation is more in the nature of a legislative measure even though it may be based upon objective criteria found in a report or other material.	None
It could not, therefore, give rise to a complaint that a rule of natural justice has not been followed in fixing the price.	None
Nevertheless, the criterion adopted must be reasonable.	None
The guiding factors laid down in Clause (7) of the Sugar Control Order, 1966, were held to afford only indicia to help the Government in fixing prices on the lines indicated in the Control Order.36.	None
We think that unless, by the terms of a particular statute, or order, price fixation is made a quasijudicial function for specified purposes or cases, it is really legislative in character in the type of control order which is now before us because it satisfies the tests of legislation.	Reasoning
A legislative measure does not concern itself with the facts of an individual case.	Reasoning
It is meant to lay down a general rule applicable to all persons or objects or transactions of a particular kind or class.	Reasoning
In the case before us, the Control Order applies to sales of mustard oil anywhere in India by any dealer.	Reasoning
Its validity does not depend on the observance of any procedure to be complied with or particular types of evidence to be taken on any specified matters as conditions precedent to its validity.	Reasoning
The test of validity is constituted by the nexus shewn between the order passed and the purposes for which it can be passed or, in other words by reasonableness judged by possible or probable consequences.37.	Reasoning
It is true that even executive or legislative action must be confined to the limits within which it can operate.	Reasoning
It must fall reasonably within the scope of the powers conferred.	Reasoning
The scope of the powers conferred depends upon the terms of the empowering provision.	Reasoning
As we have already mentioned, the empowering provision in the instant case is widely worded.	Reasoning
The validity of Section 3 has not been challenged before us.	Reasoning
As indicated above, it could not be challenged by reason of Article 31B after its inclusion in the 9th Schedule of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The result necessarily is that, in a case in which the Central Government is the judge of expediency and necessity to the extent that even the protection of guaranteed fundamental rights cannot stand in the way of its view or opinion of such necessity and expediency, a challenge on the grounds on which it was attempted before us could not succeed.38.	Reasoning
We may also mention that the view we have taken of the dominant purpose of Section 3(1) of the Act is in accordance with the following elucidation of its purpose in Meenakshi Mills case (AIR 1974 SC 366 ) (supra)	None
The question of fair price to the consumer with reference to the dominant object and purpose of the legislation claiming equitable distribution and availability at fair price is completely lost sight of if profit and the producers return are kept in the forefront.	None
The maintenance or increase of supplies of the commodity or the equitable distribution and availability at fair prices are the fundamental purposes of the Act.39.	None
We do not think that we need deal with American cases on price fixation such as Leo Nebbia v. People of the State of New York, 1933 291 US 502 78 L Ed 940 where the guarantee of due process against capricious action was involved.	Reasoning
In this country, such guarantees in regard to rights of property or to carry on industry or trade or business could only arise by reason of Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution which are excluded here because of the protection conferred upon Section 3 of the Act by the 9th Schedule of the Constitution.	Reasoning
I may, however, mention that in Permian Basin Area Rate Cases, 1968 20 L Ed 2d 312 where the majority of learned judges of the U.S. Supreme Court laid down, inter alia, with regard to price fixation by a body of experts of Federal Power Commission required to proceed quasijudicially, that in order to overturn the Commissions judgment the petitioners must undertake the heavy burden of making a convincing showing that it is invalid, because it is unjust and unreasonable in its consequences.	Reasoning
That was a case in which a Commission was charged with a duty to fix rates in accordance with certain principle after taking evidence and hearing parties affected.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, the duty of the petitioners was held to extend to demonstrating the unreasonableness and injustice of the consequences.	Reasoning
A fortiori, patent injustice and unreasonable injury to the interests of consumers must be shewn if a measure of price control, in the nature of either legislative or purely administrative action, is assailed.	Reasoning
So long as the action taken is not so patently unjust and unreasonable as to lead to the irresistible conclusion that it could not fall within Section 3(1) of the Act it cannot be set aside or declared invalid.	Reasoning
The test has to be that of consequences on objects sought by Section 3(1) of the Act.	Reasoning
Judged by this test we think that the Order of 30th September, 1977, fell within the purview of Section 3 of the Act and it has served its purposes.40.	Reasoning
For reasons given above, the order of dismissal of Writ Petitions already passed by us on 23rd November, 1977 is, in our opinion, fully justified.	Decision
Order(By Chandrachud, Bhagwati, S. Murtaza Fazal Ali, Shinghal and Jaswant Singh JJ.	None
on 2121978)  	None
We will give our reasons later since as at present advised, with great respect, we are not disposed to agree with a part of the reasoning of the learned Chief Justice.	None
CHANDRACHUD, C.J. (As he was on 551978) (for self and on behalf of Bhagwati, Fazal Ali, Shinghal and Jaswant Singh JJ.	None
on 551978) 41.	None
On September 30, 1977, the Government of India in its Ministry of Civil Supplies and Cooperation issued the Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order 1977, in exercise of the power conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 10 of 1955.	Facts
The Price Control Order provides by clause 3 that no dealer shall either by himself or by any person on his behalf sell or offer to sell any mustard oil at a retail price exceeding Rs. 10/ per kilogram, exclusive of the cost of container but inclusive of taxes.	Facts
Clause 2 defines a dealer to mean a person engaged in the business of purchase, sale, or storage for sale of mustard oil.42.	Facts
The Price Control Order was challenged in this Court by several dealers on the ground, mainly, that it violates Articles 14, 19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	Facts
Article 301 was cited but not argued upon with any seriousness.43.	Facts
The argument that the Price Control Order offends against the right to property and the right to carry on trade or business requires for its appreciation and decision the awareness that by the 40th Amendment passed in 1976, the Essential Commodities Act was placed in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution as item 126.	None
One of the main contentions of the Union Government in answer to the petitioners challenge to the constitutionality of the Price Control Order is that since the Act, by reason of its being placed in the Ninth Schedule, is immune from attack on the ground that its provisions violate the fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution, the Price Control Order which is but a creature of the Act must enjoy the same immunity.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention has found favour with the learned Chief Justice Shri M. H. Beg but, with respect, we are unable to share his view.44.	None
Article 31A of the Constitution saves laws which provide for matters mentioned in clauses (a) to (e) thereof from a challenge under Articles 14, 19 or 31 notwithstanding anything contained in Article 13 of the Constitution.	None
Article 31B which was introduced by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, validates certain Acts and Regulations by providing that without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in Article 31A, none of the Acts and Regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule nor any of the provisions thereof shall be deemed to be void or ever to have become void, on the ground that such Act, Regulation or provision is inconsistent with, or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by, any provisions of Part III.	None
On a plain reading of this Article it seems to us impossible to accept that the protective umbrella of the Ninth Schedule, takes in its everwidening wings not only the Acts and Regulations specified therein but also Orders and Notifications issued under those Acts and Regulations.	None
Article 31B constitutes a grave encroachment on fundamental rights and doubtless as it may seem that it is inspired by a radiant social philosophy, it must be construed as strictly as one may, for the simple reason that the guarantee of fundamental rights cannot be permitted to be diluted by implications and inferences.	None
An express provision of the Constitution which prescribes the extent to which a challenge to the constitutionality of a law is excluded, must be construed as demarcating the farthest limit of exclusion.	None
Considering the nature of the subjectmatter which Article 31B deals with, there is, in our opinion, no justification for extending by judicial interpretation the frontiers of the field which is declared by that Article to be immune from challenge on the ground of violation or abridgement of fundamental rights.	None
The article affords protection to Acts and Regulations specified in the Ninth Schedule.	None
Therefore, whenever a challenge to the constitutionality of a provision of law on the ground that it violates any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III is sought to be repelled by the State on the plea that the law is placed in the Ninth Schedule, the narrow question to which one must address oneself is whether the impugned law is specified in that Schedule.	None
If it is, the provisions of Art.	None
31B would be attracted and the challenge would fail without any further inquiry.	None
On the other hand, if the law is not specified in the Ninth Schedule, the validity of the challenge has to be examined in order to determine whether the provisions thereof invade in any manner any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III.	None
It is thus no answer to say that though the particular law, as for example a Control Order, is not specified in the Ninth Schedule, the parent Act under which the order is issued is specified in that Schedule.45.	None
The Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order, 1977, was passed under S. 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, which by the relevant part of its subsection (1) empowers the Central Government to provide by an order for regulating or prohibiting the production, supply and distribution of an essential commodity or trade and commerce therein, if it is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing its equitable distribution and availability at a fair price.	Facts
Since the Act of 1955 has been placed in the Ninth Schedule, none of its provisions, including of course S. 3(1), is open to attack on the ground that it ever was or is inconsistent with or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by any provision of Part III of the Constitution.	None
But that is the farthest that the immunity offered by Article 31B can go.	None
In other words speaking of a provision directly in point, Section 3(1) of the Act of 1955 is not open to challenge on the ground, to take a relevant instance, that it violates the guarantee contained in Art. 19(1)(f) or 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	None
But there is no justification for extending the protection of that immunity to an order passed under Section 3 of the Act like the Mustard Oil (Price Control) Order.	None
Extending the benefit of the protection afforded by Art.	None
31B to any action taken under an Act or Regulation which is specified in the Ninth Schedule, appears to us to be an unwarranted extension of the provisions contained in Art.	None
31B, neither justified by its language nor by the policy or principle underlying it.	None
When a particular Act or Regulation is placed in the Ninth Schedule, the Parliament may be assumed to have applied its mind to the provisions of the particular Act or Regulation and to the desirability, propriety or necessity of placing it in the Ninth Schedule in order to obviate a possible challenge to its provisions on the ground that they offend against the provisions of Part III.	None
Such an assumption cannot, in the very nature of things, be made in the case of an Order issued by the Government under an Act or Regulation which is placed in the Ninth Schedule.	None
The fundamental rights will be eroded of their significant content if by judicial interpretation a constitutional immunity is extended to Orders to the validity of which the Parliament, at least theoretically, has had no opportunity to apply its mind.	None
Such an extension takes for granted the supposition that the authorities on whom power is conferred to take appropriate action under a statute will act both within the framework of the statute and within the permissible constitutional limitations, a supposition which past experience does not justify and to some extent falsifies.	None
In fact, the upholding of laws by the application of the theory of derivative immunity is foreign to the scheme of our Constitution and accordingly Orders and Notifications issued under Acts and Regulations which are specified in the Ninth Schedule must meet the challenge that they offend against the provisions of Part III of the Constitution.	None
The immunity enjoyed by the Parent Act by reason of its being placed in the Ninth Schedule cannot proprio vigore be extended to an offspring of the Act like a Price Control Order issued under the authority of the Act.	None
It is therefore open to the petitioners to invoke the writ jurisdiction of this Court for determination of the question whether the provisions of the Price Control Order violate Arts.	None
14, 19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.46.	None
The learned SolicitorGeneral relies, justifiably, on two decisions of this Court in Vasantlal Maganbhai Sajanwala v. The State of Bombay 1961 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 341 (AIR 1961 SC 4 ) and Latafat Ali Khan v. The State of U.P., 1971 Supp SCR 719 (AIR 1973 Sc 2070 )	Arguments of Respondent
in support of his argument that the Price Control Order must receive the protection of the Ninth Schedule to the same extent as the Essential Commodities Act under which that Order was issued and which has been placed in the Ninth Schedule.	None
In Vasantlal Maganbhai, the vires of S. 6(2) of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948, was challenged on the ground that it suffered from the vice of excessive delegation.	None
In exercise of the power conferred by S. 6(2), the State Government had issued a Notification fixing the maximum rent payable by tenants of lands situated in the areas specified in the schedule appended to the Notification.	Arguments of Respondent
The validity of that Notification was challenged on the ground that it offended against Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The first contention was rejected by the majority which held that S. 6(2) did not suffer from excessive delegation.	Arguments of Respondent
On the second question it was held by the Court that since the Bombay Tenancy Act was placed in the Ninth Schedule, the Notification which was issued under S. 6(2) of that Act could not be challenged on the ground that it violated Art. 31.	Arguments of Respondent
Subba Rao J., who was in minority, did not consider the latter point regarding the validity of the Notification issued under S. 6(2) because he took the view that S. 6(2) suffered from the vice of excessive delegation and was therefore unconstitutional.	Arguments of Respondent
This decision undoubtedly lends support to the contention of the Union Government that if an Act or Regulation is specified in the Ninth Schedule, any order or notification issued under it would equally be entitled to the protection of that Schedule.	None
We are however, of the opinion, respectfully, that the decision in Vasantlal Maganbhai does not reflect the true legal position which, according to us, is that the immunity enjoyed by an Act placed in the Ninth Schedule cannot be extended to an order or notification issued under it.	None
The decision of the Court appears to have been influenced largely by the consideration that the only argument advanced against the validity of the notification was that in substance it amended the provisions of S. 6(1) and was therefore a fresh legislation to which Art.	None
31B could not apply.	None
The Court rejected that argument and held that it S. 6(2) was valid, the exercise of the power validly conterred on the Provincial Government could not be treated as a fresh legislation.47.	None
The decision in Latafat Ali Khan (AIR 1973 SC 2070 ) contains no reasons beyond the bare statement that if a statutory rule is within the powers conferred by a section of a statute protected by Art.	None
31B, it is difficult to say that the rule must further be scrutinised under Articles 14, 19, etc.	None
It is clear from the judgment that since the Court was of the opinion that at any rate the impugned provisions of the U.P. Imposition of Ceiling on Land Holding Act and the Rules were part of a scheme of land reform and were therefore protected from attack under Art.	None
31A of the Constitution, it did not think it necessary to examine the question whether statutory rules framed under the Act which was placed in the Ninth Schedule would enjoy the same immunity.48.	None
The decision of this Court in Godavari Sugar Mills Ltd. v. S. B. Kamble, 1975 3 SCR 885 (AIR 1975 SC 1193 ) appears to us to be in point and it supports the petitioners contention that the benefit of Article 31B of the Constitution cannot be extended to an order or notification issued under an Act which is placed in the Ninth Schedule.	None
The Bombay High Court while affording protection of Art.	None
31B to the Maharashtra Agricultural Lands (Ceilings on Holdings) Act, 1961, which was included in the Ninth Schedule, also granted the benefit of that protection to the later Amending Acts of 1968, 1969 and 1970 on the ground that they were only ancillary or incidental to S. 28 of the Principal Act.	None
That view was rejected by this Court on the ground that if the protection afforded under Article 31B is extended to amendments made to an Act or Regulation subsequent to its inclusion in the Ninth Schedule, the result would be that even those provisions would enjoy the protection which were never scrutinised and could not, in the very nature of things, have been scrutinised by the prescribed majority vested with the power of amending the Constitution.	None
That according to the Court, would be tantamount to giving a power to the State Legislature to amend the Constitution in such a way as would enlarge the contents of the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution.	None
Khanna, J., who spoke for the Court, observed that Article 31B carves out a protected zone, that any provision which has the effect of making an inroad into the guarantee of fundamental rights must be construed very strictly and that it is not permissible to the Court to widen the scope of such a provision or to extend the frontiers of the protected zone beyond what is warranted by the language of the provision.	None
In the result, it was held that the entitlement to protection cannot be extended to provisions which were not included in the Ninth Schedule and that this principle would hold good irrespective of the fact whether the provision in regard to which the protection was sought dealt with new, substantive matters or with matters which were merely incidental or ancillary to those already protected.	None
This decision shows unmistakably that the circumstance that a Control Order is a mere creature of the parent Act and is incidental or ancillary to it cannot justify the protection of the Ninth Schedule being extended to it on the ground that the parent Act is incorporated in that Schedule.49.	None
But, having won, the battle on a point of law, undoubtedly of public importance, the petitioners have to lose the war of price fixation because there is no substance in their grievance that the Price Control Order offends against Arts.	None
14, 19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g).	Arguments of Petitioner
Taking first the challenge under Art. 14 for consideration, the argument is that the impugned Order treats the entire country as one unit regardless of regional variations relating to factors like the cost of procurement of raw material and freight.	None
The contention, in other words, is that the order is overinclusive since it treats unequals as equals by imposing an identical burden upon a wider range of individuals than those who can legitimately be treated as constituting one single class for the purpose of remedying the mischief at which the law aims.	None
In the first place, the averments in the various Writ Petitions are far too vague and general to justify the application of Art.	None
14.	None
The petitioners have failed to show by acceptable data that they fall into a separate class altogether and cannot therefore be subjected to the restraints of a single order of price fixation.	None
It may be that economic factors governing the mustard oil trade vary from region to region as in the case of any other trade and further, the pattern of the trade may differ in different growing regions and manufacturing centres like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, West Bengal, Punjab and Orissa, but that by itself cannot justify the argument that different prices must be fixed for different regions and that failure to do so would necessarily entail discrimination.	None
Dealers in Mustard Oil, wherever they operate, can legitimately comprise a single class for the purpose of price fixation, especially as it is undisputed that the two basic constants of the trade are that the cost of mustard seed constitutes 94 per cent of the cost of the mustard oil and that about 3.12 kilograms of seed goes into the extraction of one kilogram of oil.	None
Fixation of different prices for different regions will, in this background, frustrate the very object of the exercise that an essential commodity should be made available to the consumer at a fair price.	None
Consumer goods have a disconcerting tendency to disappear from regions where prices are lower and they notoriously migrate to areas where higher prices rule.	None
Besides, the grievance of the West Bengal dealers that since they have to import mustard seed from Uttar Pradesh their cost of production is higher than in Uttar Pradesh can be met with the answer that in any event, West Bengal has also to import at least 1/3rd of its total annual requirement of 1.3 lakhs Metric tonnes of Mustard Oil.	None
Uttar Pradesh grows 66 per cent of the total production of mustard seed whereas West Bengal grows only 6 per cent.	None
The question really is whether dealers in different regions can be said to be so differently situated in the context of and in relation to the purpose for which the Price Control Order is issued that one common price for dealers all over the country can reasonably be described as discriminatory as against some of them.	None
As observed earlier, there is no reliable data to support this contention and we cannot accept the charge of overinclusiveness for the mere reason that dealers in a certain region have to import their raw material from another region.	None
Perhaps, the high rate of turnover and consumption in a region like West Bengal may easily absorb the additional cost of freight.	None
We are therefore unable to hold, to use the language of Mathew J., in State of Gujarat v. Shri Ambica Mills Ltd., 1974 3	None
SCR 760 at p. 782 (AIR 1974 SC 1300 at p. 1313) that the Government of India, in fixing one common price for mustard oil for the whole country, has acted like Herod who ordered the death of all male children born on a particular day because one of them would some day bring about his downfall.50.	None
It is interesting that in matters of price fixation, whichever method the authorities adopt is made the subjectmatter of challenge for one reason or another, often conflicting and contradictory.	None
In Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. Union of India 1975 1	None
SCR 956 (AIR 1975 SC 460 ) one of the contentions on behalf of the manufacturers of sugar was that sugar prices should not have been determined on the basis of 22 different zones but should have been determined either on an All India basis or for a unit of five zones.	None
That contention was rejected by this Court but the case is an instance of how a division of the country into separate zones for the purpose of fixing the price of an essential commodity does not offer a commonly acceptable solution.	None
It is doubtless that if lower prices were fixed the price of an essential commodity does not offer a commonly acceptable solution.	None
It is doubtless that if lower prices were fixed for Uttar Pradesh on the ground that the dealers there were not required to import raw material from outside, a hue and cry would have been raised that the Government of India was victimising the dealers in a particular area for the irrelevant reason that it grew the raw material in abundance.	None
In the ultimate analysis, the mechanics of price fixation has necessarily to be left to the judgment of the executive and unless it is patent that there is hostile discrimination against a class of operators, the processual basis of price fixation has to be accepted in the generality of cases as valid.51.	None
That takes us to the petitioners contention that the Price Control Order is violative of the petitioners rights under Articles 19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The case of M s. Prag Ice and Oil Mills who are petitioners in Writ Petition No. 712 of 1977 is as follows The average cost of production of mustard oil, when the Price Control Order was issued, was about Rs. 1351.10 per quintal i.e. Rs. 13.51 per kilogram.	Arguments of Petitioner
Taking into consideration overhead costs and allowing for a reasonable margin of profit, the fair selling price of mustard oil would come to Rs. 14.01 per kilogram at the factory gate.	Arguments of Petitioner
Petitioners, being wholesalers, sell their goods to other wholesalers and retailers some of whom have to transport the goods at considerable distances from the petitioners factory.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the impugned Order the price of mustard oil is fixed at Rs. 10/ per kilogram which means that the petitioners have to sell the goods to the retailer at about Rs. 8.50 per kilogram since the retailer has to provide for a margin of at least Rs. 1.50 per kilogram for his costs and a small profit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus the petitioners have to suffer a loss of over Rs. 5/ per kilogram as a result of the Price Control Order.	Arguments of Petitioner
By this method, the petitioners are deprived of their right to acquire and hold their property and carry on their trade or business of extracting, manufacturing and selling mustard oil.	Arguments of Petitioner
The price of Rs. 10/ per kilogram has been fixed, according to the petitioners, arbitrarily and without any application of mind.	Arguments of Petitioner
These allegations contained in the Writ Petition of M s. Prag Ice and Oil Mills may be taken as representing broadly the grievance of the other petitioners who are more or less similarly situated.52.	Arguments of Petitioner
These allegations have been traversed by Shri V. Sriniwasan, Deputy Secretary to the Ministry of Civil Supplies and Cooperation, Government of India, on behalf of the Union Government.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Srinivasan has stated in his affidavit that in March 1977, the retail price of mustard oil in several mustard oil consuming centres ranged between Rs. 9.75 and Rs. 10.81 per kilogram.	Arguments of Respondent
It became necessary to issue the impugned Order in view of the fact that the price of mustard oil was increasing persistently in spite of the fact that the prices of other edible oils were showing a declining trend.	Arguments of Respondent
The available stocks disappeared from the market suddenly and the Government had to intervene in order to control the distribution of an essential commodity in public interest.	Arguments of Respondent
The fixation of price in these circumstances was necessarily empirical, for which purpose the Government took into account prices which were prevailing in the market when the goods were freely available, the general level of prices of other edible oils, the purchasing power of the consumer and the amount of loss which the industry was able to absorb after it had made huge profits in prosperous years.	Arguments of Respondent
The affidavit further says that even at Rs. 10/ per kilogram, it was possible for the petitioners to make a small profit but whether or not the dealers made any profit, the validity of the Price Control Order was not liable to be challenged on the ground that the dealers would incur a loss if they were obliged to sell mustard oil at Rs. 10/ per kilogram.	Arguments of Respondent
The question as to which was the fair price to the consumer was kept by the Government in the forefront and by that method alone could the dominant object of the Essential Commodities Act be achieved effectively.53.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Srinivasans affidavit further states that mustard seed is grown mainly in the rabi season, i.e. from September to October and February to March and the peak marketing reason is from April to June.	Arguments of Respondent
The mustard crop is by and large grown by small framers who have no staying ability and who, in their anxiety to dispose of their produce as quickly as possible after the harvest, sell their produce between April and June.	Arguments of Respondent
From this it is stated to follow that the millers effect the bulk of their purchasers during the first quarter of the year and therefore, the petitioners could not be heard to contend that the price of mustard seed after the coming into force of the impugned Price Control Order should be taken into account for determining the cost which they have to incur in producing mustard oil.	Arguments of Respondent
The affidavit contains a table showing the prices paid by the millers and the prices received by the farmers for the mustard seed.	Arguments of Respondent
The fair price of the mustard oil, according to the Government, could be fixed on the basis of weight and average price or the mean price of the mustard seed.	Arguments of Respondent
But in order not to cause hardship to the dealers, the price was fixed at Rs. 10/ per kilogram on the basis of the average of the highest and the lowest of the market prices prevailing during the period of bulk arrivals of the seed in the market.	Arguments of Respondent
The prices ranging at ten different centres are alleged to have been taken into account, namely, Aligarh, Allahabad, Hapur, Gauhati, Hathras, Jullundur, Kanpur, Moga, Rohtak and Sriganganagar.	Arguments of Respondent
Those prices yield a mean price of around Rs. 350/ per quintal of mustard seed and upon that basis the retail price works out to be less than Rs. 10/ viz., Rs. 9.95 per kilogram.54.	None
Considering these rival contentions and the data which has been produced before us in support thereof, we are unable to accept the petitioners submission that the Price Control Order is violative of their rights under Arts.	None
19(1)(f) and 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.	None
In the first place, it is impossible to determine in these Writ Petitions the accuracy of the petitioners case that they purchase mustard seed from month to month and from week to week as the crushing of the seed progresses.	None
We see no reason to doubt the statement contained in the affidavit filed on behalf of the Government of India that most of the growers of mustard seed are small agriculturists who have hardly any staying ability and are therefore compelled to sell their produce immediately after the harvesting seasons, that is to say, between March and June.	None
If the prices of mustard seed prevailing during that period are taken into account, it is difficult to accept that the price of Rs. 10/ per kilogram is so patently unreasonable as to be violative of the petitioners right to hold property or to do trader or business.55.	None
An argument was repeatedly advanced before us on behalf of the petitioners that it is futile to fix the price of oil without at the same time fixing the ceiling price of the raw material, namely, the mustard seed.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention is also effectively met by the respondents plea that the bulk of the purchases are made by the petitioners immediately after the harvesting season and that, considering the pattern of the trade in mustard seed it is wholly unnecessary to control the price of the seed in order effectively to control the price of mustard oil.	None
It is significant that whereas mustard seed was sold in certain areas at prices ranging between Rs. 480/ and Rs. 520/ per quintal in September 1977, prices after the promulgation of the impugned Price Control Order had come down to a range between Rs. 365/ and Rs. 390/ per quintal.	None
This has not been denied by the petitioners but they describe the phenomenon as irrelevant for the purpose of determining the legality of the Price Control Order.	None
Their contention, in which we find no substance, is that the consequence of the Price Control Order cannot be looked at for the purpose of deciding whether the price of mustard oil was fixed in accordance with legally acceptable principles.	None
The proof of pudding, as the saying goes, is in the eating, and no court can shut its eyes to the fact that the Price Control Order produced the salutary and tangible result of bringing down the price of raw material.56.	None
The basic rule of construction in these matters, as observed in Vrajlal Manilal and Co. v. State of Madhya Pradesh 1970 1 SCR 400 at p. 409 (AIR 1970 SC 129 at p. 135), is that a mere literal or mechanical construction is not appropriate where important questions such as the impact of an exercise of a legislative power on constitutional provisions and safeguards thereunder are concerned.	None
In cases of such a kind, two rules of construction have to be kept in mind (1) that courts generally lean towards the constitutionality of a legislative measure impugned before them upon the presumption that a legislature would not deliberately flout a constitutional safeguard or right, and (2) that while construing such an enactment the court must examine the object and the purpose of the impugned Act, the mischief it seeks to prevent and ascertain from such factors its true scope and meaning.58.	None
Section 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, empowers the Central Government to fix the prices of essential commodities if it is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do for maintaining or increasing supplies of any essential commodity or for securing their equitable distribution and availability at a fair price.	None
Subsection (2)(c) of S. 3 provides that without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by subsec.	None
(1), an order made under that subsection may provide for controlling the price at which any essential commodity may be bought or sold.	None
The dominant purpose of these provisions is to ensure the availability of essential commodities to the consumers at a fair price.	None
And though patent injustice to the producer is not to be encouraged, a reasonable return on investment or a reasonable rate of profit is not the sine qua non of the validity of action taken in furtherance of the powers conferred by S. 3(1) and S. 3(2)(c) of the Essential Commodities Act.	None
The interest of the consumer has to be kept in the forefront and the prime consideration that an essential commodity ought to be made available to the common man at a fair price must rank in priority over every other consideration.57.	None
We are not impressed by the play of statistics on the part of the petitioners which is designed to show that as a result of the Price Control Order, they are faced with a loss of about Rs. 5/ per kilogram on the sale of mustard oil.	None
We will ignore, while we are on this point, the pronounced reiteration of the respondent that the petitioners have made huge profits in past years and that their concerns are sufficiently prosperous to be able to absorb a small loss for a temporary period.	None
But even in the absence of satisfactory proof of the extent of the profits made by the petitioners in past years, we are of the opinion that the circumstance that the petitioners may have to suffer a loss over a short period immediately following upon the promulgation of the Price Control Order will not render the Order constitutionally invalid.	None
The interplay of economic factors and the laws of demand and supply are bound eventually to have their impact on the pattern of prices prevailing in the market.	None
If the dealer cannot lawfully sell the finished product at more than Rs. 10/ per kilogram, the price of raw material is bound to adjust itself to the price of the product.	None
Subsequent events unmistakably demonstrate the effect of such interplay and the favourable reaction which the Price Control Order has produced on the price of mustard seed.	None
But above all thongs.	None
It is necessary to bear in mind in matters of the present nature what Krishna Iyer, J. said in B. Banerjee v. Anita Pan, 1975 (2) SCR 774 , at p. 782 (AIR 1975 SC 1146 at p. 1150) that such provisions have to be viewed through a socially constructive, not legally captious microscope to discover a glaring unconstitutional infirmity, that when laws affecting large chunks of the community are enacted stray misfortunes are inevitable and that social legislation without tears, affecting vested rights, is virtually impossible.60.	None
Having considered the matter from every possible angle, we are unable to accept the petitioners contention that the impugned Price Control Order is so unreasonable as to be constitutionally valid.	None
As observed by Beg J. in Saraswati Industrial Syndicate, (AIR 1975 SC 460 )	None
it is enough compliance with the constitutional mandate if the basis adopted for price fixation is not shown to be so patently unreasonable as to be in excess of the power to fix the price.58.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioners expressed the fear that the fixation of an uneconomic price will drive the manufacturers out of the market and thus the very source of supply of an essential commodity will dry up, thereby frustrating the object of the Essential Commodities Act that the consumer must get his basic needs at a fair price.	None
The fallacy of this contention is that immediately prior to the promulgation of the Price Control Order the consumer was denied the chance to get the mustard oil at a price which he could reasonably afford.	None
For him, therefore, the supply had already dried up.	None
If, after the issuance of the order, the supply position shows no improvement, that consequence cannot be legitimately attributed to the operation of the Price Control Order.	None
At best, the Order can then be said to have failed to achieve its purpose.59.	None
This discussion will not be complete without reference to the decision of a Constitution Bench of this Court in Shree Meenakshi Mills Ltd. v. Union of India.	None
1974 2	None
SCR 398 (AIR 1974 SC 366 ).	None
The question which arose in that case was as regards the validity of notification fixing fair prices of cotton yarn.	None
It was contended on behalf of the petitioners therein that the price fixed was arbitrary because of fluctuation in the price of cotton was not taken into consideration, the price of raw materials, the liability for wages and the necessity for ensuring reasonable profit of the trader were not taken into account and above everything else, the industry was not ensured a reasonable return on its investment.	Arguments of Petitioner
These contentions were rejected by this Court on the ground that, just as the industry cannot complain of rise and fall of prices due to economic factors in an open market, it cannot similarly complain of some increase in or reduction of prices as a result of a notification issued under S. 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act because, such increase or reduction is also based on economic factors.	None
Dealing with the contened to the manufacturers, the Court held that ensuring a fair price to the consumer was the dominant object and purpose of the Essential Commodities Act and that object would be completely lost sight of, if the producers profit was kept in the forefront.	None
Ray C.J. speaking for the Court, observed In determining the reasonableness of a restriction imposed by law in the field of industry, trade or commerce, it has to be remembered that the mere fact that some of those who are engaged in these are alleging loss after the imposition of law will not render the law unreasonable.	None
By its very nature, industry or trade or commerce goes through periods of prosperity and adversity on account of economic and sometimes social and political factors.	None
In a largely free economy when controls have to be introduced to ensure availability of consumer goods like foodstuff, cloth and the like at a fair price, it is an impracticable proposition to require the Government to go through the exercise like that of a Commission to fix the prices.	None
Another passage from the judgment of the learned Chief Justice which has an important bearing on the instant case is to the following effect When available stocks go underground and the Government has to step in to control distribution and availability in public interest, fixing of price can be only emperical.	None
Market prices at a time when the goods did not go underground and were freely available, the general rise in prices, the capacity of the consumer specially in case of consumer goods like foodstuff, cloth etc.	None
the amount of loss which the industry is able to absorb after having made huge profits in prosperous years, all these enter into the calculation of a fair price in an emergency created by artificial shortages.60.	None
On this aspect of the matter, the Court cited with approval a passage from an American decision, Secretary of Agriculture v. Central Roig Refining Co. 1950 94 L Ed 381 to the effect that Courts of Law cannot be converted into tribunals for relief from the crudities and inequities of complicated experimental economic legislation.64.	None
Counsel for the petitioners relied upon the decisions in Panipat Cooperative Sugar Mills v. Union of India (AIR 1973 SC 537 ) and Anakapalle Cooperative Agricultural and Industrial Society Ltd. v. Union of India AIR 1973 SC 734 in support of their contention that fixation of a price without ensuring a reasonable return to the producers or dealers is unconstitutional.	None
The infirmity of this argument, as pointed out in Meenakshee Mills v. Union of India, is that these two decision turn on the language of S. 3(3C) of the Essential Commodities Act under which it is statutorily obligatory to ensure to the industry a reasonable return on the capital employed in the business of manufacturing sugar.	None
These decisions can, therefore, have no application to cases of price fixation under S. 3(1) read with Section 3(2)(c) of the Act.	None
Cases falling under subsecs.	None
(3A), (3B) and (3c) of S. 3 of that Act belong to a different category altogether.61.	None
It is customary in price fixation cases to cite the oftquoted decision in Premier Automobiles Ltd. v. Union of India 1972 2 SCR 526 (AIR 1972 SC 1690 ) which concerned the fixation of price of motor cars.	None
It is time that it was realized that the decision constitutes no precedent in matters of price fixation and was rendered for reasons peculiar to the particular case.	None
At page 535 of the Report (1972 2 SCR) (at pp. 169394 of AIR)	None
Grover J., who spoke for the Court, stated at the outset of the judgment Counsel for all the parties and the learned Attorney General are agreed that irrespective of the technical or legal points that may be involved, we should base our judgment on examination of correct and rational principles and should direct deviation from the report of the Commission which was an expert body presided over by a former judge of a High Court only when it is shown that there has been a departure from established principles or the conclusions of the Commission are shown to be demonstrably wrong or erroneous.	None
By an agreement of parties the Court was thus converted into a Tribunal for considering every minute detail relating to price fixation of motor cars.	None
Secondly, as regards the escalation clause, the Court recorded at page 543 that it was not disputed on behalt of the Government, and the Attorney General accepted the position, that a proper method should be devised for escalation or deescalation.	None
Thirdly, it is clear from page 544 of the Report that the learned Attorney General also agreed that a reasonable return must be allowed to the manufacturers on their investment.	None
The decision thus proceeded partly on an agreement between the parties and partly on concessions made at the Bar.	None
That is the reason why the judgment in Premier Automobiles cannot be treated as a precedent and cannot afford any appreciable assistance in the decision of price fixation cases.62.	None
The contention that the Price Control Order is arbitrary because it is not limited in point of time is without any merits.	None
In the very nature of things, orders passed under S. 3(1) read with S. 3(2) of the Essential Commodities Act are designed primarily to meet urgent situations which require prompt and timely attention.	None
If a price control order brings about an improvement in the supply position or if during the period that such an order is in operation there is a fall in prices so as to bring an essential commodity within the reach of the ordinary consumer, the order shall have lost its justification and would in all probability be withdrawn.	None
That in fact is what has happened in the instant case.	None
It appears that the supply position having improved, or so at any rate seems to be the assessment of the situation by the Government, the order has been recently withdrawn.63.	None
Learned counsel for the petitioners laid great stress on the circumstance that, as is shown by the affidavit filed on behalf of the Union Government, the Price Control Order did not take into account the circumstance that the cost of production of mustard oil includes a fairly large margin of profit of the middleman.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that small millers cannot afford to make large investments and lock up their limited capital and therefore resort is required to be had to the intervention of the middleman who is in a position to invest a large capital in the purchase of raw material and who, naturally, expects a fair return on his investment.	Arguments of Petitioner
The intervention of the middleman is an acknowledged reality of all trades and businesses.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fact that the middlemans profit increases the price of goods which the comsumer has to pay, was described by this Court in Narendra Kumar v. Union of India 1960 2 SCR 375 (AIR 1960 SC 430 ) as axiomatic.	None
As observed in that case, since the middlemans charges often add to a considerable sum, it has been the endeavour in modern times for those responsible for social control to keep middlemans activities to the minimum and to attempt to replace them largely by cooperative sale societies of producers and cooperative purchase societies of consumers.	None
The elimination of the middleman is bound to cause trouble and inconveniece, but the ultimate saving in the cost of the finished product could more than balance that inconvenience.	None
The argument of the petitioners really amounts to a rigid insistence that they are entitled to carry on their business as they please, mostly in a traditional manner regardless of its impact on public interest.	None
But, property rights are not absolute, and important as the right of property may be, the right of the public that such rights be regulated in common interest is of greater importance.	None
These correlative rights, as observed in Leo Nebbia v. People of the State of New York 1934 78 Law Ed 940, are always in collision No exercise of the private right can be imagined which will not in some respect, however slight, affect the public no exercise of the legislative prerogative to regulate the conduct of the citizen which will not to some extent abridge his liberty or affect his property.	None
But subject only to constitutional restraint the private right must yield to the public need.	None
In the words of Justice Roberts who delivered the opinion of the Court in Leo Nebbia,The Constitution does not secure to any one liberty to conduct his business in such fashion as to inflict injury upon the public at large or upon any substantial group of the people.	None
Price control, like any other from of regulation, is unconstitutional only if arbitrary, discriminatory, or demonstrably irrelevant to the policy the Legislature is free to adopt, and hence an unnecessary and unwarranted interference with individual liberty.64.	None
Counsel for the petitioners characterised the fixation of price in the instant case as a veiled transgression of power conferred by Section 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of that submission the judgment of this Court in K. C. Gajapati Narayan Deo v. State of Orissa 1954	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 1 (AIR 1953 SC 375 ) was cited in which it was said that when a legislative power is defined by reference to purpose, legislation not directed to that purpose will be invalid.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are unable to appreciate how, if the Government has got the power to fix a fair price of an essential commodity, it can be said that they have under a pretext trespassed upon a field which does not properly belong to them.	None
The power conferred by Section 3(1) of the Essential Commodities Act is undoubtedly purposive.	None
But it seems to us incontrovertible that the Price Control Order was promulgated by the Government in order to achieve the purpose set out in Section 3(1) of the Act.	None
The fact that a legislative remedy or an administrative order passed in exercise of a statutory power is ineffective to mitigate an evil may show that it has failed to achieve its purpose, highlighting thereby the paradox of reform.	None
But as observed in Joseph Beauharnais v. People of the State of Illinois 1951 96 Law Ed 919, that is the price to be paid for the trialanderror inherent in legislative efforts to deal with obstinate social issues.	None
We are, therefore, unable to hold that by fixing a fair price for mustard oil, the Government has committed a veiled and subtle trespass upon private rights or upon a legislative field which is not open to them to occupy.69.	None
To sum up, it seems to us impossible to accept the contention of the petitioners that the impugned Price Control Order is an act of hostile discrimination against them or that it violates their right to property or their right to do trade or business.	None
The petitioners have taken us into the minutest details of the mechanism of their trade operations and they have attempted to demonstrate in relation thereto that a factor here or a factor there which ought to have been taken into account while fixing the price of mustard oil has been ignored.	None
Dealing with a similar argument it was observed in Metropolis Theater Co. v. City of Chicago (1913 57 Law Ed 730) that to be able to find fault with a law is not to demonstrate its invalidity It may seem injust and oppressive, yet be free from judicial interference.	None
The problems of government are practical ones and may justify, if they do not require, rough accommodations, illogical, it may be, and unscientific.	None
But even such criticism should not be hastily expressed.	None
What is best is not always discernible the wisdom of any choice may be disputed or condemned.	None
Mere errors of government are not subject to our judicial review.	None
It is only its palpably arbitrary exercises which can be declared void The Parliament having entrusted the fixation of prices to the expert judgment of the Government, it would be wrong for this Court, as was done by common consent in Premier Automobiles (AIR 1972 SC 1690 ) to examine each and every minute detail pertaining to the Government decision.	None
The Government, as was said in Permain Basin Area Rate Cases.	None
1968 20 Law Ed 2d 312 is entitled to make pragmatic adjustments which may be called for by particular circumstances and the price control can be declared unconstitutional only if it is patently arbitrary, discriminatory or demonstrably irrelevant to the policy which the legislature is free to adopt.	None
The interest of the producer and the investor is only one of the variables in the constitutional calculus of reasonableness and Court ought not to interfere so long as the exercise of Governmental power to fix fair prices is broadly within a zone of reasonableness.	None
If we were to embark upon an examination of the disparate contentions raised before us on behalf of the contending parties, we have no doubt that we shall have exceeded our narrow and circumscribed authority.70.	None
Before closing, we would like to mention that the petitioners rushed to this Court too precipitately on the heels of the Price Control Order.	None
Thereby they deprived themselves of an opportunity to show that in actual fact, the order causes them irreparable prejudice.	None
Instead, they were driven through their illthought haste to rely on speculative hypotheses in order to buttress their grievance that their right to property and the right to do trade was gone or was substantially affected.	None
A little more patience.	None
which could have been utilised to observe how the experiment functioned, might have paid better dividends.65.	None
The impugned Price Control Order is, therefore valid, and the challenge made thereto by the petitioners has to fail.	Decision
These are our reasons in support of the order passed earlier that the petitions be dismissed with costs.66.	Decision
Petitions dismissed.	Decision
