Gokhale J.	None
This appeal by Special Leave seeks to challenge the order passed by a Division Bench of High Court of Rajasthan in D.B Civil Special Appeal (Writ) No. 753 of 1993 dated 17.5.2002 whereby the appeal filed by the appellants herein against the order passed by a Single Judge of that High Court dated 13.8.1993 in Writ Petition No. 5281 of 1991 filed by the first respondent came to be dismissed.	Issue
The Single Judge had allowed respondents writ petition.	Issue
The facts leading to this appeal are as followsThe respondent herein is running a Mission Hospital at Nasirabad in the State of Rajasthan.	Facts
The Hospital building initially belonged to the East India Company.	Facts
Later on, it belonged to the Government of India and it is under the management of the Nasirabad Cantonment which is a cantonment governed under the Cantonment Act, 1924.	Facts
The case of the appellants is that the respondent was given the concerned premises under a lease deed dated 1.4.1982 which expired on 31.3.1984.	Facts
The rent for the premises was fixed at Rs. 75 per month.	Facts
The lease deed provided in clause 2 (iii) that the lessee shall vacate the premises before the expiry of the lease as and when required by the Cantonment Board provided seven days notice to this effect is given in writing.3.	Facts
The case of the appellants is that the premises were not being utilized fully and that the respondent had taken some other premises also.	Facts
The appellants needed the premises.	Facts
After the expiry of the lease on 31.3.1984, the Estate Officer of the Cantonment Board stopped accepting the rent.4.	Facts
The appellants served a notice of seven days as required under Section 4 of The Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as Public Premises Act) on 14.3.1984 and again on 27.3.1984.	Facts
The respondent filed a Civil Suit No.10/1985 in the Court of the Additional Civil Judge No.1 at Ajmer to challenge the notice.	Facts
The respondent filed an application to deposit the rent in Civil Court but that was not entertained.	Facts
The Civil Suit came to be dismissed on 31.7.1987 and the respondent applied for six months time to vacate which was accepted by the appellant.	Facts
The order passed by the Additional Civil Judge, Ajmer in that matter on 31.7.1987 reads as follows 31.07.1987 Present, Counsel for the parties.	Facts
The learned counsel for the applicant seeks six months time to vacant the disputed property, the learned counsel for the non applicant is agreeable for this request.	Facts
Hence, it is directed that nonapplicant will not dispossess the applicant from the disputed premises, and he will be at liberty to initiate proceedings for the same thereafter.	Facts
This application is disposed of with this order, and the file to be consigned to record along with this decision.	Facts
The respondent, however, did not vacate the premises as assured, and therefore, the appellant filed a fresh application under Section 4 of the Public Premises Act before the Estate Officer.	Facts
The Estate Officer considered the objections filed by the respondent and then passed an order of eviction under Section 5 of that Act on 26.6.1991.	Facts
The order passed by the Estate Officer in para 7 thereof, notes that the respondent did raise the question of jurisdiction of the Estate Officer but only on the ground that the jurisdiction to evict was with the Civil Court and the action should be taken under the Transfer of Property Rules.	Facts
The Estate Officer rejected that submission holding that the Public Premises Act was a special Act and it will override the provisions of the Rent Control Act.	Facts
The appeal against the order of the Estate Officer filed under Section 9 of the Public Premises Act was dismissed by the District Judge and hence, the respondent filed a Writ Petition No. 5281 of 1991 before a Single Judge of the Rajasthan High Court.6.	Facts
The Learned Single Judge who heard the writ petition took the view that the provisions of the Transfer of Property Act 1882 applied to the Cantonments Boards.	Facts
The particular lease deed was not a registered lease deed as was necessary as per Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act, since the period of lease was more than one year, and it was a lease for an immoveable property.	Facts
The Learned Judge held the particular lease to be a lease from month to month, and therefore, there must be a 15 days notice to terminate it as required by Section 106 (1) of the Transfer of Property Act 1882.	Facts
He held that the 7 days notice of termination will not be a valid one.	Facts
He further held that since such termination had not taken place, the respondent could not be held to be an unauthorized occupant.	Facts
The Learned Judge also took the view that the order dated 31.7.1987 could not be read as an undertaking to vacate after the expiry of six months.	Facts
Therefore, the Learned Single Judge allowed the Writ Petition filed by the respondent and set aside the order passed under the Public Premises Act.	Facts
The appellants herein preferred an Appeal numbered as 753 of 1993 to the Division Bench.	Facts
The Division Bench also took the same view as the Learned Single Judge and dismissed the Appeal filed by the appellants herein.	Facts
The Division Bench held that the premises may be taken to be public premises but the respondent cannot be taken to be an unauthorised occupant since his right to occupy was not terminated by a 15 days notice.7.	Facts
Being aggrieved by this Judgment and order the present appeal has been filed.	Facts
The learned counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that the premises belonged to Union of India and were being managed by the appellant administratively under the Public Premises Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 4 of that Act permitted a notice of seven days, which had been given in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even the lease document also provided for a termination of the lease by a notice of seven days, and in any case, the action was being taken after the expiry of the lease period.	Arguments of Petitioner
The lease had not been extended.	Arguments of Petitioner
That being so, the respondent was in unauthorized occupation within the definition of unauthorized occupation under Section 2 (g) of the Public Premises Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relied upon a number of decisions to contend that the position of a lessee holding on under an unregistered deed which is compulsorily registrable is that of a mere tenant at will, and a mere demand for possession is sufficient to determine the lease, and no notice under Section 106 of the Transfer of Property Act was necessary.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are not required to go into this submission for reasons which are stated herein after.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Learned Counsel for the respondent tried to refute these submissions by maintaining the submissions which were canvassed before the Court below.	Arguments of Respondent
The submissions of the respondent are untenable on the face of it, in as much as the period for which the premises were let out was over and obviously the respondent was in unauthorized occupation thereafter.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants were therefore entitled to take recourse to law and take possession of the premises.	Arguments of Respondent
The only question is whether they had taken the correct course of action as permissible in law.9.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Singla, learned counsel for the respondent however, lastly submitted that the respondent was owner of the premises and secondly, the Public Premises Act did not apply to these premises also for the reason that the Cantonment Boards have come to be covered under the Public Premises Act only by Amendment Act of 1993 which came into force on 7.1.1994.	Arguments of Respondent
That is how clause (viii) governing any Cantonment Board constituted under the Cantonment Act, 1924 (2 of 1924) has come to be included in the definition of public premises under section 2 (e) (2) (viii) of the Public Premises Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He therefore, submitted that at the time when the proceedings were initiated and the order was passed under the Public Premises Act, the Estate Officer did not have jurisdiction to proceed under this Act and therefore, for this reason alone the eviction proceedings will have to be held as bad in law for want of jurisdiction and the appeal will have to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that this was an issue with respect to having jurisdiction to deal with the subjectmatter and the submission can be raised at any stage of proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Venkataramani, learned counsel appearing for the appellant pointed out in his rejoinder that neither of these two submissions were advanced any time in the past.	Arguments of Petitioner
In any case, as far as the ownership of the premises by the respondent is concerned, no document has ever been produced in this behalf.	Arguments of Petitioner
With respect to the second submission he pointed out that the case of the appellant was that the premises belonged to Union of India and the appellants were entrusted with the management thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Public Premises Act, therefore, applied to the concerned premises.	None
The submission of Mr. Venkataramani that the question of jurisdiction was not raised any time earlier is not fully correct in as much as, pointed out earlier, para 7 of the estate officers order records the objection to the jurisdiction of the estate officer raised by the respondent though in a different manner.	Arguments of Respondent
The counsel for the respondent submitted that the issue which he had raised now in this court disputing the jurisdiction of the Estate Officer was a question of law and the matter went to the root of jurisdiction of the authority to pass the eviction order.	Arguments of Respondent
If the authority did not have the jurisdiction to proceed under the Public Premises Act, the eviction order could not be upheld.	Arguments of Respondent
A point about the jurisdiction can be raised even in this court even if it was not raised any time earlier.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submission of both the counsel.	None
As far the first submission of Mr. Singla viz.	None
that the premises belong to the respondent is concerned, the same has never been raised any time before.	None
On the record of the present Civil Appeal, we have the objection filed by the respondent before the Estate Officer, and a copy of the Writ Petition filed by the respondent.	None
Nowhere have they claimed that they own the premises.	None
On the contrary, in paragraph 3 of their objections before the Estate Officer, they have stated that the Executive Officer of the Cantonment Board is the Secretary and the Custodian of the property.	None
In Paragraph 4 of Writ Petition No.5281/1991, filed before the Single Judge, they have clearly stated that the hospital building initially belonged to the East India Company and later on had belonged to the Government of India.	None
They are not disputing the fact that a leasedeed was executed between the parties on 1.4.1982 whereby they were in occupation of the Hospital building.	None
In the second recital of the leasedeed, it is clearly stated that the lessor is the owner of the premises, and the premises were being let out to the hospital run by the respondent on the terms contained therein.	None
The respondent had nowhere claimed that they own the land or they constructed the building thereon.	None
This being so, it is not possible to accept the first objection of Mr. Singla.	None
As far as, the second submission of Mr. Singla is concerned, it is submitted by him that the Cantonment Boards were covered under the Public Premises Act only with effect from 1.6.1994 by an amendment introducing subsection (viii) in Section 2(e)(2) of the Public Premises Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He has, therefore, contended that the Estate Officer had no jurisdiction to pass eviction order on 26.6.1991 and hence, on this ground alone, the present appeal must be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
As far as this submission of Mr. Singla is concerned, Mr. Venkaramani submitted that this objection ought to have been raised at the earliest opportunity so that appellant could have met the same earlier.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is undoubtedly true that objection to the maintainability of a proceeding must be raised at the earliest but an objection that the authority did not have the jurisdiction to entertain the proceedings over the subjectmatter goes to the root of the proceeding.	Arguments of Petitioner
In a number of judgments, this Court has held that a defect, with respect to the lack of inherent jurisdiction is basic and fundamental and validity of such an order can be challenged at any stage, even in execution or in collateral proceedings (for reference see a judgment of a bench of three judges of this Court in Balwant N. Viswamitra and others v. Yadav Sadashiv Mule (dead) through Lrs. reported in (2004) 8 SCC 706 .	None
However, such an eventuality does not arise in this case for the reason that the case of the appellant has been that the hospital premises of the respondent belong to the Union of India and are only under the management of the appellant, and therefore, are the public premises, under Section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act 1971.	None
Thus, in the first paragraph containing the reasons of his order dated 26.6.1991, the Estate Officer states as follows That the CNI Mission Hospital, Nasirabad which is situated on and land thereon, belongs to the Union of India and lies under the management of Cantt.	None
Board, Nasirabad is a public premises as defined under 2(e) of the P.P.Act, 1971.	None
It is this order of eviction which was challenged in appeal to the District Court and thereafter in writ petition.	None
Section 2(e) of the Public Premises Act defines public premises.	Reasoning
This section is split into two subsections.	None
Subsection (1) covers thereunder any premises belonging to or taken on lease or requisitioned by or on behalf of the Central Government.	None
Subsection (2) deals with premises belonging to or taken on lease or on behalf of various entities such as Government Companies, Universities, Major Ports etc. which are mentioned in that subsection, and Cantonment Boards have come to be covered under subsection (viii) by amendment with effect from 1.6.1994.	Reasoning
The case of the respondent has been that the premises belong to Union of India, and, therefore, are public premises.	Reasoning
The Estate Officer did have the jurisdiction over such premises.	Reasoning
It is another matter that the premises of Cantonment Boards have also come under the definition of public premises since 1.6.1994.	Reasoning
It cannot mean that the premises of Union of India which were always under the Public Premises Act, but under the Management of a Cantonment Board, since prior to this amendment, would not be covered under the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
This has been the plea of the appellants right from the beginning.	Reasoning
Section 116A of the Cantonment Act 1924, gives the power to the Cantonment Board to manage any property entrusted to it by the Central Government.	Reasoning
It is under this Section that the present premises are under the management of the appellant Board.	Reasoning
Section 116A reads as follows Section 116A. Power to manage property.	Reasoning
A Board may, subject to any conditions imposed by the Central Government, manage any property entrusted to its management by the Central Government on such terms as to the sharing of rents and profits accruing from such property as may be determined by rule made under section 280.	Reasoning
The Government has the power to make rules concerning the management of these properties.	None
This power is contained in Section 116 of the Act.	Reasoning
Mr. Venkaramani has drawn our attention to the Cantonment Land Administration Rules 1937 under which the properties under their management are classified into three categories A, B C. The present premises fall in category C.	Reasoning
He has also shown us the receipt issued by the Defence Estate Officer to the appellant for the payment of rent of the land on which the hospital building is situated.	Reasoning
We have also been shown the relevant notification issued by the Central Government authorizing the concerned Officer as the Estate Officer for the premises under the control of the Ministry of Defence.17.	Reasoning
This being the position, there is no substance in the objection raised by and on behalf of the respondent.	Reasoning
The Estate Officer did have jurisdiction to take action against the respondent under the Public Premises Act.	Reasoning
The period of authorization of the respondent to occupy the premises was over on 31.3.1984.	Reasoning
Therefore, the respondent was in an unauthorized occupation thereafter under Section 2(g) of the Act.	Reasoning
Notice as required, under Section 4 of the Public Premises Act was given.	Reasoning
The respondent had no acceptable defence.	Reasoning
The premises were no longer being used properly.	Reasoning
That being so, the order of eviction was fully justified as also the order passed by the District Judge dismissing the appeal.18.	Reasoning
The Single Judge of the Rajasthan High Court, therefore, clearly erred in holding that a notice of 15 days ought to have been given in the present case to terminate the authority of the respondent on the concerned premises.	Reasoning
The provisions of Sections 106 and 107 of Transfer of Property Act could not be applied to the present case on that count since the premises were covered under a special act which will prevail as against a general enactment.	Reasoning
The Division Bench also having accepted that the respondent was in an unauthorized occupation, erred in insisting that a 15 days notice was necessary.19.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, this Civil Appeal is allowed.	Decision
The orders passed by the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court dated 17.5.2002 in Civil Special Appeal (Writ) No.753/1993 as well as the order dated 13.8.1991 passed by the Single Judge in Writ Petition No.5281/1991 are set aside.	Decision
Appeal No.753/1993 filed before the Division Bench will stand allowed and Writ Petition No.5281/1991 filed by the respondent before the Single Judge will stand dismissed.	Decision
The order passed by the Estate Officer dated 26.6.1991 as upheld by the District Judge, Ajmer is hereby confirmed.20.	Decision
The appeal is allowed accordingly, though, without any order as to costs.	Decision
