 Hegde, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal under S. 116A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
It arises from the decision of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in Election Petition No 6 of 1969 on its file In that petition the appellant unsuccessfully challenged the validity of the election of the respondent to the Punjab Legislative Assembly in the midterm election held in 1969.	Issue
2.	None
The appellant and the respondent contested the Gurdaspur Assembly seat in the midterm election held in 1969.	Facts
The appellant was the congress nominee and the respondent was the candidate of the Akali party.	Facts
It is said that he had the support of the Jan Sangh.	Facts
On other candidate who filed his nomination for that constituency had withdrawn from the contest.	Facts
It is not necessary to refer to him.	Facts
Polling took place on February 9, 1969 and the result of the election was declared on February 10, 1969.	Facts
The appellant secured 20044 votes and the respondent 25501.	Facts
Hence the respondent was declared elected.	Facts
3.	None
The validity of the election of the respondent was challenged by the appellant on various grounds.	Facts
The trial judge, as mentioned earlier, rejected the petition.	Facts
In this Court the appellant pressed for our consideration only one of the several grounds urged by him in his petition, and that ground is that the respondent was guilty of a corrupt practice under S. 123 (3) of the Act inasmuch as he exhibited the Holy Cross, the sacred symbol of the Christians in front of his office for a period of about 15 days prior to the election.	Facts
The respondent denied this allegation.	Facts
4.	None
In support of the allegation relating to the exhibition of the Holy Cross, the appellant has relied on documentary as well as oral evidence.	Facts
But before referring to those pieces of evidence, it is necessary to deal with one of the grievances of the appellant.	Facts
The appellant summoned the Government of Punjab to produce certain reports received by it from the C.I.D. relating to certain agitations said to have been made during the election in connection with the exhibition of the Holy Cross in front of the respondents office.	Facts
The concerned reports were sent to the court under a sealed cover but the Home Secretary claimed privilege in respect of the same on the ground that these documents are unpublished records relating to the affairs of the State.	Facts
The learned trial judge upheld that claim and hence those documents could not be brought on record It contended on behalf of the appellant that the trial court erred in upholding the privilege claimed by the government.	Facts
It does not appear that the appellant asked the trial judge to peruse the records before considering the question of privilege or hold any enquiry relating to the claim made.	Reasoning
In this Court no application has been made to receive any additional evidence nor those reports have been summoned.	Reasoning
Those reports are not before us Hence we cannot go into the question whether privilege was properly claimed by the government.	Reasoning
Now that we do not have those reports before us, we are unable to differ from the conclusion reached by the trial judge that they are documents relating to the affairs of the State 5.	Reasoning
Before we proceed to examine the oral and documentary evidence, it is necessary to refer to the pleadings relating to the charge of corrupt practice with which we are concerned in this case.	None
The relevant averments on this point are found in paragraph 8 (c) of the election petition.	None
Those averments readThat the respondent, his agents and other persons with the consent of the respondent have committed a corrupt practice within the meaning of S. 123 (3) of the Act by. .	None
.use of the Holy Cross which is a sacred religious symbol of the Christians in order to further the prospects of the respondents election.	None
The details of the aforesaid corrupt practice are as under.	None
(c) That the central Election Office of the respondent was situated in a central place Main Bazar, Gurdaspur, where he boldly exhibited the Holy Cross the sacred religious symbol of the Christians in front of his office which was visible to every passerby.	None
This was done by the respondent and his agents and other persons with his consent with a clear intention of using the religious symbol in order to further his election prospects.	None
6.	None
In his written statement the respondent denied that he exhibited the Holy Cross in front of his office.	Arguments of Respondent
7.	None
Documents relied on by the appellant in support of the charge are Annexures A, B, C, D, E and F. These are either correspondence that passed between the appellant and the Salvation Army authorities or representations made by some persons, to the Deputy Commissioner.	Reasoning
In all the documents, the allegation made is that the respondent had installed a Holy Cross in front of his office.	Reasoning
The allegations contained in the letters written by the appellant to the Salvation Army authorities as well as the representations made to the Deputy Commissioner are at best accusations They do not by themselves prove the truth of the allegations made.	Reasoning
The truth of those allegations has to be proved by examining persons who made those allegations.	Reasoning
8.	None
In order to prove the corrupt practice in question, the appellant has examined several witnesses.	None
Out of them P. W. 1, the Deputy Commissioner and P. W. 4, the C.I.D. Inspector have not given any useful evidence in support of the appellants case.	None
All that P. W. I has deposed is that when he was coming out of the Red Cross building after making arrangements for the counting of votes, somebody told him that he would raise an issue about the religious symbol of the Cross having been used by the alleged supporters of the respondent in the course of his election campaign.	None
He had also deposed to the fact that during the election various complaints as well as crosscomplaints had been made to him and he had forwarded the same for necessary action either to the Superintendent of Police or to the Election Commissioner or his subordinates.	None
9.	None
None of the witnesses examined on behalf of the appellant to support the charge spoke to the exhibition of the Holy Cross in front of respondents office.	None
Not one of them had spoken to the fact that the Holy Cross was exhibited in front of the respondents office.	None
On the other hand they spoke to the flying of three or four flags in front of the office of the respondent.	None
According to them on one of those flags a Cross had been painted.	None
Even as regards the alleged flag the evidence is not consistent.	None
According to the correspondent of the Tribune (P. W. 12), two Christians had gone on hunger strike because of the flying of the Masihi Dal flag.	None
Hence he sent the following news item to the Tribune Hunger Strike Two Christian workers, Mr. B. M. Samuel and Mr. Chiman Lal started a fast outside the Town Hall on Tuesday, in protest against the flying of the Masihi Dal flag on the election office of the Akali candidate 10.	None
This news item was published on the 6th February, 1969.	None
11.	None
In his evidence he deposed that the hunger strike was in connection with the flying of the Masihi Dal flag on the election office of the Akali candidate.	None
He further deposed that after interviewing the hunger strikers, he went to the respondents election office and saw that the symbol in question was being displayed there.	None
In the course of his crossexamination, this witness first tried to deny that the Masihi Dal is a political party.	None
But later he stated that Masihi Dal may be a political party in the sense that they may be fighting for their own rights P. W. 8, Chimanlal one of the persons said to have gone on hunger strike admitted in his crossexamination that the Christian political party is known as Masihi Dal in Punjab in the same way as Jan Sangh and Akali parties are known He also admitted that Masihi Dal has its own flag.	None
12.	None
From what is stated above It is seen that in the election petition, the allegation was that the respondent exhibited in front of his election office the Holy Cross, while adducing evidence that case was given up and in its place a new version was introduced namely that a flag bearing Cross was flown in front of the office of the respondent.	Reasoning
Even this version was not consistently adhered to.	Reasoning
According to P. W. 12, the flag complained of is the flag of the Masihi Dal Masihi Dal is proved to be a political organization.	Reasoning
These contradictory versions are alone sufficient to reject the case of the appellant.	Reasoning
13.	None
The oral evidence adduced on behalf of the appellant in support of the charge was disbelieved by the trial judge.	Reasoning
After examining the evidence of the various witnesses examined in support of the charge, the court came to the conclusion that no reliance can be placed on their testimony.	Reasoning
This finding of the trial court is a finding of fact.	Reasoning
Unless we are satisfied that this finding is basically wrong, this Court following its usual practice will not reappreciate the evidence on record.	Reasoning
But that apart, we are not satisfied that the witnesses examined on behalf of the appellant in support of the charge are reliable witnesses.	Reasoning
The appellant himself who spoke in support of the charge is an interested witness.	Reasoning
As seen earlier the evidence given by him does not accord with the plea taken by him in his election petition The other witnesses examined in support of the charge are P. Ws. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12 and 15.	Reasoning
So far as P. W. 2 is concerned, his antecedents are such that his evidence cannot inspire confidence.	Reasoning
He was prosecuted for an offence under S. 467/193, I.P.C. for identifying a wrong person for the purpose of cashing a cheque.	Reasoning
According to his own admission he procured his acquittal by paying the complainants sum of Rs.	Reasoning
1,000/. So far as P.W. 3 is concerned he admits that he was working for the appellant during the election.	None
From the admissions taken from him during his crossexamination, it is clear that he was a strong supporter of the appellant.	Reasoning
Similarly it is clear from the evidence of P.W. 5 that he and his father were the supporters of the appellant.	Reasoning
P.Ws.	Reasoning
6 and 3 are close associates.	Reasoning
Further P.W. 6 was the polling agent of the appellant.	Reasoning
P. Ws. 7 and 8 are said to be the persons who went on hunger strike as a protest against the flying of the flag bearing a Cross.	Reasoning
A comparison of the evidence of these two witnesses will show that they are wholly untruthful witnesses.	Reasoning
According to P. W. 7, after holding a meeting of the Christians they went in a procession to the Deputy Commissioner and presented a written complaint to him the Deputy Commissioner asked them to meet him next morning and when they met him on the next morning, he told them that he had forwarded that petition to the Superintendent of Police	Reasoning
No such case was suggested to the Deputy Commissioner.	Reasoning
We have earlier referred to the evidence of the Deputy Commissioner.	Reasoning
As regards the presentation of the written complaint to the Deputy Commissioner, the version given by P.W. 8 materially differs from that given by P.W. 7.	Reasoning
He deposed as followsAt the meeting resolution was passed to represent the matter to the Deputy Commissioner and observe fast unto death.	Reasoning
We went to the Deputy Commissioner and gave him a written complaint.	Reasoning
He directed us to go to the Superintendent of Police there and then.	Reasoning
14.	None
According to this witness they immediately went to the Superintendent of Police.	Reasoning
We are inclined to accept the suggestion made on behalf of the respondent that P.Ws. 7 and 8 were the supporters of the appellant in the election.	Reasoning
15.	None
We have already referred to the evidence of P.W. 12.	Reasoning
So far as P.W. 15 is concerned he also appears to be interested in the appellant.	Reasoning
16.	None
Taking into consideration the departure from the pleadings in the case, the various conflicting versions put forward in the case and the interested nature of the testimony adduced in support of the charge, we are not surprised that the learned trial judge was unable to place reliance on the evidence referred to earlier.	Reasoning
In this view it is not necessary for us to consider whether the flag of Masihi Dal can be considered as a religious symbol.	Reasoning
17.	None
For the reasons mentioned above this appeal fails and the same is dismissed with costs.	Decision
18.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
