 Mahajan, J.1.	None
These eight appeals arise out of a common judgment of the High Court of Madras dated 30101945 given in seven appeals preferred to it against the judgment of the District Judge of Madura in four suits, O. S. Nos. 2, 5, 6 and 7 of 1941, all of which related to the Zamindari of Bodinaickanur in the Madura district and the properties connected therewith.	None
The appeals were originally before the Privy Council in England, some by leave of the High Court and others by special leave and are now before us for disposal.2.	None
The zamindari of Bodinaickanur is an ancient impartible estate in the district of Madura, owned by a Hindu joint family.	Facts
The genealogical tree by the family is as follows3.	Facts
The zamindari was last held by Kamaraja II of the second branch.	Facts
He died on 1621941 without male issue, but leaving him surviving a widow Chinnathayi alias Veeralakshmi Ammal, and members of the family belonging to the third, fourth and fifth branches.	Facts
Succession to the zamindari is admittedly governed by the rule of lineal primogeniture modified by a family custom according to which the younger son by the senior wife is preferred to an elder son by a junior wife.	Facts
According to this custom T. B. S. S. Rajaya Pandiya Naicker of the third branch was entitled to the zamindari after the death of Kamaraja II of the second branch.	Facts
His claim was denied by the widow and by Kulasekara Pandiya Naicker of the fourth branch, both of whom claimed the zamindari on different grounds.	Facts
It was alleged by the widow that the zamindari was the separate and exclusive property of her husband and that being so, she was entitled to it under the rule of Mitakshara applicable to devolution of separate property.	Facts
Kulasekara of the fourth branch claimed it on the basis that Sundara Pandiya Naicker of the third branch who died in 1898, had separated from the family and had renounced his and his descendants rights of succession to the zamindari and the third branch having thus lost all interest in the joint family zamindari, he was the next person entitled to it by survivorship.4.	Facts
On 2841941, the revenue officer allowed the claim of Kulasekara and held that he was entitled to possession of the zamindari and the pannai lands (home farm lands) which were in the possession of Kamaraja II.	Facts
As regards one of the villages comprised in the zamindari, viz., Boothipuram, the title of the widow was recognised.	Facts
In pursuance of this order, Kulasekara got into possession of the zamindari and the pannai lands after the death of Kamaraja II.	Facts
Bocthipuram village remained in the possession of the widow.	Facts
Dissatisfied with the order of the revenue officer, the parties have instituted the suits out of which those appeals arise.5.	Facts
On 2261941 the widow (Chinnathayi) brought suit No. 5 of 1941 for possession of the zamindari against Kulasekara of the fourth branch, Rajaya and his uncle Seelabodi Naicker of the third branch and T. B. M. S. K. Pandiya Naicker and Kamaraja Pandiya Naicker of the fifth branch, on the allegations set out above.6.	Facts
On 471941 she and her sister instituted suit No. 2 of 1941 against the same set of defendants for cancellation of the deed of release that had been executed by her and her sister in favour of Kamaraja II on 961934 in respect of the pannai lands that were in the possession of Kulasekara of the fourth branch under the order of the revenue officer.7.	Facts
The third suit, O. S. No. 6 of 1941, was brought by Rajaya of the third branch on 2781941 for possession of the zamindari.	Facts
Boothipuram village and the pannai lands, against Kulasekara of the fourth branch and the two plaintiffs in suit No. 2 of 1941, on the allegation that under the rule of lineal primogeniture he was the person next entitled to succeed to the zamindari after the death of Kamaraja II.8.	Facts
The last suit, O. S. No. 7 of 1941, was instituted by Kulasekara of the fourth branch on 13101941 against the widow and Rajaya, his rival claimants to the zamindari for a declaration that he was the rightful heir and successor to the zamindari and was entitled to possession of Boothipuram village registered in the name of the widow.9.	Facts
The zamindari of Bodinaickanur originally consisted of fifteen villages mentioned in Sch.	Facts
(A) to the plaint in O. S. No. 6 of 1941 and of certain pannai (home farm) lands and buildings.	Facts
Tirunmalai Bodi Naicker was the holder of this impartible raj.	Facts
He was succeeded by his son Rajaya Naicker who died in 1849, leaving him surviving five sons, Bangaru Tirumalai Bodi Naicker, Viswanatha Naicker, Sundara Pandiya Naicker, Kulasekara Pandiya Naicker and Chokkalingaswami Naicker, representing the first, second, third, fourth and fifth branches respectively.	Facts
Rajaya Naicker was succeeded by his eldest son Bangaru Tirumalai Bodi Naicker who died on 27101862 and was succeeded by his son T. B. Kamaraja Pandiya Naicker (Kamaraja I), who remained as zamindar till his death on 15121888.	Facts
He had no son and on his death his widow Kamulu Ammal got into possession of the estate.	Facts
Proceedings for transfer were taken in the revenue Court for registry of the zamindari and statements of the male members of the family belonging to the second, third, fourth and fifth branches and of the widow were recorded by the Deputy Collector.	Facts
On 18121888, the representatives of these branches stated that they had no objection to Kamulu Ammal enjoying the zamindari.	Facts
On the 19th Kamulu Ammal asserted that her husband by his will had bequeathed the zamindari to her and had given her permission to make an adoption.	Facts
On the same date, the representatives of all branches of the family made a joint statement before the Deputy Collector.	Facts
The relevant portion of it is in these terms We four persons are his heirs to succeed and yet we agree to his widow Kamulu Ammal taking and enjoying the above said zamin and all other properties save the under mentioned lands set apart for our maintenance.	Facts
Remission of the tirwah of the said lands allowed to us and of the tirwah of the lands registered in our names and enjoyed till now, should be granted to us.544 kulies of pannai lands under the Bangaruswami tank and the Marimoor tank were earmarked for the maintenance of the four branches.	Facts
The widow made a statement on 20th accepting this arrangement.	Facts
The Deputy Collector submitted his report on 511889 to the Collector upholding the will.	Facts
The Collector in his turn also recorded the statements of the representatives of the several branches of the family.	Facts
Persons representing the third, fourth and fifth branches adhered to the previous statements made by them but Kandaswami of the second branch resiled from his earlier statement and asserted that the family being divided he was the next heir to the zamindari.	Facts
No notice was taken in these proceedings of Vadamalai, the halfbrother of Kamaraja I. Sundara Pandiyas statement before the Collector on 911889 was in these terms.	None
The wish of the family is that the widow should be in charge of the estate.	None
I know nothing about the execution of the will.	Facts
After the death of the widow, the next heir should succeed.	Facts
He is Kandaswami, son of Viswanathaswami Naicker, my elder brother, deceased.	None
To the same effect were the statements of Kulasekara of the fourth branch and of Chokkalingaswami of the fifth branch.	None
Kandaswamis statement was recorded on 1411889 and he said as follows I am the next heir to the zamin, the family being undivided.	Facts
I must get it.	None
He repudiated his earlier statement on the ground that at that time he was ill and was drowned in sorrow and some rogue imitated his signature and put it on his previous statement.	Facts
The revenue officer ordered that the widows name be registered as the next person entitled to the zamindari subject to any order that the civil Court might make in the case.10.	Facts
On 151889 Kandaswami filed O. S. No. 16 of 1889 in the Court of the Subordinate Judge of Madura impleading the widow and the Collector as defendants for recovery of the entire zamindari as it then existed, including the villages of Boothipuram and Dombacheri and the pannai lands.	Facts
He alleged that he as a member of the undivided Hindu family was entitled to succeed to the zamindari by survivorship and in accordance with the established rule applicable to devolution of this zamindari.	Facts
Kamuluammal denied this claim and asserted that the zamindari was the separate property of her husband and she was entitled to it in preference to her husbands collaterals.	Facts
She also based her claim on the alleged will of her husband.	Facts
Sundara Pandiya of the third branch laid a claim to the zamindari and the pannai lands on the ground that he as senior in age amongst the family members was entitled to them in preference to Rajaya on the rule of simple primogeniture.	Facts
In view of the pending and threatened litigation the contesting parties thought it fit to end their disputes by a mutual settlement beneficial to all of them.	Facts
Sundara Pandiya was the first to strike a bargain with the widow.	Facts
On 651890, a deed of release (Ex. P17) was executed by him in favour of Kamuluammal incorporating the terms of the agreement.	Facts
He managed to get from her in consideration of the release the village of Dombocheri absolutely for himself and his heirs.	Facts
She bound herself to pay the peishkush and road cess of the said village without any concern about that on the part of Sundara Pandiya.	Facts
He was also allowed to enjoy free of rent from generation to generation with power of alienation by way of gift, sale etc.	Facts
the one fourth share in the pannai lands under the irrigation of the Bangaruswami and the Marimoor tank and mentioned in the joint statement made by the several branches of the family before the Deputy Collector in December 1888.	Facts
Over and above this, he received a cash payment of Rs. 3,000.	Facts
With the exception of Dombacheri village and of the onefourth share in the said pannai lands, all the other properties which belonged to Kamaraja I were to be held and enjoyed with all rights by Kamuluammal and her heirs with the power of alienation thereof by way of gift, sale etc., absolutely.	Facts
The fourth clause of the release is in these terms Whatever rights over the said zamin properties and in all the other above mentioned properties, the said Sundara Pandiya Naicker Avargal might possess, he gives up such rights absolutely in favour of the said Kamuluammal Avagral and her heir enabling them to enjoy them with the power of alienation thereof by way of gift, sale, etc., and, whatever rights the said Kamuluammal might possess over the Dombacheri village and over the lands lying under the irrigation of the Bangarusami tank and the Marimoor tank and specified in the third column of the schedule hereto, which are given up to the aforesaid Sundara Pandiya Naicker Avagral, the said Kamuluammal Avagral hereby gives up such rights absolutely in favour of the said Pandiya Naicker Avagral and his heirs, enabling them to enjoy them with the power of alienation thereof by way of gift, sale, etc.Clause 5 runs thus The said Kamuluammal and her heirs shall have no claim at all to the properties shown as belonging to Sundara Pandiya Naicker Avagral as aforesaid and the said Sundara Pandiya Naicker Avagral and his heirs shall have no claim at all to the properties shown as belonging to the said Kamuluammal Avergal.11.	Facts
This deed was presented for registration on 1051890.	Facts
On the same day O. S. No. 16 of 1889, i. e., Kandasamis suit, was also compromised.	Facts
Exhibit P 18 contains the terms of that compromise.	Facts
The following are its important provisions (a)	Facts
The zamindari shall be enjoyed by Kamuluammal till her lifetime and she shallhave no right to mortgage those properties in any way prejudicial to the plaintiff.(b)	Facts
Kandasami and his heirs shall after the lifetime of Kamuluammal, enjoy the zamindari excepting Dombacheri village together with such rights if any as defendant 1 Kamuluammal may have acquired under the deed of release executed between her and Sundara Pandiya.(c) Boothipuram village shall be given to the plaintiff by Kamuluammal so that he may enjoy it with absolute rights.	Facts
The entire peishkush and the road cess for the entire zamindari inclusive of the said village shall be paid by Kamuluammal.(d)	Facts
The onefourth share in pannai lands situated in the irrigation arises of Bangaruswami tank and Marimoor tank shall be enjoyed by Kandasami and his heirs with powers of alienation and with absolute rights.(e) Rs. 35,000 shall be paid to Kandasami by Kamuluammal.(f)	Facts
All the other pannai lands, buildings and movables which belonged to the deceased Kamaraja Pandiya Naicker shall be held and enjoyed by Kamuluammal and her heirs with powers of alienation etc., and with absolute rights free from any future claim on the part of Kandasami and his heirs.(g)	Facts
The movable and immovable properties which may be acquired by Kamuluammal from out of the income of the zamindari shall belong to her with power of alienation etc. and shall go to her own heirs after her lifetime.(h)	Facts
Kamuluammal shall not make an adoption.12.	Facts
By the proceedings taken before the collector and by the arrangement made under Exs.	Facts
P17 and P18, the disputes that had then arisen in the family were settled.	Facts
Kamuluammal, however, did not with good grace part with the properties which she had agreed to give to others under the arrangement.	Facts
The terms of the compromise had to be enforced against her by a number of suits and actions one by one.	Facts
Be that as it may, it is not denied now that the arrangement arrived at was eventually acted upon.	Facts
Kandasami and his sons enjoyed Boothipuram village and onefourth of the pannai lands in the two tanks absolutely.	Facts
Sundara Pandiya and his descendants enjoyed Dombacheri and one fourth pannai lands, the fourth and fifth branches obtained possession of onefourthshare of the pannai lands under the two tanks.	Facts
Kamuluammal secured revenue registration and remained in possession of the property down to the date of her death on 1311921.	Facts
On her death the estate became vested in the possession of Kamaraja II, the sole male representative of the second branch, his father Kandasami and his brother Viswanathaswami having predeceased Kamuluammal.	Facts
He had been married to Chinnathavi (Veealakshmi) one of the grand daughters of Kamuluammal during her lifetime.13.	Facts
In the year 1925, the zamindar of Saptur, the son of Kamulus deceased daughter Meenakshi, instituted O. S. No. 7 of 1925 against his sisters, Chinnathayi and Periathayi and Kamaraja II, for recovery of the pannai lands and buildings which had vested absolutely in Kamulu under the compromise decree, on the allegation that these were held by her as a widows estate and that he as the daughters son was entitled to succeed to them.	Facts
The suit was resisted by the two sisters on the plea that these lands were stridhanam properties of Kamulu and they as stridhanam heirs were entitled to them in preference to their brother, Kamaraja II contended that he was entitled to these lands and buildings as they formed an integral part of the zamindari and were treated as such by Kamulu.	Facts
This suit was dismissed and the plea of the two sisters was upheld.	Facts
On 961934 both of them executed a deed of release in favour of Kamaraja II, whereby they conceded his claim to the pannai lands and the buildings as being appurtenant to the zamindari in consideration of his agreeing to pay Rs. 800 per mensem for life to each of them.14.	Facts
On the death of Kamaraja II on 1621941, as already stated the second branch of the family became extinct and disputes arose in regard to the succession to the zamindari, pannai lands, buildings etc., and the village of Boothipuram.	Facts
As above stated, the claimants to the zamindari are three in number, Rajaya of the third branch, Kulasekara of the fourth branch, and Chinnathayi alias Veeralakshmi, the widow of the late zamindar.	Facts
The District Court	Facts
and on appeal the High Court have concurrently held that Rajaya was the person entitled to the zamindari.	Facts
The District Court further held that the village of Boothipuram continued to be part of the zamin and decreed the same to the plaintiff Rajaya.	Facts
As regards the pannai lands, it was held that these had been conveyed absolutely to Kamulu under Ex. P18 and that her daughters daughters, Periathayi and Chinnathayi succeeded to the same as her stridhanam heirs and that the release deed executed by them on 961934 was invalid and inoperative to convey a valid title to Kamaraja II.	Facts
On appeal the High Court confirmed the findings of the District Court as regards the pannai lands and buildings but reversed its findings as regards succession to Boothipuram.	Facts
It held that Kandasami obtained Boothipuram village as his selfacquired property and that Chinnathayi was entitled to succeed to the same on the demise of her husband Kamaraja II.	Facts
The various sets of parties have preferred the above appeals against the decision of the High Court to the extent it goes against them.15.	Facts
The points for determination in these appeals are the following 1.	Issue
Who out of the three claimants is entitled to the zamindari.2.	Issue
Whether Boothipuram village is still an integral part of the zamindari or did it become the selfacquired property of Kandasami by the compromise, Ex.	Issue
P 18.3.	Issue
Whether the pannai lands and buildings are part of the zamindari or became the stridhanam of Kamuluammal by the compromise decree and did not merge in the zamindari by the release deed of 1934.The question relating to the pannai lands and buildings can be shortly disposed of.	Issue
Both the Courts below have held that under the arrangement arrived at amongst the members of this family in the year 1890 these lands became the stridhanam of Kamuluammal and passed on to her stridhanam heirs, i. e., her granddaughters Chinnathayi and Periathayi, and that the deed of release executed by the two sisters in favour of Kamaraja II was vitiated by fraud and was not binding on Chinnathayi and the other heirs.	None
This finding could not be seriously disputed by Mr. Somayya appearing for Rajaya or by Mr. Raghavan appearing for Kulasekara.	None
It was faintly argued that the pannai lands were left with the widow in the same status in which she was allowed to retain the zamindari.	None
This contention is contrary to the clear recitals of the compromise deed.	None
Kamuluammal was a forceful personality and it seems clear that she agreed to accept the title of Kandasami as next entitled to the estate and give up her contention based on the will because she was given the zamindari for her lifetime and these pannai lands and buildings absolutely.	None
Kandasami in whom the inheritance had vested was competent in view of the decision inSartaj Kuari v. Deoraj Kuari,15 Ind. App. 51 (P. C.) to alienate these lands in her favour and to vest her with absolute interest in them.	None
It has, therefore, been rightly held that Kamulu became the absolute owner of the lands which in due course devolved on her granddaughters and ceased to be part of the joint family estate.	None
Moreover, it does not lie in the month of Sundara Pandiyas descendants to challenge Kamuluamamals absolute title to these lands while retaining absolute title in the village of Dombacheri which under the same arrangement Sundara Pandiya got absolutely with rights of alienation.	None
It was conceded that to the family arrangement arrived at in the year 1890 and evidenced by the statements made before the Collector, the recitals contained in the release deed, Ex. P 17, and those made in the compromise deed, Ex. P18 all the members of the family were either parties or they accepted it and acted upon it.	None
The result is that the widow Chinnathayi is entitled to the possession of those lands and no other person has any right to them whatever.16.	None
As regards Boothipuram village, the point is a simple one.	None
Under the compromise, Ex. P 18, this village was left with Kandasami, the person next entitled to the zamindari after the death of Kamaraja I.	None
It was separated from the zamindari estate which remained in the possession and enjoyment of Kamuluammal for her lifetime.	None
It was said in the compromise that Kandasami would be the absolute owner of this village.	None
It was argued by Mr. Somayya, and the same was the view taken by the trial Judge, that Kandasami being the holder of an impartible estate could not by his own unilateral act enlarge his estate and take a part of this estate in a different right than the right of a holder of an impartible zamindari and that he could not make it separate property by his own act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court did not accept this view but reached the decision that all the branches of the family agreed to Kandasami having this village as his private property and that by common consent it was taken out of the zamindari and given to him absolutely and it was thus impressed with the character of separate property.	Arguments of Petitioner
On Kandasamis death it devolved on his son by succession and not by survivorship and Chinnathayi has a widows estate in it after the death of her husband.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the High Court it was conceded that all the members of the family were aware of the terms of the family arrangement and were bound by them.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of this concession it seems to us that it is not open to any of the parties to these appeals to deny at this stage the right of the widow to this village as an heir to her husbands estate.17.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main fight in all these appeals centres round the title and heirship to the zamindari.	None
The question for our determination is, whether the zamindari by some process became the separate property of Kandasami and that of his son Kamaraja II.	None
If it became the separate property of Kamaraja II, then Chinnathayi, his widow, would succeed to it on his death on the other hand, if the zamindari retained its character of joint family property in the hands of Kamaraja II, then the question to decide is whether as a result of the arrangement made in 1890 Sundara Pandiya relinquished his right to succeed to the family zamindari on the failure of nearest male heirs of Kandasami.	None
If such relinquishment on his part is held satisfactorily established, then Kulasekara of the fourth branch would be entitled to succeed to the zamindari otherwise Rajaya of Sundara Pandiyas branch alone is entitled to it under the rule of succession applicable to the devolution of the zamindari.18.	None
The claim made by the widow that the zamindari became by the arrangement of 1890 the separate property of Kandasami was disallowed by the High Court on the short ground that the documents, Exs. P17 and P18, read along with the various statements made in 1889 cannot be read as changing the character of the estate from that of an impartible estate belonging to the joint family to an estate owned by Kandasami in his individual right.	Reasoning
In the view of the High Court the only change effected by the arrangement so far as the estate was concerned was to defer the right of Kandasami to its possession as the next in succession until after the death of Kamuluammal.	Reasoning
Kandasami could not himself make it his own private property and this was conceded by all.	Reasoning
After hearing Mr. Pathak at considerable length we are in agreement with the High Court on this point.19.	Reasoning
Mr. Pathak argued that on the true construction of Exs.	Arguments of Respondent
P17 and P18 and on the evidence furnished by these two documents and the statements made antecedent to their execution and also in view of the subsequent conduct of the parties, the correct inference to drew was that all the five branches of the family separated in the year 1890 and thus put an end to the joint family character of the zamindari that Kandasami was allotted the zamindari, Boothipuram village and onefourth pannai lands under the two tanks, Sundara Pandiya was alloted Dombacheri village and onefourth of the pannai lands and that the fourth and fifth branches in lieu of their share were assigned one fourth of the pannai lands irrigated by the two tanks mentioned above and by these allotments the joint family was completely disrupted and the properties allotted to the different branches became their separate properties.20.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference was made to the decisions of the Privy Council inVadrevu Ranganayakamma v. Vadrevu Bulli Ramaiya,5 Cal.	Reasoning
L. R. 439Shivagnana Tewar v. Perasami,5 Ind. App.	Reasoning
61Thakurani Tara Kumari v. Chaturbhuj Narayan Singh,42 Ind. App. 192	Reasoning
and it was contended that the present case was analogous to the facts of those cases and should be decided on similar lines.	Reasoning
We are of the opinion that the facts of none of those cases bear any close resemblance to the facts of the present case.	Reasoning
The decision in each one of those cases was given on their own peculiar set of circumstances.21.	Reasoning
In the first case the owner of an impartible zamindari forming part of family property died leaving four sons and an infant grandson by his eldest son.	Reasoning
During the minority of the grandson the four surviving sons executed a sanad which directed that the zamindari should be held by the grandson and that they should take an equal share of the inam lands and also manage the zamindari during the infancy of the grandson, which on his attaining majority had to be handed over to him, each confining himself to the share of the inam lands allotted to them.	Reasoning
Certain family jewellery was also divided in a similar manner.	Reasoning
This grandson then died leaving a son, who also died without any issue but leaving a widow.	Reasoning
Her title to the zamindari was denied by the descendants of the four sons of the zamindar.	Reasoning
It was held that the sanad amounted to an agreement by which the joint family was divided and that on the death of the last holder his widow was entitled to the zamindari.	Reasoning
It was observed in this case that having partitioned the lands, the parties to the sanad proceeded to partition the jewels and his circumstance was inconsistent with the supposition that the document was executed with the intention of merely providing allotments in lieu of maintenance.	Reasoning
It is clear from the facts of this case that the family owned other coparcenary properties besides the zamindari and the zamindari in dispute fell to the lot of the grandson as his separate property.	Reasoning
There were other materials in the case indicating that there was complete separation between the members of this family.22.	Reasoning
In the next case an impartible zamindari had devolved on the eldest of three undivided Hindu brothers.	Reasoning
He executed an instrument appointing his second brother to be zamindar.	Reasoning
The instrument recited that if the widow of the deceased who was pregnant did not give birth to a son but a daughter, he and his offspring would have no interest in the zamindari of which his younger brother would be the sole zamindar who would also allow maintenance to the third brother.	Reasoning
The widow gave birth to a daughter and the second brother took over the zamindari.	Reasoning
The third brother also died without issue.	Reasoning
On the death of the second brother his son succeeded and the zamindari devolved on him who died leaving a widow.	Reasoning
The son of the eldest brother who had renounced the zamindari sued to recover the estate against the widow.	Reasoning
It was held that the instrument executed by the eldest brother was a renunciation by him for himself and his descendants of all interests in the zamindari either as the head or as a junior member of the joint family and consequently it became the separate property of the second brother and the widow was entitled to succeed to it in preference to the line of the eldest brother.	Reasoning
The document on the interpretation of which this decision was given was in these terms I and my offspring shall have no interest in the said palayapat, but you alone shall be the zamindar and rule and enjoy the same, allowing, at the same time, as per former agreement to the younger brother, P. Bodhagurusami Tevar who in the pedigree is called Chinnasami,  the village that had been assigned to him before,These words were interpreted as amounting to a renunciation of all interest in the palayapat either as the head of or as a junior member of the joint family.	Reasoning
The rights of the youngest brother Chinnasami were expressly reserved.	Reasoning
It was said that the effect of the transaction was to make the particular estate the property of the two instead of the three brothers, with, of course, all its incidents of impartibility and peculiar course of the descent, and to do so as effectually as if in the case of an ordinary partition between the elder brother on the one hand and the two younger brothers on the other, a particular property had fallen to the lot of the other two.	Reasoning
Other clauses in the deed and the attending circumstances fully corroborated the construction placed upon it.23.	Reasoning
In the last case the holder of an impartible estate of a joint Hindu family made a mokurari grant to his younger brother for maintenance.	Reasoning
The grantee built a separate house, divided from his brothers by a wall, established therein a tulsi pinda and thakurbari and lived there separately from his brother.	Reasoning
He defrayed the marriage expenses of his daughter subsequently to the grant.	Reasoning
Upon these facts it was held that there was a complete separation between the brothers, and that the impartible estate consequently became separate property of the holder whose widow was entitled to succeed and have a widows estate in the zamindari.	Reasoning
It was observed that the evidence clearly proved that there had been complete separation between Thakur Ranjit Narayan Singh and his brother Bhupat Narayan Singh in worship, food and estate.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the decision in this case must be limited to the facts therein disclosed and can have no general application to cases of impartible estates where the only right left to the junior members of the family is the right to take the estate by survivorship in cases of failure of lineal heirs in the line of the last zamindar.	Reasoning
The junior members can neither demand partition of the estate nor can they claim maintenance as of right except on the strength of custom, nor are they entitled to possession or enjoyment of the estate.24.	Reasoning
In our opinion division amongst the members of this family by allotment of properties was not possible as the only property known to belong to the family was the impartible zamindari of which partition could not be made or demanded.	Reasoning
To establish that an impartible estate has ceased to be joint family property for purposes of succession it is necessary to prove an intention, express or implied, on the part of the junior members of the family to give up their chance of succeeding to the estate.	Reasoning
In each case, it is incumbent on the plaintiff to adduce satisfactory grounds for holding that the joint ownership of the defendants branch in the estate was determined so that it became the separate property of the last holders branch.	Reasoning
The test to be applied is whether the facts show a clear intention to renounce or surrender any interest in the impartible estate or a relinquishment of the right of succession and an intention to impress upon the zamindari the character of separate property.25.	Reasoning
Reference in this connection may be made to the decision of the Privy Council inKonammal v. Annadana, 55 Ind. App.	Reasoning
114 P. C.	Reasoning
In that case on the dealt of a holder his elder son being feeble in mind, his younger son succeeded to the zamindari by an arrangement with the adult members of the family in the year 1922.	Reasoning
The estate then descended from father to son till 1914 when the junior branch became extinct and possession was taken by a senior member of the branch who claimed it by survivorship while the mother of the last holder claimed the estate as an heir to separate property, and it was held that the setting aside of the elder son in 1822 did not deprive his descendants of their rights as members of the family to succeed on failure of the junior branch.	Reasoning
In this case there was complete passing over of one branch of the family and succession vested in the next junior branch yet when that branch failed, the members of the senior branch were held yet to possess their right to succeed to the zamindari by survivorship.26.	Reasoning
In Collector of Gorakhpur v. Ram Sundar Mal56 ALL.	None
468 P. C., the claim of a Hindu to succeed by survivorship to an ancestral impartible estate was in issue in the suit.	None
The family admittedly had been joint.	None
It appeared that the common ancestor of the deceased holder and of the claimant had lived 200 years before the suit, that for a long period there had been a complete separation in worship, food and social intercourse between the claimants branch of the family and that of the deceased holder, and that upon the death of the holder the claimant had not disputed that the widow of the deceased was entitled to succeed.	None
It was held that there was not to be implied from the circumstances stated above a renunciation of the right to succeed so as to terminate the joint status for the purposes of that right.27.	None
In Lakshmi Devi v. Surya Narayana,20 Mad.	None
256 P. C. the last zamindar died without any issue in 1888, and when his widow was in possession, the suit was brought for possession by a male collateral descended from a great grandfather common to him and to the last zamindar.	None
The plaintiff claimed to establish his right as a member of an undivided family holding joint property against the widow who alleged that her husband had been the sole proprietor.	None
In proof of this she relief on certain arrangements as having constituted partition, viz., that in 1816, two brothers, then heirs, agreed that the elder should hold possession, and that the younger should accept a village, appropriated to him for maintenance in a satisfaction of his claim to inherit again, that in 1866, the fourth zamindar compromised a suit brought against him by his sister for her inheritance, on payment of a stipend to her, having already, in the claim of his brother, granted to him two villages of the estate and by the compromise, this was made conditional on the sisters claim being settled again, that in 1871, the fourth zamindar having died pending a suit brought against him to establish the fact of an adoption by him, an arrangement was made for the maintenance of his daughter, and two widows who survived him, the previous grant for maintenance of his brother holding good, the adoption being admitted, and the suit compromised.	None
It was held that there was nothing in the arrangement which was inconsistent with the zamindari remaining part of the common family property and that the course of the inheritance had not been altered.	None
The facts of this case were much stronger than those of the present one.	None
The mere circumstances that by an arrangement a village out of the zamindari was given to one of the brothers was not inconsistent with the zamindari remaining part of the common family property.	None
The document executed by the brother in the reported case was in these terms I or my heirs shall not at any time make any claims against you or your heirs in respect of property movable or immovable, or in respect of any transaction.	None
As our father put you in possession of the Belgam Zamindari, I or my heirs shall not make any claim against you or your heirs in respect of the said zamindari.	None
It was observed by their Lordship that they did not find any sufficient evidence in the arrangement made by these documents of an intention to take the estate out of the category of joint or common family property so as to make it descendible otherwise than according to the rules of law applicable to such property, that the arrangement was quite consistent with the continuance of that legal character of the property, that the elder brother was to enjoy the possession of the family estate, and the younger brother accepted the appropriated village for maintenance in satisfaction of such rights as he concerned he was entitled to and that it was nothing more in substance than an arrangement for the mode of enjoyment of the family property which did not alter the course of descent.28.	None
The evidence in the present case is trivial and inconclusive and from the documents above mentioned no intention can be deduced on the part of the junior members on the part of any other member of the family of disrupting and dividing the family and renouncing their expectancy of succession.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the statements made in 1889 and 1890 by the members of the family clearly indicate that none of them had any intention of giving up his rights of heirship to the zamindari.	Reasoning
There was no charge of this frame of mind at any later stage of the family arrangement.	Reasoning
Sundara Pandiya on 911889 clearly stated that the wish of the family was that the widow should be in charge of the estate and after her the next heir should succeed and that it was Kandasami.	Reasoning
Kandasami said that he was the next heir, the family being undivided.	Reasoning
In the compromise this statement was reiterated.	Reasoning
Their intention was to preserve their rights to take the zamindari if the line of Kandasami became extinct.29.	Reasoning
Mr. Pathak then put his case from a different point of view.	Arguments of Respondent
He urged that Kandasami had the power to alienate the zamindari or any part of it and by an act of alienation he could defeat the right of survivorship vesting in the other members to claim the zamindari on failure of his line.	Reasoning
Similarly he said he could divide the impartible estate amongst the different members of the family and that is what he must be presumed to have done in the present case.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument, though plausible is fallacious.	Reasoning
The right to bring about a partition of an impartible estate cannot be inferred from the power of alienation that the holder thereof may possess.	Arguments of Respondent
In the case of an impartible estate the power to divide it amongst the members does not exist, though the power in the holder to alienate it is there and from the existence of one power the other cannot be deduced, as it is destructive of the very nature and character of the estate and makes it partible property capable of partition.30.	Reasoning
It seems to us that Kandasami instead of intending to separate from the family was by his actions consolidating the family unity.	Reasoning
By the family arrangement he no doubt successfully got himself declared as the next person entitled to hold the joint family zamindari, but he evinced no intention of converting it into his own separate property.	Reasoning
He preserved the estate for the family by saving it from the attack of the widow who wanted to take it under the will of her husband and antagonistically to the family.	Reasoning
By the suit which he brought and which was eventually compromised he successfully avoided that attack on the family estate at the sacrifice of his right of enjoying it during the lifetime of the widow.	Reasoning
He also by this arrangement safeguarded himself against the attack of Sundara Pandiya on his title as an heir.	Reasoning
By his act the rule of descent of lineal primogenture prevailing in the family with regard to the zamindari was firmly established.	Reasoning
It would be unjust and uncharitable to conclude from the circumstances that the actions of Kandasami in 1890 were in any way hostile to the interests of the family.	Reasoning
As he was throughout acting for the benefit of the family his actions were approved by all the members and they got a provision made for themselves for their maintenance in the arrangement.	Reasoning
In the suit that he filed against Kamuluammal he in unambiguous terms alleged that he was claiming the zamindari as a member of the undivided Hindu family and it was in that status that he made the compromise with her and agreed to obtain possession of the estate after her death.31.	Reasoning
After Kandasamis death when the zamindari came by descent to Kamaraia II he also followed in the footsteps of his ancestor.	Reasoning
During the period of his stewardship of the estate he tried to implement it by recovering the pannai lands which under the compromise had gone out of the estate to Kamulu absolutely.	Reasoning
He was successful in his efforts though as a result of the decision in the present case his labours in this direction have proved futile as the release deed has been held to be vitiated by fraud.32.	Reasoning
For the reasons given above we hold that there exist no satisfactory grounds for holding that the arrangement made in 1890 evidences a partition amongst the members of the joint family or proves an intention on the part of the junior members of the family to renounce their expectancy of succession by survivorship on failure of male lineal descendants in the second branch of the family.	Reasoning
The question whether there was separation among the members of the family is primarily a question of fact and the Courts below having held that it is not proved, there are no valid grounds for disturbing that finding.	Reasoning
Chinnathayis claim, therefore, to the zamindari must be held to have been rightly disallowed.33.	Reasoning
As regards the claim of Kulasekara to the zamindari, it has been disallowed in the two Courts below on the ground that the deed of release Ex.	Reasoning
P 17, does not extinguish the right of survivorship of the third branch to take the estate on the second branch becoming extinct and that the document could not be read as evidencing an intention on the part of Sundara Pandiya to surrender the right of succession of his branch.	Reasoning
It has been further held that the release was not executed in favour of the head of the family or in favour of all the members of the family in order to be operative as a valid relinquishment.	Reasoning
There can be no doubt that a member of a joint family owning an impartible estate can on behalf of himself and his heirs renounce his right of succession but any such relinquishment must operate for the benefit of all the members and the surrender must be in favour of all the branches of the family or in favour of the head of the family as representing all its members.	Reasoning
Here the deed was executed in favour of the widow of a deceased coparcener who as such was a stranger to the coparcenary, the family being admittedly joint at the death of Kamaraja I.	Reasoning
It was contended that in view of the attitude taken by the parties before the High Court that the deed of release and the compromise evidenced only one arrangement to which all the members were in reality parties it should be held that the surrender of his rights by Sundara Pandiya was made in favour of Kadasami, the head of the family and it extinguished the rights of the third branch in the family zamindari.	Reasoning
We think, however, that Kandasami in dealing with Sundara Pandiya was safeguarding his own right of succession against the attack personally directed against him and was successful in buying him off by agreeing to hand over to him a village.	Reasoning
Both of them were claiming headship of the family on different grounds and both were asserting that the zamindari belonged to the joint family.	Reasoning
In the compromise Kandasami was acting for his own benefit and was not making any bargain with Sundara Pandiya on behalf of the family.	Reasoning
The family as such could not have been prejudiced in any way by the circumstances that succession went to one or the other.	Reasoning
Be that as it may, we think the decision of this case on be made to rest on a more solid foundation than furnished by the consideration set out above.34.	Reasoning
The whole emphasis of Mr. Raghavan who represented Kulasekara was on the words of the deed contained in cl.	Reasoning
5 set out above.	Reasoning
Sundara Pandiya by this clause stipulated that he will have no right to the property shown as belonging to the widow.	Reasoning
Sundara Pandiya was then agreeing that the widow should retain the zamindari absolutely, his mind being influenced by the will.	Reasoning
Later on by the compromise made in Kandasamis suit what had been given absolutely to the widow was converted into a life estate with the exception of the pannai lands and Kandasami was acknowledged as the rightful heir.	Reasoning
The recitals in the release deed, therefore, have to be read in the light of the terms and conditions of the deed of compromise and the proper inference from these is that Sundara Pandiya relinquished his rights to succeed to the zamindari immediately as the seniormost member of the family but that he did not renounce his contingent right of succeeding to it by survivorship if and when the occasion arose.	Reasoning
It is well settled that general words of a release do not mean release of rights other than those than put up and have to be limited to the circumstances which were in the contemplation of the parties when it was executed (Vide Directors etc. of L. and S. W. Ry. Co. v. Richard Deddaridge Blackmore,4 H. L. 610.In that case it was said that general words in a release are limited to those things which were specially in the contemplation of the parties when the release was executed.	Reasoning
This rule is good law in India as in England.	None
The same rule has been stated in Norton on Deeds at page 206 (2nd Edn.,) thus the general words of a release are limited always to that thing or those things which were specially in the contemplation of the parties at the time when the release was given, though they were not mentioned in the recitals.	None
In Hailshams Edn. of Halsburys Laws of England, vol. 7, at para.	None
345, the rule has been stated in these terms General words of release will be construed with reference to the surrounding circumstances and as being controlled by recitals and context so as to give effect to the object and purpose of the document.	None
A release will not be construed as applying to facts of which the creditor had knowledge at the time when it was given.	None
In Choudhry Chintaman Singh v. Mt. Nowlukho Kunwar,2 Ind. App.	None
263 P. C., where the document was drafted in almost the same terms as Ex.	None
P17, it was said that though the words of the petitioner of compromise were capable of being read as if the executants were giving up all rights whatever in the taluka of Gungore, yet in the opinion of their Lordship the transaction amounted to no more than an agreement to waive the claim to a share in and to the consequent right to a partition of the taluka and there was no intention to change the character of the estate or the mode in which it was to descend.	None
The parties in the year 1890 were no thinking of their future rights of survivorship at all.	None
What Sundara Pandiya must be taken to have said by this release was I am giving up my present rights as a senior member in favour of Kandasami whom I recognize as the rightful heir to the zamindari as a member of the joint Hindu family.	None
Kandasami agreed to give him the village of Dombacheri in lieu of recognition of his title by him.	None
It was not within the ken of the parties then as to what was to happen to the zamindari in case Kandasamis line died out.35.	None
For the reasons given we are of the opinion that by the release Sundara Pandiya did not renounce his rights or the rights of his branch to succeed to the zamindari by survivorship in case the line of Kandasami became extinct.	Decision
We hold, therefore that Kulasekaras claim was rightly negatived in the Courts below and that of Rajaya was rightly decreed.36.	Decision
In the result all these appeals fail and are dismissed with costs.37.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
