 B. Sinha, J. Deceased was owner of two Maruti vans.	None
The same were used to be plied on hire.	Facts
On or about 11.07.1995, he brought the vehicle bearing Registration No. DDA 3665 at the taxi stand of Hansi.	Facts
It was hired by someone.	Facts
He did not return thereafter.	Facts
A search was made but he could not be traced.	Facts
On or about 22.07.1995, Rajbir (PW9) received an information that one Maruti van had been seen abandoned and recovered by the police.	Facts
He went to the Police Station, Narnaud.	Facts
It was identified to be the same vehicle which was owned by the deceased.	Facts
Stains of blood were also noticed inside the Maruti van.	Facts
A First Information Report was lodged by him on the same day, whereupon a case under Section 364 IPC was instituted.	Facts
On the next day i.e. on 24.07.1995, a dead body was recovered from a canal.	Facts
The dead body was in such a condition that it did not bear any mark of identification.	Facts
An inquest was conducted.	Facts
The dead body was identified by Jai Singh (PW13) and Satbir Singh on the basis of identification of the clothes found on the person of the deceased, which were said to have been stitched by the said Satbir Singh.	Facts
He had, however, not been examined.	Facts
A statement was made by Ram Kishan (PW10) before the police on 25.07.1995 alleging that the appellant and his three associates had hired the taxi of the deceased.	Facts
On the next day, i.e. on 26.07.1995, Balwan Singh (PW11) made a statement before the Investigating Officer, alleging that he was given a lift by the deceased in the said Maruti van upto Village Mundhal, in which the accused persons were also travelling.2.	Facts
Appellant was arrested on 29.07.1995.	Facts
On his personal search, a purse belonging to the deceased was recovered.	Facts
A pistol and two cartridges were also said to have been recovered.	Facts
One electricity bill of the deceased as also his photograph were also allegedly recovered.	Facts
He allegedly made a confession leading to recovery of the number plate of the vehicle from a well, Suresh, another accused, was also arrested and one ring of silver on which the word Umed as inscribed was recovered from him.3.	Facts
There appears to be some controversy as to whether a pistol was also recovered from him or not.	Facts
He also made a confessional statement.	Facts
Appellant also made a confessional statement.	Facts
Another accused Charanjit was also arrested and a watch of HMT make was recovered from him, which was also identified by Rajbir (PW9) to be belonging to the deceased.4.	Facts
Upon completion of the investigation, charges under Sections 364/302/201 read with Section 34 IPC were framed against the appellant and the other accused persons.5.	Facts
The prosecution in support of its case examined as many as 20 witnesses.	Facts
Whereas, other accused persons, namely, Naresh, Charanjit and Suresh were given the benefit of doubt, the appellant was convicted for the offences punishable under Sections 364/302 and 201 IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act.	Facts
He was sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs.10,000/, for the offence punishable under Section 302 IPC, in default whereof to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year.	Facts
He was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of three years and to pay a fine of Rs. 5,000/ for commission of the offence punishable under Section 201 IPC, in default whereof to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of six months.	Facts
He was sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 7 years and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/ for the offence punishable under Section 364 IPC, in default whereof to undergo rigorous imprisonment a period of one year.	Facts
He was also sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 3 years and to pay a fine of Rs.5,000/ for the offence punishable under Section 25 of the Arms Act, in default whereof to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 6 months.	Facts
All the sentences, however, were directed to run concurrently.	Facts
An appeal preferred by the appellant herein thereaginst was dismissed by the High Court.6.	Facts
All the four accused were charged for commission of the same offences.	Facts
The distinctive features for singling out the appellant in recording a judgment of conviction against him, while acquitting the order three accused persons, appear to be(i) Recovery of pistol and cartridges as also some belongings of the deceased including his photograph and the electricity bill(ii) Confession of the appellant that he had thrown the number plate of the vehicle bearing Registration No. DDA 3665 in a well and consequent recovery thereof.	Facts
Mr. Prem Malhotra, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant would, in support of the appeal, submit(1)	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Trial Judge as also the High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned judgment insofar as they failed to take into consideration the fact that recovery of the articles at the behest of the appellant was not free from doubt.(2)	Arguments of Petitioner
The Trial Court having disbelieved the testimony of Balwan Singh (PW11) being wholly unreliable, there was nothing to connect the appellant with the crime on the basis of the statements of PW10 also, whose evidence was also not free from doubt.(3) Identification of the dead body itself is doubtful as the colours of the clothes, on the basis whereof it was identified, as disclosed in the First Information Report, and the evidence of the Investigating Officer in his inquest report, are different.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State, on the other hand, would submit that as from the evidence of PW10, it would appear that the deceased was last seen with the appellant as also in view of recovery of articles belonging to the deceased and the number plate of the vehicle from him, all the links in the chain to point out the guilt only to the accused, must be held to have been completed.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance, in this behalf, has been placed on State of Rajasthan v. Kashi Ram 2006 (11) SCALE 440 ).	None
The entire prosecution case apart from the recovery is based on the evidences of the complainant (PW9), Ram Kishan (PW10) and Balwan Singh (PW11).	None
As the testimony of Balwan Singh has been found to be unreliable by the learned Trial Judge, we need not take the same into consideration.	None
Before, however, we examine the testimonies of some of the prosecution witnesses, we may notice certain special features of this case.	None
The dead body was recovered after 14 days.	None
It was not in an identifiable condition.	None
The dead body was said to have been identified by Jai Singh (PW13).	None
He stated that the clothes seemed to be of Umed Singh.	None
He was, thus, not definite thereabout.	None
He even could not state the direction of flow of water of the canal.	None
It is of some significance that according to him the dead body was touching both sides of bank of the canal, which appears to be improbable.	None
According to Santa Singh (PW18), who is an Assistant Sub Inspector, the dead body was identified by Rajbir (PW9) and two others.	None
He did not disclose as to who the other two persons were.	None
Dr. Basant Lal Sirohiwal (PW12), who conducted the postmortem examination on the dead body of Umed Singh, in his deposition stated The dead body was emitting foul smell.	None
Height of the dead body on articulation was about 168 cms.	None
The body was partially skeletinised form.	None
Maggots were crawling al over the body.	None
Water weeds were present at places.	None
Skull bones were exposed.	None
Facial bones were exposed.	None
Short bones of hand was exposed.	None
Facial bones were exposed.	None
Short bones of hand was exposed.	None
Ribs were exposed along with sternum.	None
Theracic viscera was missing.	None
Limb bones of lower extremities in the region of tibia fibula were exposed.	None
The left foot was attached only with the tag of soft tissues.	None
Right foot was missing.	None
Stump of penis was identifiable.	None
Public heirs were 3 to 4 cms and black in colour.	None
The dead body was identified before the Autopsy Surgeon by Satbir Singh son of Dalip Singh and Ram Chander son of Shree Ram.	None
In the First Information Report, the clothes, which were worn by the deceased, as disclosed by PW9 Rajbir, was said to be of blue colour with white stripes.	None
The clothes were identified on the basis of the fact that the same had been tailored by Satbir Singh.	None
He was one of the brothers of the deceased.	None
He had not been examined for reasons best known to the prosecution.	None
The identifiable tailoring mark on the basis whereof, the clothes were said to have been identified had also not been proved.	None
In the First Information Report, the description of the deceased was given as under Wheatish colour, stout body, height approximately 56, aged 35 years, wearing pant and shirt of blue colour with white stripes and he is sporting small beard However, in the inquest report, the shirt found on the dead body was said to be of cream colour.	None
In the postmortem report, the colour of the shirt was said to be bluish brown lying separately with the body and torn at places.	None
It is, therefore, difficult to agree with the findings of the learned Trial Judge and the High Court in regard to the identification of the dead body with reference to the clothes found on the dead body.	None
The learned Trial Judge relied upon the recovery of a pistol from the appellant.	None
A pistol was said to have been recovered also from Naresh, as would appear from the statement of the first informant PW9 himself.	None
Only one pistol was recovered.	None
Why recovery of the pistol from Naresh has been disbelieved while accepting recovery thereof from the appellant has not been explained.	None
Even in regard to the arrest of the accused, there exist some discrepancies insofar as whereas according to PW9, it was the police party, who had arrested them according to A.S.I. Prem Chand (PW17), while they were going to Village Hansi on receipt of a secret information, Rajbir and Balwan Singh met them at the taxi stand and later on the accused were found in the village.	None
Ishwar Singh (PW16) is also a Police Officer.	None
According to him, names of the arrested accused persons were Naresh, Ranjit, Ranbir and another whose name was not known to him.	None
Before the Trial Court he wrongly identified Charanjit as Ranjit and Suresh as Naresh.	None
As noticed hereinbefore, PW9 spoke of recovery of the postal from Naresh, but according to Nihal Singh (PW20), it was recovered from the appellant.	None
In regard to the recovery of purse, it is sufficient to notice a court question put to PW9, which is in the following terms As per your statement only Naresh and Charanjit were taken into custody at Anaj Mandi.	None
How the purse was taken from the possession of Hatti accused in your presence.	None
Ans.	None
Hatti was arrested later on and the purse was taken into possession from him in my absence.	None
Nothing was recovered from Hatti in my presence No explanation in this behalf is available on record.	None
The informant himself was declared hostile.	None
PW9 accepted that he had appeared as a witness against Hatti in the court in connection with the murder of one Kishan driver.	None
He had also given evidence in that case regarding arrest and recoveries of articles from Naresh and Charanjit.	None
Ram Kishan (PW10) also told about recovery of a pistol from the appellant alone and a silver ring from Naresh.	None
They do not say that two different pistols were recovered from the appellant and Naresh separately.	None
One of the witnesses must have been believed, on identical evidence it is difficult to accept the case of the prosecution with regard to the appellant.	None
According to PW10, he went to Haridwar on 12.07.1995 and came back on 24.07.1995.	None
He was not even informed about the fact that the deceased was missing.	None
His statement, as noticed hereinbefore, was recorded only on 25.07.1995.	None
He allegedly made a statement to the effect that the appellant and his associates were known to him.	None
After he made the said statement, he was taken to the Villages Bass.	None
The accused having not been found there and having been told that they were at Badchhaper.	None
He went there and Police arrested both Hatti and Naresh together.	None
Therefore, the arrest of the said accused must have taken place on 25.07.1995.	None
The Investigating Officer, however, stated that they were arrested on 29.07.1995.	None
It is, therefore, difficult to accept that he is a reliable witness or the theory that the deceased was last seen with the appellant had been established.	None
The testimonies of PW11, as noticed hereinbefore, had not been relied upon by the learned Trial Judge.	None
It may be true that there had been some recoveries from the appellant including a purse and an electricity bill but then a ring was also recovered from Naresh.	None
He has been acquitted.	None
A watch was recovered from another accused.	None
The only distinctive features to hold the appellant guilty of commission of the offences, while acquitting the other three are only last seen and a confession leading to recovery of number plate of the vehicle.	None
Other accused were also last seen with the deceased, if PW10 is to be believed.	None
The evidence of last seen by itself apart from having not been proved in this case cannot be of much significance.	None
It may provide for a link in the chain.	None
But unless the time gap between the deceased of having been last seen in the company of the accused persons and the murder is proximate, it is difficult to prove the guilt of the accused only on that basis.	None
In Ramreddy Rajesh Khanna Reddy and Another v. State of Andhra Pradesh (2006) 10 SCC 172 , this Court noticed The lastseen theory, furthermore, comes into play where the time gap between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive and the deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused being the author of the crime becomes impossible.	None
Even in such a case courts should look for some corroboration.	None
In State of U.P. v. Satish (2005) 3 SCC 114 , this Court observed The lastseen theory comes into play where the timegap between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive and when the deceased is found dead is so small that possibility of any person other than the accused being the author of the crime becomes impossible.	None
It would be difficult in some case to positively establish that the deceased was last seen with the accused when there is a long gap and possibility of others persons coming in between exists.	None
In the absence of any other positive evidence to conclude that the accused and the deceased were last seen together, it would be hazardous to come to a conclusion of guilt in those cases.	None
In this case there is positive evidence that the deceased and the accused were seen together by witnesses PWs 3 and 5, in addition to the evidence of PW 2.	None
See also Bodh Raj Bodha Ors.	None
Vs.	None
State of Jammu Kashmir AIR 2002 SC 3164 .	None
See also State of Goa v. Sanjay Thakran and Anr.	None
JT 2007 (5) SC 146 There cannot be any doubt that conviction can be based on circumstantial evidence, but therefor the prosecution must establish that the chain of circumstances only consistently point to the guilt of the accused and in inconsistent with his innocence.	Reasoning
Circumstances, as is well known, from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn are required to be cogently and firmly established.	Reasoning
They have to be taken into consideration cumulatively.	Reasoning
They must be able to conclude that within all human probability the accused committed the crime.	Reasoning
See Geejaganda Somaiah v. State of Karnataka  AIR 2007 SCW 1681.	Reasoning
Reliance has been placed by the learned counsel for the State on a decision of this Court in Kashi Ram (supra), wherein it was held that the incriminating circumstances must from a complete chain and must be consistent with no other hypothesis except the guilt of the accused.	Reasoning
Therein, this Court was dealing with a case where the accused had killed his wife and two daughters.	Reasoning
As in the aforementioned situation, when the deceased were last seen the respondent therein, Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act was held to be applicable.	Reasoning
As in a case of that nature, probability of a wife being murdered by an outsider may ordinarily be ruled out, failure to offer an explanation by the husband in the aforementioned situation would itself be a circumstance which may be taken into consideration therefore.	Reasoning
See also Raj Kumar Prasad Tamarkar v. State of Bihar Another 2007 (1) SCALE 19 Para 24 25.	Reasoning
The said decision, in our opinion, is not applicable to the fact of the instant case.	Reasoning
The learned counsel for the State would submit that recovery of the articles would raise a presumption under Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act.	Reasoning
Application of such a presumption is limited.	Reasoning
A presumption may be in respect of commission of theft or receipt of stolen property if a person is found to be in possession of the property belonging to the deceased, but on such presumption alone, the appellant could not have been convicted for commission of murder particularly when on the same evidence other persons had been given benefit of doubt.	Reasoning
Having regard to the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, we are inclined to extend the same benefit to the appellant herein.	Reasoning
The impugned judgment of the High Court, therefore, cannot be sustained, which is set aside accordingly.	Decision
The appeal is allowed.	Decision
The appellant shall be released forthwith, if not required in any other case.	Decision
