 Bose, J.(Patanjali Sastri C. J. and S. R. Das and Ghulam Hasan JJ.	None
with him)1.	None
This is an appeal by an assessee against a judgment and order of the High Court at Bombay delivered on a reference made by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	None
The Bombay High Court refused leave to appeal but the assessee obtained special leave from this Court.2.	None
The appellant deals in silver and shares and a substantial part of his holding is kept in silver bullion and shares.	Facts
His business is rule and owned by himself.	Facts
His accounts are maintained according to the mercantile system.	Facts
It is admitted that under this system stocks can be valued in one of two ways and provided there is no variation in the method from year to year without the sanction of the Incometax authorities an assessee can choose whichever method he wishes.	Facts
In this case, the method employed was the cost price method, that is to say, the cost price of the stock was entered at the beginning of the year and not its market value and similarly the cost price was again entered at the close of the year of any stock which was not disposed of during the year.	Facts
The entries on the one side of the accounts at the beginning of the year thus balance those on the other in respect of these items with the result that so for as they are concerned the books show neither a profit nor a loss on them.	Facts
This was the method regularly employed and it is admitted on all hands that this was permissible under this system of accounting.3.	Facts
The accounting year with which we are concerned is the calendar year 1942.	Facts
The silver bars and shares lying with the appellant at the beginning of the year were valued at cost price.4.	Facts
In the course of the year the appellant withdrew some bars and shares from the business and settled them on certain trusts, three in number.	Facts
The appellant was one of the beneficiaries in all three trusts retaining to himself are reversionary life interest after the death of his wife who was given the first life interest.	Facts
After certain other life interests the ultimate beneficiaries were charities.	Facts
The appellant was the managing trustee expressly so created in two of the trusts and virtually so in the third.	Facts
In his books the appellant credited the business with the cost price of the bars and shares so withdrawn and there, lies the crux of the issue which we have to determine.	Facts
There is no suggestion in this case that the bars and shares were withdrawn from the business otherwise than in good faith.5.	None
According to the appellant, the act of withdrawal resulted in neither income nor profit nor gain either to himself or to his business nor was it a business transaction, accordingly it was not taxable.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned AttorneyGeneral raised two contentions.	Arguments of Respondent
First, he said that as the bars and shares were brought into the business any withdrawal of them from the business must be dealt with along ordinary and wellknown business lines, namely, that if a person withdraws an asset from a business he must account for it to the business at the market rate prevailing at the date of the withdrawal.	Arguments of Respondent
He said that the mere fact that the appellant was the sole owner of the business can make no difference, for under the Act income is assessable under distinct heads and when we are working out the income of a business the rules applicable to business incomes must be applied whoever is the owner.	Arguments of Respondent
His second contention was that if the act of withdrawal is at a time when the market price is higher than the cost price, then the State is deprived of a potential profit.	Arguments of Respondent
He conceded that had the market rate been lower than the cost price, then the appellant would have been entitled to set off the loss on those transactions against his overall profit on the other transactions and thus obtain the advantage of lower tax on the overall picture.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We are of opinion that the learned AttorneyGenerals second contention is unsound because, for incometax purposes, each year is a selfcontained accounting period and we can only take into consideration income, profits and gains made in that year and are not concerned with potential profits which may be made in another year any more than we are with losses which may occur in the future.8.	None
As regards the first contention, we are of opinion that the appellant was right in entering the cost value of the silver and shares at the date of the withdrawal, because it was not a business transaction and by that act the business made no profit or gain, nor did it sustain a loss, and the appellant derived no income from it.	Reasoning
He may have stored up a future advantage for himself but as the transactions were not business ones and as he derived no immediate pecuniary gain the State cannot tax them, for under the Income tax Act the State has no power to tax a potential future advantage.	Reasoning
All it can tax is income, profits and gains trade in the relevant accounting year.9.	Reasoning
It was conceded that if these assets had been sold at cost price the State could have claimed nothing, for a man cannot be compelled to make a profit out of any particular transaction.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also conceded that if the silver and stocks had lain where they were, then again there would have been no advantage to the State because the appellant would have been entitled to enter their closing values at cost at the end of the year.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Attorney.	Arguments of Respondent
General even conceded that if they had been sold at a loss the appellant would have been entitled to set that off against his other gains but he said that that is because all those are business transactions and that is the way the law deals with such matters when they occur in the ordinary course of business.	Arguments of Respondent
But he argued when there is a withdrawal and no sale or its equivalent, the matter is different.	Arguments of Respondent
As this is a business, any withdrawal of the assets is a business matter and the only feasible way of regarding it in a business light is to enter the market price at the date of the withdrawal and whether that happens to favour the assessee or the State is immaterial.	None
We do not agree.10.	None
It is well recognised that in revenue cases regard must be had to the substance of the transaction rather than to its mere form.	None
In the present case disregarding technicalities it is impossible to get away from the fact that the business is owned and run by the assessee himself.	Reasoning
In such circumstances we are of opinion that it is wholly unreal and artificial to separate the business from its owner and treat them as it they were separate entities trading with each other and then by means of a fictional sale introduce a fictional profit which in truth and in fact is nonexistent.	Reasoning
Cut away the fictions and you reach the position that the man is supposed to be selling to himself and thereby making a profit out of himself which on the face of it is not only absurd but against all canons of mercantile and incometax law.	Reasoning
And worse.	Reasoning
He may keep it and not show a profit.	Reasoning
He may sell it to another at a loss and cannot be taxed because he cannot be compelled to sell at a profit.	Reasoning
But in this purely fictional sale to himself he is compelled to sell at a fictional profit when the market rises in order that he may be compelled to pay to Government a tax which is anything but fictional.11.	Reasoning
Consider this simple illustration.	None
A man trades in rice and also uses rice for his family, consumption.	None
The bags are all stored in one godown and he draws upon his stock as and when be finds it necessary to do so now for his business, now for his own use.	None
What he keeps for his own personal use cannot be taxed however much the market rises nor can he be taxed on what he gives away from his own personal stock, nor, so far as his shop is concerned, can he be compelled to sell at a profit.	None
If he keeps two sets of books and enters in one all the bags which go into his personal godown and in the other the rice which is withdrawn from the godown into his shop, rice just sufficient to meet the day to day demands of his customers so that only a negligible quantity is left over in the shop after each days sales, his private and personal dealings with the bags in his personal godown could not be taxed unless he sells them at a profit.	None
What he chooses to do with the rice in his godown is no concern of the Incometax department provided always that he does not sell it or otherwise make a profit out of it.	None
He can consume it, or give it away, or just let it rot.	None
Why should it make a difference if instead of keeping two sets of books he keeps only one?	None
How can he be said to have made an income personally or his business a profit, because he uses ten bags out of his godown for a feast for the marriage of his daughter?	None
How can it make any difference whether the bags are shifted directly from the godown to the kitchen or from the godown to the Shop and from the shop to the kitchen, or from the shop back to the godown and from there to the kitchen?	None
And yet, when the reasoning of, the learned AttorneyGeneral is pushed to its logical conclusion, the form of the transaction is of its essence and it is taxable or not according to the route the rice takes from the godown to the wedding feast.	None
In our opinion, it would make no difference if the man instead of giving the feast himself hands over the rice to his daughter as a gift for the marriage festivities of her son.12.	None
The appellants method of bookkeeping reflects the true position.	Reasoning
As he makes his purchases he enters his stock at the cost price on one side of the accounts.	Reasoning
At the close of the year he enters the value of any unsold stock at costs on the other side of the accounts thus cancelling out the entries relating to the same unsold stock earlier in the accounts and then that is carried forward as the opening balance in the next years accounts.	Reasoning
This cancelling out of the unsold stock from both sides of the accounts leaves only the transactions on which there have been actual sales and gives the true and actual profit or loss on his years dealings.	Reasoning
In the same way, the appellant has reflected the true state of his finances and given a truthful picture of the profit and loss in his business by entering the bullion and silver at cost when he withdrew them for a purely nonbusiness purpose and utilised them in a transaction which brought him neither income nor profit nor gain.13.	Reasoning
There is no case quite in point.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral relied on  Gold Coast Selection Trust Ltd. v. Humphrey (H. M. Inspector of Taxes), (1950) 30	None
Tax Cas 209 (A), but there the assessee received a new and valuable asset in exchange for another in the ordinary course of his trade.	None
It was held that he was bound to account for the receipt at a fair market valuation, for though the receipt was not money it was capable of being valued in terms of money.	None
In the present case, the assessees business received nothing in exchange for the withdrawal of the assets, neither money nor moneys worth therefore the only fair way of treating the matter was to do just what the appellant did, namely to enter the price at which the assets were valued at the beginning of the year so that the entries would cancel each other out and leave the business with neither a gain nor a loss on those transactions.14.	Reasoning
The learned AttorneyGeneral contended that if that was allowed great loss would ensue to the State because all a man need do at the end of the year would be to withdraw all assets which had risen in value and leave only those which had depreciated and thus either show a loss or reduce his taxable profits.15.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument can only prevail on the assumption that the State can tax potential profits because, except for that, the State would neither gain nor lose in a case of this kind.	Reasoning
Had the assets been left where they were, they would have been valued at the end of the year as they were at the beginning, at the cost price and we would still be where we are now.	Reasoning
But the assumption that there would be a gain at some future indefinite date is mere guess work, for equally there might be loss.	Reasoning
Apart, however, from that the learned AttorneyGenerals rule is equally capable of abuse.	Reasoning
A man could as easily withdraw from the business assets which had depreciated and enter in his books the depreciated market value and leave at cost price the assets which had risen.16.	Reasoning
There are two cases which bear a superficial resemblance to this case.	None
They are  In the Chouthmal Golapchand, AIR 1939 Cal 559 (B) and  	None
In re The Spanish Prospecting Co. Ltd., 19111Ch 92 (C).17.	None
We refrain from expressing any opinion about them, especially as they appear to reach different conclusions, because the facts are not the same and the questions which arose on the facts there were not argued here.	None
They raise matters of wider import which will require consideration in a suitable case.	None
These cases were not cases of a business owned and run by a single owner and so the fiction of treating the business as a separate entity from its owner actually trading with him, which we are asked to apply here does not arise.	None
In the next place, the businesses there were not continuing as here.18.	None
In the Calcutta case, a partnership was wound up and the question related to the valuation of assets consisting of stocks and shares, on the dissolution.	None
In the English case, a company with no fixed capital was under liquidation and the question was whether the market value of certain debentures which the company had purchased ought to be brought into the profit and loss account so as to augment the profits actually shown in the balancesheet.	None
The company wished to treat those debentures as of no value and thus show a much smaller profit than would otherwise have been the case.	None
On the answer to that question hung the fate of two servants of the company who, under the terms of their agreement with the company, could only be paid their salaries out of the profits of the company.	None
Neither case is, in our opinion apposite here.19.	None
The questions referred were (1) Whether in the circumstances of the case any income arose to the assessee as a result of the transfer of shares and silver bars to the trustees?(2) If the answer to the question (1) is in the affirmative, whether the method employed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and upheld by the Appellate Tribunal in computing the assessees income from the transfer is the proper method for computing the income?Our answer to the first question	Issue
is that in the circumstances of this case no income arose to the appellant as a result of the transfer of the shares and silver bars to the, trustees.	Decision
In view of that the second question does not arise.20.	Decision
The appeal is allowed with costs.	Decision
Bhagwati, J.21.	None
This appeal by special leave from a judgment of the High Court of judicature at Bombay on a reference by the Incometax Appellate Tribunal under S. 66 (1), Indian Incometax Act 11 of 1922 raises an interesting question as to the valuation of an asset withdrawn from the stockintrade of a running business.22.	None
The assessee was in the year of account (calendar year 1942) a dealer in shares and silver.	None
On 2111942 he withdrew from the business certain shares and silver bars and executed two deeds of trust and on 19101942 he withdrew further shares and silver bars and executed a third deed of trust.	None
The terms and conditions of the deeds of trust are not material for the purpose of, this appeal.23.	None
The assessee kept his books of account on the mercantile basis and the method employed by him in the past for valuing the closing stock of his stock in trade was valuation at the cost price thereof.	None
The deeds of trust were valued for the purpose of stamp at the market value of the shares and silver bars prevailing at the dates of their execution.	None
The assessee however showed the transfer of these shares and silver bars to the trustees in the books of account at the cost price thereof thus setting off the debit shown in respect of the same at the beginning of the year of account.	None
He contended that the market value of the said shares and silver bars on which the stamp duty was based could not be the basis for computing his income from the stockintrade thus transferred.	None
The Incometax Authorities did not accept this contention and assessed the profit at the difference between the cost price of the said shares and silver bars and the market value thereof at the date of their withdrawal from the business.	None
The I.T.O., the Appellate Assistant Commissioner as also the Incometax Appellate Tribunal rejected this contention of the assessee and the Incometax Appellate Tribunal submitted at the instance of the assessee a case under S. 66 (1) of the Act referring the following two questions for the decision of the High Court(1)	None
Whether in the circumstances of the case any income arose to the petitioner as a result of the transfer of shares and silver bars to the trustees?(2) If the answer to the question (1) is in the affirmative, whether the method employed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and upheld by the Appellate Tribunal in computing the petitioners income from the transfer is the proper method for computing the income?The High Court answered both the questions in the affirmative.24.	Issue
It was not disputed before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal that the shares transferred were the stock in trade of the business.	None
As regards the silver bars the Tribunal found that the assessee had been making purchases and sales frequently and that the silver also was stock in trade and not a capital investment.	None
Both the shares and the silver bars were thus part of the stock in trade of the business.	None
They had been purchased by the assessee from time to time and formed part of the stock in trade of the business and had been shown at the cost price thereof in the books of account of the previous years and also at the opening of the year of account.25.	None
If the shares and the silver bars which were thus withdrawn from the stock in trade of the business had continued to form part of the stock in trade at the closing of the year of account, the value of these shares and silver bars would also have been shown at the cost price in accordance with the system of accounts maintained by the assessce.	None
The question however which falls to be determined is what is the effect of these assets having been withdrawn from the stock in trade of the business.26.	None
So far as the business itself is concerned the asset which has been brought in is of a particular value at the date when it has been so brought in and it is then valued in the books of account at its cost.	None
In the course of the business however the asset appreciates or depreciates in value in accordance with the fluctuations of the market.	None
If the cost price basis is adopted for the valuation of the stock in trade at the close of the year this appreciation or depreciation in the value as the case may be would not be reflected in the accounts.	None
If however the market value basis is adopted for such valuation, the asset on being valued at the market rate thereof at the close at the year might show a loss and this loss would be allowed by the Incometax Authorities in computing the profit or loss of the business.	None
In either event, the assessee would have to carry over the asset in the books of account of the subsequent year at the valuation adopted at the close of the previous year and the assessee.	None
would not be allowed to change the basis of valuation thus adopted unless he chose to adopt at the end of the subsequent year or years valuation at cost price or the market value thereof whichever was lower.	None
This process would continue until the asset is realised.	None
When the asset is realised the assessee would have to show the actual price realised by the sale of the asset in the books of account and the difference between the price thus realised and the value shown in the beginning of the year of account would be the profit or loss as the case may be, in regard to that asset and that profit or loss would be allowed by the Incometax Authorities in the computation of profit or loss for that year of account.	None
The adoption of one or the other basis of valuation would not however make any difference in the ultimate result.	None
On the cost price basis of valuation all intermediate fluctuations of price during the interval between the bringing of the asset in the business and the realisation of it would be eliminated and the only thing considered in the accounts would be the difference between the price of the asset when it was brought into the business and the price thereof when the asset was realised.	None
On the other hand, the market value basis would bring into account each year the fluctuations in the market value of the asset as at the close of every year of account until the aseset was realised with the result that in each and every year of account a rectification would have to be made in the result of the trading of the previous year which was not correctly reflected in the accounts by reason of the assessee having adopted the market value obtaining at the close of the previous year as the value of the asset.	None
This process of rectification would continue from year to year until the asset was realised in a particular year of account when the actual price realised on the sale of the asset would be brought into account in that year.	None
The ultimate result of these operations so far as the asset itself is concerned would be no different.	None
Because if regard be had to the various fluctuations in the market value which have been reflected in the accounts of the intermediate period, what the business actually gains or loses would be the difference between the cost price of the asset when it was brought in and the price at which it was sold when it was actually realised.	None
The only advantage which the assessee obtains would be that he would be able to anticipate in a particular year the loss that may be made on the asset in the following year or years which however might have to be rectified in the following year or years if the prices rose again.27.	None
Is there any difference in the position when instead of the asset being realised it is withdrawn from the stock in trade of the business?	None
So far as the business is concerned the asset ceases to be a part of the stock in trade whether it is realised or is withdrawn from the stock in trade.	None
The asset after it has been brought into the business appreciates or depreciates in value in accordance with the fluctuations of the market and that appreciated or depreciated asset continues to be a part of the stock in trade of the business until it is realised or withdrawn.	None
This appreciation or depreciation in value is not reflected in the books of account when the cost price basis is adopted for the valuation of the stock in trade at the close of the year of account, but is certainly reflected as above indicated in the books of account at the close of each year of account when the market value basis is adopted.	None
In each case however the actual profit or loss to the business as the case may be in relation to the price at which the asset was brought into the business would be determined at the date when the asset is realised.	None
That would be the measure of the appreciation or depreciation in value of the asset which till then formed a part of the stock in trade of the business, and would also be the measure of the ultimate profit or loss as the case may be of the business in regard to that particular asset.	None
When the asset is withdrawn from the stock in trade of the business the position in my opinion would be no different.	None
So far as the business is concerned the asset would go out and cease to be a part of its stock in trade and this again would be the measure of the profit or low as the case may be of the business qua that particular asset.	None
To my mind it makes not the slightest difference whether an asset is realised in the course of the business or is withdrawn from the stockintrade of the business.	None
An asset which has appreciated or depreciated in value as the case may be in accordance with the fluctuations of the market ceases to be a part of the business Rs.	None
by the one process or the other.	None
So far as the business is concerned it is entitled to credit in it goods account the price of that asset as has been realised by the sale thereof or the market value of that asset as at the date of its withdrawal.28.	None
Looking at the matter from the assessees point of view also it does not make, any the slightest difference whether he realises the asset in the course of the business or withdraws it from the business and utilises it in any manner he chooses.	None
Having brought into the business an asset which was of a particular value at that time, he withdraws from the business that asset at a time when it has appreciated or depreciated in value.	None
The business would be entitled to the appreciation or depreciation in value of that asset in so far as the asset had become a part of the stockintrade of the business.	None
When the asset is withdrawn by the assessee, the assessee obtains in his hands by reason of such withdrawal an asset which at the time of the withdrawal has appreciated or depreciated in value as the case may be in comparison with its value at the time when it was brought into the business and the assessee on such withdrawal would be able to deal with or dispose of an asset which had thus appreciated or depreciated in value.	None
In my opinion the manner of his dealing with the asset after he withdraws it from the stock in trade of the business is really immaterial.	None
What is material to consider is what is the value of the asset which he has withdrawn from the stock in trade of the business and that value can only be determined by the market value of the asset as at the date of its withdrawal.29.	None
It was urged that the withdrawal of the asset from the stock in trade of the business was not a business operation and that an entry on the credit side crediting the cost price of the particular asset would therefore be enough.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument however does not take into account the appreciation or the depreciation in the value of the asset on the date of the withdrawal as compared with its value when it was initially brought into the business.	None
It also does not take into account the fact that the assess might have adopted the market value basis for valuation of the stock in trade on hand at the close of the previous year or years of account The entry on the debit side at the beginning of the year of account would not then represent the cost price of the asset but would represent the market value of the asset at the close of the previous year of account.	None
What would then be the rational basis on which the credit entry should be made at the date of withdrawal?	None
Should it be the cost price of the asset which was not at all reflected into the accounts except at the initial stage when the asset was brought into the business or the market value of the asset when it was withdrawn?	None
Surely the method of accounts keeping cannot make any difference to the actual position, whether an asset has appreciated or depreciated in value and what profit or loss if any accrued to the business when the asset was withdrawn from the stock in trade of the business.	None
There is also a further fact to be concerned.	None
and it is that when the asset is withdrawn from the stock in trade of the business there would be of necessity an entry in the account of the person withdrawing it debiting the price of that asset to him.	None
If the assessee withdraws from the stock in trade of the business an asset which has thus appreciated or depreciated in value, is there any justification whenever for debiting him with the cost price of that asset and not the market value of the asset as at the date of withdrawal?	None
In the event of the asset having appreciated in value the assessee should be debited in his account with the appreciated market value of the asset inasmuch as he withdraws from the stock in trade of the business an asset which is at that date of trial market value.	None
If however the asset has depreciated in value the assessee should certainly not be mulcted.	None
He withdraws from the stock in trade of the business an asset which is of a depreciated value as compared with its value when it was brought into the business and he should not certainly be debited with a higher price even though it may be the cost price as appearing in the books of account according to the particular system of accounting adopted by the assessee.30.	None
I am therefore definitely of the opinion that even in the case of withdrawal as in the case of the realisation of the asset the business is entitled to credit in the goods account the market value of the asset as at the date of its withdrawal whatever be the method adopted by it for valuation of its stock in trade on hand at the close of a year of account.31.	None
Shri R J. Kolah appearing for the Appellant particularly relied upon a decision of the Calcutta High Court,  AIR 1939 Cal 559 (B).	None
The assessees there were the firm of Messrs. Chouthmal Golapchand constituted by four partners with equal shares, and they had at the beginning of the accounting year 193536 an opening stock of shares valued at cost price of Rs. 85,331.	None
On 811936 the partners resolved to dissolve the firm with erect from 3031936 and in view of the pending dissolution they divided amongst themselves on 931936 these shares which were then valued at the rates prevailing in the market at an aggregate sum of Rs. 51,966.	None
There was a difference of Rs. 33,365 between the value of the opening stock, viz, Rs.35,331 and the then market valuation of Rs. 51,966 and this difference was claimed by the assessees as a loss in the assessment.	None
This claim of the assessees was negatived on the ground that there was nothing to show that loss had occurred in the year of account.	None
The assessees having adopted the system of valuing the shares at cost price at the end of every year and the opening of the next year, the cost price of the shares was taken to have been their value at the beginning of the year of account and the partition was taken as not amounting to a sale of the shares with the result that there was no evidence of any loss.	None
With great respect to the learned Judges I do not see my way to agree with the reasoning of this judgment.	None
Apart from the fact that this distribution of shares amongst the partners was in view of the impending dissolution of the firm and different considerations may arise when one considers the distribution of the assets of a dissolved partnership amongst its partners, the judgment does not take count of the fact that at the date of the partition the assess which had been brought into the business at the earlier dates had depreciated in value and it was these depreciated assets which were the subjectmatter of partition between the partners.	None
Even if the partition be not treated as a sale it was a transfer of property, the property of the firm being transferred to the individual partners thereof and each partner obtaining an absolute interest in the shares thus transferred to him by the firm to the exclusion of the other partners therein.	None
So far as the firm was concerned it was certainly a transfer of the property to the individual partners and even as regards the partners themselves it was a transfer of the interests of the partners inter se in the shares respectively transferred absolutely to each of them.	None
If it were necessary to do so I would certainly say that the case was erroneously decided.	None
(See also the judgment of Fletcher Moulton L. J. in  19111 Ch. 92 at p. 98 (C) J.32.	None
The result therefore is that the answers given by the High Court to both the questions referred to it were correct and the appeal must be dismissed with costs.33.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
