 Beg J.1.	None
The University of Cochin was granted special leave to appeal to this Court against the Judgment and order of the Kerala High Court allowing a Writ Petition of the respondent Dr. N. Raman Nair who had applied unsuccessfully on 15101972 for the post of Reader in the Department of Hindi after coming into force of the Cochin University Act 30 of 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the Act)	Issue
The High Court had quashed a resolution passed by the Syndicate on 611973 for appointing Dr. A. Ramchandra Dev to the post.	Facts
The High Court had also quashed the resolution of the Syndicate of the University passed on 771972, the relevant part of which runs as followsResolved that1.	Facts
the rules mentioned under Section 6 (2) of the Cochin University Act, 1971 be implemented in the case of teaching staff as a class except in the case of post of Professor which shall be filled up exclusively in consideration of merit but the reservation quota against this category should be provided additionally in the category should be provided additionally in the category of Readers.	Facts
Lecturers, Teaching Assistant, etc., taken collectively.	None
It had directed the University to make appointments in confirmity with Section 6 (2) of the Act.	Facts
Section 6 lays down 6, University open to All Classes and Creeds (1)	None
No person shall on grounds only of religion race, caste, sex, descent place of birth residence, language political opinion or any of them, be ineligible for or discriminated against in respect of any employment or office under the University or membership of any of the authorities or bodies of the University or admission to any degree or course of study in the University.(2)	None
In making appointments to posts in any service, class or category under the University, the University shall mutatis mutandis, observed the provisions of Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of rule 14 and the provisions of Rules 15, 16 and 17 of the Kerala State and Subordinate Service Rules as demanded from time to time.2.	Facts
Section 6 of the Act, read as a whole, indicates that it was meant to eliminate unjustifiable discrimination.	None
The provisions of Section 6 (1) are directed against discrimination against particular individuals on any of the grounds given there.	None
Section 6 (2) is meant to ensure equality of treatment between citizens as members of groups, and in particular, to enable backward classes to secure appointments so as to remove the gap between the advanced and the backward.	None
In doing so it may appear that the principle of equality of opportunity on the basis of individual merit is being modified.	Reasoning
Even if that be the result, the wider object is to promote equality between groups of citizens.3.	Reasoning
Rule 14 mentioned in Section 6 (2) lays down a rule of rotation in making appointments.	None
Rule 15 indicates that the principles of minimum qualifications to determine whether candidates are suitable for selection is not abandoned.	None
Rule 16 provides for a subrotation among subgroups of major backward classes.	None
This concept is further explained and elaborated in rule 17.	None
These rules are set out below in toto.14.	None
Reservation of appointments.  	None
Where the Special Rules lay down that the principle of reservation of appointments shall apply to any service, class or category or where in the case of any service, class or category for which no Special Rules have been issued, the Government have by notification in the Gazette declared that the principle of reservation of appointments shall apply to such service, class or category, appointments by direct recruitment to such service, class or category shall be made on the following basis (a) The unit of appointment for the purpose of this rule shall be 20, of which two shall be reserved for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes and 8 shall be reserved for the other backward classes and the remaining 10 shall be filled on the basis of meritProvided that one out of every five posts reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall go to a Scheduled Tribe candidate and only in the absence of a Scheduled Tribe candidate, it shall go to a Scheduled caste candidate.(b)	None
The claims of members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes shall also be considered for the appointments which shall be filled on the basis of merit and where a candidate belonging to a Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe or Other Backward Class is selected on the basis of merit, the number of posts reserved for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes or other backward classes as the case may be, shall not be in any way be affected.(c)	None
Appointments under this rule shall be made in the order of rotation specified below in every 20 vacancies.1.	None
Open Competition.2.	None
Other Backward Classes.3.	None
Open Competition.4.	None
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.5.	None
Open Competition.6.	None
Other Backward classes.7.	None
Open Competition.8.	None
Other Backward Classes.9.	None
Open Competition.10.	None
Other Backward Classes.11.	None
Open Competition.12.	None
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.13.	None
Open Competition.14.	None
Other Backward Classes.15.	None
Open Competition16.	None
Other Backward Classes.17.	None
Open Competition.18.	None
Other Backward Classes.19.	None
Open Competition.20.Other Backward Classes.	None
Provided that the fourth turn in the third rotation and the twelfth turn in the fifth rotation shall go to scheduled Tribe candidates and in the absence of scheduled Tribe candidates they shall go to Scheduled castes candidatesProvided that the rule shall not apply in the case of appointments of near relatives of military personnel killed, permanently disabled or reported to be missing in action if they are or have been wholly dependent on such personnel and they shall be given preference in the matter of appointment to Government Service provided they posses the prescribed qualifications and subject to the condition that preference in the matter of appointment shall be given only to one relation in the case of each such personnel.	None
Explanation  The term Near Relatives means the windows wives, sons, daughters, sisters, brothers, father, mother nieces and nephews of the military personnel.15.	None
If there is no suitable candidate for selection from a particular community classified as Other Backward Classes or from the group of communities classified as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the turn allotted for them in the integrated cycle combining the rotation in clause (c) of Rule 14 and the subrotation in subrule (2) of R. 17, the said community or group shall be passed over and the post shall be filled up in the following manner If a suitable candidate is available for selection in the community or group immediately next to the passed over community or group in the said cycle he shall be selected.	None
If no such candidate is available in that community or group selection shall be made from the community or group in the said cycle, he shall be selected.	None
If no such candidate is available in that community or group, selection shall be made from the community or group next following strictly in the order of rotation.	None
If no suitable candidate is available for selection in any of the said communities or groups selection shall be made from among the open competition candidates.	None
The benefit of the turn thus forfeited to a community, or group by reason of its being passed over shall be resorted to it at the earliest possible opportunity, if a suitable candidate from that community or group is available for selection by making adjustment against the claims of the community or group that derived the extra benefit by reason of such passing overProvided that in no year reservations including carrying forward vacancies to a category of post shall exceed 50 of the total number of vacancies for which selection by direct recruitment to that category is resortd to in that year Provided further that the right of restoration of the turn shall lapse with the expiry of three years from the date of the passing over Provided also that the said right of restoration shall not extend to a case where the selection has gone, to an open competition candidate.	None
Note  The year of reservation referred to above shall be from the 15th June of a calendar year to 14th June of the succeeding calender year.	None
The rotation referred to above shall commence from 1561967 and the outstanding compensation due to communities in the cycle of rotation up to 1561967 will be treated as lapsed.16.	None
There shall be subrotation among minor groups of Other Backward Classes.17.	None
(1).	None
The grouping of Other Backward Classes for the above purpose shall be as indicated below 1.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.2.	None
Muslims.3.	None
Latin Catholics, S.I.U.C. and Anglo Indians.4.	None
Scheduled Caste converts to Christianity.5.	None
Other Backward Classes put together i.e. Communities other than those mentioned in Items 1 to 4 above included in the list of Other Backward Classes.(2)	None
The 40 per cent reservation allowed to Other Backward Classes shall be distributed among the different groups of Backward Classes in the following proportion Out of every 40 appointments 14 shall be given to Ezhavas and Thiyyas 10 to Muslims 5 to Latin Catholics, S. I. U. C. and AngloIndians 1 to Scheduled caste converts to Christianity and 10 to Other Backward Classes put together.	None
The following shall be the rotation by which posts reserved for Other backward Classes will be distributed among the various groups coming under the class 1.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.2.	None
Muslims.3.	None
Latin Catholics, S. I. U. C. and AngloIndians.4.	None
Other Backward Classes.5.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.6.	None
Muslims.7.	None
Ezhayas and Thiyyas.8.	None
Other Backward Classes.9.	None
Latin Catholics, S. I. U. C. and AngloIndians.10.	None
Muslims.11.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.12.	None
Other Backward Classes.13.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.14.	None
Muslims.15.	None
Latin Catholics, S. I. U. C. and AngloIndians.16.	None
Other Backward Classes.17.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.18.	None
Muslims.19.	None
Scheduled Caste converts to Christianity.20.	None
Other Backward Classes.21.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.22.	None
Muslims.23.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.24.	None
Other Backward Classes.25.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.26.	None
Muslims.27.	None
Latin Catholic, S. I. U. C. and AngloIndians.28.	None
Other Backward Classes.29.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.30. Muslims.31.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.32.	None
Other Backward Classes.33.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.34.	None
Muslims.35.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.36.	None
Other Backward Classes.37.	None
Latin Catholics S. I. U. C. and AngloIndians.38.	None
Muslims.39.	None
Ezhavas and Thiyyas.40.	None
Other Backward Classes.	None
Explanation  the expression other Backward classes referred to in Item 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 28, 32, 36 and 40 shall mean Backward Classes referred to in Item 5 under subrule (1) of this rule.4.	None
It is not disputed that the petitionerrespondent No. 1 Dr. Nair stood 1st in the order of merit as determined by the Board of Appointments for the post of a Reader in the department of Hindi in the University.	None
The petitioner respondents case was that the post of Reader in Hindi is in itself a particular category.	None
He also saidIf the principle for reservation of appointments provided in Rules 14 to 17 of the General Rules is applied to the post of Reader in Hindi the petitioner alone is entitled to get it since he secured the 1st rank in the selection and since the first post is reserved for open competition (on.	None
Merits as provided in subrule (c) of Rule 14).The petitioner submitted that the principle of reservation had been wrongly interpreted by the University in its resolution of 1771972 (Ex. P2) when it laid down that principles of reservation for appointment should be applied to posts in a service or class or category collectively and not separately.	Arguments of Petitioner
The whole case, therefore, hinged round an interpretation of Rules 14 to 17 and their impact on the principle of rotation as applied to service class or category under the University.5.	Issue
Sections 6 (2) lays down the mandatory duty upon the University to observe clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Rule 14 as well as Rules 15, 16 and 17 of the Rules set out above.	Reasoning
But it does not indicate the manner in which the classification of members of a service under the University has to be made for the purposes of applying these rules.	Reasoning
Inasmuch as every statutory power to be exercised reasonably we can say that the classification has to be reasonable.	Reasoning
Thus, the University may treat all the teaching of posts as belonging to one class for the application of the rules.	Reasoning
On the other hand it may treat only posts of Readers in all subjects or in a particular subject as a category by itself for the application of these rules.	Reasoning
It cannot exempt any class or category such as Professors from the operation of the rules altogether.	Reasoning
Only if it so classifies all posts in a service under the University as to make its classification prima facie unreasonable, could the validity of the classification made by it be assailed.	Reasoning
The power is presumed to be exercised reasonably on the strength of facts and circumstances relevant for purposes intended to be achieved by the classification.	Reasoning
These purposes have also to pass the test of legality and constitutionality.6.	Reasoning
Clause (c) of Rule 14 lays down a Scheme of rotation for every block of 20 vacancies.	Reasoning
But it does not specifically say that the rule of rotation will be applied in the order in which vacancies occur.	Reasoning
We however think that by necessary implication the rule is intended to be applied to vacancies in the order in which they occur.	Reasoning
It could not be meant to be applied with reference to the date on which a vacancy is announced or advertised because these are fortuitous matters over which those in power in the University may, if so inclined be able to exercise control.	Reasoning
The whole object of such rules is to introduce fixity of principle and of the method of its application so as to remove, so far as possible, uncertainty and opportunities for abuse of power.	Reasoning
That being the object of such a rule it seems obvious to us that the rule must have been intended to operate with reference to the dates on which the vacancies occur and not with reference to some other events such as the dates of declaration or advertisement of the vacancies.7.	Reasoning
The rules were made by the Government in 1967, hence, the note occurs at the bottom of Rule 15 that the rotation provided for will commence from 1561967.	None
This could not obviously be done under the Cochin University Act 30 of 1971which was published in the State Gazette on 1381971.	None
Therefore for the purposes of applying these rules to the University the rotation could only apply to vacancies existing on the date when the Act came into force and in the order in which they had occurred.8.	None
It appears that the Syndicate of the University appointed a Standing Committee to draw up a list of the vacancies in the class of posts with which we are concerned at the time when the Act came into force under which the appointments were to be made in accordance with the rotation rules.	Reasoning
This list (Ex. P3) drawn up at a meeting of the Standing Committee of the Syndicate held on 111973 giving the number and designations of vacant posts, dates of vacancies and allocation for the purposes of the rotation rule and the names of the candidates appointed runs as follows Regarding the appointments made so far and the appointments to be made from among those who have been selected after advertisement and interview the Committee examined the details of allocations.	None
The following is the result of the review Si.	None
NoName of PointDate of occurrence of vacancyAllocationName of CandidateCarried overAPPOINTMENT MADE ON 17719721.Lecturer, SMS1071971OpenMrs. Annies George2.Lecturer, SMS9121971Res.	None
Ezhava.	None
Dr. K. C. Sankaran Narayanan.3.Professor in Hindi1771972OpenDr.	None
N. E. Viswanatha Iyer.APPOINTMENT MADE ON 61119724.Professor in SMS1071971Res.	None
Sch.	None
C and T converted Nair Sch.	None
C and T. as OpenDr.	None
N. Parameswaran5.Professor in SMS1681972OpenShri	None
N. Renganatha Reddiar Not joined6.Reader in SMS1681972MuslimDr.	None
K. V. Nair Res.	None
Muslim7.	None
Lecturer in SMS.1681972Open Converted as Sch.	None
C and TDr.	None
Jose Thomas Payyapally Sch.	None
C and T C o. is lost and it is filled by open.8.Lecturer in SMS.1681972Res.	None
(L.C.) N.ADr.	None
C. N. Puroshothaman Nair, L. C. Not joined No. C o. as it is filled by open.9.Lecturer in SMS.1681972OpenShri Alex.	None
P. LukosePOST	None
TO BE FILIED	None
ON 61197310.Reader in Hindi1071971Res.	None
O.B.C.This vacancy has occurred earlier.11.Research Asstt.in Law10771Open12.Lecturer in Physics.851972Res.	None
Sch.	None
C. and T.13.Lecturer in Physics10121972Open9.	None
The above mentioned document was signed by the Pro. Vice Chancellor of the University.	Reasoning
It indicates that the vacancy of a Reader in the Department of Hindi was the first to occur.	Reasoning
But instead of allocating it to the open competition class for the purposes of applying the rotation rule it was allocated to the reserved block of posts.	Reasoning
This was also an illegality complained of by the respondent Dr. Nair.10.	Reasoning
The stand of the University was that it had followed the rotation rule according to which appointments were to be made alternately by a general or open competition and by choice, restricted to backward groups.	Reasoning
Dr. A. Ramchandra Dev however took up the position that the University could even alter the rules inasmuch as it had the power to apply them mutatis mutandis according to situations as they arose.	Reasoning
It appears that at the time of arguments in the High Court the University adopted the stand of Dr. A. Ramchandra Dev on this question.	Reasoning
It seems to have been contended in the High Court on behalf of the University that it was empowered to make the changes in the rules to meet the particular needs of the University so as to enable it to implement the provisions of Section 6 (2) of the Act in the way it thought fit.11.	Reasoning
We think that the High Court was right in holding that the power to apply the rules mutatis mutandis does not include the power of amending the substantial provisions in the rules.	Reasoning
The High Court held Formal and inconsequential changes for dovetailing the rules into the framework of the Act alone seems to be contemplated.	Reasoning
We think that the High Court was right in confining the power of the University to making only what are necessary adaptations so as to make the rules applicable to those in the service of the University in place of the Government servants for whom they were promulgated.	Reasoning
It could include a power to ignore only such parts as may be inapplicable or in conflict with the Act itself.	Reasoning
An instance of this would be as pointed out above commencement of the application of the rules after the Act came into force instead of in 1967 when according to a note in Rule 15 the Rules had to be enforced.	Reasoning
The High Court rightly held that the Syndicate could not in any case alter the provisions of Section 6 (2) of the Act itself which made it incumbent on the University to apply the rotation rule as contemplated under the rules to every service class or category under the University.	Reasoning
It held that If Section 6 (2) were to operate on its own terms made by the post of Reader for the first time made by the University should in the first turn go to the candidate adjudged best on open competition and only on the next turn or turns to candidates on the principle of communal rotation.12.	Reasoning
If the post of Reader in the Department of Hindi was the first to arise in service under the University as appears to be the position from Ex. P3.	None
an application of the rotation principle would compel the first appointment to take place on the basis of an open competition.	None
That principle could certainly not be modified by the University by taking shelter behind the words mutatis mutandis.	Reasoning
It has been stated by the learned Counsel for the University that the validity of the impugned resolution may be doubtful so far as the withdrawal of the post of Professor form the application of the abovementioned rules is concerned but learned Counsel submitted we need not decide that question as we are not concerned here with an appointment to the post of a Professor.	Reasoning
If however the Professors and Lecturers and Readers were all to fall in one class it may become necessary to consider this question also.	Reasoning
Moreover we indicated below the two parts of the resolution do not seem to be separable.	Reasoning
It is true that Section 6 subsection (2) lodges in the University power to determine what should constitute a class or category of service under the University.	Reasoning
No rigid formula to fit all circumstances can be laid down and the authority concerned must be left to define subject to constitutional limitations what should be a class or category.	Reasoning
But this power would not, in our opinion, enable the University to dispense with the application of the rotation principle itself to any particular class or category of service under the University as appears to have been the real object of the resolution of 1771972 with regard to Professors.13.	Reasoning
The word service does seem to us to denote, as the High Court held, various classes or categories of posts within it.	Reasoning
It is obviously the widest class a classification which puts the whole teaching staff in one class for purposes of applying the rule would seem unassailable.	Reasoning
But one which puts all classes and categories of service from the peons to Professors together may be destroying the distinction between classes and categories of service, seems to run counter to the words used in section 6 (2).	Reasoning
As that question is not before us, we refrain from deciding it.	Reasoning
This provision appears to us to be intended to ensure that whatever may be kind of post to be held by a person in a service under the University principles laid down in Rules 14, 15, 16 and 17 must apply in making appointments to it.	Reasoning
We are not called upon to decide here what is meant by a service under the University as it is admitted by both sides that this description applies to the post of a Reader.	Reasoning
Nor have we to determine here the reasonableness of a classification which may put the teaching and nonteaching staff in one class or category.14.	None
It was submitted by learned Counsel for the University, that the resolution of 1771972 was intended to do no more than to categorise Readers, lecturers and Teaching Assistants by putting them into a single class or category for applying the rules to them.	None
collectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
If that is all it was meant to do apart from attempting to place posts of Professors outside rules 14 to 17, the intention is expressed in every unsatisfactory and misleading language.	None
It is of course open to the University to pass a resolution which does not contravene Section 6 (2) of the Act.	Reasoning
A resolution which merely classifies or categories posts in a reasonable manner would not offend against statutory provisions.	Reasoning
The resolution of 1771972 is however at least partly invalid on the face of it by attempting to place appointments to the post of a Professor outside the reservation and rotation rules altogether and it is partly at least ambiguous so that it is difficult to decipher its exact meaning.	Reasoning
The second part seems designed in so far as one may guess its meaning to provide for Other Backward Classes a compensatory quote of reserved appointments in a category other than that of Professors in lieu of the removal of posts of Professors from subjection to the rules.	Reasoning
If this is the real object as it seems to be the intention was to alter the scope or ambit of the rotation rule.	Reasoning
The second part is apparently a consequence of the exclusion of the Professors from the operation of the rules which is itself not permissible and not an adaptation for the purposes of applying the rules to the University.	Reasoning
Thus the two parts seem to be inseparable.	Reasoning
We therefore consider the resolution to be wholly invalid.	Reasoning
The validity of Section 6 (2) has not been questioned either in the High Court or here.15.	Reasoning
We have been informed at the Bar that both the 1st and the 3rd Respondents, that is to say Dr. Nair and Dr. Ramchandra Dev are at present holding posts of Readers in the Hindi department as the needs of the University have expanded.	Reasoning
It may however be necessary to determine the order of their appointments after the University has laid down its own method of reasonable classification either of the whole teaching staff of the University collectively or by putting various categories of the teaching staff into separate compartments for the application of the rules.	Reasoning
We have held that the University has this power provided it is exercised on good and reasonable grounds.	Reasoning
We have only indicated that on such facts as have come to our notice the particular vacancy for which both Dr. Raman Nair and Dr. Ramchandra Dev were competing seemed to us to be the first to arise for the purposes of applying Section 6 (2) of the Act.	Reasoning
As this matter was not fully investigated and the power is vested in the University to make its own classification within the limits indicated by us, we think that it is desirable that the University should be left to make its own reasonable classification in accordance with the principles laid down above by us so as to determine which of the two Readers was entitled to be appointed earlier.	Reasoning
In other words the Syndicate of the University will have to pass a fresh resolution which is in accordance with the law as explained by us and then to apply the rules in conformity with such a resolution in exercise of the powers possessed by the University.16.	Reasoning
The result is that we dismiss this appeal subject to they elucidation given by us of the manner in which the directions issued by the High Court to the University to act in accordance with Section 6 (2) of the Act are to be carried out by the University.	Decision
We make no order as to costs.17.	None
Appeal dismissed.	Decision
