 M. Lodha, J. Leave granted.	None
The forfeiture of Flat No. 4, Kamala Mansion, Ground Floor, Promenade Place, No. 45/2, Promenade Road, Bangalore 560 042 under Section 7 of the Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976, to be referred as SAFEMA, is the subject matter in this Appeal.	None
Col. K. M. Somana (Retd.) was the original owner of that flat.	None
On 20.3.1997, he sold the flat to Mohd.	None
Ismail Shabandari and his wife Fathima Kauser Ismail by a sale deed which was registered in the office of the SubRegistrar, Bangalore.	None
Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari was detained under Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (for short, COFEPOSA) on 2.5.2003.	Facts
The detention order came to be passed at the instance of the Enforcement Directorate, Bangalore his premises were searched on 31.7.2002.	Facts
In that search Indian Currency of Rs.	Facts
13,50,000/ along with incriminating materials showing illegal transfer of money from abroad was seized.	Facts
The documents seized from the residence of Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari on 31.7.2002 by the Enforcement Directorate also indicated that he had received Rs.	Facts
92,09,480/ from different persons as instructed by one Hussain Sherrif of Dubai and he had made payments in India to various persons to the tune of Rs.	Facts
78,59,480/ leaving a balance of Rs.	Facts
13,50,000/ which was seized at the time of search.	Facts
It was in this backdrop that the order dated 2.5.2003 for detention of Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari came to be passed by the Competent Authority.4.	Facts
On 8.12.2003, a notice under Section 6(1) of SAFEMA in respect of subject flat was issued to Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari.	Facts
SAFEMA was applicable to him as he was a person within the meaning of Section 2(2)(b) of SAFEMA.	Facts
The Competent Authority having come to know that his wife, Fathima Kauser Ismail, was having 50 per cent share in the subject property, a notice under Section 6(1) was also issued to her as she happened to be relative within the meaning of Section 2(2)(c) of SAFEMA.	Facts
The above notices were served on them.5.	Facts
In response to the notice issued to him under Section 6(1), Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari sent a letter to the Competent Authority on 26.5.2004 stating therein that the subject flat was purchased through legal earnings.	Facts
By a subsequent letter, he stated that he had explained the sources of acquisition before the income tax authorities.	Facts
He filed copies of the income tax returns and also stated that his wife Fathima Kauser Ismail received remittances from her brother in 1994.	Facts
Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari was asked by the Competent Authority to substantiate his claim in respect of sources from which he and his wife purchased the property.	Facts
He and his wife were asked to appear personally but they did not appear and it transpired that the subject property has been sold by them for Rs.	Facts
26,00,000/ on 10.2.2005 to the present appellants.6.	Facts
On 17.5.2005, a notice was again issued to Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari by the Competent Authority to explain the sources of his income and earnings relating to Savings Bank A c	Facts
No. 15802, Vijaya Bank, Brigade Road Branch, Bangalore.	Facts
A copy of the said notice was also sent to the Branch Manager, Vijaya Bank, Brigade Road Branch, Bangalore.	Facts
The appellants claim that they came to know of Section 6(1) notice issued to their vendors from Vijaya Bank, Brigade Road Branch, Bangalore and consequently sent their reply to the Competent Authority through their Advocate on 20.5.2005.	Facts
In their reply, the appellants intimated to the Competent Authority that they had purchased the subject flat by a registered sale deed.	Facts
As they were having insufficient funds to purchase the subject flat, they availed of loan from Vijaya Bank, Brigade Road Branch, Bangalore.	Facts
The Bank sanctioned loan after proper examination and scrutiny of the documents and after obtaining legal opinion.	Facts
The appellants claimed that they were in actual possession and enjoyment of the subject flat and they have also applied to the authorities of Bangalore Mahanagar Palika for mutation of their names in the records and for obtaining Khatha Certificate and assessment of taxes.7.	Facts
The Competent Authority, on 23.6.2005 passed an order under Sections 7(1) and (3) of SAFEMA forfeiting the subject flat and declaring that forfeited property stands vested in the Central Government free from all encumbrances.	Facts
It was held in the order that the subject flat was not acquired by Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari and Fathima Kauser Ismail out of any legal earnings.	Facts
The said flat had been sold stealthily after the commencement of the proceedings under SAFEMA and the said transfer in favour of the appellants on 10.2.2005 was null and void by virtue of the provisions of Section 11 of SAFEMA.8.	Facts
Subsequent to the passing of the above order, a further order under Section 19(1) of SAFEMA was passed by the Competent Auhority on 23.12.2005 directing Mohd.	Facts
Ismail Shabandari and Fathima Kauser Ismail to surrender deliver possession of the forfeited flat within 30 days of the receipt of order.	Facts
In that order, it was reiterated that transfer sale effected by them subsequent to the notice under Section 6(1) was null and void in view of Section 11 of SAFEMA.	Facts
A copy of this order was sent by the Competent Auhority to the present appellants.9.	Facts
It was then that the appellants filed a writ petition before the Karnataka High Court for quashing the order dated 23.6.2005 forfeiting the subject flat and for writ of mandamus to the Competent Authority not to interfere with their peaceful possession and enjoyment in respect of the subject flat.	Facts
The above reliefs were sought on diverse grounds, including that they had purchased the subject flat after thorough verification and after obtaining encumbrance certificates for the period from 1.4.1990 to 4.1.2005 and after satisfying with the title of the vendors and also that there was no charge or encumbrance created over the subject flat.	Facts
They claimed that they were bona fide purchasers for adequate consideration.10.	Facts
A counter affidavit was filed by the Competent Authority in opposition to the writ petition.	Facts
The appellants filed rejoinder to the counter affidavit.11.	Facts
The learned Single Judge of the High Court heard the parties and considered the question that was raised before him as to whether the appellants (petitioners therein) were entitled to a notice from the Competent Authority before order of confiscation forfeiture was passed under SAFEMA.	Facts
The Single Judge in his order dated 12.9.2007 held that the sale in favour of the appellants had taken place on 10.2.2005, i.e., before the order of forfeiture was passed by the Competent Authority.	Facts
Although it was a fact that the first notice was issued under SAFEMA to the transferors much before the sale had taken place, but in the opinion of the Single Judge, the order dated 23.6.2005 was violative of the principles of natural justice and, consequently, he quashed the same and remitted the matter to the Competent Authority for fresh consideration.12.	Facts
A writ appeal was preferred by the Union of India and the Competent Authority against the order of the Single Judge.	Facts
The Division Bench of the High Court held that the sale transaction in favour of the appellants was subsequent to the issuance of notice under Section 6 and, accordingly, the transaction was null and void under Section 11 of SAFEMA.	Facts
In the opinion of the Division Bench, the appellants were not entitled to any notice and nonissuance of notice to them had not vitiated the action taken by the Competent Authority.13.	Facts
Mr. S.B. Sanyal, learned senior counsel for the appellants, heavily relied upon the excepted clause of Section 2(2)(e) that protects a transferee in good faith for adequate consideration and the observations made by a 9Judge Bench of this Court in Attorney General for India and others v. Amratlal Prajivandas and Others 1994) 5 SCC 54 in para 44 (Pg. 92) of the Report observing, So far as the holders (not being relatives and associates) mentioned in Section 2(2)(e) are concerned, they are dealt with on a separate footing.	Arguments of Petitioner
If such person proves that he is a transferee in good faith for consideration, his property even though purchased from a convict detenu is not liable to be forfeited.	None
He referred to diverse documents to show that the appellants had purchased the property after due diligence and after obtaining certificates from SubRegistrar, Bangalore, that the subject flat was not encumbranced in any manner whatsoever.	None
Learned senior counsel would submit that the appellants had obtained loan from the Vijaya Bank, Brigade Road Branch, Bangalore and the title of the property was fully scrutinized by the Bank and its Panel Advocate.	Arguments of Petitioner
The adequate consideration of Rs. 26,00,000/ was paid by the Bank to the transferors which prima facie establishes that the appellants are transferees in good faith for adequate consideration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned senior counsel contended that the appellants were seeking an opportunity to be given to them to prove before the Competent Authority that they were transferees in good faith for adequate consideration and that is what was done by the Single Judge and there was no justification for the Division Bench to upset such a just order.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. A.S. Chandhiok, Additional Solicitor General, would submit that the purchase of the subject flat by the appellants was after the issuance of notice under Section 6(1) to the vendors by the Competent Authority.	Arguments of Respondent
SAFEMA is applicable to one of the vendors by virtue of Section 2(2)(b) and to the other vendor by virtue of Section 2(2)(c).	Arguments of Respondent
He argued that transaction of sale was null and void under Section 11 and the appellants are not covered by the excepted category of the holder under Section 2(2)(e).	Arguments of Respondent
He placed reliance upon a decision of this Court in Aamenabai Tayebaly and Others v. Competent Authority under SAFEMA and others 1998) 1 SCC 703 and a decision of Madras High Court in Competent Authority v. Parvathi Bai 2011)	Arguments of Respondent
6 MLJ 537 .15.	Arguments of Respondent
SAFEMA came into effect from 05.11.1975.	None
It, inter alia, provides for forfeiture of illegally acquired properties of smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators.	None
Its applicability is provided in Section 2.	None
Subsection (1) of Section 2 provides that the provisions of SAFEMA shall only apply to persons specified in subsection (2).	None
Clause (b), amongst others, covers the persons in respect of whom an order of detention has been made under COFEPOSA and such order has not been revoked or set aside in any of the situations set out in the four subclauses of the proviso.	None
Clause (c) of subsection (2) of Section 2 applies to the relatives of persons referred to in clauses (a) or (b) while clause (d) applies to the associates of persons referred to in clauses (a) or (b).	None
Clause (e) of sub section (2) of Section 2 refers to a holder of property.	None
It reads as under S. 2. Application.(1)	None
xxx xxx xxx(2).	None
The persons referred to in subsection (1) are the following, namely (e) any holder (hereinafter in this clause referred to as the present holder) of any property which was at any time previously held by a person referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) unless the present holder or, as the case may be, any one who held such property after such person and before the present holder, is or was a transferee in good faith for adequate consideration.	None
Section 3 defines various expressions.	None
Section 3 (1) (c) defines illegally acquired property which reads as follows S. 3(1).	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,(c) illegally acquired property, in relation to any person to whom this Act applies, means(i) any property acquired by such person, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, wholly or partly out of or by means of any income, earnings or assets derived or obtained from or attributable to any activity prohibited by or under any law for the time being in force relating to any matter in respect of which Parliament has power to make laws or(ii) any property acquired by such person, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, wholly or partly out of or by means of any income, earnings or assets in respect of which any such law has been contravened or(iii) any property acquired by such person, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, wholly or partly out of or by means of any income, earnings or assets the source of which cannot be proved and which cannot be shown to be attributable to any act or thing done in respect of any matter in relation to which Parliament has no power to make laws or(iv) any property acquired by such person, whether before or after commencement of this Act, for a consideration, or by any means, wholly or partly traceable to any property referred to in subclauses (i) to (iii) or the income or earnings from such property and includes(A) any property held by such person which would have been, in relation to any previous holder thereof, illegally acquired property under this clause if such previous holder had not ceased to hold it, unless such person or any other person who held the property at any time after such previous holder or, where there are two or more such previous holders, the last of such previous holders is or was a transferee in good faith for adequate consideration(B) any property acquired by such person, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, for a consideration, or by any means, wholly or partly traceable to any property falling under item (A), or the income or earnings therefrom Section 4 prohibits holding of illegally acquired property which reads as follows S. 4.	None
Prohibition of holding illegally acquired property.(1)	None
As from the commencement of this Act, it shall not be lawful for any person to whom this Act applies to hold any illegally acquired property either by himself or through any other person on his behalf.(2) Where any person holds any illegally acquired property in contravention of the provision of subsection (1), such property shall be liable to be forfeited to the Central Government in accordance with the provisions of this Act.	None
Section 6 provides for issuance of show cause notice before forfeiture of illegally acquired property while Section 7 provides for passing of final orders in that behalf.	None
These provisions read as under S.6.  	None
Notice of forfeiture.(1)	None
If, having regard to the value of the properties held by any person to whom this Act applies, either by himself or through any other person on his behalf, his known sources of income, earnings or assets, any other information or material available to it as a result of action taken under section 18 or otherwise, the competent authority has reason to believe (the reasons for such belief to be recorded in writing ) that all or any of such properties are illegally acquired properties, it may serve a notice upon such person (hereinafter referred to as the person affected) calling upon him within such time as may be specified in the notice, which shall not be ordinarily less than thirty days, to indicate the sources of his income, earnings or assets, out of which or by means of which he has acquired such property, the evidence on which he relies and other relevant information and particulars, and to show cause why all or any of such properties, as the case may be should not be declared to be illegally acquired properties and forfeited to the Central Government under this Act.(2) Where a notice under subsection (1) to any person specifies any property as being held on behalf of such person by any other person, a copy of the notice shall also be served upon such other person.	None
S.7.	None
Forfeiture of property in certain cases.(1)	None
The competent authority may, after considering the explanation, if any, to the showcause notice issued under section 6, and the materials available before it and after giving to the person affected (and in a case where the person affected holds any property specified in the notice through any other person, to such other person also) a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by order, record a finding whether all or any of the properties in question are illegally acquired properties.(2) Where the competent authority is satisfied that some of the properties referred to in the showcause notice are illegally acquired properties but is not able to identity specifically such properties, then, it shall be lawful for the competent authority to specify the properties which, to the best of its judgment, are illegally acquired properties and record a finding accordingly under subsection(1).(3) Where the competent authority records a finding under this section to the effect that any property is illegally acquired property, it shall declare that such property shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, stand forfeited to the Central Government free from all encumbrances.(4) Where any shares in a company stand forfeited to the Central Government under this Act, then the company shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or the articles of association of the company, forthwith register the Central Government as the transferee of such shares.	None
Section 8 provides that burden of proving that property specified in the notice served under Section 6 is not illegally acquired property shall be on the person affected.	None
Section 11 declares transfers of properties specified in the notice issued under Section 6 null and void when such transfers are effected after the issuance of notice.	None
Section 11 reads as follows Certain transfers to be null and void.	None
Whereafter the issue of a notice under section 6 or under section 10, any property referred to in the said notice is transferred by any mode whatsoever such transfer shall, for the purpose of the proceedings under this Act, be ignored and if such property is subsequently forfeited to the Central Government under Section 7, then, the transfer of such property shall be deemed to be null and void.	None
Section 19 makes a provision for taking possession of the property which has been declared to be forfeited to the Central Government and where the person affected as well as any other person who may be in possession of the property fails to surrender or deliver possession.	None
Section 19 reads as under S. 19.	None
Power to take possession.(1) Where any property has been declared to be forfeited to the Central Government under this Act, or where the person affected has failed to pay the fine due under subsection (1) of section 9 within the time allowed therefore under subsection (3) of that section, the competent authority may order the person affected as well as any other person who may be in possession of the property to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the competent authority or to any person duly authorised by it in this behalf within thirty days of the service of the order.(2) If any person refuses or fails to comply with an order made under subsection (1), the competent authority may take possession of the property and may for that purpose use such force as may be necessary.(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (2), the competent authority may, for the purpose of taking possession of any property referred to in subsection (1), requisition the service of any police officer to assist the competent authority and it shall be the duty of such officer to comply with such requisition.	None
The provisions of SAFEMA are stringent and drastic in nature.	None
They are designed to discourage law breaking and directed towards forfeiture of illegally acquired properties.	None
One of the concepts that centres around the provisions of SAFEMA is to reach properties acquired illegally by the persons who are covered by Clauses (a) to (e) of Section 2(2).	None
The provisions of SAFEMA are intended to apply to any property acquired by persons covered by Clauses (a) to (e) of Section 2(2), whether before or after the commencement, wholly or partly out of or by means of any income, earnings or assets derived or obtained from or attributable to any activity prohibited by or under any law for the time being in force.	None
However, SAFEMA is not applicable to holder of any property under Section 2(2)(e) who proves that he is a transferee in good faith for adequate consideration.	None
The question that arises for consideration in this appeal is, whether appellants who purchased the subject flat during pendency of forfeiture proceedings are entitled to an opportunity to prove that they are transferees in good faith for adequate consideration.	Issue
In Amratlal Prajivandas1, a 9Judge Bench of this Court extensively considered the scheme and the provisions of SAFEMA and the Act has been held to be constitutional.	None
The observations in para 44 of the Report in Amratlal Prajivandas1, upon which heavy reliance has been placed by the learned senior counsel for the appellants, were made by this Court while dealing with the question, whether the application of SAFEMA to the relatives and associates of detenus was violative of Articles 14,19 and 21?	None
It was submitted on behalf of the petitioners therein that the relatives or associates of a person falling under Clause (a) or Clause (b) of Section 2(2) of SAFEMA might have acquired properties of their own, could be by illegal means, but there was no reason why those properties be forfeited under SAFEMA just because they were related to or were associates of the detenu or convict.	None
This Court held that the relatives or associates were brought in only for the purpose of ensuring that the illegally acquired properties of the convict or detenu, acquired or kept in their names, do not escape the net of SAFEMA.	None
It was further observed that it was not unknown that persons indulging in illegal activities screen the properties acquired from such illegal activities in the names of their relatives and associates, sometimes they transfer such properties to them with an intent to transfer the ownership and title and it was immaterial how such relative or associate held the properties of convict detenu, whether as a benami or a mere namelender or as a bona fide transferee for value or in any other manner.	None
Where a person is relative or associate as defined under SAFEMA, he or she cannot put forward any defence on proof of the fact that the property was acquired by the detenu, whether in his own name or in the name of his relatives or associates.	None
The Court allayed the apprehension that the independently acquired properties of such relatives or associates could be forfeited even if they were in no way connected with the convict detenu.	None
This Court then made the observations, So far as the holders (not being relatives and associates) mentioned in Section 2(2)(e) are concerned, they are dealt with on a separate footing.	None
If such person proves that he is a transferee in good faith for consideration, his property even though purchased from a convict detenu is not liable to be forfeited.	None
We are afraid these observations have no application to a transferee who has purchased illegally acquired property defined under Section 3 from a detenu convict and or his relative or associate after issuance of notice under Section 6 of SAFEMA.	None
Section 2(2)(e) refers to any holder of any property, which was at any time previously held by a person referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) unless such holder proves that he is a transferee in good faith for adequate consideration.	None
The holder talked of in Section 2(2)(e) does not cover a holder who is a transferee of the property after issuance of notice under Section 6.	None
It is so because Section 11 makes it manifest that if any property referred to in the notice under Section 6 or under Section 10 is transferred by any mode whatsoever, such transfer shall be ignored for the purposes of proceedings under SAFEMA and if such property is subsequently forfeited under Section 7 then the transfer of such property shall be deemed to be null and void.	None
On issuance of notice under Section 6, a moratorium is placed on transfer of property referred to in the notice.	None
Any transfer of such property (the property referred to in Section 6 notice) is prohibited.	None
In Aamenabai Tayebaly2, this Court had expressly held that the transaction of transfer effected after the issuance of notice under Section 6 is of no legal consequence and such transfer does not confer any title on the transferee.	None
Aamenabai Tayebaly2 was a case where one Talab Haji Hussein Sumbhania was detained under Section 3(1) of COFEPOSA by an order dated 2.4.1976.	None
Before the detention order, in February, 1975, Tahira Sultana, second wife of Talab Haji Hussein Sumbhania purchased a flat in Mumbai.	None
On 15.2.1977, a notice was issued by the Competent Authority under Section 6(1) of SAFEMA to Tahira Sultana calling upon her to show cause why the said flat should not be forfeited as the illegally acquired property of the COFEPOSA detenu, her husband.	None
On 12.10.1977, a forfeiture order relating to that flat was passed under Section 7.	None
The said order was challenged by her in the Bombay High Court.	None
She undertook before the High Court not to alienate the said flat.	None
However, on 30.7.1981, Tahira Sultana sold the said flat to Tayab Ali in breach of the undertaking given to the High Court.	None
Tayab Ali received an information on 5.11.1982 that the flat purchased by him was already forfeited by the Central Government and based on that information he filed a writ petition before Bombay High Court on 13.12.1982.	None
Tayab Ali raised the plea that he was a bona fide purchaser for value without notice.	None
The High Court dismissed the writ petition filed by Tayab Ali and consequently the order of the Competent Authority forfeiting the flat was confirmed.	None
The matter reached this Court at the instance of successor in interest of Tayab Ali.	None
In the backdrop of these facts, this Court referred to Section 11 of SAFEMA (Pgs. 713714) and then proceeded to hold as under It is no doubt true that on the express language of the said section transfer of any property pending the proceedings under Section 6 or 10 of the said Act and prior to the order of forfeiture shall be treated to be null and void.	None
The purchasers transaction is after the order of forfeiture of the said property.	None
Still the consequence of the said transaction being null and void could not be avoided by the purchaser on the plea that this transaction was subsequent to the original order of forfeiture.	None
The original order of forfeiture was stayed at the time of the purchase.	None
It got confirmed by the Bombay High Court ultimately when the Miscellaneous Petition No. 1680 of 1977 moved by Tahira Sultana was disposed of and the subsequent Writ Petition No. 1527 of 1995 was dismissed by the High Court and the SLP filed by her in this Court was also dismissed.	None
We may also note that as the Miscellaneous Petition No. 1680 of 1977 was withdrawn on 1961995 and ultimately the forfeiture order came to be confirmed in the subsequent Writ Petition No. 1527 of 1995 on 2181995, the transaction of transfer in favour of Tayab Ali would be said to have been effected after the notice under Section 6, issued to Tahira Sultana, and before the order of forfeiture ultimately got confirmed by the High Court and by this Court and which had back effect of confirming the same from 1977.	None
It must, therefore, be held that the transaction of purchase by the appellants predecessor Tayab Ali was also hit by Section 11 of SAFEMA.	None
Consequently in 1981 when the purchaser purchased this property from Tahira Sultana she had no interest in the said flat which she could convey to the appellants predecessor.	None
In substance it amounted to selling of Central Governments property by a total stranger in favour of the purchaser.	None
No title, therefore, in the said property passed to the appellants predecessor (Emphasis Supplied)	None
The above position wholly and squarely applies to the present case.	None
Admittedly, SAFEMA was applicable to both vendors here.	None
One of the vendors, a detenu, who was covered by Section 2(2)(b), was issued notice way back on 8.12.2003 under Section 6(1) of SAFEMA.	None
The other vendor, wife of the detenu, was also issued notice under Section 6(1) in 2004 once it transpired that she held 50 share in the said flat.	None
Both vendors were served with notices under Section 6(1) before transaction of sale in favour of the appellants.	None
After the issuance of notices under Section 6(1) of SAFEMA to the vendors, the transaction of sale in favour of the appellants has to be ignored by virtue of Section 11 and on passing of the order of forfeiture under Section 7, the sale in favour of the appellants had become null and void.	Facts
The order of forfeiture dated 23.06.2005 under Section 7 of SAFEMA relates back to the issuance of first notice under Section 6(1) to one of the vendors.	None
Section 11 is unequivocal and its object is clear.	None
It intends to avoid transfer of property by the persons who are covered by clauses (a) to (e) of subsection (2) of Section 2 during the pendency of forfeiture proceedings.	None
The provision says that for the purposes of proceedings under the Act, transfer of any property referred to in the notice under Section 6 or under Section 10 shall be ignored.	None
In respect of a transfer after issuance of notice under Section 6, the property referred to therein, the holder cannot set up plea that he is a transferee in good faith or a bona fide purchaser for adequate consideration.	None
Such plea is not available to a transferee who has purchased the property during pendency of forfeiture proceedings.	None
Learned Additional Solicitor General referred to a decision of Madras High Court in the case of Parvathi Bai3.	None
The Division Bench of Madras High Court referred to the two decisions of this Court in Amratlal Prajivandas1 and Aamenabai Tayebaly2 and after noticing the relevant provisions of SAFEMA held that the protection given to a bona fide sale under Section 2(2)(e) would not extend to a sale made subsequent to the issuance of notice under Section 6 and in violation of Section 11 of SAFEMA.	None
We are in complete agreement with the view of the Madras High Court in Parvathi Bai3.	None
It is true that the appellants had obtained encumbrances certificates from the SubRegistrar prior to purchase which show that there were no encumbrances to the subject flat.	Reasoning
It is also true that the appellants had obtained loan from Vijaya Bank, Brigade Road Branch, Bangalore for purchase of the said flat.	Reasoning
It is a fact that sale consideration to the tune of Rs. 26 lakhs was paid directly by the Bank to the vendors after the Bank was satisfied about the title of the vendors.	Reasoning
The appellants had also mortgaged the flat with the Vijaya Bank as a security towards loan.	Reasoning
But unfortunately these facts are of no help to the appellants as the sale in their favour was effected after notices under Section 6(1) were issued to the vendors.	Reasoning
Such sale has no legal sanction.	Reasoning
The sale is null and void on the face of Section 11 it is not protected so as to enable the purchaser to prove that he is transferee in good faith for adequate consideration.	Reasoning
As a matter of law, no title came to be vested in the appellants by virtue of saledeed dated 10.02.2005 as the vendors could not have transferred the property after service of the notice under Section 6(1) and during pendency of forfeiture proceedings under SAFEMA.	Reasoning
The title in the subject flat is deemed to have vested in the Central Government on or about 08.12.2003 when the first notice under Section 6(1) was issued and served on one of the vendors.	Reasoning
The vendors ceased to have any title in the subject flat on the date of transfer i.e. 10.02.2005.	Reasoning
They had no transferable right.	Reasoning
The appellants cannot claim any right in the flat.	Reasoning
In the circumstances, question of according any opportunity to the appellants to prove that they are transferees in good faith with adequate consideration does not arise.29.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we find no merit in the appeal.	Decision
The impugned order does not call for any interference.	Decision
Civil Appeal is dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
