 TULZAPURKAR J. 1.	None
These appeals by certificate under s. 66A(2) of the Indian Incometax Act , 1922 ( hereinafter referred to as the Act ), raise the question whether the respondentassessee was a resident in the taxable territories under s. 4A(a)(ii) of the Act for the concerned assessment years ?	Issue
The facts giving rise to the aforesaid question are these Subramania and Arumuga were two brothers the former had three sons, Ratnaswamy, the assessee, Ganapathi and Velayudham, while the latter had only one son, Ganesa.	Facts
After the death of Subramania and Arumuga their sons formed a Hindu undivided family that family owned an ancestral house at Orathanadu in Tanjore District, which was used as dwelling by the stepmother of the assessee, his full brothers and his cousin, Ganesa the family also owned shops and agricultural lands.	Facts
The family properties were managed by Ganesa and were maintained by him out of the agricultural and rental income.	Facts
Admittedly, the assessee never enjoyed any portion of the family income.	Facts
Born and brought up in Ceylon, the assessee had his own business and properties in Ceylon.	Facts
He had eight children, all born and educated in Ceylon.	Facts
It appears that he started constructing a theatre in Orathanadu in 1953 which was completed in 1957 and during the said construction he paid occasional visits and stayed sometimes in the family house, sometimes in a chatram in Tanjore and at times in a hotel.	Facts
Thus, from April 1, 1952, to March 31, 1953, he stayed for 8 days in India.	Facts
From April 1, 1953, to March 31, 1954, he did not come to India at all, from April 1, 1954, to March 31, 1955, he stayed for 28 days in India, from April 1, 1955, to March 31, 1956, he stayed for 47 days in India and from April 1, 1956, to March 31, 1957, he stayed for 23 days in India.	Facts
In July, 1958, the assessee on the one hand and other members of the family on the other executed a mutual deed of release, relinquishing each partys rights in favour of the other inter alia, the assessee released all his rights, title and interest in the family properties in favour of his brothers, reciting therein that the family properties were never enjoyed by him but only by others.	Facts
There is no dispute and the Tribunal has also found that the deed of release was an instrument bona fide entered into between the partiesIn the above circumstances for the assessment years 195253, 195354, 195657 and 195758, the assessee filed the returns, but for the first two years after proceedings were initiated under s. 34(1)(a) of the Act and for the later two years on his own offering his income in Ceylon for assessment.	Facts
The status declared in all the returns was that he was a resident and ordinarily resident person .	Facts
The ITO completed the assessments on the basis of the returns filed.	Facts
He also initiated penalty proceedings against the assessee under s. 28(1)(a) for not filing the returns in time and levied penalties on him.	Facts
In the appeals preferred by the assessee, which were principally directed against the rejection of the claim made by him in respect of the double taxation relief, an additional ground was taken that the assessee should have been treated as a nonresident in all the years.	Facts
The AAC upheld this additional ground taking the view that since during his sojourn in India the assessee was staying in the family house more as a guest, he neither maintained nor had maintained for him a dwelling place in the taxable territories and, therefore, s. 4A(a)(ii) of the Act was inapplicable.	Facts
The department carried the matter in further appeals to the Tribunal but the Tribunal called for a remand report from the AAC after a fuller examination as to the factual position whether the assessee did maintain a dwelling place in India or the same was maintained for him by others inasmuch as the Tribunal felt that the department did not have an effective opportunity to meet the aspect raised for the first time before the AAC.	Facts
In the remand proceedings oral evidence was recorded by examining the assessee and two others and the final report was forwarded to the Tribunal.	Facts
On the basis of the material collected and forwarded to it, the Tribunal took the view that the assessee was a natural born Ceylon citizen staying in Ceylon most of the time, that his visits to India in the aggregate were for 137 days in the period of 11 years (from 1446 to 31357), that the evidence Supported the theory that he was more a guest in the family house in India than an inhabitant of his own house or home, that there was nothing to show that the assessee enjoyed any of his family income or had any separate portion of the family house reserved for him during his sojourn to India and that there were not enough materials to say that there was a residence either run or maintained by the assessee in India.	Facts
In this, view of the matter, the Tribunal upheld the AACs order cancelling the assessment orders made against the assessee.	Facts
As a consequence, the Tribunal also cancelled the penalties that were levied on the assesseeAt the instance of the revenue and on a direction from the High Court the Tribunal referred the following two questions to the High Court for its opinion 1.	Facts
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the assessee was a nonresident ?	Facts
2.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that there was no liability to penalty under section 28(1)(a) ?	Facts
2.	None
The High Court answered both the questions in favour of the assessee and against the revenue.	Facts
While dealing with the first question, which was the principal question raised in reference, the High Court took the view that the answer to that question depended upon a bundle of facts and their cumulative effect and in its view the cumulative effect of the totality of facts found by the Tribunal did not lead to the inference that a dwelling place or dwelling house was maintained by the assessee or the same was maintained by others for him but on the other hand the evidence showed that the assessee was enjoying the hospitality of his kith and kin during his stay in the family house where he was treated as a guest.	Facts
The High Court further held that the mere fact that the assessee had a right in the family house at Orathanadu in Tanjore District and that he was occasionally lodging there did not mean that he was maintaining the same or had it maintained for him and that what the law required was the maintenance of a dwelling place which should be his domus mansionalis in other words, if the dwelling place was not his second home or the real centre of his life then the assessee would be a nonresident.	Facts
It is this view of the High Court that is being challenged before us in these appeals by the revenue.	Facts
Since the question raised before us pertains to the proper construction of s. 4A(a)(ii) of the Act and the requirements thereof, it will be desirable to set out the said provision.	None
It runs thus For the purposes of this Act (a) any individual is resident in the taxable territories in any year if he (ii) maintains or has maintained for him a dwelling place in the taxable territories for a period or periods amounting in all to one hundred and eightytwo days or more in that year, and is in the taxable territories for any time in that year 3.	None
Since the section is prefaced by the phrase for the purposes of this Act , it is clear that it raises a statutory fiction further the language of the provision makes it clear that it lays down a technical test of territorial connection amounting to residence applicable to all individualsforeigners as well as Indians, including Hindus, Christians, Muslims, Parsis and others irrespective of the personal law governing them.	None
On a reading of the provision it becomes clear that before any individual can be said to be a resident in the taxable territories in any previous year two conditions are required to be fulfilled (a) there must be a dwelling place maintained in the taxable territories either by the assessee himself or by some one else for him for the requisite period and (b) the assessee must live in the taxable territories (though not necessarily therein) for some time, howsoever short, in the previous year.	None
In the instant case, it was not disputed before us that the second condition was satisfied in regard to the assessee.	None
The question that we have to consider is whether, on the facts found by the Tribunal, it could be said that the assessee maintained or had maintained for him a dwelling place in the taxable territories for the requisite period.	None
It was not disputed that the assessee himself did not maintain the family house	None
but it was maintained by Ganesa as the manager of the HUF.	None
If the family house, which was maintained by Ganesa as the karta, in which the assessee had a share or interest and stayed for short periods during the previous years relevant to the assessment years in question could be considered to be a dwelling house or a dwelling place maintained for him or for his benefit, then no difficulty would arise with regard to the requisite period because undoubtedly that dwelling place was there during all the previous years relevant to the assessment years and the assessee will have to be regarded as a resident in the taxable territories for the concerned yearsCounsel for the revenue contended that the expression maintains a dwelling place , inter alia, connotes the idea that an assessee owns a dwelling house which he can legally and as of right occupy if he is so minded during his visits to India while the expression has maintained for him a dwelling place would cover a case where the assessee has a right to occupy or live in a dwelling place during his stay in India though the expenses of maintaining such dwelling place are not met by him wholly or in part and since in the instant case it was a joint family dwelling house maintained by the manager for the family wherein the assessee had a right of dwelling without any let or hindrance, it must be held that the assessee had maintained for him a dwelling house.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of these contentions strong reliance was placed by him upon two decisionsone of the Madras High Court in S. M. Zackariah Sahib v. CIT 1952 22 ITR 359 and the other of the Gujarat High Court in Ramjibhai Mansjibhai Patel v. ITO 1964 53 ITR 547.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the section merely speaks of a dwelling place of an assessee and does not require his actual residence in it nor does it require any establishment maintained by him or for him and it would be, therefore, erroneous to introduce into the section the concept of attachment or permanence or home On the other hand, counsel for the assessee contended that three aspects emerge from the phrase he maintains or has maintained a dwelling place for him (i) the volition of the assessee in maintaining the dwelling place or its maintenance being at his instance, behest or request, (ii) the expenses of maintenance must be met by the assessee, and (iii) the house or a portion thereof must be set apart and kept fit for the dwelling of the assessee.	Arguments of Petitioner
4.	None
According to him what is contemplated by s. 4A(a)(ii) is the de facto maintenance of a dwelling place for the assessee and not maintenance for him as one of a body of individuals in other words, the section cannot apply to a case where a dwelling place is in the possession of the other members of the HUF and the assessee has a right of common enjoyment.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel contended that, on the facts found in the case, the assessee had stayed in the family house as a guest and enjoyed the hospitality of his kith and kin and, therefore, though as a coparcener he had a right in the family house, his occasional lodging there could not mean that he was maintaining the same or had it maintained for him.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words it was not his home.	Arguments of Respondent
Strong reliance was placed by him on the Bombay High Court decision in CIT v. Fulabhai Khodabhai Patel 1957 31 ITR 771, where the connotation of a dwelling place occurring in s. 4A(a)(ii) was equated with a house which could be regarded by the assessee as his home.	Arguments of Respondent
He urged that both the Tribunal and the High Court were right in coming to the conclusion that the family house had not been maintained for the benefit of the assessee as his abode or home away from Ceylon, and, therefore, he was rightly regarded as a nonresidentAt the outset it may be pointed out that the section uses the expression dwelling place , a flexible expression, but the expression must be construed according to the object and intent of the particular legislation in which it has been used.	Arguments of Respondent
Primarily, the expression means residence , abode or home where an individual is supposed usually to live and sleep and since the expression has been used in a taxing statute in the context of a provision which lays down a technical test of territorial connection amounting to residence, the concept of an abode or home would be implicit in it.	Reasoning
In other words, it must be a house or a portion thereof which could be regarded as an abode or home of the assessee in the taxable territories.	Reasoning
In our view, this aspect of the matter has been rightly emphasized by the Bombay High Court in Fulabhai Khodabhais case 1957 31 ITR 771, 776, 777 where Chief Justice Chagla has observed thus When we look at the language used by the Legislature, it is clear that what is sought to be emphasized is that there must be not only a residence or a house for the assessee in the taxable territories, but there must be a home.	None
The connotation of a dwelling place is undoubtedly different from a mere residence or a mere house in which one finds oneself for a temporary or short period.	None
A dwelling place connotes a sense of permanency, a sense of attachment, a sense of surroundings, which would permit a person to say that this house is his home.	None
Undoubtedly a man may have more than one home he may have a home at different places but with regard to each one of these he must be able to say that it is something more than a mere house or a mere residence.	None
5.	None
Similar view was expressed by Mr. Justice, Rowlatt in Pickles v. Foulsham 1923 9 TC 261 (KB), where the question whether the assessee was a resident in England for the purpose of payment of incometax had to be decided on general principles in the absence of any statutory provision in the English statute with regard to residence as we have in our taxing statute.	None
At page 275 of the report the learned judge observed thus A man, I suppose, may keep a house for his wife and come there merely as a visitor he may keep a house for his mother, and, when he can get away, always go there to see her but it may be that it is his mothers house, even if he is paying for it, and he is going there as a visitor.	None
He keeps the house for his wife and children it may be that he is, going there as going home it may be that that is the centre really of his life, that he keeps many belongings there, and so on, and his time in Africa is really, in truth, a period of enforced absence from what is truly his residence.	None
Now it may be one, or it may be the other.	None
6.	None
In other words, the test which the learned judge laid down was that when you go to a house you should be really going home, then you are going to a dwelling house whether maintained by you or by someone else, and a house may be your home whether it belongs to you or belongs to someone else.	None
In other words, with regard to the house where he goes and lives, he must be able to say that it is his abode or home.	None
It is, therefore, not possible to accept the contention of learned counsel for the revenue that it is erroneous to introduce the concept of home or abode into the section.	None
7.	None
Secondly, the section uses two expressions he maintains a dwelling place and he has maintained for him a dwelling place .	None
The latter expression obviously means he causes to be maintained for him a dwelling place.	Reasoning
This is clear from the fact that the relevant provision in the 1961 Act has now been altered and it says he causes to be maintained for him and in the Notes on Clauses to the concerned Bill it has been explained that the words has maintained in s. 4A(a)(ii) have been replaced in the draft by the words causes to be maintained , which express the intention better.	Reasoning
Now, in either of these expressions the volition on the part of the assessee in the maintenance of the dwelling place emerges very clearly whether he maintains it or he causes it to be maintained, the maintenance of the dwelling place must be at his instance, behest or request and when it is maintained by someone else other than the assessee, it must be for the assessee or for his benefit.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, the question that will have to be considered in the instant case is whether on the facts found by the Tribunal, the family house which was maintained by Ganesa as the karta could be regarded as an abode or home of the assessee maintained at the instance of the assessee and for his benefit?	None
The facts found in the instant case are (1) the assessee, born and brought up in Ceylon, had his own business and properties in Ceylon, (2) he had 8 children all born and educated in Ceylon, (3) the HUF (of which the assessee was a coparcener at the material time) owned an ancestral house at Orathanadu which had been and was being used as a dwelling by the assessees stepmother, his full brothers and his cousin, Ganesa, and the same was being maintained by Ganesa out of the income of the family properties, (4) during the previous years relevant to assessment years in question while the construction of the assessees theatre in Orathanadu was in progress, the assessee paid occasional visits and stayed sometimes in the family house, sometimes in a chatram at Tanjore and at times in a hotel, (5) there was positive evidence on record that during his stay in the family house the assessee was considered only as a guest enjoying the hospitality of the family, (6) the assessee admittedly never enjoyed any portion of the family income nor was he connected with the management of the family properties, including the house, and (7) in July, 1958, by a deed of release the assessee relinquished all his right, title or interest in the family properties in favour of his brothersOn these facts it becomes transparently clear that the assessee whenever he stayed in the family house during the relevant previous years, was more a guest therein enjoying the hospitality of his kith and kin than an inhabitant of his own abode or home and, further, that the family house was maintained by Ganesa not at the instance of the assessee nor for his benefit but it was maintained by him for the rest of the family.	None
It is true that the house at Orathanadu was at the material time a joint family house in which the assessee as a coparcener had a share and interest it is also true that as a coparcener he had a right to occupy that house without any let or hindrance, but mere ownership of a fractional share or interest in the family house with the consequent right to occupy it without anything more would not be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of s. 4A(a)(ii), for, the requirements thereof are not only there must be a dwelling place in which the assessee has a right to live but he must maintain it as his home or he must have it maintained for him as his home.	Reasoning
The material on record shows that the family house in which he stayed was neither his abode or home nor was it maintained by Ganesa at the instance of the assessee or for his benefit.	None
8.	None
Turning to the two decisionsone of the Madras High Court and the other of the Gujarat High Courton which reliance was placed by counsel for the revenue, we may at once say that both the decisions are clearly distinguishable.	None
The decision of the Madras High Court in Zackariah Sahibs case 1952 22 ITR 359 dealt with a case of an assessee who was a Muhammadan merchant.	None
He carried on business in Ceylon and resided there.	None
His parents lived in British India, as it then was, in a house owned by his mother.	None
The assessees wife also lived in British Indiasometimes with his parents and sometimes with her parents.	None
The assessee was remitting monies now and then to his parents for their maintenance.	None
He visited British India during the year of account and stayed in his mothers house with his parents.	None
The Appellate Tribunal held that the assessee was resident in British India within the meaning of s. 4A(a)(ii).	None
Reversing this decision, the Madras High Court held that the assessee did not maintain a dwelling place in British India and that his mothers house was maintained for the parents of the assessee and not for the assessee himself.	None
Obviously, the house belonged to the mother of the assessee, which he had no legal right to occupy, and, therefore, it could not be said that the assessee maintained a dwelling place in British India.	None
Counsel, however, relied upon certain observations made by Viswanatha Sastri J., in that judgment, which run thus The expression maintains a dwelling place connotes the idea that the assessee owns or has taken on rent or on a mortgage with possession a dwelling house which he can legally and as of right occupy, if he is so minded, during his visit to British India In our opinion, the expression has maintained for him would certainly cover a case where the assessee has a right to occupy or live in a dwelling place during his stay in British India though the expenses of maintaining the dwelling place are not met by him in whole or in part.	Arguments of Petitioner
A member of an undivided Hindu family has a right to live in the familyhouse when he goes there, though the house is maintained by the manager of the family and not by the assessee from his own funds In such cases it can be said that the assessee has a dwelling place maintained for him by the manager of the family for he has a right to occupy the house during his visits to British India.	None
9.	None
Relying on the aforesaid passage, counsel urged that, in the instant case, the house at Orathanadu was maintained by Ganesa as a karta of the family and since the assessee as a coparcener had a right to live in it during his visits to India, it must be held that the assessee had maintained for him a dwelling place in India.	Arguments of Respondent
It is not possible to accept this contention, for, in our view, the aforesaid passage, taken in its content, does not lay down as a proposition of law that mere ownership of a fractional share in a family house with a consequent right to occupy the same with nothing more would constitute it a dwelling house of such owner within the meaning of s. 4A(a)(ii) for, it must further be shown that it was maintained by the manager at the instance of the assessee and for his benefit.	None
That is how the aforesaid passage has been partly explained and, in our view, rightly, by the Madras High Court in a subsequent decision in CIT v. Janab A. P. Mohamed Noohu 1961 43 ITR 88 .	None
The Gujarat decision in Ramjibhai Hansjibhais case 1964 53 ITR 547 was clearly a case where the joint family house was maintained as a dwelling place for the benefit of all the members of the joint family, including the assessee.	None
The main contention urged on behalf of the assessee in that case was that the dwelling house was not maintained for the assessee as an individual but it was maintained not only for him but for other members of the joint family as well and, therefore, the requirements of the section were not satisfied.	None
The contention was negatived.	None
In other words, it was not disputed in the Gujarat case that a dwelling house was maintained by the manager of the family for the benefit of the assessee.	None
In the instant case, on the facts, it has been found that the family house was maintained by Ganesa not for the assessee nor for his benefit but for the other family membersHaving regard to the above discussion, it is clear that though the assessee could be said to have had a share in the joint family house with a consequent right to occupy the same, it could not be said that the said family house was maintained by Ganesa as the karta of the family as a dwelling place for the assessee or for his benefit nor was it maintained by him at the instance of the assessee.	Reasoning
Moreover, his stay in the family house has been found to be as a guest enjoying the hospitality of his kith and kin rather than as an inhabitant of his abode or home.	None
In this view of the matter, the assessee, in our, view, was rightly regarded as a nonresident.	None
10.	None
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed.	Decision
