 Grover, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by special leave from a judgment of the Patna High Court in a suit for specific performance of a contract for sale of certain properties described in Schedule I of the plaint.2.	Issue
The facts to the extent they are material may be stated.	Facts
The suit which was filed by Babu Thakur Prasad Singh and others in 1943 was on the basis of a contract for sale made in 1931 by Saroda Charan Guha (deceased)defendants First Party in the suit and	Facts
Babu Ambika Prasad Singh and others defendants second party to whom defendant first party had actually sold the properties in dispute.	Facts
It was alleged, inter alia, in the plaint that the total sale consideration was Rs.	Facts
99,995/. Out of that sum of Rs. 23,000 has already been paid to defendant first party.	Facts
It was further stated that defendant second party in spite of full knowledge of the agreement between the plaintiffs and the defendant first party purchased the suit properties for Rs. 1,63,400 by means of a deed of sale dated December 11, 1942.	Facts
Among the reliefs which were prayed for a decree for specific performance being passed in favour of the plaintiffs against the defendants on payment of a sum of Rs. 55,306.25 paise or such other amount as the Court might determine and if, for any reason, such a decree be not granted a decree for a sum of Rs. 44,688 with interest at 6 from the date of the suit till the date of the realization is passed against defendant first party.3.	Facts
A statement was filed on behalf of the defendant first party.	Facts
Therein he admitted receipt of a sum of Rs. 15,000 only by way of payment as earnest money of part consideration.	Facts
The defence of defendant second party was that being bona fide purchaser for value and having paid full consideration in good faith and without notice of the alleged contract of sale set up by the plaintiffs the suit was liable to be dismissed.	Facts
The trial Court decided the suit by a judgment dated October, 10,1947.	Facts
Out of the issues framed on the pleading of the parties the following need be mentioned5.	None
Are the plaintiff guilty of breach of any of the terms embodies in the agreement?6.	Facts
Are defendants second party bone fide purchasers for consideration without notice?7.	Facts
Are the plaintiffs entitled to get a refund of the amount alleged by them to have been paid to defendant first party or of any other amount?4.	None
It was found on issue No. 5 that the plaintiffs were not guilty of breach of the terms embodies in the agreement of sale and that it was defendants first party who had played false with the plaintiffs and sold the disputed property along with others to defendants second party in December, 1942.	None
The entire liability for the breach of plaintiffs contract lies upon Mr. Guha and not on the plaintiffs.	Facts
The three issues are answered accordingly.	None
On issue No. 6 the trial Court held that defendant second party had failed to prove that they had paid the consideration money in good faith and without notice of the contract of 1931.	Facts
On issue No. 7 the Court observed that it was unnecessary to consider in detail the alternative relief prayed for.	Facts
It proceeded to sayI may, however, incidentally mention in passing that if I would have refused to decree the main relief of the plaintiffs there would have been no difficulty in my way in passing decree for the alternative claim against defendant first party on account of whose conduct the completion of the sale deed in favour of the plaintiffs has been made impossible.	Facts
Finally a decree for specific performance was granted in these termsThe plaintiffs shall get a decree for specific performance of contract of sale regarding the disputed property for a consideration of Rs. 1,00,000.	None
The defendants are directed to execute and register a deed of sale for the same in favour of the plaintiffs on payment of Rs. 77,000 by the latter to the former and also put the latter in possession of the same.5.	None
Three appeals were preferred to the High Court against the judgment and decree of the trial Court.	None
One was by the defendant first party.	Facts
the other by the plaintiffs and the third by defendants second party.	Facts
It appears that either the plaintiffs nor defendants first party prosecuted their appeals which were dismissed on the ground of nonprosecution.	Facts
In the appeal filed by defendants second party one of the appellants Ambica Prasad Singh died in June, 1956.	Facts
On September 17, 1956 an application was filed by the other appellants for substitution of the legal representatives of the deceased in his place.	Facts
The High Court, after having an inquiry on the questions in dispute with regard to the date of death of Ambica Prasad Singh and other matters, declined to condone the delay.	Facts
On September 27, 1957 an order was made recording the fact that the appeal had abated so far as the appellant Ambica Prasad Singh was concerned.	Facts
On April 8, 1958 the High Court held that the whole appeal failed as having become incompetent because of the said abatement.	Facts
The appeal was consequently dismissed.6.	Facts
The appeal which was brought to this Court was filed by defendant second party consisting of defendant 3 to 8 in the original suit.	Facts
Special leave was granted on February 18, 1959.	Facts
During the Pendency of that appeal in this Court Saroda Charan Guha original first party defendant who was impleaded as respondent No. 3 in the appeal to this Court died.	Facts
It was only on February 23, 1972 that an application was made by the counsel for the appellants for substitution of the legal representatives of Saroda Charan Guha deceased (C.M.P. 1501/72).	Facts
Previous to this an application dated February 13, 1972 had already been moved by the advocate for respondent No. 1 for dismissal of the appeal for nonprosecution as the legal representative of deceased respondent No. 3 had not been brought on the record (C.M.P. 810/72).	Facts
On April 24,1972 another application was held by Counsel for the appellants for condonation of delay, if any in filing the application for substitution of the legal representatives of deceased Saroda Charan Guha (C.M.P. 3091/72).	Facts
After hearing Counsel at length we made an order on November 17, 1972 dismissing the application for substitution.7.	Facts
The only question, which has to be determined, is whether the appeal can be heard and disposed of in the absence of legal representative of the decreased Saroda Charan Guha with regard to whom the decree as passed by the trial Court become final.	Issue
The learned SolicitorGeneral who appears for the contesting respondent has maintained that the decree, which was passed by the trial Court, was a joint decree against the defendant first party and defendant second party.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further a decree, which was also in favour of the defendants to the extent that they were to be paid a sum of Rs. 77,000 by the plaintiff and that payment was to be made jointly to them.	None
In other words the decree being for specific performance of a contract was of a special nature and it was essentially joint as for as all the defendants were concerned.	None
Moreover defendant first party two was the vendor was a necessary party because the plaintiffs asked for a relief in the alternative whish has already been mentioned, that if the Court on equitable grounds did not grant a decree for specific performance a decree be passed against defendant first party in the sum of Rs.	None
44,688.75 paise.	None
The trial Court found that a sum of Rs. 23,000/ had been paid by the plaintiffs to Guha, defendants first party.	None
It was further observed by the trial Court that if the main relief had been declined it would have granted a decree for the alternative claim against defendant first party.	None
It followed from this that if the High Court or this Court was going to allow the appeal filed by defendants second party and set aside the decree for specific performance it would no longer be possible in the absence of legal representatives of deceased Guha to either set aside that part of the joint decree which is in his favour but also the plaintiffs would be disabled from being granted any relief in the alternative for the amount paid by way of part consideration to the vendor Guha deceased.	None
In these circumstances, it is contended, the present appeal must be held to have become incompetent and it must fail on that ground.8.	None
Counsel for the appellants had relied on two points in supports of the argument that the appeal cannot fail because of the nonimpleadment of the legal representatives of Guha deceased.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first is that he way not a necessary party being the vendor and the second is that the case would be covered by the provisions of Order 41, Rule 4 of the Civil Procedure Code.	Arguments of Petitioner
There appears to be some divergence between the High Court on the question whether in suit for specific performance against a purchaser with notice of a prior agreement of sale the vendor is a necessary party or not.	None
In other words the conflict has arisen on the question whether the decree in a suit for specific performance when the property in dispute has been sold to a third party should be to only direct the subsequent purchaser to execute a conveyance or whether the subsequent purchaser and the vendor should both execute a conveyance in favour of the plaintiff See Gourishenkar and others v. Ibrahim Ali, AIR 1929 Nag. 298 and Kafiladdin and others v. Samiraddin and others, AIR 1931 Cal. 67.	None
This Court has, however, held in Lala Durga Prasad and another v. Lal Deep Chand and others, 1954 SCR 360 , that in a suit instituted by a purchaser against the vendor and a subsequent prucha ser for specific performance of the contract of sale the proper form of the decree is to direct specific performance of the contract between the vendor and the plaintiff and further direct the subsequent transferee to join in the conveyance so as to pass on the title which resides in him to the plaintiff.	None
This was the course followed by the Calcutta High Court in the above case and it appears that the English practice was the same.	None
Thus according to this decision, the conveyance has to be executed by the vendor in favour of the plaintiff who seeks specific performance of the contract in his favour and the subsequent transferee has to join in the conveyance only to pass his title which resides in him.	None
It has been made quite clear that he does not join in any special covenants made between the plaintiff and his vendor.	None
All that he does is to pass on his title to the plaintiff.	None
In a recent decision on this Court in R.C. Chandiok and another v. Chuni Lal Sabharwal and others, (1971) 2	None
SCR 573 while passing a decree for specific performance of a contract a direction was made that the decree should be in the same form as in Lala Durga Prasads case, (1954)	None
SCR 366	None
It is thus difficult to sustain the argument that the vendor is not a necessary party when according to the view accepted by his Court, the conveyance has to be executed by him although the subsequent purchaser has also to join so as to pass on the title which resides in him to the plaintiff.	None
It must be remembered that if there are any special covenants and conditions agreed upon in the contract for sale between the original purchaser and the vendor those have to be incorporated in the sale deep although it is only the vendor who will enter into them and the subsequent purchaser will not join in those special covenants.	None
But without the vendor joining in the execution of the sale deed special convents, if any, between him and the original purchaser cannot be incorporated in the sale deed.	None
The whole idea and the purpose underlying a decree for specific performance is that if a decree for such a relief is granted the person who has agreed to purchase the property should be put in the same position which would have obtained in case the contracting parties, i.e. vendor and the purchaser had pursuant to the agreement, executed a deed of sale and completed it in every way, therefore, it is essential that the vendor must join in the execution of the sale deed.	None
If that be so, it is not possible to comprehend how he is not a necessary party.	None
At any rate, in the presence of the relief for a decree for refund of the amount paid by way of part consideration the vendor would be a necessary party.	None
No such relief could be granted in his absence nor can it be granted now even if the appeal succeeds and the decree for specific performance is set aside.9.	None
The second limb of argument of the appellants is based on Order 41, Rules 4, Civil Procedure Code.	None
According to that rule where there are more plaintiffs or more defendants that one in a suit and the decree appealed from proceeds on any ground common to all the plaintiffs or all the defendants any one of the plaintiffs or the defendants may appeal from the whole decree and thereupon the appellant Court may reverse or vary the decree in favour of all the plaintiff or defendants, as the case may be.	None
As the appeal had been filed by defendants second party, it has been contended that it remained complete and competent in spite of the death of Guha, defendant first party, for the reason that the decree preceded on a ground common to all the defendants.	None
It appears that the conflict of judicial opinion on the question whether the said rule could be invoked when on the several appellants had died and his legal representatives had not been brought on the record with the result that the appeal had abated against him.	Reasoning
But this matter stood concluded by the decision of this Court in Rameshwar Prasad other v. M s. Shyam Beharilal Jagannath others, (1964) 3	Reasoning
SCR 549.	Reasoning
In that case the appeal had been filed in the High Court not by any one or some of the plaintiffs against the whole decree but had been filed by all the plaintiffs jointly.	Reasoning
One of the appellants died and his legal representatives were not impleaded.	Reasoning
It was laid down by this Court that Order 41, Rule 4 could not be invoked because the appellate Court had no power to proceed with the appeal and to reverse and vary the decree in favour of all the plaintiffs or defendants under that rule because if all the plaintiffs or defendants had appealed from the decree and any one of them had died the appeal had abated so far as he was concerned under Order 22, Rules.	Reasoning
3.	Reasoning
The appeal of the surviving appellant could also not be heard because of the rule laid down in the State of Punjab v. Nathy Ram, (1962) 2	Reasoning
SCR 636 According to that rule the abatement of an appeal means not only that the decree between the appellant and the deceased respondent becomes final but also, as a necessary corollary, the appellate Court cannot in any way modify that decree directly or indirectly.	Reasoning
The decision in Nathu Rams case (supra was referred to in Pandit Shri Chand others v. M s. Jagdish Parshad Kishan Chand others, (1966)	Reasoning
3 SCR 451 where the decision was somewhat similar to Rameshwar Prasads case (supra).	None
It was also emphasised that in a situation where two inconsistent orders or decrees would result the rule in Nathu Rams case would be applicable.	Reasoning
It may be mentioned that in that case an award had been made for payment of compensation in favour of two brother L H. The state appealed against the award to the High Court During the pendency of the appeal respondent.	Reasoning
I died and no application was made for bringing on record his legal representatives within the requisite period of limitation.	Reasoning
The question was that since the appeal had abated against L what was its effect in appeal against H. It was observed that the consideration which would weigh with the Court in deciding whether the entire appeal had abated or not would be whether the appeal between the appellants and the respondents other than the deceased respondent could be said to be properly constituted or could be said to have all the necessary parties for the decision of the controversy before the Court.	Reasoning
Another main test was whether the success of the appeal would lead to a decision which would be in conflict with the decision between the appellant and the deceased respondent.	Reasoning
Thus the Court will have to pass a decree contradictory to the one which had already become final with respect to the same subject matter between the appellant and the deceased respondent.	Reasoning
It is arguable that the present case is distinguishable from the decisions in Rameshwar Prasad and Pt.	Reasoning
Siri Chand (supra).	Reasoning
Here the appellate Court could, under Order 41, Rule 4 of the Civil Procedure Code reverse the decree for specific performance since the defendants second party filed the appeal and Guha, the vendor, who died had not joined in the appeal.	Reasoning
The decree for specific performance proceeded on a ground common to both sets of defendants.	Reasoning
It could, therefore, be set aside in terms of the above provision.	Reasoning
But there is a joint decree in favour of both sets of defendants for the receipt of Rs. 77,000.	Reasoning
If the decree for specific performance is set aside that part of the decree will also have to go.	Reasoning
It is not possible to understand how that can be done in the absence of the legal representatives of the decreased, Guha.	Reasoning
Moreover, the plaintiffs had claimed against Guha, in the alternative, a decree for substantial amount consisting of the part consideration paid and certain other amounts.	Reasoning
If Guha had been alive or if his legal representatives had been impleaded in time the Court could while setting aside the decree for specific performance, grant the alternative prayer which was only made against Guha.	Reasoning
This cannot be done now.	Reasoning
In theses circumstances we are of the view that Order 41, Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure cannot be of any avail to the appellants.	Reasoning
The abatement of the appeal, so far as Guha was concerned, will prove fatal to the entire appeal as either inconsistent and contradictory decree will have to be passed or proper relief cannot be granted in the absence of a necessary party against that party or his legal representatives.10.	Reasoning
The appeal is dismissed and there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
