 L. Venkatarama Aiyar, J.1.	None
The facts material for purposes of this appeal have been stated by us in our order dated 621957, and may be briefly recapitulated.	Facts
The suit property is agricultural land of the extent of 10 Bighas, 13 Biswas.	Facts
On 871930, the then owners of the land, Ram Prashad and Uadiraj, executed a usufructuary mortgage over it and certain other properties, with which we are not concerned in this litigation, in favour of Dwarka Prashad, Naubat Singh and Munshilal.	Facts
The lands were originally held in Sir by the mortgagors, but as part of their bargain with the mortgagees, they applied to have their names removed from the Sir, and that was done by an order dated 1861930, the lands being thereafter entered as Khudkasht in the names of the mortgagees.	Facts
In 1941, Ram Prashad, the surviving mortgagor, filed Suit No. 132 of 1941 for redemption of the mortgage.	Facts
The suit was contested, but it was eventually decreed, the amount due to the mortgagees being fixed at Rs. 1,860.	Facts
Subsequent to the decree, Ram Prashad died leaving him surviving, the appellants herein, as his legal representatives.	Facts
On 691945, the amount due under the mortgage was paid by them and the mortgage was redeemed.	Facts
When they sought to take possession of the suit properties, they were obstructed by Govind Sahai and Bhagwan Sahai, who claimed to have been admitted as tenants by the mortgagees.	Facts
Thereafter, the appellants filed the suit, out of which the present appeal arises, under S. 180 of the U. P. Tenancy Act No. XVII of 1939, hereinafter referred to as the Act, to eject them, treating them as trespassers.	Facts
The defendants resisted the suit on various grounds, of which only one is now material.	Facts
They claimed that they were not trespassers but hereditary tenants under the Act and could not therefore be ejected, and Issue 2 was raised with reference to this plea.2.	Facts
The Revenue Officer, Meerut, who tried the suit held on this Issue that as the lands had been held by the mortgagors as Sir, and that as the mortgagees had been themselves cultivating them as Khudkasht, the defendants could not be held to be hereditary tenants, and passed accordingly a decree in ejectment in favour of the appellants, and this decree was confirmed on appeal by the Commissioner, Meerut Division.	Facts
The defendants took the matter in appeal to the Board of Revenue (Second Appeal No. 96 of 1948).	Facts
By its judgment and decree dated 421954, the Board held that the defendants had been put in possession by the mortgagees under a Kabuliat dated 2651936, that the rent fixed under the Kabuliat, Rs. 112 per annum, was a reasonable rate of rent as the circle rate was Rs. 7660, and that, therefore, the settlement was binding on the mortgagors, as it was for prudent and economic rent.	Facts
On this finding, it allowed the appeal and dismissed the suit.	Facts
Against this judgment, the plaintiffs have preferred this appeal by special leave.3.	Facts
At the original hearing before us, the main contention pressed by the appellants was that the Kabuliat dated 2651936, was not referred to in the written statement, and had not been exhibited at the trial, and that, therefore, no relief should have been granted on the basis of that document in second appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
We, however, came to the conclusion that as the point had been raised, though not clearly in the written statement, it ought to be tried on the merits, and we accordingly remanded the case to the Board of Revenue for trial on the following two Issues (1) Whether the lease deed dated May 261936, by the mortgagees in favour of the respondents is true and legally valid and(2) Whether the said lease is binding on the appellants.4.	None
At the rehearing which we directed, the parties have adduced fresh evidence on both the Issues, and the Board of Revenue has submitted its findings thereon.	None
On the first Issue it has held that no lease deed had been executed by the mortgagees in favour of the lessees, but that the latter had executed a Kabuliat in favour of the mortgagees on May 26, 1936, and that its truth had not been questioned.	None
On the second issue, its finding is as follows Whether the Qabuliat was binding or not depended on the question whether mortgagees had a right to settle the land and whether such settlement was binding on the mortgagors.	None
There was nothing in the mortgage deed which would prevent the mortgagees from settling the land, even though the land was khudkasht or even if the period of settlement was beyond the period of mortgage.	None
The mortgagees acted in the prudent management of the property settling the land on an economic rent.	None
The action of the mortgagees was, therefore, binding on the mortgagors.	None
Hence, the Qabuliat was binding on the appellants.5.	None
The appellants attack both these findings as incorrect.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regard the first Issue, their contention is that in view of the finding that the mortgagees had not executed any lease deed, Govind Sahai and Bhagwan Sahai could not claim the status to tenants solely on the strength of the Kabuliat executed by them on May 26, 1936, as that was merely a unilateral undertaking by them to cultivate.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the mortgagees have given evidence that they accepted the Kabuliat and received rent as provided therein.	Reasoning
There is, therefore, no substance in this objection, which must be overruled.6.	None
The main controversy in this appeal relates to the finding on the second Issue.	None
The appellants complain that the Board has merely repeated its previous finding on the point without reference either to the requirements of S. 76 (a) of the Transfer of Property Act, or to the evidence that had been adduced by the parties at the remand.	None
We are constrained to observe that this complaint is wellfounded.	None
The law undoubtedly is that no person can transfer property so as to confer on the transferee a title better than what he possesses.	None
Therefore, any transfer of the property mortgaged, by the mortgagee must cease, when the mortgage is redeemed.	None
Now, S. 76 (a) provides that a mortgagee in possession must manage the property as a person of ordinary prudence would manage it if it were his own.	None
Though on the language of the statute this is an obligation cast on the mortgagee, the authorities have held that an agricultural lease created by him would be binding on the mortgagor even though the mortgage has been redeemed, provided it is of such a character that a prudent owner of property would enter into it in the usual course of management.	None
This being in the nature of an exception, it is for the person who claim the benefit, thereof, to strictly establish it.7.	None
Now, the question is whether the respondents have proved that the lease of which the Kabuliat dated May 26, 1936, is a counterpart, is one which a prudent owner would create in the management of his properties.	None
The Board has answered the question in favour of the respondents on two grounds.	Arguments of Respondent
One is that the mortgage deed dated July 8, 1930, contains no prohibition against letting of the lands by the mortgagees.	Arguments of Respondent
If there is such a prohibition, there is the authority of this Court in Mahabir Gope v. Harbans Narain Singh, 1952 SCR 775 (AIR 1952 SC 205 ) (A)that the lease will not be binding on the mortgagors.	Arguments of Respondent
But where there is no such prohibition, the only consequence is that the parties will be thrown back on their rights under the Transfer of Property Act, and the lessees must still establish that the lease is binding on the mortgagors under S. 76 (a) of that Act.8.	Arguments of Respondent
The Second grounds on which the Board has based its conclusion that the lease is binding on the appellants is that the rent fixed in the Kabuliat, Rs. 112 is higher than the circle rate of Rs.	None
7660.But this is not decisive of the matter, as what has to be decided is not whether the rent fixed compares favourably with the circle rate, but whether it is reasonable and fair, having regard to the income which a prudent owner could have got from the lands, and that will depend on proof of the net yield from the land and the ruling price of the produce at that time.	None
The lessees have given no evidence on this point.	None
One of the mortgagees stated that he and his brothers were themselves cultivating the lands till 1936, and that they then gave them on lease, because they were losing Rs. 50 to Rs. 100 per annum over the transaction.	None
But he gave no particulars as to what the gross yield from the lands was, what the expenses of cultivation were, and what the price of the produce was.	None
It is very difficult to believe that the tenants would have agreed to take over lands on the terms contained in the Kabuliat if, in fact, it was a losing concern.	None
It is admitted by the mortgagee that the lessees made no complaint that they were working at a loss.	None
His evidence on this point is vague and unconvincing, and we are not impressed by it.	None
On the other hand, we have evidence which clinches the matter in favour of the appellants.	None
It has been already stated that the Revenue Officer, Meerut granted a decree in favour of the appellants for ejectment.	None
In execution of this decree, the appellants obtained possession of the suit properties.	None
On February 4, 1954, the Board set aside the decree of the Courts below, and dismissed the suit of the appellants.	None
Thereupon, the respondents in execution of the decree got back possession of the properties.	None
Then, they applied under S. 144, Code of Civil Procedure for recovery of mesne profits by way of restitution, and obtained a decree for Rs. 7,500 at the rate of Rs. 1,000 per annum.	None
If this figure is any guide for the determination of what income could be got from the properties by a prudent owner, then it is clear beyond doubt that the rent of Rs. 112 fixed in the Kabuliat is unduly low, and it cannot be binding on the mortgagors.	None
It is true that the decree relates to a period much later than the date of the Kabuliat, and that prices had greatly risen during that period.	None
But making all allowance for the rise, we think that the transaction is not one which a prudent owner would enter into in respect of his properties.9.	None
It was argued by Mr. Sinha for the respondents that the decree passed in restitution proceedings is under appeal before the Commissioner of Meerut, and should not, therefore, be taken into account in determining whether the rent fixed in the Kabuliat was fair and such, as would be binding on the mortgagors.	Arguments of Respondent
But this decree was passed on the application of the respondents claiming mesne profits at the rate of Rs. 1,000 per annum, assuming that they did not ask for more, and its importance lies not so much in its being an adjudication by the Court as in its evidencing an admission by them as to the net profits which could be realised from the lands.10.	Arguments of Respondent
It would be material in this connection to refer to the character of the lands over which the lease was created.	None
They were held in Sir by the mortgagors and after the execution of the mortgage, entered as Khudkahst in the names of the mortgagees.	None
They were homefarm lands under the direct cultivation of the proprietors, as distinguished from lands which were under cultivation by tenants, and having regard to the special rights which the tenancy laws all over India have recognised in the owner in respect of such lands, an act of the mortgagee which puts those rights in peril cannot, as held in Mahabir Gope v. Harbans Narain Singh (A) (supra), be regarded as that of a prudent owner, and it requires exceptional grounds to justify it.	None
Of that, there is no evidence.	None
On the other hand, the uncontradicted evidence on the side of the appellants is that the lands have got facilities of canal irrigation, and are very fertile, and that it would not be economic to lease them to tenants.	None
It also appears that the mortgagees created on the eye of redemption another lease, and that has been set aside on the ground that it was entered into with a view to defeat the mortgagors.	Arguments of Petitioner
Their action in leasing the lands of tenants on the terms set out in the Kabuilat is neither prudent nor bona fide, and on a consideration of the entire evidence, we are of opinion, differing from the Board, that the lease evidenced by the Kabuliat is not binding on the mortgagors.11.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was next contended by Mr. Sinha that even if the Kabuliat was not binding on the mortgagors, the respondents would, nevertheless, be hereditary tenants under the provisions of the U. P. Tenancy Act, 1939, and that the appellants would have no right to eject them, and he referred us to the provisions of the Act bearing on the question.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 29 (a) of the Act provides that every person who was at the commencement of the Act a tenant of land shall be entitled to all the rights of hereditary tenants under the Act.	None
Some classes of tenants are excepted from the operation of this provision, and one of them is tenants of Sir lands S. 30 (6) enacts that,Notwithstanding anything in section 29, hereditary rights shall not accrue in land transferred by a mortgage to which the provisions of the second paragraph of subsection (5) of S. 15 of the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926 apply during the period specified in that paragraph.	None
The provision in the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926, referred to above, runs as followsNotwithstanding anything in this section, where the property transferred by means of a mortgage of the kind specified in subsection (5) of S. 14 consists wholly of a specified area or sir, the mortgagor may by simultaneous agreement in writing waive his exproprietary rights, and in that case the mortgaged land shall, if the mortgagor regains within twelve years of the date of the transfer possession thereof on redemption of the mortgage, resume the character of Sir.	None
In such land, statutory rights shall not accrue for twelve years from the date of transfer.	None
One other provision to which reference was made is the second proviso to S. 11 of the U. P. Tenancy Act, 1939, which is as followsProvided further that if on redemption of a mortgage the mortgagor regains possession of land which under the provisions of the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926, ceased to be Sir and to which the provisions of the second paragraph of subsection (5) of section 15 of that Act applied, such land shall again become his Sir.12.	None
Now, the argument of the respondents is that though the suit lands were originally held in Sir, they ceased to be such when the mortgage was executed on July 8, 1930, that S. 29 (a) of the Act therefore applied, that S. 30 (6) and S. 11 of the Act and S. 15 of the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926, had no application, as the mortgage comprised also lands which were not Sir, and as further, possession had not been regained within twelve years of the mortgage.	None
It is accordingly contended that the respondents who were in possession as tenants on January 1, 1940, when the Act came into force, had acquired the status of hereditary tenants under S. 29 (a) of the Act, and the decision in Jai Singh v. Munshi Singh, 1955 All LJ 834 (B) is relied on, in support of this contention.13.	None
The error in this argument lies in the assumption that Govind Sahai and Bhagwan Sahai became by virtue of the Kabuliat dated May 26, 1936, tenants for purposes of S. 29 (a) of the Act.	None
The true scope of subs.	None
(a) of S. 29 is that it posits that there is on the date of the commencement of the Act a person who is lawfully a tenant and proceeds to confer on him certain rights.	None
It is therefore a condition precedent to the application of this provision that the person must have been admitted as tenant by a person who had the right to do so.	None
Where, however, the person who purports to grant the lease has no authority to do so, whatever the rights inter se between the lessor and the lessee, as against the true owner the latter does not, in law, acquired the status of a tenant, and S. 29 (a) has no application to him.	None
Thus, if A is the owner of certain lands and B trespasses on them and grants a lease to C, subs.	None
(a) of S. 29 does not operate to confer any rights on C as against A.	None
The crucial question for determination, therefore, is whether the person who claims rights as a hereditary tenant under S. 29 (a) was admitted as tenant by a person who had the right to do so.	Issue
An owner will of course be entitled to admit a tenant, and a mortgagee in possession would have a right to do so, either if he is authorised in that behalf by the deed of mortgage, or if the transaction is one, which is protected by S. 76 (a) of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
But where the transaction is not one which could be upheld under S. 76 (a), then there is no admission of tenant by any person having authority to do so, and such a transaction though valid as between the mortgagee and the lessee, cannot form the foundation on which any rights under S. 29, subs.	Reasoning
(a) of the Act could be based.14.	Reasoning
In Mahabir Gope v. Harbans Narain Singh (A) (supra), it was held that when a usufructuary mortgagee created a lease in spite of the prohibition against letting, contained in the mortgage deed, the tenant acquired no occupancy rights under the provisions of the Bihar Tenancy Act, even though he had been in possession for over 30 years, and that the same consequences would follow if the lease was not binding on the mortgagor under S. 76 (a) of the Transfer of Property Act, or if it was not bona fide.	Reasoning
On the same principle, and on our finding that the Kabuliat dated May 26, 1936, is not binding on the appellants, we must hold that Govind Sahai and Bhagwan Sahai acquired no rights as hereditary tenants under S. 29 (a) of the U. P. Tenancy Act.	Reasoning
In Jai Singh v. Munshi Singh (B) (supra), relied on for the respondents, it was held that the agricultural lease granted by the mortgagee in favour of Jai Singh was a lease granted in the ordinary course of management, and that, accordingly, the tenant acquired the rights of a hereditary tenant.	Reasoning
That decision has no application when the lease is, as held by us, not a prudent transaction binding on the mortgagors.	Reasoning
In this view, the questions raised by Mr. Sinha on the construction of S. 30 (6) and S. 11 of the Act and S. 15 of the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926, do no arise for decision.15.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is allowed, the decree passed by the Board is set aside, and that of the Revenue Officer, Meerut affirmed by the Commissioner, restored.	Decision
The respondents will pay the costs of the appellants throughout, including the costs of the remand.16.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
