 	Arguments of Petitioner
P. Jeevan Reddy, J. Leave granted.	None
Heard the counsel for the appellant and respondents.	None
This appeal is preferred against the judgment and decree of the learned Civil Judge, Ghaziabad (Uttar Pradesh) dated September 11, 1991 in Suit No. 451 of 1990 in rather peculiar circumstances.	Facts
Smt.	Facts
Kamla Devi, first respondent herein who died pending the present appeal and whose legal representatives have come on record was the owner of premises building bearing Property No. 416, Kucha Brijnath, Chandni Chowk, Delhi.	Facts
By an order dated January 28, 1991 the Deputy Assessor and Collector determined the rental value and rateable value of the said building comprising four floors with effect from April 1, 1993 and also determined the property taxes payable thereon Against the order of assessment, Kamla Devi filed an appeal before the learned District Judge, Delhi on March 8, 1991.	Facts
While the appeal was pending, Kamla Devi went to Ghaziabad and filed a Suit No. 451 of 1991 against (1) Municipal Corporation of Delhi, and (2) the Deputy Assessor and Collector (House Tax) SCI for a declaration that the orders dated 28191 passed by Defendant No. 2 as illegal, invalid and void ab initio and for a prohibitory injunction restraining the defendants from attaching the plaintiffs property or taking any other action proceedings orders against the plaintiff or her assets in pursuant to the order dated 2811991 passed by the Deputy Assessor and Collector SCI, MCD.	Facts
the suit was filed on April 19, 1991.	Facts
In the first paragraph of the plaint, Kamla Devi stated that she is resident of C92, Inder Puri, Loni, Ghaziabad owned by her grandchildren.	Facts
In Para2, she stated that on April 18, 1991 three persons claiming to represent defendant came to the residence of the plaintiff and threatened to attach her assets stating that the rateable value for the purposes of fixing house tax has been increased by Defendant No. 2 in respect to property No. 416, Kucha Brijnath, Chandni Chowk, Delhi6 owned by the plaintiff and that after great persuasion and interference by local respectable persons, did the officials postpone their action for a day.	Facts
Then follow a number of paragraphs.	Facts
Paragraphs 3 to 16, set out the several reasons and grounds for which the order of assessment dated January 28, 1991 was said to be contrary to law and illegal.	Facts
In Paragraph 19 pertaining to cause of action, she stated that the cause of action for the suit arose on April 18, 1991 when the defendant sent their officials to C92, Inder Puri, Loni, Ghaziabad to attach the properties belonging to the plaintiff and also because the defendants were persisting with their illegal acts.	Facts
It is on the above pleas that the declaration and prohibitory injunction aforementioned were asked for.	Facts
It is significant to note that no document was filed along with the plaint or later showing that any attempt was made by the defendants or their officials to distrain or attach the plaintiffs movables or other properties at Ghaziabad.	Facts
Among the twelve documents filed by the plaintiff, the last document is the assessment order dated January 28, 1991.	Facts
No other document subsequent to that date has been filed.	Facts
It is equally significant to notice that the declaration asked for is with respect to assessment order passed by the second defendant an officer of the appellantCorporation relating to a house situated in Delhi.	Facts
More significant is the wide language in which the prohibitory injunction was asked for.	Facts
It is worded widely to restrain proceedings against any of the properties or assets of the plaintiff situated anywhere for recovery of the said tax.	Facts
Another important fact to be noticed is that the plaintiff, while setting out in detain the reasons for which the assessment order aforesaid was said to be illegal, did not disclose in her plaint that she had already filed an appeal against the said assessment order before the appropriate authority and it was pending.	Facts
Suit notices were issued to the defendants and were supposed to be served upon them.	Facts
The suit was decreed on September 11, 1991.3.	Facts
The judgment sets out the averments in the plaint at length and then says that though served, the defendants have not filed any reply and that, therefore, the case is proceeded with ex parte.	Facts
Except stating that the plaintiffs has reiterated the averments in the plaint and that the case of the plaintiff as stated deserves to be accepted in a one sided matter, no specific finding is recorded in the judgment that the officials of the appellantCorporation did indeed seek to attach or sell the assets of the plaintiff.	Facts
The suit was decreed in the following terms it is declared that the defendants order dated 28191 are illegal, bad and contrary to law and that the defendant and his representatives agents are hereby restrained from auctioning the property at C92, Inder Puri, Loni, Ghaziabad pursuant to the orders dated 28191.	Facts
While it is true that the prohibitory injunction as confined only to properties at Ghaziabad, yet the declaration that the order dated January 28, 1991 is illegal and contrary to law makes it unenforceable and ineffective for all purposes.4.	Facts
In the present appeal filed by the Municipal Corporation, it is stated that having filed an appeal against the assessment order, Kamla Devi filed a suit in Ghaziabad deliberately concealing the fact of filing of the said appeal and has obtained a decree thereby trying to hoodwink the Courts below.	Facts
It is then stated in Para 10 that the Corporation has sent a Bill dated July 8, 1991, to the respondentassessee on the basis of the assessment order dated January 28, 1991, and that it was shocked when it was apprised of an order of stay passed by a Court in Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
It is also stated that the Corporation has not received any suit notice from the Ghaziabad Court.	Facts
Since the filing of the suit in Ghaziabad Court is said to be an abuse of the process of Court, it is prayed that the said judgment and decree be set aside by this Court.	Facts
Ms. Madhu Tewatia, learned counsel for the appellantCorporation, submitted that the filing of the suit by Kamla Devi was a stark abuse of process of Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
She submitted that no proceedings for recovery were ever taken against her properties in Ghaziabad by the Corporation or its officials and that allegation in Para 2 of the plaint is only a pretence and a total fabrication put forward with a view to create jurisdiction in Ghaziabad court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that property is situated in Delhi, that the assessment was made at Delhi by an authority competent in law to do so which was indeed questioned by Kamal Devi by filing an appeal which was pending before the competent authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Filing of the said suit in the above circumstances is said to be a clear case of overreaching the processes of law and amounts to a sharp practice which should be sternly put down by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that if this type of suits are allowed to be filed anywhere outside Delhi, it would be impossible for the Corporation to function effectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
She placed strong reliance upon the decision of this court in Oil and Natural Gas Commission v. Utpal Kumar Basu, 1994(4) SCC 711, delivered by a Bench comprising M. N. Venkatachaliah, C.J., A. M. Ahmadi, J. and one of us (B. P. Jeevan Reddy, J.)	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, the learned counsel for the respondents (legal representatives of Kamala Devi), submitted that when the suit summons were served upon the Corporation and the assessing officer by the Ghaziabad Court, it was their duty to appear before the Court and contest it by putting forward such defences as were open to them in law.	Arguments of Respondent
Not having done that and having suffered a decree and allowed the limitation for filing the appeal to lapse, it is not open to the Corporation to approach this Court directly under Article 136 of the Constitution against the judgment and decree of the Ghaziabad Court.	Arguments of Respondent
it is submitted that the only manner in which the said judgment and decree could be avoided by the Corporation was to file and appeal as provided by law.	Arguments of Respondent
The several allegations made against the first respondent are denied and it is submitted that when the officials of the Corporation wanted to attach their movables at Ghaziabad, Kamla Devi was obliged to file the suit in Ghaziabad.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel also sought to arguer that the order of assessment dated January 28, 1991, is contrary to law, excessive and deserves to be set aside.	Arguments of Respondent
It is also brought to our notice that the appeal filed by Kamla Devi against the assessment order dated January 28, 1991, was dismissed for default on September 12, 1994.	Arguments of Respondent
The first question is whether the filing of this suit by Kamla Devi in Ghaziabad Court was a proceeding taken bona fide by her or whether it was only a sharp practice designed to abuse the process of law and to take unfair advantage over the Corporation.	None
On a consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case, we are satisfied that it was a clear case of abuse of process of Court and of law.	Reasoning
We are also satisfied that the averment made in para 2 of the plaint to the effect that the officers of the appellantCorporation went to Ghaziabad to attach the movables of Kamla Devi or her grandchildren to realise the tax under the order dated January 28, 1991, is a total falsehood and was a mere pretence to create jurisdiction in Ghaziabad Court.	Reasoning
Not a single document or any other scrap of paper has been filed before the Ghaziabad Court in support of the said allegation.	Reasoning
Moreover, the frame of the suit and the language and terms in which the declaration and prohibitory injunction are asked for suggest a clear attempt to overreach the process of Court.	Reasoning
The object clearly was to obtain a declaration that the assessment order dated January 28, 1991, is illegal and invalid from a Court outside Delhi.	Reasoning
The fact that Kamla Devi (plaintiff) chose to conceal the fact of her filing the appeal against the said assessment order is also indicative of the mala fides on her part.	Reasoning
It is true that the Court has limited the prohibitory injunction only to properties in Ghaziabad but it has granted a declaration that the very assessment order is void and illegal which means that it cannot be enforced even within the limits of Delhi Municipal Corporation.	Reasoning
In the Special Leave Petition, it is stated by the Corporation that the Bill of demand pursuant to the assessment order aforesaid was sent only on July 8, 1991, to the respondent whereas the suit was filed on April 19, 1991.	Reasoning
Once this Court is satisfied that Kamla Devi has abused the process of law and misused the legal system, the objections put forward by the respondents counsel are of no consequence.	Reasoning
This Court is entitled to act in such cases to prevent such abuse and misuse.	Reasoning
In Oil and Natural Gas Commission, (1994 AIR SCW 3287), this Court was dealing with a case where Engineers India Lid (E. I. L.) acting as consultants for Oil and Natural Gas Commission (O. N. G. C.) issued an advertisement in the newspapers of the country inviting tenders for a particular work to be carried out at Hazira complex in Gujarat.	None
According to the advertisement, the tenders were to be communicated to E. I. L. at Delhi.	None
The respondentCompany (NICCO) having its registered office at Calcutta submitted a tender which was considered along with other tenders received at New Delhi and was rejected.	None
Tender of another party was accepted.	None
Thereupon, NICCO filed a writ petition in the Calcutta High Court praying that ONGC be restrained from awarding the contract to such other party and, if already awarded.	None
to cancel the same.	None
In the writ petition, an allegation was made by NICCO that it had come to know of the tender from the publication in the newspaper Times of India within the jurisdiction of the Calcutta High Court, that it had submitted its tender from its registered office located within the jurisdiction of the Calcutta High Court and that further correspondence in that behalf was also done from its said registered office at Calcutta.	None
On the said averments, it was submitted that the Calcutta High Court had jurisdiction in the matter.	None
NICCO also asked for and obtained certain interim orders which were challenged under Article 136 of the Constitution.	None
Before this Court, NICCO relied upon a fax message sent by O. N. G. C. E. I. L. to NICCO on its Calcutta address.	None
It was a reply to a letter sent by NICCO.	None
It was submitted that in view of the said communication along with other facts mentioned in the writ petition, the Calcutta High Court did have the jurisdiction to entertain the said writ petition.	None
It was held by this Court that even if the averments in the writ petition are taken as true, it cannot be said that a part of the cause of action had arisen within the jurisdiction of the Calcutta High Court.	None
This Court pointed out that the advertisement itself mentioned that the tenders should be submitted to E.I.L., at New Delhi, that they would be scrutinised at New Delhi and that the decision to accept or reject would also be taken at New Delhi.	None
(The work was, of course, to be carried out in Gujarat.)	None
It was further held that merely because NICCO read the advertisement at Calcutta or that it submitted its tender from Calcutta or that it made representations or that a fax message was sent to it on its Calcutta address did not constitute facts forming integral part of the cause of action.	None
It was held that NICCO did not act bona fide in invoking the jurisdiction of the Calcutta High Court and that the filing of the writ petition was an abuse of the process of Court.	None
Accordingly, the appeal was allowed, the orders of the Calcutta High Court were set aside and exemplary costs in a sum of Rs. 50,000/ were imposed upon NICCO.	None
In our opinion, the principle of the said decision clearly applies here.	None
Indeed, the present case is a more gross one.	Reasoning
In this case, there is no mention that any demand notice or bill was sent to Kamla Devi at Ghaziabad address.	Reasoning
We have already held that the averment in Para 2 of the plaint was a mere pretence and a total fabrication.	Reasoning
Accordingly, this appeal is allowed, the judgment and decree of the learned Civil Judge, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh dated September 11, 1991, in Suit No. 451 of 1990, is set aside.	Decision
In view of their reprehensible conduct the respondents (legal representatives of Kamla Devi, who appeared in this Court as representing her estate) are directed to pay exemplary costs in a sum of rupees fifty thousand.	Decision
Such practices ought to be put down with a stern hand so that others similarly minded may desist from indulging in similar acts.10.	Decision
Application for bringing legal representatives of Kamla Devi on record is ordered.	Decision
