 Leave granted.2.	None
On 12.02.2016, Dr. Raj Saini, the appellant herein lodged an FIR, inter alia, alleging that she was in possession of half portion of a nursing home along with her son and that a civil litigation was going on in relation to the said property and that her husband, Dr. Parkash Saini and his family members intended to dispossess them forcibly and illegally.	Facts
On 11.02.2016, at about 1.45 p.m, Dr. Parkash Saini along with his sister, Sheela Devi and certain other persons came at the property in her possession and asked her to vacate it, failing which they will kill her.	Facts
Dr. Parkash Saini and his henchmen attacked them with iron rods, dandas, knives, pistols etc. and that on the call of the Dr. Parkash Saini, they broke open the door of a room with an intention to dispossess them forcibly and illegally.	Facts
When they protested, they were assaulted.	Facts
The matter was reported to the police and on hearing siren of the police vehicle, all the accused ran away.	Facts
On the basis of the statement, an FIR was registered.	Facts
The investigating officer took possession of the medical records from the hospital and also recorded the statement of the eye witnesses.	Facts
Some incriminating articles were recovered from the spot.3.	Facts
On 16.02.2016, Dr. Parkash Saini was arrested for commission of offence(s) punishable under Sections 147, 149, 323, 324 and 506 IPC and he was produced before the magistrate.	Facts
The police prepared a report under Section 173 Cr.P.C. and chargesheeted Dr. Parkash Saini for commission of above offence(s) and he was released on regular bail.	None
Later on, the matter was further investigated on the basis of CCTV footage recording, some more culprits were identified and the police introduced the offences under Sections 455 and 427 IPC and some other accused, including Rahul Kumar were arrested.	Facts
Proceedings to arrest Dr. Parkash Saini for the added offences, under Sections 455 and 427 IPC, were also initiated.4.	Facts
Apprehending arrest, Dr. Parkash Saini and his sister Sheela Devi sought anticipatory bail.	Facts
Similarly, Rahul Kumar also sought anticipatory bail.	Facts
According to them, the subsequent investigations are malicious and initiated merely with a motive to add the heinous crime, in collusion with the complainant.	Facts
The applicant further alleged that as the chargesheet has already been filed, their interrogation was not required.	Facts
The bail application was contested by the prosecution, inter alia, alleging that on account of subsequent investigation, the offences under Sections 455 and 427 IPC, were added as the earlier investigation was not carried out in a proper manner and the accused involved in the case were not apprehended.	Facts
After considering the rival contentions of the parties, the Sessions Court dismissed the application of Dr. Parkash Saini and Rahul Kumar.5.	Facts
Dr. Parkash Saini and Rahul Kumar filed applications under Section 438 of the Cr.P.C. before the High Court of Punjab Haryana at Chandigarh.	Facts
The High Court vide order dated 27.4.2017 has granted them anticipatory bail.	Issue
The appellant has called in question the legality and correctness of said order in these appeals.6.	Issue
We have heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
Appearing for the appellant, Shri R. Basant, learned senior counsel, contends that Dr. Parkash Saini trespassed into the property of the appellant along with his henchmen in order to take forcible possession of the part of the property which the appellant is in possession of and asked her to vacate the same, failing which they will kill her.	Arguments of Petitioner
Dr. Parkash Saini along with his henchmen attacked the appellant with iron rods, danda, knives and pistols, etc.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the call of Dr. Parkash Saini they broke open the door of their property with an intention to dispossess them forcibly and illegally and when they protested, they were assaulted.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is only after hearing a siren of the police vehicle all the accused ran away.	Arguments of Petitioner
The entire incident was captured in the mobile and CCTVs installed by the appellant in the premises which clearly shows the attack being committed.	Arguments of Petitioner
A defective investigation was carried out by the then Investigating Officer in collusion with the accused Dr. Parkash Saini without examining the CCTV footage and a defective report under Section 173(2) of the Cr.P.C. was prepared by him by merely adding minor Sections in his report.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellant gave representations to the higher police officials and after considering the same, the SP passed an order for further investigation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The IO was also changed.	Arguments of Petitioner
After further investigation, Sections 455 and 427 IPC were added in the FIR for which the accused applied for anticipatory bail which was rightly rejected by the learned Sessions Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court without considering the materials on record granted anticipatory bail.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned advocate appearing for the respondents has sought to justify the impugned order.8.	Arguments of Respondent
We have carefully considered the submissions of the learned counsel made at the Bar.	Reasoning
The learned Sessions Judge has assigned cogent reasons for dismissal of the application of the private respondents seeking anticipatory bail.	Reasoning
The CCTV footage of the incident was displayed in the open court in the presence of both the parties before the Sessions Judge.	Reasoning
The session Judge has noticed the presence of Dr. Parkash Saini in the entire occurrence.	Reasoning
Without considering the CCTV footage the earlier report was filed by the IO.	Reasoning
In fact, Dr. Parkash Saini was leading the other accused.	Reasoning
It is clear that he was directly involved in breaking open the door of the room and removing the articles lying there with the help of his coaccused.	None
Though the name of Rahul Kumar was not mentioned in the FIR, later on the basis of CCTV footage he has been identified and his name has also come on record.	None
The private respondents are the main accused in the case.	Reasoning
It is also evident that they have damaged the property of the appellant with an intention to dispossess her and take forcible possession.	Reasoning
The High Court without considering any of these aspects has granted anticipatory bail.	Reasoning
The High Court has not considered the nature and gravity of the accusation and the role of the accused in the commission of the offence(s).	Reasoning
We are of the view that the High Court was not justified in granting anticipatory bail.9.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeals succeed and are accordingly allowed.	Decision
The impugned judgment and order of the High Court dated 27.04.2017 in CRMM No.10890 of 2017 (OM) and CRMM No.13220 of 2017 (OM) are hereby set aside.10.	Decision
It is made clear that any observations made in this order will not influence the learned Judge while holding trial and deciding the case.	Decision
