 Ramaswami, J. 1.	None
Both these appeals are brought by certificate against the judgment and decree of the High Court of Judicature at Patna, dated March 26, 1964, pronounced in Election Appeals Nos. 8 and 10 of 1963.	Facts
2.	None
The appellantKedar Pandey and the respondentNarain Bikram Sah (hereinafter called Narain Raja) were the contesting candidates in the year 1962 on behalf of the Congress and Swatantra Party, respectively, for the election to Bihar Legislative Assembly from Ramnagar Constituency in the district of Champaran.	Facts
The nomination papers of the appellant and the respondent and two othersParmeshwar Prasad Roy and Suleman Khanwere accepted by the Returning Office without any objection on January 22. 1962.	Facts
Later on the two candidates Parmeshwar Prasad Roy and Suleman Khanwithdrew their candidatures.	Facts
After the poll the respondent, Narain Raja was declared elected as member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly by majority of valid votes.	Facts
On April 11, 1962 Kedar Pandey filed an election petition challenging the election of the respondent.	Facts
It was alleged by Kedar Pandey that the respondent was not duly qualified under Art.	Facts
173 of the Constitution of India to be a candidate for election as he was not a citizen of India.	Facts
According to Kedar Pandey the respondent, his parents and grandparents were all born in Nepal and, therefore, on the date of the election, the respondentNarain Rajawas not qualified to be chosen to fill the Assembly seat for which he had been declared to have been elected.	Facts
According to Kedar Pandey the respondent was related to the royal family of Nepal and the father of the respondentRama Rajaowned about 43 bighas of land and a house at Barewa in Nepal in which the respondent had a share along with his three other brothers.	Facts
The election petition was contested by the respondent who said that he was an Indian citizen and there was no disqualification incurred under Art.	Facts
173 of the Constitution.	Facts
The further case of the respondent was that he had lived in India since his birth and that he was a resident of Ramnagar in the district of Champaran and not of Barewa in Nepal.	Facts
The respondent claimed that he was born in Banaras and not at Barewa.	Facts
3.	None
Upon these rival contentions it was held by the Tribunal that the respondentNarain Rajawas not a citizen of India and, therefore, was not qualified under Art.	Facts
173 of the Constitution for being chosen to fill a seat in the Bihar Legislative Assembly.	Facts
The Tribunal, therefore, declared that the election of the respondent was void.	Facts
But the Tribunal refused to make a declaration that Kedar Pandey was entitled to be elected to Bihar Legislative Assembly for that Constituency.	Facts
Both the appellant and the respondent preferred separate appeals against the judgment of the Election Tribunal to the High Court of Judicature at Patna.	Facts
The High Court in appeal set aside the judgment of the Tribunal and upheld the election of the respondentNarain Raja.	Facts
The High Court found, on examination of the evidence, that Narain Raja, the respondent before us, was born in Banaras on October 10, 1918 and that the respondent was living in India from 1939 right upto 1949 and even thereafter.	Facts
The High Court further found that long before the year 1949 Narain Raja had acquired a domicil of choice in Indian territory and, therefore, acquired the status of a citizen of India both under Art. 5 (a) and (c) of the Constitution.	Facts
On these findings the High Court took the view that Narain Raja was duly qualified for being elected to the Bihar Legislative Assembly and the election petition filed by the appellantKedar Pandey  should be dismissed.	Facts
4.	None
The main question arising for decision in this case is whether the High Court was right in its conclusion that the respondentNarain Rajawas a citizen of India under Art. 5 of the Constitution of India on the material date.	Issue
5.	None
The history of the family of Narain Raja is closely connected with the history of Ramnagar estate.	None
It appears that Ramnagar estate in the district of Champaran in Bihar originally belonged to Shri Prahlad Sen after whose death the estate came into the possession of Shri Mohan Vikram Sah, popularly known as Mohan Raja.	None
After the death of Mohan Raja the estate came into the possession of Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi, the widow of Mohan Raja, and after the death of Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi, the estate came into the possession of Rama Raja alias Mohan Bikram Sah, the father of the respondentNarain Raja.	None
It is in evidence that the daughter of Prahlad Sen was married to Shri Birendra Vikram Sah, the father of Mohan Raja.	None
Mohan Raja died without any male issue but during his lifetime he had adopted Rama Raja, the father of the respondent and by virtue of a will executed by Mohan Raja in the year 1904 in favour of his wife Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi the Rani became entitled to the Ramnagar estate on the death of Mohan Raja (which took place in 1912), in preference to the adopted son Rama Raja since the properties belonged to Mohan Raja in his absolute right and not as ancestral properties.	None
After the death of Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi in 1937 Rama Raja came into the possession of the Ramnagar estate.	None
In the year 1923, Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi had filed R. S. No. 4 of 1923 against Rama Raja in the Court of SubJudge.	None
Motihari with regard to a village which Rama Raja held in Ramnagar estate on the basis of a Sadhwa Patwa lease.	None
Rama Raja in turn filed T. S. No. 34 of 1924 in the Court of Subordinate Judge of Motihari against Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi and others claiming title to Ramnagar estate and for possession of the same on the basis of his adoption by Mohan Raja.	None
The Title Suit and the Rent Suit were heard together by the Additional SubJudge Motihari who, by his judgment, dated August 18, 1927 decreed the Title Suit filed by Rama Raja and dismissed the Rent Suit filed by Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi.	None
There was an appeal to the High Court of Patna which dismissed the appeal Against the judgment of the High Court appeals were taken to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.	None
The appeal was decided in favour of Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi and the result was that the Title Suit filed by Rama Raja was dismissed and Rent Suit filed by Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi was decreed.	None
In the course of judgment the Judicial Committee did not disturb the finding of the trial Court that Rama Raja was an adopted son of Shri Mohan Vikram Sah alias Mohan Raja and accepted that finding as correct, but the Judicial Committee held that Ramnagar estate was not the ancestral property of Mohan Raja, but he got that property by inheritance, he being the daughters son of Prahlad Sen, the original proprietor of that estate.	None
In view of this circumstance, the Judicial Committee held that though Rama Raja was the adopted son of Mohan Raja, Rama Raja was not entitled to the estate in view of the will executed by Mohan Raja in favour of Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi in the year 1904.	None
It appears that in the year 1927 Rama Raja had taken possession of Ramnagar estate and got his name registered in Register D and remained in possession till the year 1931 when he lost the suit in Privy Council.	None
After the decision of Privy Council, Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi again came into possession of Ramnagar estate and continued to remain in possession till she died in 1937.	None
It is in evidence that after the death of Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi, Rama Raja obtained possession of Ramnagar estate and continued to remain in possession thereof from 1937 till 1947, the year of his death.	None
There is evidence that Rama Raja died in Bombay and his dead body was cremated in Banaras.	None
6.	None
It is also in evidence that during the lifetime of Rama Raja there was a partition suit in the year 1942No.	None
40 of 1942for the partition of the properties of the Ramnagar estate among Rama Raja and his sons including the respondent.	None
This suit was filed on September 29, 1942 in the Court of the Subordinate Judge at Motihari.	None
A preliminary decreeEx. 1 (2)  was passed on April 16, 1943 on compromise and the final decree Ex. 1 (1)  in the suit was passed on May 22, 1914.	None
From the two decrees it appears that Ramnagar estate was comprised of extensive properties including zamindari interest in a large number of villages and the estate had an extensive area of Bakasht lands.	None
By the said partition the estate was divided among the cosharers but certain properties including forests in the estate were left joint.	None
7.	None
On behalf of the appellant Mr. Aggarwala put forward the argument that the High Court was not justified in holding that Narain Raja was born in Banaras in the year 1918.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the case of the appellant Narain Raja was born at a place called Barewa in Nepal.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to prove his case the appellant examined two witnessesSheonath Tewari (P. W. 18) and N. D. Pathak (P. W. 15).	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court held that their evidence was not acceptable.	Arguments of Petitioner
There was also a plaint (Ex. 8) produced on behalf of the appellant to show that Narain Raja was born at Barewa.	Arguments of Petitioner
This plaint was apparently filed in a suit brought by the respondent for the realisation of money advanced by the respondents mother to one Babulal Sah.	Arguments of Petitioner
The place of birth of the respondent is mentioned in this plaint as Barewa Durbar.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court did not attach importance to Ex 8 because it took the view that the description of the place of birth given in the document was only for the purpose of litigation.	None
It further appears from Ex. 8 that it was not signed by the respondent but by one Subham Mian Jolaha described as Agent.	None
On behalf of the respondent R. W. 9G.	None
S. Prasad was examined to prove that Narain Raja was born at Banaras.	None
The High Court accepted the evidence of this witness and also of the respondent himself on this point.	None
It was submitted by Mr. Aggarwala that there were two circumstances which indicate that the respondent could not have been born at Banaras.	None
In the first place, it was pointed out, the municipal registers of Banaras for the year 1918Ex.	None
2 series did not mention the birth of the respondent.	None
It was explained on behalf of the respondent that the house at Mamurganj in which the respondent was born was not included within the limits of the municipality in the year 1918 and that the omission of the birth of the respondent in the municipal registers was, therefore, of no significance.	None
It was contended on behalf of the appellant that there was litigation with regard to properties of Ramnagar estate between the respondents father and Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi and, therefore, the evidence of P. W. 9, G. S. Prasad that Rama Raja was living with Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi at Ramnagar even during her lifetime cannot be accepted as true.	None
It was, therefore, suggested that it was highly improbable that Narain Raja should have been born at Banaras in the year 1918, as alleged, in the house belonging to Ramnagar estate.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not, however, think it necessary to express any concluded opinion on this question of fact but proceed to decide the case on the assumption that Narain Raja was not born in the territory of India in the year 1918.	Reasoning
The reason is that the place of birth of Narain Raja has lost its importance in this case in view of the concurrent findings of both the High Court and the Tribunal that for a period of 5 years preceding the commencement of the Constitution Narain Raja was ordinarily resident in the territory of India.	Reasoning
Therefore, the requirement of Art. 5 (c) of the Constitution is fulfilled.	Reasoning
Mr. Aggarwala on behalf of the appellant did not challenge this finding of the High Court.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, manifest that the requirement of Art. 5 (c) of the Constitution has been established and the only question remaining for consideration is the question whether Narain Raja had his domicil in the territory of India at the material time.	Reasoning
8.	None
Upon this question it was argued before the High Court on behalf of the respondent that the domicil of origin of Mohan Raja may have been in Nepal but he had acquired a domicil of choice in India after inheriting Ramnagar Raj from his maternalgrandfather Prahlad Sen.	Arguments of Respondent
It was said that Mohan Raja had settled down in India and had married all his 4 Ranis in Ramnagar.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued, therefore, that at the time when Mohan Raja had adopted Rama Raja in 1903 Mohan Rajas domicil of choice was India.	Arguments of Respondent
It was said that by adoption in 1903 Rama Raja became Mohan Rajas son and by fiction it must be taken that Rama Rajas domicil was India as if he was Mohan Rajas son.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended in the alternative that whatever may have been Rama Rajas domicil before 1937 when Rani Chhatra Kumari Devi died, Rama Raja acquired a domicil of choice in India when he came to India on the death of Ram Chhatra Kumari Devi.	None
It was also stated on behalf of the respondent that Rama Raja remained in possession of the Ramnagar estate until his death in 1947.	None
The High Court, however, held, upon examination of the evidence, that there was no material on the record to decide the question of Mohan Rajas domicil.	None
It was also held by the High Court that it was not possible to ascertain from the evidence whether there was any intention of Rama Raja to settle down in India and make it his permanent home.	None
In any event, Narain Raja was born in the year 1918 and unless the domicil of Rama Raja in 1918 was ascertained the domicil of origin of Narain Raja will remain unknown.	None
The High Court, therefore, proceeded upon the assumption that Narain Raja had his domicil of origin in Nepal and examined the evidence to find out whether Narain Raja had deliberately chosen the domicil of choice in India in substitution for the domicil of origin.	None
9.	None
The crucial question for determination in this case, therefore, is whether Narain Raja had acquired the domicil of choice in India.	Issue
10.	None
The law on the topic is wellestablished but the difficulty is found in its application to varying combination of circumstances in each case.	None
The law attributes to every person at birth a domicil which is called a domicil of origin.	None
This domicil may be changed, and a new domicil, which is called a domicil of choice, acquired but the two kinds of domicil differ in one respect.	None
The domicil of origin is received by operation of law at birth the domicil of choice is acquired later by the actual removal of an individual to another country accompanied by his animus manendi.	None
The domicil of origin is determined by the domicil, at the time of the childs birth, of that person upon whom he is legally dependent.	None
A legitimate child born in a wedlock to a living father receives the domicil of the father at the time of the birth a posthumous legitimate child receives that of the mother at that time.	None
As regards change of domicil, any person not under disability may at any time change his existing domicil and acquire for himself a domicil of choice by the fact of residing in a country other than that of his domicil of origin with the intention of continuing to reside there indefinitely.	None
For this purpose residence is a mere physical fact, and means no more than personal presence in a locality, regarded apart from any of the circumstances attending it.	None
If this physical fact is accompanied by the required state of mind, neither its character nor its duration is in any way material.	None
The state of mind, or animus manendi, which is required demands that the person whose domicil is the object of the inquiry should have formed a fixed and settled purpose of making his principal or sole permanent home in he country of residence, or, in effect, he should have formed a deliberate intention to settle there.	None
It is also well established that the onus of proving that a domicil has been chosen in substitution for the domicil of origin lies upon those who assert that the domicil of origin has been lost.	None
The domicil of origin continues unless a fixed and settled intention of abandoning the first domicil and acquiring another as the sole domicil is clearly shown See Winans v. AttorneyGeneral, 1904 AC 287.	None
In Munro v. Munro (1840) 4 Cl and Fin 842 (876), Lord Cottenham states the rule as followsThe domicil of origin must prevail until the party has not only acquired another, but has manifested and carried into execution an intention of abandoning his former domicil, and acquiring another as his sole domicil.	None
To effect this abandonment of the domicil of origin, and substitute another in its place, is required animo et facto, that is, the choice of a place, actual residence in the place then chosen, and that it should be the principal and permanent residence, the spot where he had placed larem rerumque ae fortunarum suarum summam.	None
In fact, there must be both residence and intention.	None
Residence alone has no effect, per se, though it may be most important as a ground from which to infer intention.	None
In Aikman v. Aikman (1861) 3 Macq HLC 854, Lord Campbell has discussed the question of the effect on domicil of an intention to return to the native country, where such intention is attributable to an undefined and remote contingency.	None
He saidIf a man is settled in a foreign country, engaged in some permanent pursuit requiring his residence there, a mere intention to return to his native country on a doubtful contingency, will not prevent such a residence in a foreign country from putting an end to his domicil of origin.	None
But a residence in a foreign country for pleasure, lawful or illicit, which residence may be changed at any moment, without the violation of any contract or any duty, and is accompanied by an intention of going back to reside in the place of birth, or the happening of an event which in the course of nature must speedily happen, cannot be considered as indicating the purpose of live and die abroad.	None
11.	None
On behalf of the appellant Mr. Aggarwala relied on the decision of the House of Lords in Moorhouse v. Lord (1863) 10 HLC 272, in which it was held that in order to lose a domicil, a man must intend quatenus in illo exuere patriam and there must be a change of nationality, that is natural allegiance.	None
It is not enough for him to take a house in the new country, even with the probability and the belief that he may remain there all the days of his life.	None
But the principle laid down in this case was discussed in Udny v. Udny, (1869) 1 Sc and Div 441, which decision is the leading authority on what constitutes a domicil of choice taking the place of a domicil of origin.	None
It is there pointed out by Lord Westbury that the expressions used in, (1863) 10 HLC 272, supra, as to the intent exuere patriam, are calculated to mislead, and go beyond the question of domicil.	None
At page 458 Lord Westbury states Domicil of choice is a conclusion or inference which the law derives from the fact of a man fixing voluntarily his sole or chief residence in a particular place, which the intention of continuing to reside there for an unlimited time.	None
This is a description of the circumstances which create or constitute a domicil and not a definition of the term.	None
There must be residence freely chosen and not prescribed or dictated by any external necessity, such as the duties of office, the demands of creditors, or the relief from illness, and it must be a residence fixed, not for a limited period or particular purpose, but general and indefinite in its future contemplation.	None
It is true that residence, originally temporary or intended for a limited period, may afterwards become general and unlimited and in such a case, so soon as the change of purpose or animus manendi, can be inferred, the fact of domicil is established.	None
12.	None
In the next case  Doucet v. Geoghegan, (1878) 9 Ch D 441, the Court of Appeal decided that the testator had acquired an English domicil, and one of the main facts relied on was that he had twice married in England in a manner not conforming to the formalities which are required by the French Law for the legislation of marriages of Frenchmen in a foreign country.	None
James L. J. states as follows Both his marriages were acts of unmitigated scoundrelism, if he was not a domiciled Englishman.	None
He brought up his children in this country he made his will in this country, professing to exercise testamentary rights which he would not have if he had not been an Englishman.	None
Then with respect to his declarations, what do they amount to?	None
He is reported to have said that when he had made his fortune he would go back to France.	None
A man who says that, is like a man who expects to reach the horizon and finds it at last no nearer than it was at the beginning of his journey.	None
Nothing can be imagined more indefinite than such declarations.	None
They cannot outweigh the facts of the testators life.	None
In our opinion, the decisions of the English Courts in (1869) 1 Sc and Div 441, and, (1878) 9 Ch D 441, represent the correct law with regard to change of domicil of origin.	None
We are of the view that the only intention required for a proof of change of domicil is an intention of permanent residence.	Reasoning
In other words, what is required to be established is that the person who is alleged to have changed his domicil of origin has voluntarily fixed the habitation of himself and his family in the new country not for a mere special or temporary purpose, but with a present intention of making it his permanent home.	Reasoning
13.	None
Against this background of law we have to consider the facts in the present case for deciding whether Narain Raja had adopted India as his permanent residence with the intention of making a domicil of choice there.	Issue
In other words, the test is whether Narain Raja had formed the fixed and settled purpose of making his home in India with the intention of establishing himself and his family in India.	None
14.	None
The following facts have been either admitted by the parties or found to be established in this case.	None
Narain Raja was educated in Calcutta from 1934 to 1938.	None
From the year 1938 onwards Narain Raja lived in Ramnagar.	None
After Rama Rajas death in 1947 Narain Raja continued to live in Ramnagar, being in possession of properties obtained by him under compromise in 1944.	None
In the course of his statement Narain Raja deposed that his father had built a palace in Ramnagar between 1934 and 1941 thereafter Narain Raja himself built a house at Ramnagar.	None
Before he had built his house, Narain Raja lived in his fathers palace.	None
There is the partition suit between Narain Raja and his brothers in the year 1942.	None
Exhibits 1(2) and 1(1) are the preliminary and final decrees granted in that suit.	None
After the partition Narain Raja was looking after the properties which were left joint and was the manager thereof.	None
The extensive forests of Ramnagar estate were not partitioned and they had been left joint.	None
Narain Raja used to make settlement of the forests on behalf of the Raj and pattas used to be executed by him.	None
After partition, he and his wife acquired properties in the district of Champaran, in Patna and in other places.	None
Narain Raja and his wife and children possessed 500 or 600 acres of land in the district of Champaran.	None
Narain Raja managed these properties from Ramnagar.	None
He had also his houses in Bettiah, Chapra, Patna and Benares.	None
The forest settlements are supported by Exhibits X series, commencing from 1943, and by Ex.	None
W of the year 1947.	None
Then, there are registered puttas executed by Narain Raja of the year 1945, which are Exs. W/3, W/4 and W/5.	None
There are documents which prove acquisition of properties in the name of Narain Rajas wife F(1), F(2), F(3) and F(5).	None
Exhibit F(4) shows the purchase of 11 bighas and odd land at Patna by Narain Raja.	None
It is also important to notice that Narain Raja had obtained Indian Passport dated March 23, 1949 from Lucknow issued by the GovernorGeneral of India and he is described in that Passport as Indian by birth and nationality and his address is given as Ramnagar of Champaran district.	None
In the course of his evidence Narain Raja said that he had been to Barewa for the first time with hisfather when he was 10 or 12 years old.	None
He also said that he had not gone to Barewa for ten years before 1963.	None
15.	None
The High Court considered that for the determination of the question of domicil of a person at a particular time, the course of his conduct and the facts and circumstances before and after that time are relevant.	Reasoning
We consider that the view taken by the High Court on this point is correct and for considering the domicil of Narain Raja on the date of coming into force of the Constitution of India his conduct and facts and circumstances subsequent to the time should also be taken into account.	Reasoning
This view is borne out by the decision of the Chancery Court in In re Grove.	None
Vaucher v. Solicitor of the Treasury, (1888) 40 Ch D 216, in which the domicil of one Mare Thomegay in 1744 was at issue and various facts and circumstances after 1744 were considered to be relevant.	None
At page 242 of the report Lopes, L. J. has stated The domicil of an independent person is constituted by the factum of residence in a country and the animus manendi, that is, the intention to reside in that country for an indefinite period.	None
During the argument it was contended that the conduct and acts of Mare Thomegay subsequently to February, 1744, at the time of the birth of Sarah were inadmissible as evidence of Mare Thomegays intention to permanently reside in this country at that time.	None
It was said that we must not regard such conduct and acts in determining what the state of Marc Thomegays mind was in February, 1744.	None
For myself I do not hesitate to say I was surprised at such a contention, it is opposed to all the rules of evidence, and all the authorities with which I am acquainted.	None
I have always understood the law to be, that in order to determine a persons intention at a given time, you may regard not only conduct and acts before and at the time, but also conduct and acts after the time, assigning to such conduct and acts their relative and proper weight of cogency.	None
The law, I thought, was so wellestablished on that subject that I should not have thought it necessary to allude to this contention, unless I had understood that the propriety of admitting this evidence was somewhat questioned by Lord Justice Fry, a view which I rather now gather from his judgment he has relinquished.	None
16.	None
We are, therefore of opinion that the conduct and activities of Narain Raja subsequent to the year 1949 are relevant but we shall decide the question of his domicil in this case mainly in the light of his conduct and activities prior to the year 1949.	Reasoning
17.	None
Reverting to the history of Narain Rajas life from 1950 onwards, it appears that he had married his wife in 1950.	None
His wife belonged to Darkoti in Himachal Pradesh near Patiala.	None
The marriage had taken place at Banaras.	None
Narain Raja had a son and a daughter by that marriage and according to his evidence the daughter was born in Banaras and the son was born in Bettiah.	None
The daughter prosecutes her studies in Dehradun.	None
In 1950 or 1951 Narain Raja had established a Sanskrit Vidyalaya in Ramnagar in the name of his mother, called Prem Janani Sanskrit Vidyalaya.	None
The story of Narain Rajas political activities is as follows There was a Union Board in Ramnagar before Gram Panchayats had come into existence, of which Narain Raja was the Chairman or President.	None
After Gram Panchayats were established, the Union Board was abolished.	None
Narain Raja was a voter in the Gram Panchayat and he was elected as the VicePresident of the Union called C. D. C. M. Union of Ramnagar.	None
For the General Elections held in 1952 Narain Raja was a voter from Ramnagar Constituency.	None
In the General Election of 1957 he stood as a candidate opposing Kedar Pandey.	None
Thereafter, he became the President of the Battiah Subdivisional Swatantra Party and then VicePresident of Champaran District Swatantra Party.	None
18.	None
Taking all the events and circumstances of Narain Rajas life into account we are satisfied that long before the end of 1949 which is the material time under Art. 5 of the Constitution, Narain Raja had acquired a domicil of choice in India.	Reasoning
In other words, Narain Raja had formed the deliberate intention of making India his home with the intention of permanently establishing himself and his family in India.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the requisite animus manendi has been proved and the finding of the High Court is correct.	None
19.	None
On behalf of the appellant Mr. Aggarwala suggested that there were two reasons to show that Narain Raja had no intention of making his domicil of choice in India.	None
Reference was made, in his context, to Ex. 10(c) which is a khatian prepared in 1960, showing certain properties standing in the name of Narain Raja and his brothers in Nepal.	None
It was argued that Narain Raja had property in Nepal and so he could not have any intention of living in India permanently.	None
It is said by the respondent that the total area of land mentioned in the khatian was about 43 bighas.	None
The case of Narain Raja is that the property had belonged to his natural grandmother named Kanchhi Maiya who had gifted the land to Rama Raja.	None
The land was the exclusive property of Rama Raja, and after his death, the property devolved upon his sons.	None
The case of Narain Raja on this point is proved by a Sanad (Ex. AA).	None
In any event, we are not satisfied that the circumstance of Narain Raja owing the property covered by Ex. 10(c) can outweigh the fact that Narain Raja alone had extensive properties in India after the partition decree of the year 1944.	Reasoning
20.	None
It was also pointed out on behalf of the appellant that Narain Raja and before him Rama Raja, had insisted upon designating themselves Sri 5 indicating that they belonged to the royal family of Nepal.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued on behalf of the appellant that Narain Raja had clung tenaciously to the title of Sri 5, thereby indicating the intention of not relinquishing the claim to the throne of Nepal if at any future date succession to the throne falls to a junior member of the family of the King of Nepal.	Arguments of Petitioner
We do not think there is any substance in this argument.	None
It is likely that Narain Raja and his father Rama Raja had prefixed the title of Sri 5 to their names owing to the pride of their ancestry and sentimental attachment to the traditional title and this circumstance has no bearing on the question of domicil.	Reasoning
Succession to throne of Nepal is governed by the rule of primogeniture and it cannot be believed that as the second son of his father, Narain Raja could ever hope to ascend to the throne of Nepal and we think it is unreasonable to suggest that he described himself as Sri 5 with the intention of keeping alive his ties with Nepal.	Reasoning
There was evidence in this case that Narain Rajas elder brother Shiv Bikram Sah has left male issues.	Reasoning
21.	None
For the reasons expressed, we hold that Narain Raja had acquired domicil of choice in India when Art. 5 of the Constitution came into force.	Reasoning
We have already referred to the finding of the High Court that Narain Raja was ordinarily resident in India for 5 years immediately preceding the time when Art. 5 of the Constitution came into force.	Reasoning
It is manifest that the requirements of Art.	Reasoning
5(c) of the Constitution are satisfied in this case and the High Court rightly reached the conclusion that Narain Raja was a citizen of India at the relevant time.	Reasoning
22.	None
We accordingly dismiss both these appeals with costs, one set.	Decision
23.	None
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
