 Under appeal is the judgment and order of a Division Bench of the High Court at Calcutta answering the following question raised in a reference under Section 256 of the Income Tax Act in the negative and against the assessee Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and on a proper interpretation of the terms and conditions of the leave and licence agreement executed on 19101963, the Tribunal was right in holding that the loss of Rs. 20 lakhs which had been deposited by the assessee with Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd., pursuant to clause 17 of the said agreement, arose in the carrying on of the assessees business and was incidental to it and was accordingly allowable as a business loss ?	Issue
The High Court noted the facts found by the Tribunal, as under The assessee is a public limited company.	Facts
It owned several tea estates and its main income was from sale of tea.	Facts
Davenport and Co. (P) Ltd. are the managing agents of the assessee.	Facts
In 1960, the assessee altered its memorandum of association with the approval of the Calcutta High Court for the purpose of diversifying its activities and it took cotton business in addition to its business in tea.	Facts
Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. was also a public limited company and in 1957, it was in the process of liquidation.	Facts
The assessee, along with one Shri S. L. Bajoria, a shareholder of Davenport and Co. (P) Ltd., produced a scheme which was approved by the High Court and liquidation proceedings came to an end.	Facts
The assessee and Shri S. L. Bajoria entered into an agreement for the lease of the mills from	Facts
Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd.	Facts
There was a partnership in the lease between the assessee and Shri S. L. Bajoria in a certain ratio.	Facts
That lease was for the period from 2811961 to 30101961.	Facts
After the expiry of the period of lease, the assessee alone entered into a financing agreement with Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. and that agreement remained in force from 1111961 to 3131963.	Facts
After the expiry of the financial agreement the assessee entered into another agreement with Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd., on 19101963, for a period of three years from 141963 to 3131966.	Facts
This agreement was described as a leave and licence agreement.	Facts
In accordance with clause 17 of the agreement, the assessee deposited Rs. 20 lakhs on 341963, with Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. and Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. handed over its properties to the assessee.	Facts
The assessee ran the mills.	Facts
The leave and licence agreement, after expiry of the period stipulated in that agreement, was extended up to 3061966.	Facts
The Tribunal was informed by the counsel for the assessee that the extension was on the same terms and conditions on which the leave and licence agreement had been made.	Facts
The assessee made a credit entry of Rs. 1, 40, 000 being the interest receivable by it from Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. on the deposit of Rs. 20 lakhs at the rate of 7 per annum.	Facts
This entry was reversed in the year under consideration.	Facts
During the extended period of three months, the assessee paid insurance premium, rates and taxes and other expenses for the whole of the year though the extended period was only for three months.	Facts
The assessee debited these expenses for the remaining nine months to the account of Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd.	Facts
The amounts debited were Rs. 1, 48, 470 for insurance premium and Rs. 1, 42, 882 for rates and taxes and other expenses.	Facts
The interest amount of Rs. 1, 40, 000 and these expenses aggregated to Rs. 4, 31, 352.	Facts
The amount of Rs. 20 lakhs of the deposit and the expenses of Rs. 4, 31, 352 remained unpaid by Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd.	Facts
Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. had its own business after 3061966, but suffered loss and was ultimately closed down on 18101967, and went into liquidation on 1231968.	Facts
The assessee wrote off the above amounts of Rs. 20 lakhs of deposit and Rs. 4, 31, 352 as having become irrecoverable on account of incapacity of Saksaria Cotton Mills Ltd. to pay the same.	Facts
The assessee claimed these amounts as deductions by way of bad debts.	Facts
The Income Tax Officer disallowed the assessees claim for deduction of the said amount of Rs. 20 lakhs holding that it was a capital expenditure.	Facts
The Appellate Assistant Commissioner reversed that view and the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal affirmed the decision in first appeal.	Facts
The High Court, in reference, in the judgment under appeal before us, disagreed with the Tribunal.	Facts
The High Court said that there could be little doubt, having regard to the nature of the agreement, that the amount of Rs. 20 lakhs was deposited for the purpose of securing the contract under which the assessee had acquired the right to work the mills belonging to the licensor company.	Facts
In other words, the assessee acquired a profitmaking apparatus.	None
The deposit was made for the purpose of acquisition of a profitmaking apparatus.	None
It did not make the assessee a trade creditor of the Cotton Mills Company also, that it found it difficult to accept the contention that the deposit was made in the course of the daytoday business of the assessee.	Facts
The assessee was not engaged in the business of reviving sick cotton mills.	Facts
The assessees daytoday business did not include taking lease of cotton mills or entering into licensing agreements with other cotton mill companies.	Facts
The assessees usual business was manufacture and sale of tea.	Facts
It wanted to enter into cotton manufacturing business.	Facts
To effectuate this purpose, it did not set up a cotton mill of its own but preferred to merely acquire the right to operate mill belonging to another company under a leave and licence agreement.	Facts
The deposit was not made in the course of profitmaking but was made for purpose of acquiring a profitmaking apparatus for a period of three years Under these circumstances, it must be held that the loss suffered by the assessee was on capital account and the amount could not be deducted from the assessees income as business loss The agreement of leave and licence contains the clause (clause 17) under which the deposit of Rs. 20 lakhs was made by the assessee with the licensor company.	Facts
That clause reads thus For the due observance and performance of the terms and conditions herein contained, the licensee shall deposit and keep deposited with the licensor during the subsistence of this licence a sum of Rs. 20, 00, 000 (Rupees twenty lakhs only).	Facts
The said deposit shall carry interest at the rate of 7 per annum.	Facts
The amount of deposit shall be repaid to the licensee on termination or expiry of the licence after deducting therefrom any monies that may have become due to the licensor at the time of such termination or expiry of the licence.	Facts
On behalf of the assessee it was submitted that the assessee did not commence the cotton business as a new venture for the first time in 1963 when the said leave and licence agreement was entered into, for it was an admitted fact that the assessee had, as far back as 1960, and with the approval of the High Court at Calcutta, amended its memorandum of association for the purposes of carrying on the cotton business.	Arguments of Petitioner
It had entered into a partnership with one Bajoria and that partnership had run the said cotton mills on lease for a period of nine months.	Reasoning
The High Court was, therefore, in error in taking the view that the cotton business had commenced with the taking on leave and licence of the said cotton mills.	Reasoning
In counsels submission, the deposit of Rs. 20 lakhs made as aforestated had been lost to the assessee by reason of the winding up of the licensor company and it had rightly claimed that loss as a business loss, for its business in cotton had suffered that loss Learned counsel referred to the judgment of this Court in Empire Jute Co. Ltd. v. CIT.	Reasoning
This Court drew attention to the tests for distinguishing between capital and revenue expenditure and observed that no test was paramount or conclusive.	None
Lord Cave, L.C. in Atherton v. British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd. ((1925) 10 TC 155 1926 AC 205, HL) (TC at p. 192) had said when an expenditure is made, not only once and for all, but with a view to bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit of a trade, I think that there is very good reason (in the absence of special circumstances leading to an opposite conclusion) for treating such an expenditure as properly attributable not to revenue but to capital.	None
Lord Radcliffe, in Commr. of Taxes v. Nchanga Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. ((PC)) had observed that what was material to consider was the nature of the advantage in a commercial sense and it was only where the advantage was in the capital field that the expenditure would be disallowable.	None
Lord Reid, in IRC v. Carron Co. ((1967)	None
45	None
TC 18, HL) had noted that expenditure had been incurred to remove antiquated restrictions which were preventing profits from being earned and, on that account, held the expenditure to be of a revenue character.	None
In the case before it, this Court found, on a parity of reasoning, that the expenditure incurred by the assessee for the purpose of removing a restriction on the number of working hours for which it could operate looms, with a view to increasing its profits, was a revenue expenditure Learned counsel for the Revenue drew our attention to the judgment of the Privy Council in CIT v. Motiram Nandram ((PC) upon which the High Court had relied It must be said at once that the case of Motiram Nandram ((PC)) bears considerable similarity to the case that is before us.	None
The assessee therein carried on business in cloth, yam and moneylending.	None
In 1930 it deposited with an oil company Rs. 50, 000 in consideration of an agreement.	None
Thereunder, the assessee was appointed the organising agent of the oil company for a period of five years for a stated area.	None
It was to recommend selling agents.	None
Sales were to be conducted entirely by the oil company and the selling agents, but the assessee was to receive a certain commission on all goods sold by the selling agents within the slated area and also on an sales of oil effected in the stated area by the oil company.	None
The deposit was to remain at the disposal of the oil company for the purpose of the oil companys business and was to carry interest at the rate of 7 per cent per annum until it was repaid out of deposits made by the selling agents.	None
After the assessee had recovered a part of its deposit, the oil company went into liquidation and, though the assessee obtained a decree for Rs. 39, 500 against the oil company, it was unable to realise the decretal amount.	None
The assessee claimed in the year 193233 that the aforesaid amount should be deducted from its other income as a business loss.	None
The Privy Council did not accept the assessees case.	None
It saidWhen the deposit is considered in relation to the organising agency, the special terms of the agreement of 17121930, are important since various suggestions have been made as to the true character of the deposit.	None
One suggestion is that the deposit should be looked upon as the purchase price of goods paid to the company in advance and thus a mere trading expense but this cannot be accepted.	None
It would be a highly inaccurate statement of the effect of the agreement.	None
The Rs. 50, 000 was doubtless laid out with a view to earning profits in the business of organising agents in addition to the interest of 7 per cent, but it was not so laid out with reference to any particular transaction carried out in the course of such business.	None
It was in one aspect a loan made to the company but it was not a loan made in the course of carrying on the business of organising agents or in the course of the business of a moneylender.	None
It was not a recurring expenditure.	None
On the other hand, it was contemplated that in whole or in part the deposit should be returned to the assessees by the receipt of deposit from selling agents so that if the Rs. 50, 000 does fall to be regarded as invested in a business of organising agents, it was invested with a prospect that it might be a temporary investment and not a permanent one  in other words that the capital might later be withdrawn from the business.	None
The question in such a case as the present must be what is the object of the expenditure ?	None
and it must be answered from the standpoint of the assessees at the time they made it  that is, when they were embarking upon the business of organising agents for the company.	None
The deposit was clearly exacted by the company as a condition of the assessees being given an agency which they hoped to manage profitably.	None
Their Lordships think that the purpose of being permitted to engage in such a business must be considered to be a purpose of securing an enduring benefit of a capital nature, and that the deposit cannot, upon a true view of the terms of the agreement and the circumstances of the case, be regarded as an expenditure made in the course of carrying on an existing agency, or any other business.	None
We are in no doubt whatever that the High Court was right in concluding that the amount of Rs. 20 lakhs had been deposited by the assessee with the licensor company for the purpose of securing the licence under which the assessee had acquired the right to work the licensors cotton mills.	Reasoning
This is clear from the fact that the deposit was made pursuant to a clause in the leave and licence agreement.	Reasoning
Had a deposit as required by that clause not been made, the assessee would not have secured the licence of the cotton mill.	Reasoning
At that time the assessee was doing no business in cotton.	Reasoning
The deposit was, clearly, made for the purpose of acquiring a profitmaking asset to carry on business in cotton.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore, be held that the deposit was made on the revenue account or that the loss thereof must be treated as a business loss.	Reasoning
The loss thereof was a loss suffered on the capital account and could not be deducted on the basis that it was a business loss The High Court has answered the question correctly.	None
The appeal is dismissed, with costs.	Decision
