 Sarkaria, J. 1.	None
Whether the decree dated September 23, 1964, passed by the Trial Judge in Regular Suit No.6 of 1963, filed under the Bombay Rent Control Act, 1947 (for short, called Bombay Rent Act) directing the eviction of the appellant is a nullity an as such inexecutable, is the only question that falls for decision in this appeal by special leave.	Issue
It arises out of these facts Appellant was a tenant of the premises at Ward No.3 Nondh.	Facts
No. 1823/9 in the Salabatpur area of Surat.	Facts
He was in arrears of rent since 16101961.	Facts
On 16111962 the landlords respondents herein) served a notice on the appellant terminating his tenancy and also requiring him to pay the arrears of rent.	Facts
On 211964 the landlords instituted the suit in the Court at Surat for possession against the tenant on two grounds namely.(i) nonpayment of rent in arrears for a period of more than one year.	Facts
(ii) bona fide requirement of the premises by the landlord for their own use and occupation.	None
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The rate of contractual rent was Rs.15/ per month.	Facts
On 2391964 the parties arrived at a compromise the terms of which as incorporated in the decree were as under(i)	Facts
The defendant do hand over possession of the suit premises by 3091968 without any objection.	Facts
The tenant to pay Rs.532.50 P as arrears of rent and mesne profits up to 3091964.	Facts
The plaintiff is to receive Rupees 380/ deposited by the defendant in court and the remaining amount is to be paid by the defendant to the plaintiffs on or about 31121964.	Facts
The defendant is to pay Rs.15/ p.m. as mesne profits from 1101964.	None
(ii) The relationship of the landlord and tenant between the parties has come to an end and no such relationship is to be created by the compromise.	None
The defendant has been given time to vacate the suit premises by way of grace if the defendant fails to comply with the aforesaid terms of the decree the plaintiffs would be entitled to execute the decree both for the decretal amount as well as for possession of the suit premises.	Facts
(iii) If the plaintiffs get for the defendant the lease of the premises bearing Nondh No.1602 of Ward No.3 on a monthly rent of Rs.50/ the defendant is to hand over the possession of the suit premises immediately.	Facts
(iv) The parties are to bear their own costs.	Facts
3.	None
On 1211968, the landlords filed a petition for execution of the decree.	Facts
It was dismissed as premature.	Facts
The tenant having failed to pay Rupees 152/50 i.e. the balance of arrears by the agreed date the decreeholder on 1711968 again took out execution for the recovery of the said amount.	Facts
Thereafter on 3101968 the landlords filed the second petition to recover possession of the suit premises in execution of the decree.	Facts
4. The tenant admitted that he had according to the compromise, agreed to give possession on 3091968 but added that in 1968 A.D. the ground floor of the premises had become submerged in flood waters and thereupon the decreeholders seeing his (tenants) plight orally agreed to allow him to continue in the premises on payment of a monthly rent of Rs.15/ and thus the decree had been adjusted and satisfied.	Facts
Subsequently by another application the judgment debtor raised an objection that since the decree had been passed by the Court without satisfying itself as to the existence of a ground of eviction under the Bombay Rent Act, it was a nullity and as such not executable.	Facts
5.	None
The executing court (Joint Civil Judge Surat) rejected the story of adjustment and satisfaction of the decree but accepted the other objection holding that the decree was void because the Court did not apply its mind while allowing it under Sec. 13 (1) (j) Rent Act, With regard to the second ground it was said that it had ceased to exist because under the terms of compromise the default in payment of rent was waived and the defendant was given time to pay up to 3091968.	Facts
In the resutl, the execution was dismissed.	Facts
6.	None
From the order of the executing court the decreeholders carried an appeal to the Extra Assistant Judge.	Facts
Surat who held that there was ample material in the shape of admission in the compromise itself from which the court could be satisfied about the existence of both the statutory grounds for evcition alleged in the plaint.	Facts
He therefore set aside the dismissal of the execution and remanded the case to the executing court to be dealt with in accordance with law Aggrieved by that order of the Extra Assistant Judge the tenant preferred a revision petition in the High Court of Gujarat.	Facts
The revision was dismissed in limine by an order dated 26101972 against which this appeal by special leave has been filed.	Facts
7.	None
Mr. Dholakia learned Counsel for the appellant contends that in view of public policy which underlies all Rent Control Acts including the Bombay Rent Act no decree or order of eviction can be passed unless the Rent Court or Tribunal is satisfied on the basis of extrinsic material as to the existence of all the essential facts constituting a statutory ground for eviction.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is stressed that in the instant case the material if any proceeding the decree or even the socalled admission of the rent being in arrears in the compromise itself was far too insufficient to make out a ground for eviction under Section 12 (3) of the Bombay Rent Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Clause (a) of Section 12 (3), proceeds the argument could not cover the case because the tenant had deposited the rent due up to the date of the suit and had also made an application for fixation of standard rent and clause (b) of the same subsection did not apply because no interim standard rent had been fixed by the Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
As regards the ground of bona fide personal requirement of the landlords.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is urged that there was not even a scintills of material from which the satisfaction of the court as to the existence of a ground under Section 13 could be spelled out.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decree concludes the Counsel, being based solely on the consent of the parties was a nullity and was directly hit by the rule laid down by this Court in Bahadur Singh v. muni Subrat Dass (1969 7 SCR 432 Kaushalya Devi v. Shr K.H. Bansal (1969)	Arguments of Petitioner
2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 1048  (AIR 1970 SC 838 ) and Feroz Lal Jain v. Man Mal (1970) 3 SCC 181 )  (AIR 1970 SC 794 ) Learned Counsel has further attempted to distinguish this Courts decision in K. K. Char v. R. M. Seshadri, (1973) 1 SCC 761  (AIR 1973 SC 1311 ) on the ground that there was documentary and oral evidence of the plaintiff which had not been challenged in crossexamination from which the statutory ground of the premises being required by the landlord for bona fide personal occupation had been fully made out Reference has also been made to Jeshwant Raj Mulukchand v. Anandilal Bapalal.	Arguments of Petitioner
(1965) 2 SCR 350 (AIR 1965 SC (1419) and Shah Rasiklal Chunilal v. Sindhi Shyamlal Mulchand, (1971) 12	Arguments of Petitioner
Guj LR 1012.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
On the other hand Mr. Parekh learned Counsel for the respondents has canvassed there principal contentions (i)	Arguments of Respondent
The appeals should be dismissed on the preliminary ground that thee is no equity in this case in favour of the appellant who has in appespite of the ample time granted to him contumaciously failed to comply with the decree and surrender possession even five years after the expiry of the agreed date fixed for this purpose in the decree.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel has cited in support of this contention the decision of this Court in A.M. Allison v.	Arguments of Respondent
R. L. Sen 1957	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 359 (AIR 1957 SC 227 ) and Sri Balwantrai Chimanlal Trivedi v. M. N. Nagrashna (1961) 1	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 113 (AIR 1960 SC 1292 ) (ii)	Arguments of Respondent
The principle laid down by this Court in the cases relied upon by Mr. Dholakia is not applicable to a compromise decree passed under the Bombay Rent Act because (a) The provisions of S.13 of the Delhi and Ajmer Rent (Control) Act, 1952 (for short Delhi Rent Act) and S.10 of the Madras Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 (for short Madras Rent Act) on the interpretation of which the said decisions are based are materially different from Ss. 12 and 13 of the Bombay Rent Act.	Arguments of Respondent
(b) By virtue of Rule 8 of the Bombay Rent Rules the provision of the Code of Civil procedure including O.23, Rule 3 which gives a mandate to the court to pass a decree in terms of a compromise, are applicable to suits under the Bombay Rent Act, but the application of the Code to proceedings before the Rent Controller Tribunal under the Delhi Rent Act or Madras Rent Act has been expressly excluded.	Arguments of Respondent
In support of this contention reliance has been placed on Chandan Bai v. Surjan AIR 1972 Madh Pra 106 (iii).	Arguments of Respondent
Even if the ratio of the said Supreme Court decisions applies to decrees under the Bombay Rent Act then also both the statutory grounds for eviction pleaded in the plaint had been expressly or impliedly admitted by the defendant in the compromise and it will be presumed that in passing the eviction decree the court was satisfied about the existence of those grounds.	Arguments of Respondent
In this view according to the Counsel the instant case will fall within the ratio of Seshadris case (1973) 1 SCC 761 (AIR 1973 SC 1311 ) (Supra).	Arguments of Respondent
9.	None
At the stage of the final hearing of the appeal specially after the learned Counsel for the appellant had addressed us on merits we do not propose to go into the preliminary ground urged by Mr. Parekh.	None
If the decree turns out to be without jurisdiction this equitable plea will be of no avail because equity cannot operate to annul a statute.	None
If the decree is found to be in conformity with the statute, the appeal will fail on that ground alone and it will be wholly unnecessary to consider the equitable unnecessary to consider the equitable aspect of the matter.	None
10.	None
We therefore come straight to the contention (ii) raised by Mr. Parekh.	None
In order to find out whether or not a decree or order of eviction can be passed by the Rent Court Tribunal exercising special jurisdiction under any of these statutes  Delhi Rent Act, Madras Rent Act and Bombay Rent Act  on a ground which is not one of the statutory grounds of eviction.	None
It is necessary to have a peep into the historical background of the Rent Control laws in general and a quick look at the broad scheme and language of the relevant statutory provisions of these Acts.	None
11.	None
The strain of the last World War.	None
Industrial Revolution, the large scale exodus of the working people to urban areas and the social and political changes brought in their wake social problems of considerable magnitude and complexity and their concomitant evils.	None
The country was faced with spiralling inflation soaring cost of living increasing urban population and scarcity of accommodation.	None
Rack renting and large scale eviction of tenants under the guise of the ordinary law exacerbated those conditions making the economic life of the community unstable and insecure.	None
To tackle these problems and curb these evils, the Legislatures of the States in India enacted Rent Control legislations.	None
12.	None
The preamble of the Bombay Rent Act states that the object of the Act is to amend and consolidate the law relating to the control of rents and repairs of certain premises of rates of hotels and lodging houses and of eviction.	None
The language of the preambles of the Delhi Rent Act and Madras Rent Act is strikingly similar.	None
The broad policy and purpose as indicated in their preambles is substantially the same viz.	None
to protect tenants against their landlords in respect of the rents, evictions and repairs with the same beneficent end in view, all the three Acts interfere with contractual tenencies and make provisions for fixation of fair and standard rents, or protection against eviction of tenants not only during the continuance of their contractual tenure but also after its determination.	None
Indeed the neologism statutory tenant has come into existence because of this protective policy which is common to all enactments of this kind.	None
Further all the three Acts create Courts Tribunals of special and exclusive jurisdiction for the enforcement of their provisions.	None
13. Section 28 of the Bombay Rent Act which begins with a non obstante clause specifies Courts which shall have exclusive jurisdiction to entertain and try any suit or proceeding between a landlord and a tenant inter alia relating to (a) recovery of rent of any premises (b) recovery of possession of any premises to which the provisions of Part II apply.	None
The words to which the provisions of Part II apply are significant.	None
They indicate that the exclusive jurisdiction for recovery of possession is to be exercised when the provisions of Part II which include Ss. 12 and 13, apply.	None
14.	None
All these three Acts lay down specific grounds more or less similar on which a decree or order of eviction can be passed by the Rent Court or the Tribunal exercising exclusive jurisdiction.	Reasoning
In the Delhi Rent Act, such grounds are specified in a consolidated from under S.13, while the same thing has been split up into two and provided in two Sections 912 and 13) in the Bombay Rent Act which represent the negative and positive parts of the same pattern.	Reasoning
Taken together they are exhaustive of the grounds on which the Rent Court is competent to pass a decree of possession.	Reasoning
Similarly, IN THE Madras Rent Act, the grounds on which a tenant can be evicted, are tiven in Ss. 10, 14 and 16.	Reasoning
15.	None
Section 13 of the Delhi Rent Act starts with a non obstante clause viz.	None
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or any contract no decree or order for the recovery of possession of any premises shall be passed by any Court in favour of the landlord against any tenant Likewise.	None
Section 10 (i) of the Madras Rent Act starts with the clause a tenant shall not be evicted whether in execution of a decree or otherwise except in accordance with thd provisions of this section or Sections 14 to 15.	None
16.	None
It will thus be seen that the Delhi Rent Act expressly forbid the Rent Court or the Tribunal from passing a decree or order of eviction on a ground which is not any of the grounds mentioned in the relevant sections of those statutes.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, such a prohibitory mandate to the Rent Court that it shall not travel beyond the statutory grounds mentioned in Ss. 12 and 13 and to the parties that they shall not contractor out of those statutory grounds is inherent in the public policy built into the statute (Bombay Rent Act).	Reasoning
17.	None
In Rasiklal Chunilals case, (1971) 12 Guj LR 1012 (supra), a Division Bench of the Gujrat High Court has taken the view that in spite of the fact that there is no express provision in the Bombay Rent Act prohibiting contracting out, such a prohibition would have to be read by implication consistently with the public policy underlying this welfare measure.	None
If we may say so with respect, this is a correct approach to the problem.	None
18.	None
Construing the provisions of Ss. 12, 13 and 28 of the Bombay Rent Act in the light of the public policy which permeates the entire scheme and structure of the Act, there is no escape from the conclusion that the Rent Court under this Act is not competent to pass a decree for possession either in invitum or with the consent of the parties on a ground which is dehors the Act or ultra vires the Act.	None
The existence of one of the statutory grounds mentioned in Ss. 12 and 13 is a sine qua non to the exercise of Jurisdiction by the Rent Court under those provisions.	None
Even parties cannot bytheir consent confer such jurisdiction on the Rent Court to do something which according to the legislative mandate, it could not do.	None
19.	None
In the view we take, we are fortified by the ratio of the decision in Barton v. Fincham, (1921) 2 KB 291 at p. 299	None
Therein the Court of Appeal was considering the scheme of the Rent Restrictions Act, 1920 the language of S.5 of which was similar to S.13 of the Delhi Rent Act.	None
In that context Atkin L. J. stated the law on the point thus The section appears to me to limit definitely the jurisdiction of the Courts in making ejectment orders in the case of premises to which the Act applies.	None
Parties cannot be agreement give the Courts jurisdiction which the Legislature has enacted they are not to have if the parties before the Court admit that one of the events has happened which give the Court jurisdiction and there is no reason to doubt the bona fides of the admission, the Court is under no obligation to make further inquiry as to the question of fact but apart from such an admission the Court cannot give effect to an agreement, whether by way of compromise or otherwise, inconsistent with the provisions of the Act.	None
20.	None
It is true that in Bartons case (1921) 2 KB 291 at p. 299 just as in Seshardris case.	None
(1973) 1 SCC 761 (AIR 1973 SC 1311 ) (supra), the statute under consideration expressly prohibited the Court from passing a decree on a ground which was not covered by the statute but the principle is equally applicable to cases under statutes which place such a fetter on the jurisdiction of the Court, by necessary implication.	None
21.	None
The mere fact that Order 23, Rule 3, of the Code of Civil Procedure is applicable to the proceedings in a suit under the Bombay Rent Act does not remove that fetter on the Rent Court or empower it to make a decree for eviction dehors the statute.	Arguments of Respondent
Even under that provision of the Code, the Court, before ordering that the compromise be recorded is required to satisfy itself about the lawfulness of the agreement such lawfulness or otherwise of the agreement is to be judged also on the ground whether the terms of the compromise are consistent with the provisions of the Rent Act.	None
22.	None
In view of what has been said above it is clear that the general principles enunciated by this Court in cases referred to by the learned Counsel for the appellant, are a relevant guide for determining whether in a particular case the consent decree for possession passed by the Court under the Bombay Rent Act is or is not a nullity.	None
But the case in hand is not in line with Bahardur Singhs case, (1969) 2	None
SCR 432 , Kaushalya Devis case, (1969) 2	None
SCR 1048 (AIR 1970 SC 838 ) and Ferozi Lal Jains case (1970) 3 SCC 181 (AIR 1970 SC 794 ) (supra).	None
On facts they are distinguishable from the instant case.	None
In those cases, there was absolutely no material, extrinsic or intrinsic to the consent decree on the basis of which the court could be satisfied as to the existence of a statutory ground for eviction.	None
23.	None
The case before u falls wellnigh within the ratio of Seshadris case (1973) 1 SCC 761 (AIR 1973 SC 1311 ) (supra).	Reasoning
Therein K. K. Chari, who was under an eviction order purchased the suit premises in the same city for his occupation.	Reasoning
Seshadri was then the tenant of the suit premises under the vendor, and after the purchase, he attorned in favour of the appellant and had been paying rent to him Chari issued notices under S.106 of the Transfer of Property Act terminating the tenancy of Seshadri.	Reasoning
Since Seshadri did not surrender possession, Chari filed a suit for eviction under S.10 (3) (a) (i) of the Madras Act mainly on the ground that he required the premises for his bona fide use and occupation.	Reasoning
Seshadri controverted Charis claim.	Reasoning
As the commencement of the enquiry, Chari was examined before the Court.	Reasoning
He particularly testified how he had purchased the house for his own occupation.	Reasoning
He also filed a number of documents to establish that the requirement of premises for his own occupation was true.	Reasoning
Seshadri did not refer to crossexamine Chari.	Reasoning
About 1 1/2 months thereafter, both the parties entered into a compromise in these terms (1) The respondent hereby withdraws his defence in the aforesaid petition and submits to decree for eviction unconditionally.	Reasoning
(2) The respondent prays that time for vacating up to June 5, 1969 might please be given and the petitioner agrees to the same.	Reasoning
(3) The respondent agrees to vacate the petition premises and hand over possession of the entire petition premises to the petitioner on or before the said date viz.	Reasoning
June 5, 1969, without fail under any circumstances and undertakes not to apply for extension of time.	Reasoning
(4) It is agreed by both the parties that this memo of compromise is executable as a Decree of Court.	Reasoning
24.	None
The Court, after referring to the petition of the landlord being under S.10 (3) (a) (i) of the Act on the ground of his own occupation passed the following order Compromise memo filed and recorded by consent eviction is ordered granting time to vacate till June 5, 1969 No costs.	Reasoning
25.	None
The aforesaid terms of the compromise were also incorporated in the order.	None
After distinguishing the former three cases voz.	None
Bahadur Singhs case, (1969)	None
2	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 432 Kaushalya Devis case.	None
(1969) 2	None
SCR 1048 (AIR 1970 SC 838 ) and Ferozi Lal Jains case.	None
(1970) 3 SCC 181 (AIR 1970 SC 794 ) Vaidialingam J. speaking for himself and Dua J. (comprising majority) enunciated the law on the point, thus.	None
The true position appears to be that an order of eviction based on consent of the parties is not necessarily void if the jurisdictional fact viz, the existence of one or more of the conditions mentioned in S.10 were shown to have existed when the Court made the order.	None
Satisfaction of the Court which is no doubt a prerequisite for the order of eviction, need not be by the manifestation borne out by a judicial finding.	None
It at some stage the Court was called upon to apply its mind to the question and there was sufficient material before it before the parties invited it to pass an order in terms of their agreement it is possible to postulate that the Court was satisfied about the grounds on which the order of eviction was based  If the tenant in fact admits that the landlord is entitled to possession on one or other of the statutory grounds mentioned in the Act, it is open to the Court to act on that admission and make an order for possession in favour of the landlord without further enquiry.	None
26.	None
From a conspectus of the cases cited at the bar the principle that emerges is that if at the time of the passing of the decree, there was some material before the Court, on the basis of which the Court could be prima facie satisfied, about the existence of a statutory ground for eviction, it will be presumed that the Court was so satisfied and the decree for eviction apparently passed on the basis of a compromise, would be valid.	None
Such material may take the shape either of evidence recorded or produced in the case or, it may partly or wholly be in the shape of an express or implied admission made in the compromise agreement itself.	None
Admission is true and clear are by far the best proof of the facts admitted.	None
Admissions in pleadings or judicial admission admissible under Section 58 of the Evidence Act, made by the parties or their agents at or before the hearing of the case, stand on a higher footing than evidentiary admission.	None
The former class of admissions are fully binding on the party that makes them and constitute a waiver of proof.	None
They by themselves can be made the foundation of the rights of the parties.	None
On the other hand evidentiary admissions which are receivable at the rival as evidence are by themselves not conclusive.	None
They can be shown to be wrong.	None
27.	None
We do not find any force in the contention of Mr. Dholakia, that the facts admitted in the compromise, itself were insufficient to make out even a prima facie ground for eviction mentioned in Section 12 (3)(a) of the Bombay Rent Act merely because the tenant had made an application for fixation of standard rent, which was still pending at the time of passing of the decree.	Reasoning
By admitting to pay the arrears of rent and mesne profits at the rate of Rs.15/ per month the tenant had clearly withdrawn or abandoned his application for fixation of standard rent.	Reasoning
The admission in the compromise was thus an admission of the material facts which constituted a ground for eviction under S.12 (3)(a).	Reasoning
Rent was admittedly payable by the month since the application for fixation of fair rent stood withdrawn, there was no dispute with regard to the amount of standard rent.	Reasoning
Further the rent was admittedly in arrears for a period of more than six months, so much so that in the present case the tenant had neglected to pay the balance of arrears amounting to Rs.152/50, even long after the decree and the landlord was compelled to recover the same by execution.	Reasoning
28.	None
The case of Jeshwant Rai Mulukchand, (1965) 2	None
SCR 350 (AIR 1965 SC 1419 ) (supra), cited by Mr. Dholakia does not advance his stand.	None
In that case there was a serious dispute regarding the amount of standard rent though the final order of standard rent was passed by the Court of small Causes, neither the landlord nor the tenant accepted the determination and each side questioned the amount by filing Revision Petitions.	None
In the present case however no dispute regarding the standard rent was subsisting at the time of compromise.	None
That dispute was put an end to by the compromise, itself.	None
29.	None
Be that as it may in cases where an objection as to the nonexecutability of the decree on the ground of its being a nullity is taken the Executing Court is not competent to go behind the decree if the decree on the face of it discloses some material on the basis of which the Rent Courtcould besatisfied with regard to the existence of a statutory ground for eviction.	Reasoning
In such a case it must accept and execute the decree as it stands.	Reasoning
If on the face of it, the decree does not show the existence of such material or jurisdictional fact, the executing Court may look to the original record of the trial court to ascertain whether there was any material furnishing a foundation for the trial courts jurisdiction to pass the decree it did.	Reasoning
The moment it finds that prima facie such material existed, its task is complete.	Reasoning
It is not necessary for it to go further and question the presumed or expressly finding of the trial court on the basis of that material.	Reasoning
All that it has to see is whether there was material on the basis of which the Rent Courtcouldhave  as distinguished frommusthave  been satisfied as to the statutory ground for eviction.	Reasoning
To allow the Executing Court to go beyond that limit, would be to exalt it to the status of a super Court sitting in appeal over the decision of the Rent Court.	Reasoning
Since in the instant case there was a clear admission in the compromise, incorporated in the decree of the fundamental facts that could constitute a ground for eviction under S.12 (3) (a) the Executing Court was not competent to go behind the decree and question its validity.	Reasoning
30.	None
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal falls and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
31.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
