 K. Das, J.1.	None
This is an appeal by the assessee with leave of the High Court of Hyderabad granted under S. 66A (2) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.2.	None
The short facts are these.	None
The appellant is a private limited company carrying on the business, inter alia, of sale of Shahabad stones (flag stones) which had to be extracted from quarries, dressed and then sold.	Facts
For the purpose of its business, the appellant took on contract the right to excavate stones from certain quarries in six villages in Tandur taluk for a period of twelve years under a Quolnama dated 9th Mehr, 1343 F from the then jagirdar of the taluk, named Nawab Mehdi Jung Bahadur.	Facts
The contract provided that the jagirdar should be paid annually a sum of Rs. 28,000 as consideration for extracting the stones till the end of the contract period, as per a plan prepared, within the six villages specified therein.	Facts
The appellant had no right or interest in the land nor did he have any other interest in the quarries apart from excavating stones therefrom.	Facts
The contract specifically provided that the appellant, called the contractor, had no right to manufacture cement from the stones he had only the right to excavate stones from the quarries till the end of the contract period.	Facts
I may here quote some of the relevant provisions of the Quolnama as to how the annual consideration of Rs. 28,000 was to be paid.	Facts
It said 1.	None
The period of contract for excavating stones from the quarries of the villages noted above is for 12 years from 1st Ardibehisht 1346 F. to the end of the Farwardi, 1358 Fasli and the contractor will be give possession from 1st Ardibehist 1346 Fasli.2.	Facts
The annual contract amount would be Rs. 28,000.3.	Facts
For the surety of the contract the sum of Rs. 96,000 O. S. has been received and deposited in the treasury of the Jagir towards the advance and earnest money and the security, a receipt for the same has been issued separately.4.	Facts
The remaining annual balance sum of Rs. 20,000 may be deposited in the Jagir Treasury by instalment every month of Rs. 1,667108 if there be any default in paying the instalment regularly, interest at the rate of one rupee per cent per mensem will be charged to the Contractor till full payment.3.	Facts
There was another lease or contract taken from Government for a period of five years for which the appellant was required to pay Rs. 9,000 per year in monthly instalments of Rs. 750.	Facts
That was also in respect of stone quarries.	Facts
The terms of the said contract with Government have not been printed in the paper book, presumably because they were similar in nature to those of the Quolnama referred to above.	Facts
The Incometax Appellate Tribunal found, and there is no dispute as to this, that under the aforesaid two contracts the appellant had merely the right to extract Shahabad stones.	Facts
The Tribunal said Flag stones of required thickness are found in leaves in those mines or quarries.	Facts
Before one gets these flag stones of the required thickness, one has also to extract flag stones of greater thickness.	Facts
The assessee sells these flag stones both of the usual thickness and thickness greater than usual one, after working on them, if necessary.	None
There was no finding as to how deep the quarrying had to be done to extract the stones of required thickness.	None
According to the appellants books of account, it paid each year of account Rs. 37,000 as lease or contract money to extract the stones under the two contracts and it claimed an allowance in respect thereof under S. 12 (2) (xv) of the Hyderabd Incometax Act, corresponding to S. 10 (2) (xv) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	Facts
The Tribunal stated that the Incometax Officer was under some misapprehension or error while examining, the appellants books of account, and held for the assessment year 1357F that the expenditure of Rs. 27,054 as lease or contract money was capital expenditure in respect of which the appellant was not entitled to claim any allowance under the relevant provision of the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	Facts
For the assessment year 1358F he similarly held that the sum of Rs. 28,158 was capital expenditure and not revenue expenditure.	Facts
There were two appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who also held that the expenditure was capital expenditure.	Facts
Then, there was an appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay.	Facts
The Accountant member of the Tribunal held that the payments in question stood on the same footing as royalties and dead rent which are allowable as working expenses in cases of mines and quarries.	Facts
The President of the Tribunal expressed his finding thus In the present case, the assessee purchased his stockintrade.	Facts
Instead of paying so much for so many cubic feet, he pays a lump sum every year.	Facts
Parties might as well agree that the so called lessee shall pay a sum of money bearing a proportion to the sales or quantum of material extracted or a lump sum for the purpose of convenience.	Facts
Because these quarry leases are called leases, the assessee does not get an asset of an enduring benefit.	Facts
In fact, I find that the leases are renewed from time to time.	Facts
The lease money is, therefore, in my opinion, not capital expenditure but revenue expenditure and should be allowed in computing the assessees income from the quarries.	None
In the result, the Tribunal allowed the claim of the appellant that the payment of the two sums of Rs. 27,054 and Rs. 28,158 for the assessment years 1357F and 1358F respectively was in its true nature a revenue expenditure rather than capital expenditure.	None
On being satisfied that a question of law arose out of its order, the Tribunal stated the following question for the decision of the High CourtWhether the lease money paid by the assessee company to Nawab Mehdi Jung Bahadur and to Government is capital expenditure or revenue expenditure?	Facts
The High Court answered the question against the appellant.	Facts
Hence the present appeal.4.	None
My learned brethren have come to the conclusion that the expenditure in question was capital expenditure.	None
Reluctantly and much to my regret I have come to a different conclusion, and I proceed now to state the reasons for my conclusion as briefly as I can.5.	None
It is not disputed that if the expenditure was capital expenditure, then the appellant was not entitled to the benefit of S. 12 (2) (xv) of the Hyderabad Incometax Act in the relevant years.	None
It is equally undisputed that if the expenditure was revenue expenditure, then the appellant could claim an allowance in respect thereof.	None
Therefore, it is unnecessary to read the provisions of S. 12 (2) (xv) of the Hyderabad Incometax Act or the corresponding provisions of S. 10 (2) (xv) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922.	None
I plunge at once in medias res to a consideration of the crucial question in this case were the two payments in question of the nature of capital expenditure or revenue expenditure?6.	None
This distinction between capital and revenue, either on the receipt or expenditure side, is almost a perennial problem in Incometax law.	Reasoning
In general the distinction is wellrecognised and is based on certain principles which are easy of application in some cases but from time to time cases arise which make the distinction difficult of application.	Reasoning
A large number of decisions were cited before us, but no infallible criterion of universal application emerges therefrom and each case must turn on its own facts, though the decisions are useful as illustrations and as affording indication of the kind of considerations which may relevantly be borne in mind in approaching the problem.	Reasoning
I shall refer in this judgment to such decision only as have a bearing on the real controversy between the parties.7.	Reasoning
In view of the submissions made before us, the real controversy in this case appears to me to be this in the context of the terms of the contract between the parties, was the expenditure incurred intended to create or bring into existence an asset or advantage of an enduring character or was it intended to get only the stockintrade or the raw materials for the business?	None
If it was the former, then it was capital expenditure if latter, then revenue expenditure.	None
There is no doubt that receipts and payments in connection with acquiring or disposing of leaseholds of mines or minerals are usually on capital account (Kamakshya Narain Singh v. Commissioner of Incometax, 194311 ITR 513 (AIR 1943 PC 153 ).	None
The reason why the price paid for the purchase of mining rights is a capital expenditure was explained by Channell, J. in Alianza Co. v. Bell, (1904) 5 Tax Cas 60, in the following words In the ordinary case, the cost of the material worked up in a manufactory is not a capital expenditure it is a current expenditure and does not become a capital expenditure merely because the material is provided by something like a forward contract, under which a person for the payment of a lump sum down secures a supply of the raw material for a period extending over several years If it is merely a manufacturing business, then the procuring of the raw material would not be a capital expenditure.	None
But if it is like the working of a particular mine or bed of brick earth and converting the stuff worked into a marketable commodity, then the money paid for the prime cost of the stuff so dealt with is as much capital as the money sunk in the machinery or buildings.	None
Learned counsel for the Department has strongly relied on these observations and has contended that the appellant had no manufacturing business in the present case and the price he paid for working the quarries was as much capital expenditure as money sunk in machinery or buildings.	Arguments of Respondent
But this contention ignores the obsence of one very important circumstance in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
The acquisition of a mine or a mining right is an enduring asset, because it is not a mere purchase of minerals but is an acquisition of a source from which flows right to extract minerals in other words, the acquisition provides the means of obtaining the raw material rather than the raw material itself therefore, it relates to fixed capital, and in a business sense the acquiring of a leasehold of a mine is not the purchase of raw materials only.	Arguments of Respondent
It is something more than that.	Arguments of Respondent
In the case before us except the stones, nothing else was acquired.	Arguments of Respondent
Clauses 5 and 7 of the Quolnama said 5.	None
The Contractor shall have no right to excavate stones from other places of the Jagir Ilaqua except the villages specified within the prescribed period of contract.	Arguments of Respondent
The Jagir authorities will not allow any other person to excavate these stones within the jurisdiction of villages other than the villages specified above7.	Arguments of Respondent
The contractor shall have to excavate stones from the quarries as per the plan.	Arguments of Respondent
In case he requires a further area of land in the village for excavation of stones, this will be done on his application four months in advance.	Arguments of Respondent
This contractor will have no right to manufacture cement from the stones in the villages noted above.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of these clauses and the recital in the Quolnama that it was a quarry contract for excavating stones only, it is in my view not reasonable to hold that what the appellant acquired in the persent case was the means of obtaining raw material rather than the raw material itself.8.	None
It is, I think, an accepted position now that the expression capital expenditure must normally be construed in a business sense and emphasis should be placed upon the business aspect of the transaction rather than on the purely legal and technical aspect.	Reasoning
It is not, therefore, necessary to determine whether the Quolnama in the present case was in law a lease, or a license, or a license coupled with a grant.	Reasoning
What we have to consider is the nature of the transaction from the business point of view, and it seems to me that having regard to the terms of the Quolnama, the transaction in its true nature and quality was a sale of raw materials coupled with a license to the appellant to come on the land and remove the materials sold the purchase price was to be paid partly in a lump sum and partly in monthly instalments.	Reasoning
If that is the true nature of the transaction, there is no difficulty in answering the question rasied.	Reasoning
The only answer then is that the payments in question were revenue expenditure.9.	Reasoning
I now refer to four decisions which in my opinion come closest to the controversy before us.	None
(1) In re, Benarasidas Jagannath, 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB) (2) Mohanlal Hargovind of Jubbulpore v. Commissioner of Incometax, C. P. and Berar, Nagpur, (1949) 17 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ) (3) Abdul Kayoom v. Commr. of Incometax, Madras, (1953)	None
24 ITR 116 (AIR 1953 Mad 900 ) (FB) and (4) Stow Bardolph Gravel Co., Ltd. v. Poole, (1955) 27 ITR 146 (Eng).	None
The first is a decision of the Full Bench of the Lahore High Court, the second a decision of the Privy Council, the third a decision of the Full Bench of the Madras High Court and the last a decision of the Court of Appeal in England.	None
The facts in 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB) were these.	None
The assessee, who was a manufacturer of bricks, obtained certain lands on leases for the purpose of digging out earth for the manufacture of bricks.	None
Under the deeds he had the right to dig earth up to three to three and half feet.	None
He had no interest left in the lands as soon as the earth was dug out and removed.	None
The periods of the leases varied from six months to three years.	None
The incometax authorities and the Appellate Tribunal held that the consideration paid by the assessee to the owners of the lands was a capital expenditure and was therefore not an allowable deduction under S. 10 (2) (xv) of the Indian Incometax Act.	None
It was held by the Full Bench that the main object of the agreement was the procuring of earth for manufacturing bricks and not the acquisition of an advantage of a permanent nature or of an enduring character, that the payments made were the price of raw material and that the assessee was therefore entitled to claim them as business expenditure under S. 10(2)(xv).	None
It was worthy of note that this decision was approved by this Court in Assam Bengal Cement Co., Ltd. v. Commisssioner of Incometax, West Bengal, (1955) 27 ITR 34 (S) AIR 1955 SC 89 ).	None
Bhagwati, J., delivering the judgment of this Court said This synthesis attempted by the Full Bench of the Lahore High Court truly enunciates the principles which emerge from the authorities.	None
In cases where the expenditure is made for the initial outlay or for the extension of a business or a substantial replacement of the equipment, there is no doubt that it is capital expenditure.	None
A capital asset of the business is either acquired or extended or substantially replaced and that outlay whatever be its source whether it is drawn from the capital or the income of the concerned is certainly in the nature of capital expenditure.	None
The question, however, arises for consideration where expenditure is incurred while the business is going on and is not incurred either for extension of the business or for the substantial replacement of its equipment.	None
Such expenditure can be looked at either from the point of view of what is acquired or from the point of view of what is the source from which the expenditure is incurred.	None
If the expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business it is properly attributable to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure.	None
If on the other hand, it is made not for the purpose of bringing into existence of any asset or advantage but for running the business or working it with a view to produce the profits it is a revenue expenditure.	None
If any such asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business is thus acquired or brought into existence it would be immaterial whether the source of the payment was the capital or the income of the concern or whether the payment was made once and for all or was made periodically.	None
The aim and object of the expenditure would determine the character of the expenditure whether it is a capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure.	None
The source or the manner of the payment would then be of no consequence.	None
It is only in those cases where this test is of no avail that one may go to the test of fixed or circulating capital and consider whether the expenditure incurred was part of the fixed capital of the business or part of its circulating capital.	None
If it was part of the fixed capital of the business it would be of the nature of capital expenditure and if it was part of its circulating capital it would be of the nature of revenue expenditure.	None
These tests are thus manually exclusive and have to be applied to the facts of each particular case in the manner above indicated.	None
It has been rightly observed that in the great diversity of human affairs and the complicated nature of business operations it is difficult to lay down a test which would apply to all situations.	None
One has therefore got to apply these criteria one after the other from the business point of view and come to the conclusion whether on a fair appreciation of the whole situation the expenditure incurred in a particular case is of the nature of capital expenditure or revenue expenditure in which latter event only it would be a deductible allowance under S. 10 (2) (xv) of the Incometax Act.	None
The question has all along been considered to be a question of fact to be determined by the Incometax authorities on an application of the broad principles laid down above and the Courts of law would not ordinarily interfere with such findings of fact if they have been arrived at on a proper application of those principles.	None
I do not read these observations as merely indicating an approval of certain general principles, but not necessarily an approval of the actual decision in 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB).	None
In cases of this nature it is the application of the principles to the facts of a case which presents difficulties, and I do not think that this Court would have made the observations it made, unless it was approving the actual decision in (1947) 15 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB) in so far as it applied the general principles to the facts of that case.	None
I see no significant distinction between that case and the one before us.	None
In both cases, what was acquired was raw material  earth in one case and stone in the other and the payments made were the price of the raw material.	None
The only distinction pointed out is the difference in the period of the contracts that is a relevant factor but not determinative of the problem before us.	None
Even in our case the contract in favour of Government was for five years only.	None
Surely, it cannot be argued that three years in one case and five years in the other will make all the difference.	None
I think that the real test is, in the context of the controversy before us, what was acquired  an enduring asset or advantage, or raw materials for running the business?	None
Judged by that test the present case stands on the same footing as the case of (1947) 15 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB).10.	None
In 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 )	None
the facts were these.	None
The assessee carried on business at several places as manufacturers and vendors of country made cigarettes known as bidis.	None
These cigarettes were composed of tobacco rolled in leaves of a tree known an tendu leaves, which were obtained by the assessees by entering into a number of short term contracts with the Government and other owners of forests.	None
Under the contracts, in consideration of certain sum payable by instalments, the assessees were granted the exclusive right to pick and carry away the tendu leaves from the forest area described.	None
The assessees were allowed to coppice small tendu plants a few months in advance to obtain good leaves and to pollard tendu trees a few months in advance to obtain better and bigger leaves.	None
The picking of the leaves however had to start at once or practically at once and to proceed continuously.	None
The Privy Council distinguished (1904) 5 Tax Cas 60 and overruling the decision in Incometax Appellate Tribunal v. Haji Srajuddin, 194614 ITR 447 (AIR 1946 Nag 241), held that the expenditure was to secure raw material and was allowable as being on revenue account.	None
Lord Greene delivering the judgment of the Board saidIt appears to their Lordships that there has been some misapprehension as to the true nature of these agreements and they wish to state at once what in their opinion is and what is not the effect of them.	None
They are merely examples of many similar contracts entered into by the appellants wholly and exclusively for the purpose of their business, that purpose being to supply themselves with one of the raw materials of that business.	None
The contracts grant no interest in land and no interest in the trees or plants themselves.	None
They are simply and solely contracts giving to the grantees the right to pick and carry away leaves, which of course, implies the rights to appropriate them as their own property In the present case the trees were not acquired nor ware the leaves acquired until the appellants had reduced them into their own possession and ownership by picking them.	None
If the tendu leaves had been stored in a merchants godown and the appellants had bought the right to go and fetch them and so reduce them into their possession and ownership it could scarcely have been suggested that the purchase price was capital expenditure.	None
Their Lordships see no ground in principle or reason for differentiating the present case from that supposed.11.	None
I also see no ground in principle or reason for differentiating the present case from that of Mohanlal Hargovind, 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ).12.	None
In 195324 ITR 116 (AIR 1953 Mad 900 ), a Full Bench of the Madras High Court dissenting from its earlier decisions held that rent paid by a dealer in chank under an agreement in the form of a lease with the Govt.	None
under which he had an exclusive right to fish for, take and carry away all the chank shells in the sea off the coast line of a certain district, was allowable as revenue expenditure.	None
It was further held there that it made no difference whether what was acquired was raw material for a manufacturing business or stockintrade which was intended to be sold without being subjected to any manufacturing process.	None
This decision is the subject of Civil Appeal No. 64 of 1956 which has been heard along with this appeal.	None
I do not see how the present case can be distinguished from the Madras case without holding that the Madras decision was incorrect.13.	None
Last, I come to Stow Bardolph Gravel Co., Ltd., 195527 ITR 146.	None
That was a case in which it was held that sums paid by a dealer in gravel as consideration for the right to excavate and take away deposits of gravel represented capital expenditure.	None
The decision rested on the fact that the subject matter of the agreement consisted of a deposit of gravel lying some feet beneath the surface of the land and requiring to be won from the land by a process of excavation.	None
I find it difficult to reconcile this decision with the decision in 1947  15 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB) and 195324 ITR 116 (AIR 1953 Mad 900 ) in both of which also excavation or exploration was necessary to win the raw material.	None
If, as I hold, the decision in 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB) was approved by this Court then we must accept that decision as correct in preference to the decision of the Court of Appeal in England.	None
I may point out here what Evershed, M. R. said in the course of his judgment in that caseThe Commissioners for the General Purpose of the Incometax were of opinion that these claims to make deductions were not admissible, but Harman, J. was of opinion that the deductions were admissible.	None
I have myself reached a different conclusion from that reached by Harman, J., and I have reached it, I confess, with some slight feeling of regret and misgiving on two grounds first, I think the result bears a little hardly on the tax payers for reasons which will, I think, emerge without any necessity for emphasis as I recite the facts second, I am not for my own part satisfied that if close investigation were made of the method whereby the tax payers and others in the same line of business carry on their businesses, it might not emerge  I say no more than that  that the commissioners would find as a fact, notwithstanding the apparent legal consequences of the agreement to which I have referred, there was here in truth such a taking possession of the deposit of gravel in question that it could sensibly for tax purposes and rightly and fairly be said that once the consideration money had been paid under the agreement the deposit was in truth the stockintrade of the tax payer.	None
However, I have felt compelled to say that there is no finding of fact to support such a conclusion, nor indeed is there before us any evidence sufficient to warrant it.	None
It is in that respect, I apprehend, that I find myself at variance with Harman, J If the facts were as the judge intimated, the General Commissioners might find, and might justifiably find, that a case such as this is not really distinguishable as a matter of law and common sense from a sale of loose objects lying on the surface of the ground, such as windfalls from apple trees, or even from cases like those I have mentioned, which are concerned with crops or leaves growing on trees.	None
But my difficulty is that I can find no justification for that conclusion in the material before us.	None
In view of these observations I have considerable hesitation, and I say this with great respect, in accepting the decision as a decision on a general question of law.	None
The decision proceeded on the findings of the Commissioners and on the basis that there were no materials for the conclusion reached by Harman, J. If we proceed on the findings of the Tribunal in the present case, there are enough materials to support the finding that the appellant acquired nothing but raw materials by the transactions in question.14.	None
I find nothing in the decision in 195527 ITR 146 which need lead me to the conclusion that the decisions in 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB) and 195324 ITR 116 (AIR 1953 Mad 900 ) (FB) were wrong and require reconsideration.	None
If I may again say so with great respect, the learned Master of the Rolls distinguished the Privy Council decision in 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ) by saying that that decision rested upon the particular circumstances of the case and upon the fact that the Board was able to say that from the moment the contract was entered into and before the leaves had actually been picked, the tendu leaves were part of the raw material of the appellant.	None
He added that he could not say the same of sand and gravel, which were part of the earth itself and which could only become part of the stockintrade of the gravel merchants business when it had, in the true sense, been won, been excavated and been taken into their possession.	None
I do not, however, think that the decision in 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ) proceeded on the basis suggested by the learned Master of the Rolls.	None
In clear and express terms Lord Greene said nor were the leaves acquired until the appellant reduced them into their possession and ownership by picking them.	None
This shows that the decision of the Privy Council did not proceed on the ground alleged, namely, that even before the leaves had actually been picked, they were part of the raw material of the appellant of that case.	None
The decision proceeded on the footing that the leaves became part of the raw material when they were reduced into possession and ownership by picking them.	None
If that is the correct ratio of 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ), then where is the distinction between that case and the case of the gravel merchant in 195527 ITR 146 and the stone merchant in the present case?	None
In my opinion there is none.15.	None
In the result and for the reasons given above, I hold that the expenditure in question was on revenue account and the appellant was entitled to the allowance he claimed.	Reasoning
The answer given by the High Court was wrong and the appeal should be allowed with costs.16.	Reasoning
Hidayatullah, J. (For himself and Kapur, J.)	None
This is an assessees appeal on a certificate of the High Court granted under S. 66A(2) of the Indian Incometax Act.17.	None
Pingle Industries Ltd., (hereinafter called the assessee) is a private limited Company which carries on, among other businesses, the business of extracting stones from quarries, which, after dressing, it sells as flag stones.	None
In the year 1343 Fasli, the assessee obtained from Nawab Mehdi Jung Bahadur of Hyderabad the right to extract stones from certain quarries belonging to the Nawab.	None
A quolnama (contract) was executed, and it has been produced in the case.	None
Under this quolnama, the assessee was granted the right to extract stones from quarries situated in six named villages for a period of 12 years (1346 Fasli to 1358 Fasli) on annual payment of Rs. 28,000.	None
To safeguard payment Rs. 96,000 representing a part of the annual payments at Rs. 8,000 per year were paid in advance as security, and the balance of Rs. 20,000 was payable each year in monthly, instalments of Rs. 1,666108 each.	None
In default of punctual payment of these instalments, interest at Re. 1 per cent was to be charged.	None
Some other conditions of the quolnama may also be briefly mentioned here.	None
The assessee undertook not to manufacture cement and also to the responsible for the payment of the money in spite of any, celestial or terrestrial or unexpected calamity or unforeseen event, while the Nawab on his part undertook not to allow any other person to excavate stones in the area of the six villages.	None
It was agreed that in case of default of instalment, the contract would be reauctioned after one months notice to the contractor, who would be responsible for any shortfall but would not have the benefit of any extra amount.18.	None
The assessee was assessed in the Fasli years 1357 and 1358 for the account years 1356 and 1357 Fasli.	None
It claimed deduction respectively of Rs. 27,054 and Rs. 28,159 paid to the Nawab in those years, as expenditure under S. 12 (2) (xv) of Hyderabad Incometax Act, which is the same as the corresponding provision under the Indian Incometax Act.	None
The claim for deduction was refused by the Incometax Officer, who held that the amount in each year represented a capital expenditure though the whole sum was being paid in instalments.	None
The assessee appealed against the two orders of assessment to the Appellate Officer of Incometax and questioned this decision.	None
The appeals involved other matters also, with which we are not now concerned.	None
The appeals were dismissed.	None
The assessee appealed further to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, Bombay, and raised the same contention.	None
The Appellate Tribunal accepted the appeals.	None
Different reasons were given by the President and the Accountant Member.	None
According to the latter, the payment of these sums was similar to the payment of royalties and dead rent which is allowable as working expense in the case of mines and quarries.	None
The President relied upon (1949) 17 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ), and held that the payments represented the purchase of the stockintrade of the assessee, and that the leases did not create an asset of an enduring character.19.	None
The Commissioner of Incometax, Hyderabad Division then asked for a reference of the case to the High Court at Hyderabad, and the Appellate Tribunal referred the following question of law under S. 66 (1) of the Hyderabad Incometax ActWhether the leasemoney paid by the assessee Company to Nawab Mehdi Jung Bahadur and to Government is capital expenditure or revenue expenditure?The reference to Government in the question arises in this way.	Facts
It appears that there was yet another lease which was taken from Government for five years and under which the assessee was required to pay Rs. 9,000 per year in instalments of Rs. 750 per month.	Facts
It does not appear that the terms of this lease were ascertained and the amount does not figure in the order of assessment, though apparently it was assumed that what applied to the payment to the Nawab held equally good in regard to the payment to Government.	None
In any event, the books of the assessee kept in mercantile system showed both the sums each year as lease money.20.	None
The High Court of Hyderabad after an examination of several decisions rendered in India and the United Kingdom, held that the payments in each year of account were of a capital nature, and that no deduction could be given under S. 12 (2) (xv) of the Hyderabad Incometax Act.	None
The assessee then applied, and obtained the certificate as stated, and this appeal has been filed.21.	None
The arguments in the case involved the interpretation of the quolnama as to the right conveyed there and the nature of the payments with reference to the provision of the law under which the deduction was claimed.	None
That section reads as follows 10 (1).	None
The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head profits and gains of business, profession or vocation in respect of the profits and gains of any business, profession or vocation carried on by him.(2) Such profits or gains shall be computed after making the following allowances, namely (xv)Any expenditure (not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee) laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business, profession, or vocation.	None
While the Appellate Tribunal looked to the periodicity of the payments, the High Court held that the amount payable was Rs. 3,36,000 divided into annual and redivided into monthly instalments.	None
The Tribunal also considered the payments as of the nature of rent or royalty or as price for raw materials.	None
The High Court, on the other hand, disagreed, and held that there being no manufacturing business, the money expended could not be regarded as price of raw materials or even as rent but as spent to acquire a capital asset of enduring benefit to the assessee.	None
The High Court referred to numerous decisions in which the question whether a receipt or expenditure is on capital or revenue account has been considered in India and the United.	None
Kingdom.	None
Before us also, many of them were again cited as illustrating, if not laying down, certain general principles.	None
We shall refer to some of the leading cases later, but we may say at once that no conclusive tests have been laid down which can apply to all the cases.	None
The facts of one case differ so much from those of another that the enquiry is often somewhat fruitless.	None
If, however, the distinguishing features are not lost sight of, the decided cases do afford a guide for the solution of the problem in hand.22.	None
The arguments of Mr. Palkhivala for the assessee may be shortly stated.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the quolnama is a licence and not a lease, because it creates no interest in land and no premium is payable for the right, but what is paid is periodic compensation corresponding to rent.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the payments can only be regarded as periodic compensation or periodic royalty or licence fees and thus revenue in character.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further argues that even if held to be a lump sum payment broken up into instalments, it is still allowable as expenditure because it represents the price for the acquisition of raw materials, viewed from the business angle.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, all cases of mines and quarries fall into three classes which are (i) in which mines and quarries are purchased outright(ii) in which ownership is not acquired but only an interest in land and(iii) in which there is not even an interest in land but there is an arrangement in praesenti and de futuro to ensure supply of raw materials.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that this being evidently not a case within the first category, it matters not which of the other two categories it belongs to, because in his submission, both the remaining categories exclude a case of capital expenditure.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, however, seems inclined to put his case in the third category.23.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Additional Solicitor  General on his side enumerates the tests which determine whether an expenditure bears a capital or revenue character.	Arguments of Respondent
According to him, decided cases show that capital expenditure is ordinarily once and for all and not of a periodic character, but contends that even a single sum chopped up into instalments is not a payment of a periodic character.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that capital expenditure is one which brings into existence an enduring advantage, which, he maintains, is the case here, because the money was spent on the initiation of the business and to obtain a permanent source of raw materials and not only the materials.24.	Arguments of Respondent
The quolnama shows that the agreement was for 12 years.	None
The assessee paid an initial sum of Rs. 96,000 as security for the whole contract.	None
He was required to pay Rs. 28,000 per year.	None
The security which was given was being diminished at the rate of Rs. 8,000 per year.	None
It was a guarantee against failure to pay the monthly instalments, but there was no condition that the short payments were to be debited to it.	None
It was rather a guarantee for the overall payment and to reimburse the jagir for any loss occasioned by a reauction of the lease after default by the assessee.	None
Further, the payments were to be made even if no stones were extracted or could not be extracted due to force majeure.	None
There was no limit to the quantity to be extracted.	None
There was also a condition that none but the assessee was allowed to work the quarries, which means that the right was exclusive and in the nature of a monopoly.	None
The payment, though divided into instalments of Rs. 1,666108 per month, was really one for the entire lease and of Rs. 3,36,000.	None
Nothing, however, turns upon it.	None
It is pertinent to say that the assessee in its petition for leave to appeal to his Court filed in the High Court, viewed the amount as being Rs.3,36,000 divided into various parts.	None
This is what it said Under the terms of the said lease, the Company was required to pay a sum of H. S. Rs. 28,000 per annum to the lessor.	None
The total amount payable for he entire period amounted to Rs. 3,36,000 out of which a sum of Rs. 96,000 was paid at the time of the execution of the lease deed and the balance of Rs. 2,40,000 was agreed to be paid at the rate of Rs. 20,000 per annum in twelve years.	None
It was also agreed that this sum of Rs. 20,000 per annum should be paid in equal instalments of Rs. 1,666108 every month.	None
On the expiry of the period of lease, it was renewed for a further period of five years and seven months at an annual rent of Rs. 35,000.These being the terms of the lease, the question is whether the payments in the account years can be regarded as capital or revenue expenditure.25.	None
The question whether an expenditure is capital or revenue in character is one of common occurrence.	None
Its frequency, however, has not served to elucidate the tests with any degree of certainty and precision.	None
It has now become customary to startwith two propositions which appear to have been received without much argument.	None
The first was laid down in Vallambrosa Rubber Co., Ltd. v. Farmer, (1910) 5 Tax Cas 529, where Lord Dunedin observed that in a rough way it was not a bad criterion of what is capital expenditure as against what is income expenditure to say that capital expenditure is a thing that is going to be spent once and for all and income expenditure is a thing which is going to recur every year.	None
This proposition was further qualified by Lord Cave in Atherton v. Birtish Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd., 1926 AC 205 at p. 213, in the following words When an expenditure is made, not only once and for all, but with a view to bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefit of a trade, I think there is very good reason (in the absence of special circumstances leading to the opposite conclusion) for treating such an expenditure as properly attributable, not to revenue, but to capital.	None
The words enduring benefit of a trade have been further explained as meaning not everlasting, but in the way capital endures, see Du Parcq, L. J. in Henriksen v. Grafton Hotel Ltd., (1942) 24 Tax Cas 453 at p. 462 and Rowlatt, J., in Anglo Persian Oil Co. v. Dale, (1932) 16 Tax Cas 253 at p. 262.26.	None
Another test propounded by Viscount Haldane in John Smith and Son v. Moore, (1921) 12 Tax Cas 266 at p. 282, is to distinguish, as economists do, between fixed and circulating capital.	None
This appears to have appealed to Lord Hanworth, M. R., in Golden Horse Shoe (New) Ltd. v. Thurgood, (1934) 18 Tax Cas 280 at p. 298	None
but in Van Den Berghs Ltd. v. Clark, (1935) 19	None
Tax Cas 390 1935 AC 431, Lord Macmillan observed that he did not find it very helpful.	None
Often enough, where the character of the expenditure shows that what has resulted is something which is to be used in the way of business, the test may be useful but in cases close to the dividing line, the test seems useless.27.	None
A third test was laid down by the Judicial Committee in Tata HydroElectric Agencies, Ltd., Bombay v. Commr. of Incometax, 64 Ind App 215 5 ITR 202 (AIR 1937 PC 139 ).	None
There, it was stated that if the expenditure was part of the working expenses in ordinary commercial trading it was not capital but revenue.	None
The Judicial Committee observed What is money wholly and exclusively laid out for the purposes of the trade is a question which must be determined upon the principles of ordinary commercial trading.	None
It is necessary, accordingly, to attend to the true nature of the expenditure, and to ask oneself the question, Is it a part of the companys working expenses is it expenditure laid out as part of the process of profit earning?28.	None
In addition to these three tests, the last of which was applied again by the Judicial Committee in Mohanlal Hargovinds case, 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ), there are some supplementary tests, which have frequently been alluded to.	None
Lord Sands in Commrs. of Inland Revenue v. Granite City Steamship Co., Ltd., (1927) 13	None
Tax Cas 1 at p. 14, characterised as capital an outlay made for the initiation of a business, for extension of a business, or for a substantial replacement of equipment.	None
In that case, there was extensive damage to a ship, and repairs were necessary to resume trading, such expense being held to be capital expenditure.	None
The questions which Lord Clyde posed in Robert Addie and Sons Collieries Ltd. v. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1924) 8 Tax Cas 671 at p. 676, namely Is it part of the Companys working expenses, is it expenditure laid out as part of the process of profit earning?  	None
or, on the other hand, is it capital outlay, is it expenditure necessary for the acquisition of property or of rights of a permanent character, the possession of which is a condition of carrying on its trade at all?influenced the Privy Council in 5 ITR 202 at p. 209 (AIR 1937 PC 139 at p. 142), and the latter part of the question is the test laid down by Lord Sands, to which we have referred.29.	None
There is then the test whether by the expenditure the taxpayer was ensuring supplies of raw material or purchasing them.	None
This test is adverted to by Channell, J., in (1904) 5 Tax Cas 60 and approved by the House of Lords.	None
Says Channell, J.	None
In the ordinary case, the cost of the material worked up in a manufactory is not a capital expenditure, it is a current expenditure and does not become a capital expenditure merely because the material is provided by something like a forward contract, under which a person for the payment of a lump sum secures a supply of the raw material for a period extending over several yearsIf it is merely a manufacturing business, then the procuring of the raw material would not be a capital expenditure.	None
But if it is like the working of a particular mine, or bed of brick earth and converting the stuff into a marketable commodity, then the money paid for the prime cost of the stuff so dealt with is just as much capital as the money sunk in machinery or buildings.	None
The application of this proposition finds an example in Mohanlal Hargovinds case, 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ), where tendu leaves were the subject of expenditure.	None
The firm in that case had paid for purchasing a right to collect tendu leaves from forest, which right included the right of entry and coppicing and pollarding.	None
No right in the land or the trees and plants was conveyed and the Judicial Committee laid emphasis on the nature of the business of the firm, and equated the expenditure to one for acquiring the raw materials for the manufacturing business.30.	None
The cases to which we have referred and many more of the High Courts in India where the principles were applied with the exception of the one last cited, were all considered by this Court in 195527 ITR 34 ((S) AIR 1955 SC 89 ).	None
In that case, Bhagwati, J., referred to a decision of the Punjab High Court in 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB), where Mahajan, J. (as he then was) summarised the position and the various tests.	None
This Court quoted with approval this summary, and observed at p. 45 (of 27 ITR) (at p. 96 of AIR)In cases where the expenditure is made for the initial outlay or for extension of a business or a substantial replacement of the equipment, there is no doubt that it is capital expenditure.	None
A capital asset of the business is either acquired or extended or substantially replaced and that outlay whatever be its source whether it is drawn from the capital or the income of the concern is certainly in the nature of capital expenditure.	None
The question however arises for consideration where expenditure is incurred while the business is going on and is not incurred either for extension of the business or for the substantial replacement of its equipment.	None
Such expenditure can be looked at either from the point of view of what is acquired or from the point of view of what is the source from which the expenditure is incurred.	None
If the expenditure is made for acquiring or bringing into existence an asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business it is properly attributable to capital and is of the nature of capital expenditure.	None
If on the other hand it is made not for the purpose of bringing into existence any such asset or advantage but for running the business or working it with a view to produce the profits it is a revenue expenditure.	None
If any such asset or advantage for the enduring benefit of the business is thus acquired or brought into existence it would be immaterial whether the source of the payment was the capital or the income of the concern or whether the payment was made once and for all or was made periodically.	None
The aim and object of the expenditure would determine the character of the expenditure whether it is a capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure.	None
The source or the manner of the payment would then be of no consequence.	None
It is only in those cases where this test is of no avail that one may go to the test of fixed or circulating capital and consider whether the expenditure incurred was part of the fixed capital of the business or part of its circulating capital.	None
If it was part of the fixed capital of the business it would be of the nature of capital expenditure and if it was part of its circulating capital it would be of the nature of revenue expenditure.	None
These tests are thus mutually exclusive and have to be applied to the facts of each particular case in the manner above indicated.31.	None
Learned counsel in the present case rested his case upon the decision of the Punjab High Court in Benarasidas case, 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB), and stated that after its approval by this Court, the expenditure here could not but be held as on capital account.	None
He relied strongly also upon the decision of the Judicial Committee in Mohanlal Hargovinds case, 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ).	None
Reference was made to other decisions, which we will briefly notice later.32.	None
In Benarasidas case, 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB), the person sought to be assessed was a manufacturer of bricks.	None
He obtained certain lands for digging out earth for his manufacture.	None
Under the deeds which gave him this right, he could dig up to a depth of 3 feet to 3 1/2 feet.	None
He had no interest in the land, and as soon as the earth was removed, his right was at an end.	None
It was, held in that case that the main object of the agreements was the procuring of earth as raw materials, and by the expenditure the lessee had not acquired any advantage of a permanent or enduring character.	None
It is, however, to be noticed that the duration of the leases was from six months to three years.	None
The Full Bench referred to some other leases in which the duration was longer, and observed There are other agreements which are not before us and it seems that the items mentioned in the question referred relate to those agreements as well.	None
We do not know the nature of the agreements, but the question can be answered by saying that expenses incurred during the year of assessment for purchase of earth on basis of agreements of the nature mentioned in the case of Benarsidas or of the nature like Exhibit T. E. are admissible deductions, while sums spent for obtaining leases for a substantially long period varying from 10 to 20 years cannot be held to be valid deductions if they amount to an acquisition of an asset of an enduring advantage to the lessee.	None
It appears that the Full Bench was persuaded to this view from two considerations.	None
The first was that what was acquired was earth with no interest in land, and the other was the short term of the leases.33.	None
The approval given to Benarasidas case, 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162) (FB) by this Court does not extend beyond the summary of the tests settled in it, and the tests have to be applied to the facts of each case in the manner indicated by this Court.	None
But the actual decision was not before this Court, and cannot be said to have been approved.	None
The agreements in the present case are longterm contracts.	None
They give the right to extract stones in six villages without any limit by measurement or quantity.	None
They give the right exclusively to quarry for a number of years.	None
This case is thus very different on facts.	None
Further, the duration of the right which seems to have weighed with the Full Bench in the Punjab High Court has little to do with the character of the expenditure even if it be a relevant factor to consider.	None
In Henriksens case, (1942) 24 Tax Cas 453, the right was only for 3 years, but monopoly value having been paid for it, the result was a capital asset of an enduring character.34.	None
In Mohanlal Hargovinds case, 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ), the person assessed was a bidi manufacturer who had obtained shortterm contracts with Government and other forest owners to obtain tendu leaves from the forests.	None
These tendu leaves with tobacco are used to roll into cigarettes.	None
The contracts gave a right of entry into forests to collect the leaves and also to coppice the plants and to pollard the tendu trees, but beyond this gave no interest in land.	None
The Judicial Committee held that these contracts were in a business sense for the purpose of securing supplies to the manufacturers of one of the raw materials of his bussiness.	None
They granted no interest in land or the plants or trees.	None
The small right of cultivation and the exclusive nature of the grant were of no significance.	None
Then, the Judicial Committee observed as followsCases relating to the purchase or leasing of mines, quarries, deposits, of brick earth, land with standingtimber etc do not appear to their Lordships to be of assistance.	None
The Board distinguished (1904) 5 Tax Cas 60 which was said to be a case analogous to purchase or leasing of a mine and Kauri Timber Co. v. Commr. of Taxes, 1913 AC 771, which was a case of acquisition of land or of standing timber which was an interest in land.	None
In either case it was a capital asset.	None
Their Lordships finally observedIn the present case the trees were not acquired nor were the leaves acquired until the appellants had reduced them into their own possession and ownership by picking them.	None
The two cases can, in their Lordships opinion, in no sense be regarded as comparable.	None
If the tendu leaves had been stored in a merchants godown and the appellants had bought the right to go and fetch them and so reduce them into their possession and ownership it could scarcely have been suggested that the purchase price was capital expenditure.	None
Their Lordships see no ground in principle or reason for differentiating the present case from that supposed.35.	None
It is to be noticed that the Privy Council case was not applied but distinguished by the Court of Appeal in England in (1955) 35 Tax Cas 459.	None
In that case the Company was doing the business of selling sand and gravel.	None
It purchased two unworked deposits, and it claimed that the payment should be deducted from its profits as being expenditure for acquiring its trading stock.	None
It was held that the company had acquired a capital asset and not a stockintrade.	None
Harman J., before whom the appeal came from the decision of the General Commissioners, said that the case was indistinguishable from the Golden Horse Shoe case, (1934) 18 Tax Cas 280, where the tailings were regarded as the stockintrade of the taxpayer.	None
He observed Now, it is said here that the opposite conclusion should be reached, and I think in substance the reason is because this gravel had never been raked off the soil upon which it was lying.	None
There is no question, in any true sense, of extracting gravel there is no process, as I understand it, gone through here.	None
It is not even suggested that a riddle or sieve is used you merely dig it up or rake it up where it lies, put it on the lorry and sell it wherever you can.	None
It is said what was bought was a mere right to go on the place and win the gravel, but in effect, in the Golden Horse Shoe case, (1934) 18 Tax Cas 280, what was bought was the licence to go on the land and take away the tailings, and I myself think that it is a distinction without difference to suggest that, because nobody had ever applied a rake to this gravel before, it should be treated as capital, whereas if somebody had raked it into little heaps before the contract was made then its purchase would constitute a different form of adventure.	None
It is the same situation it is no more and no less attached to the land.	None
In dealing with this case on appeal, Lord Evershed, M. R. (then Sir Raymond Evershed) felt that the case was a little hard upon the taxpayer, and further that it might, if proper enquiry had been made, have been possible to hold that after the price was paid, the sand and gravel become, in truth, the stockintrade of the taxpayer.	None
Taking the facts, however, as found, he held that what was purchased was a part of the land itself, namely, the gravel in situ.	None
He held that there was distinction between the purchase of a growing crop or leaves and the purchase of gravel.	None
Lord Evershed then analysed the agreement, and observed as followsI think that, once it has to be conceded that there was no sale of the gravel in the way the Judge said there was, then it must follow that what was here acquired was the means of getting the gravel by excavating and making it part of the stockintrade.	None
Reference was then made by him to cases in which what was purchased or taken on lease was land or an interest in land, and Mohanlal Hargovinds case, 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ), was distinguished on the ground that in that case it was possible to say of tendu leaves that they were acquired as the raw material for manufacture.	None
The argument of Mr. Magnus in the case described as an attempt to substitute sand and gravel for tendu leaves was not accepted, Lord Evershed observingBut I cannot say the same of the sand and gravel, part of the earth itself, which was the subject of the contract here in question and which I think only could sensibly become part of the stockintrade of this gravel merchants business when it had in the true sense been won, had been excavated and been taken into their possession.	None
We are in entire agreement that such a distinction is not only palpable but also sensible.	None
The present case is a fortiori.	None
Here, the stones are not lying on the surface but are part of a quarry from which they have to be extracted methodically and skilfully before they can be dressed and sold.	None
These deposits are extensive, and the work of the assessee carries him deep under the earth.	None
Such a deposit cannot be described as the stockintrade of the assessee, but stones detached and won can only be so described.36.	None
Before we deal with the other cases, we wish to state the distinguishing features of the cases already mentioned, and which have not often been viewed together.	None
In the Alianza case, (1904) 5 Tax Cas 60, the sale deed was not of the caliche as such but of the right to win it from a deposit thereof, and it was treated as an expenditure of a capital nature.	None
In the Stow Bardolph case, (1955) 35 Tax Cas 459, the finding was that sand and gravel had to be won, and it was held that they could not be treated as stockintrade till they were actually won.	None
The doubt expressed by Lord Evershed was that if the taking of sand and gravel involved merely taking them up and putting them into trucks, the finding could have been otherwise.	None
Harman J. made this distinction, but in view of the finding, the Court of Appeal came to a different conclusion.	None
Indeed.	None
Harman, J. himself would have decided differently if there was, in any true sense, a question of extracting gravel.	None
He, therefore, thought that the case resembled the Golden Horse Shoe case, (1934) 18 Tax Cas 280, where the tailings were bargained for and paid for, and became the stockintrade of the taxpayer.	None
In Mohanlal Hargovinds case, 194917 ITR 473 (AIR 1949 PC 311 ), there being no interest in land or trees or plants and the right of cultivation and the exclusiveness of the right to the leaves being insignificant, the contracts were treated as leading to acquisition of the raw materials.	None
The leaves on trees were treated as equal to leaves in a shop.	None
It was on this ground that that case was distinguished from the Kauri Timber Co. case, 1913 AC 771, in which land and interest in land in the shape of standing timber were involved.	None
The case in HoodBarrs v. Commrs. of Inland Revenue, (1958) 34 ITR 238 was similar to the last cited.	None
In the present case, the assessee acquired a right to extract stones and his lease included not only the stones on the top but also those buried out of sight under tons of other stones, which he could only reach after extracting those above.	None
This case is thus within the rule of those cases in which the right acquired is to a source from which the raw materials are to be extracted.	None
The doubt expressed by Lord Evershed does not apply to the facts here, because the reasons given by Harman, J., cannot be made applicable at all.37.	None
In 194311 ITR 513 (AIR 1943 PC 153 ), the case involved payment of certain annual sums by way of salami for mining rights, and these were regarded as capital income.	None
There were also two other payments, namely, royalty on coal raised and a provision for minimum royalty.	None
These were regarded as not capital receipts but as assessable income.	None
In dealing with the nature of the working of a mine, certain observations were made.	None
It was contended that the payments amounted to conversion of a capital asset into cash.	None
The argument was repelled by the Judicial Committee in these words These are periodical payments, to be made by the lessee under his covenants in consideration of the benefits which he is granted by the lessor.	None
What these benefits may be is shown by the extract from the lease quoted above, which illustrates how inadequate and fallacious it is to envisage the royalties as merely the price of the actual tons of coal.	None
The tonnage royalty is indeed payable when the coal or coke is gotten and despatched but that is merely the last stage.	None
As preliminary and ancillary to that culminating act, liberties are granted to enter on the land and search, to dig and sink pits, to erect engines and machinery, coke ovens, furnaces and form railways and roads.	None
All these and the like liberties show how fallacious it is to treat the lease as merely one for the acquisition of a certain number of tons of coal, or the agreed item of royalty as merely the price of each ton of coal.	None
The contract is in truth much more complex.	None
The royalty is in substance a rent it is the compensation which the occupier pays the landlord for that species of occupation which the contract between them allows, to quote the words of Lord Denman in R. v. Westbrook, (1847) 10 QB 178.	None
He was referring to leases of coal mines, clay pits and slate quarries.	None
He added that in all these the occupation was only valuable by the removal of portions of the soil.	None
It is true that he was dealing with occupation from the point of view of rating, but compensation has the same meaning in its application to matters of taxation such as are involved in this case.38.	None
Thus, the contention of the learned counsel for the assessee that we should treat this quolnama as merely showing a licence and not a lease creating interest in land is not correct.	None
A lease to take out sand was described in Kanjee and Moolji Bros. v. Shanmugam Pillai, ILR 56	None
Mad 169 (AIR 1932 Mad 734 ), as amounting to a transfer of interest in immovable property and also so, in connection with the Registration Act in Secy. of State v. Kuchwar Lime and Stone Co., 65 Ind App 45 at p. 54 (AIR 1938 PC 20 at p. 22).	None
It is thus clear that what the assessee acquired was land, a part of which in the shape of stones he was to appropriate under the covenants.	None
He was not purchasing stones, and the price paid could not in any sense be referable to stones as stockintrade.	None
The stones extracted might have become his stockintrade, but the stones in situ were not so.39.	None
Nor do we agree that the periodicity of payments has any significance.	None
As was pointed out by Lord Greene, M. R. in Henriksens case, (1942) 24 Tax Cas 453 If the sum payable is not in the nature of revenue expenditure, it cannot be made so by permitting it to be paid in annual instalments.	None
These payments by instalments in respect of monopoly value have not the annual quality of the payments for grant of the annual excise licence, but are of a different character altogether Here the Appellants were minded to acquire as asset in the shape of a licence for a term of years.	None
The learned Master of the Rolls added that the annual payments gave a false appearance of periodicity.40.	None
Applying the above test to the present case, it is obvious that the monthly payments of Rs. 1,666108 did not represent the lease amount for a month.	None
This was a case in which the assessee had acquired an asset of an enduring character for which he had to put his hand in his pocket for a very large sum indeed.	None
He paid Rs. 96,000 down, but for the rest he asked for easy terms.	None
The amount paid every month was not in any sense a payment of acquisition of the right from month to month.	None
It was really the entire sum chapped into small payments for his convenience.	None
Nor an the amount be described as a business expense, because the outgoings over purchase of stones but in discharge of the entire liability to the jagir.41.	None
Some of the cases to which we were referred may now be briefly noted.	None
Hakim Ram Prasad In re, (1936)	None
4 ITR 104 (Lah), was a case of renting of a cinema projector for 10 years.	None
The amount paid was thus hire for the machine.	None
In Commr. of Incometax v. Globe Theatres, Limited, 195018 ITR 403 (AIR 1952 Cal 145 ), the assessee advance Rs. 10,000 to a company for the construction of a cinema house which was never built.	None
Since the amount was not salami or premium but only advance rent, it was held deductible.	None
Commissioner of Incometax v. Kolhia Hirdagarh Co. Ltd., 194917 ITR 545 (AIR 1950 Bom 51 ), was a case of commission on every ton of coal raised, and it was held to be revenue expenditure.	None
These cases are entirely different, and can be of no authority for payments, such as we have.42.	None
Reliance was also placed upon Parmanand Haveli Ram In re, (1945) 13 ITR 157 (AIR 1945 Lah 137), Nand Lal Bhoj Raj In re, 194614 ITR 181 (Lah) and Commissioner of Incometax v. Tika Ram and Sons, 19375 ITR 544 (AIR 1937 All 708) (SB).	None
In the first two, expenditure to acquire lands bearing certain salts in the earth, which could be converted into potassium nitrate, sodium chloride or saltpetre, was regarded as revenue expenditure.	None
They follow the line of reasoning which the same Court adopted in the Full Bench case of Benarsidas, 194715 ITR 185 (AIR 1947 Lah 162), which we have considered in detail earlier.	None
They involved shortterm contracts, and in the Full Bench case it was stated that the case of longterm leases was on a different footing, though, in our opinion, the decisive factors in such cases will be the nature of the acquisition and the reason for the payment.	None
Cases on the other side of the line where payments were regarded as capital expenditure are Commissioner of Incometax v. Chengalvaroya Mundaliar, ILR 58	None
Mad 1 (AIR 1934 Mad 617 (2) ) (SB) and Chengalvaroya Chettiar v. Commissioner of Incometax, (1937) 5 ITR 70 (AIR 1937	None
Mad 300) (SB).	None
There the expenditure was for a lease for excavation of lime shells.	None
Since the lease conferred exclusive privilege and a new business was started, the payment was regarded not as the price for the shells but for the right to win shells.43.	None
All these cases turned on different facts, and it is not necessary to decide which of them in the special circumstances were correctly decided.	None
This enquiry will hardly help in the solution of the case in hand.	None
We are, however, satisfied that in this case the assessee acquired by his longterm lease a right to win stones, and the leases convey to him a part of land.	None
The stones in situ were not his stockintrade in a business sense but a capital asset from which after extraction he converted the stones into his stockintrade.	None
The payment, though periodic in fact, was neither rent nor royalty but a lump payment in instalments for acquiring a capital asset of enduring benefit to his trade.	None
In this view of the matter, the High Court was right in treating the outgoings as on capital account.44.	None
In the result, the appeal fails, and will be dismissed with costs.45.	None
Order In accordance with the majority judgment of the Court, the appeal is dismissed with costs.46.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
