 Kapadia, J. The question involved in this civil appeal filed by the department is  whether contracts entered into and executed by the assessee were contracts for sale and not workscontract.	Issue
M s. Kone Elevators (India) Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the assessee) is a unit of M s. Kone Corporation, Finland who are one of the pioneers in the manufacture of Hitech New Generation Elevators in the words.	Facts
M s. Kone Corporation, Finland has its operations spread over 37 countries in the world.	Facts
The assessee herein is a registered dealer falling in the jurisdiction of the Commercial Tax Officer, R.P. Road Circle, Secunderabad, having its head office at 50, Vanagaram Road, Aynambakkam, Madras, with branches at Vijaywada and Vizag.	Facts
The assessee filed monthly returns in form A2 for the months of April and May, 1995.	Facts
It was assessed by the said Commercial Tax Officer provisionally for the period 1.4.1995 to 31.5.1995 and for the period from 1.6.1995 to 31.7.1995 under the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to for the sake of brevity as the 1957 Act).	Facts
The said two provisional assessments were made by the Commercial Tax Officer vide orders dated 19.8.1995 and 5.9.1995 respectively.	Facts
The assessee claimed deductions of labour charges for composition of tax under section 5G read with section 5F of the said Act saying that nature of the work undertaken by it constituted workscontract involving manufacture, supply, installation and commissioning of elevators and lifts.	Facts
The assessing authority however did not allow the deduction sought for and passed the provisional assessment orders giving rise to two appeals against the said assessment orders.	Facts
By judgment and order dated 9.10.1995, the Deputy Commissioner, Secunderabad Division Bench, Hyderabad in turn dismissed the appeals filed by the assessee and thereby confirmed the aforestated assessment orders.	Facts
Both the lower authorities treated the disputed turnover of the assessee as falling under Entry 82 of the First Schedule to the said 1957 Act, which was objected to by the assessee by filing two separate appeals bearing T.A. Nos. 676 and 677 of 1995 before the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal, Hyderabad.	Facts
The point that arose before the Tribunal in the aforestated two appeals, heard and disposed of jointly, was  whether the transactions related to workcontract or to sale of lifts.	Facts
By judgment and order dated 22.12.1995, the said appeals bearing T.A. Nos.	Facts
676 and 677 of 1995 were allowed in favour of the assessee setting aside the impugned orders of the lower authorities by holding that the disputed turnover related to the manufacture, supply, fabrication and erection involved in the workscontract and that the said transaction did not amount to a contract of sale.	Facts
The original assessing authority was accordingly directed to allow the deduction of labour charges and to complete the assessment under section 5G read with section 5F of the 1957 Act, as amended, without treating it under Entry 82 of the first schedule to the Act.	Facts
Aggrieved by the decision of the Tribunal dated 22.12.1995, the department preferred Tax Revision Case No. 129 of 1999 under section 22(1) of the 1957 Act, to the High Court.	Facts
By impugned judgment and order dated 2.7.1999, the Tax Revision Case filed by the department was dismissed.	Facts
Hence, this civil appeal.3.	Facts
Shri Debojit Borkakati, learned counsel for the department submitted that the main object of the contract in question was to sell the lifts and the works done by the assessee for installation was incidental to the sale of lifts.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the Legislature had classified the commodity lift under Entry 82 of the first schedule to the Act keeping in mind that the word installation was ancillary to the sale of lifts.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the High Court had erred in holding that the installation of the lift involved skill and technical knowhow, which was to be treated as workscontract.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri M.N. Rao, learned senior counsel for the assessee, on the other hand, submitted that the assessee was engaged in the manufacture, supply, erection, installation and commissioning of lifts by undertaking workscontract that the lifts elevators as such cannot be delivered to the customer that various accessories and components were required to be taken to the sift where after carrying out the civil work, lifts were installed and commissioned.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further urged that only after all the parts stood assembled at site, the lifts came into being that installation and commissioning of lifts involved skill and only after installation and commissioning of the lifts, the ownership stood transferred to the customer.	Arguments of Respondent
Consequently, the assessee was entitled for deduction of labour charges and was entitled to composition of tax under section 5G of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that the assessing authority had erred in treating the transaction as a sale assessable to tax under Entry 82 of the first schedule to the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further submitted on behalf of the assessee that manufacture, supply, erection, installation and commissioning of lift came under definition of the words workscontract under section 2(1)(t) of the said Act and, therefore, the tax leviable fell under section 5F of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged that lifts and elevators cannot be delivered like A Cs as standard units that manufacture, supply, erection, installation and commissioning of lifts involved skill and labour as well as technical knowhow.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was placed, in support of above contentions, on various invoices raised by the assessee for manufacture supply, erection, installation and commissioning of lifts.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was also placed on the copy of the contracts entered into by the assessee.	Arguments of Respondent
Reliance was also placed on Indian Standards Institutions specifications and code of practice for installation of lifts and elevators to show the amount of skill, labour and technical knowhow involved in the manufacture, supply, erection, installation and commissioning of lifts.	Arguments of Respondent
In the circumstances, it was submitted that no interference was called for in this matter.	Arguments of Respondent
It can be treated as well settled that there is no standard formula by which one can distinguish a contract for sale from a workscontract.	Reasoning
The question is largely one of fact depending upon the terms of the contract including the nature of the obligations to be discharged thereunder and the surrounding circumstances.	Reasoning
If the intention is to transfer for a price a chattel in which the transferee had no previous property, then the contract is a contract for sale.	Reasoning
Ultimately, the true effect of an accretion made pursuant to a contract has to be judged not by artificial rules but from the intention of the parties to the contract.	Reasoning
In a contract of sale, the main object is the transfer of property and delivery of possession of the property, whereas the main object in a contract for work is not the transfer of the property but it is one for work and labour.	Reasoning
Another test often to be applied to is when and how the property of the dealer in such a transaction passes to the customer is it by transfer at the time of delivery of the finished article as a chattel or by accession during the procession of work on fusion to the movable property of the customer?	Reasoning
If it is the former, it is a sale, if it is the latter, it is a workscontract.	Reasoning
Therefore, in judging whether the contract is for a sale or for work and labour, the essence of the contract or the reality of the transaction as a whole has to be taken into consideration.	Reasoning
The predominant object of the contract, the circumstances of the case and the custom of the trade provides a guide in deciding whether transaction is a sale or a workscontract.	Reasoning
Essentially, the question is of interpretation of the contract.	Reasoning
It is settled law that the substance and not the form of the contract is material in determining the nature of transaction.	Reasoning
No definite rule can be formulated to determine the question as to whether a particular given contract is a contract for sale of goods or is a workscontract.	Reasoning
Ultimately, the terms of a given contract would be determinative of the nature of the transaction, whether it is a sale or a workscontract.	Reasoning
Therefore, this question has to be ascertained on facts of each case, on proper construction of terms and conditions of the contract between the parties.	Reasoning
Before proceeding further, an insight into the relevant provisions more especially the definitions of sale and workscontract have to be noticed.	None
Section 2(1)(n) which defines sale and section 2(1)(t) which defines the workscontract are extracted hereunder 2(1)(n) Sale with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means every transfer of the property in goods (whether as such goods or in any other form in pursuance of a contract or otherwise) by one person to another in the course of trade or business, for cash, or for deferred payment, or by any other valuable considerations or in the supply or distribution of goods by a society (including a cooperative society), club, firm or association to its members, but does not include a mortgage, hypothecation or pledge of, or a charge on goods.	None
Explanation VI	None
Whenever any goods are supplied or used in the execution of a works contract, there shall be deemed to be a transfer of property in such goods, whether or not the value of the goods so supplied or used in the course of execution of such works contract is shown separately and whether or not the value of such goods or material can be separated from the contract for the service and the work done.2(1)(t)	None
Works Contract includes any agreement for carrying out for cash or for deferred payment or for any other valuable consideration, the building construction, manufacture, processing, fabrication, erection, installation, fitting out, improvement, modification, repair or commissioning of any movable or immovable property.7.	None
We also quote hereinbelow Entry 82 of the First Schedule to the 1957 ActSl.	None
Description ofPoint ofRate of TaxEffectiveNo.	None
GoodsLevyfrom82.Lifts, electrical orAt the point of10 paise in1.8.1986hydraulic (1082)first sale inthe	None
rupeethe State.16 paise in1.4.1995the rupee The bracketed words and the transactions brought within the purview of sale by the aforestated ExplanationVI appended to section 2(1)(n) are meant to covernonconventional sale transactions which are now specified in Clause (29A) of Article 366 introduced by the Constitution 46th Amendment Act.	None
Before the inclusive definition of the tax on sale or purchase of goods was introduced by the 46th Amendment, the expression sale of goods occurring in Entry 48 of List II of the Government of India Act was interpreted by this Court in the classical case of State of Madras vs. Gannon Dunkerley Co.	None
(Madras) Ltd. reported in (AIR 1958 SC 560 ) as a term of wellrecognized legal import in the general law and as mentioned in the Sale of Goods Act.	None
The expression sale of goods in Entry 48 was described as nomen juris, its essential ingredients being an agreement to sell movables for a price and property passing therein pursuant to that agreement.	None
It was held that in a building contract which is composite and indivisible, there is no sale of goods as there could be no agreement to sell materials as such and moreover, the property does not pass an movables.	None
In order to enlarge the concept of sale and to arm the State Legislatures with power to tax the transactions simulating sales but not conforming to the concept of sale under the Sale of Goods Act, clause (29A) was inserted in Article 366 by the 46th Constitutional Amendment.	None
The Andhra Pradesh State Legislature fell in line with this amendment and changed the definition of sale so as to bring within the tax net the transactions which are not stricto sensu sales as per the law laid down in Gannon Dunkerleys case (supra).	None
It is important to note that the 1957 Act ordains that transfer of property in goods for valuable consideration must be in the course of trade or business (vide section 2(1)(n).	None
This is because the incidence of tax falls on a dealer who carries on the business of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods (vide section 2(1)(e).	None
A sale by a person who carries on the business of buying, selling etc. and a sale in the course of business are the twin requirements to attract of tax under the said 1957 Act.	None
The crucial question is whether these two requirements are satisfied.	None
Is there an element of business present in the disputed transactions?	None
Assuming there was a sale of goods, did such sale take place in the course of business and by a person who carries on the business of buying and selling goods?	None
In the case of Hindustan Shipyard Ltd. vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in (2001) 119 STC 533), this Court held that if the during to be delivered has any individual existence before the delivery as the sole property of the party who is to deliver it, then it is a sale.	Reasoning
If the bulk of material used in construction belongs to the manufacture who sells the endproduct for a price, then it is a strong pointer to the conclusion that the contract is in substance one for the sale of goods and not one for labour.	Reasoning
However, the test is not decisive.	Reasoning
It is not the bulk of the material alone but the relative importance of the material qua the work, still and labour of the payee which also has to be seen.	Reasoning
If the major component of the endproduct is the material consumed in producing the chattel to be delivered and skill and labour are employed for converting the main components into the endproducts, the skill and labour are only incidentally used, the delivery of the endproduct by the seller to the buyer would constitute a sale.	Reasoning
On the other hand, if the main object of the contract is to avail the skill and labour of the seller though some material or components may be incidentally used during the process of the endproduct being brought into existence by the investment of skill and labour of the supplier, the transaction would be a contract for work and labour.10.	Reasoning
Applying the above tests, we may now proceed to notice the relevant recitals of the contracts in questions.	Reasoning
Under the price schedule the assessee agreed to supply and install a Kone Elevator for Rs. 3,30,000/.	Reasoning
It was agreed that the customer shall approve the drawings and shall make machine room Hoistway and the Lift Shaft including power supply for the assessee to commence installation at the time of the delivery of the lift.	Reasoning
The contractual obligations of the assessee regarding installation included employing labour to complete the mechanical erection, electrical wiring testing and commissioning of the lift.	Reasoning
The assessee agreed that it shall commence installation only after the lifts arrived at the site and upon intimation from the customer that the site was ready as per the drawings.	Reasoning
As soon as the lift stood installed, the customer was to take over.	Reasoning
It was further agreed that any material supplied by the assessee shall remain their property till the lift was handed over to the customer.	Reasoning
The contract in question consisted of certain obligations on the part of the customers under the heading Customers Contractual Obligations.	Reasoning
Under this clause, the customer was obliged to undertake the work of civil constructions consisting of A properly enclosed lift Hoistway.b)	None
A lift pit of proper depthc) Properly lighted machine room andd) Private pockets on the lift well walls.	None
Further, certain obligations were passed on the customer under the Delivery Schedule which are reproduced herein below The General Agreement Drawing in triplicate will be forwarded to you in approximately six weeks from the date of receipt of complete site details along with the order and advance payment.	None
The purpose of this drawing is to clearly indicate to you pertinent dimensional details of the lift shaft, pit, machine room, car and landing entrances etc.	None
if any modification is required by you in our General Arrangement Drawing it is advisable to hold on construction till the revised General Arrangement Drawing is approved by you.	None
Within six weeks from the date of receipt of all the site details, the same should be returned to us within two weeks from the date of submission, duly approved by you.	None
We reserve the rights to charge extra for subsequent GAD revisions if full site particulars are not made available to us at the time of placing of the order (or) any modification is desired regarding the building structure resulting in revision of GADs.	None
We shall deliver the materials for each Elevator by the end of 6 months from the date of receipt of approved General Arrangement Drawing and shall complete the installation thereafter by the end of 2 months provided the lift shall including power supply as per our requirements is made ready for us to commence installations at the time of delivery of materials.	None
We shall commence the installation after the materials arrive at the job site and upon intimation from you that the site is ready as per the approved General Arrangement Drawing.	None
If the site is not ready for taking up installation when the materials arrive at the job site, we shall depute an installation team on hearing from you that the site, is ready in all respects as required by us.	None
On a careful study of the aforestated clause in the Delivery Schedule, it is clear that the customer was required to do the actual work at site for installation of lift.	Reasoning
On reading the above clause, it may be observed that the entire onus of preparation and making ready of the site for installation of lift was on the customer.	Reasoning
It was agreed that under no circumstances, the assessee shall undertake installation of lift if the site is not kept ready by the customer.	Reasoning
Under Clause 4(g) of the Customers Contractual Obligations, the assessee reserved the right to charge the customer for delays in providing the required facilities.	Reasoning
These facts clearly indicate that the assessee divided the execution of the contract into two parts, namely, the work to be initially done in accordance with the specifications laid down by the assessee and the supply of lift by the assessee.	Reasoning
The work part in the contract was assigned to the customer and the supply part was assigned to the assessee	Reasoning
This supply part included installation of lift.	Reasoning
Therefore, contractual obligation of the assessee was only to supply and install the lift, while the customers obligation was to undertake the word connected in keeping the site ready for installation as per the drawings.	Reasoning
In view of the contractual obligations of the customer and the fact that the assessee undertook exclusive installation of the lifts manufactured and brought to the site in knockeddown state to be assembled by the assessee, it is clear that the transaction in question was a contract of sale and not a workscontract.	Reasoning
Moreover, on perusal of the brochure of the assessee Company, one finds that the assessee is in the business of manufacturing of various types of lifts, namely, Passenger lifts, Freight elevators, Transport elevators and Scenic lifts.	Reasoning
A combined study of the above models, mentioned in the brochure, indicate that the assessee has been exhibiting various models of lifts for sale.	Reasoning
These lifts are sold in various colours with various capacities and variable voltage.	Reasoning
According to the brochure, it is open for a prospective buyer to place purchase order for supply for lifts as per his convenience and choice.	Reasoning
Therefore, the assessee satisfies, on facts, the twin requirements to attract the charge of tax under the 1957 Act, namely, that it carries on business of selling the lifts and elevators and it has sold the lifts and elevators during the relevant period in the course of its business.	Reasoning
In the present case, on facts, we find that the major component of the endproduct is the material consumed in producing the lift to be delivered and the skill and labour employed for converting the main components into the endproduct was only incidentally used and, therefore, the delivery of the endproduct by the assessee to the customer constituted a sale and not a workscontract.	Reasoning
Hence, transactions in question constitute sale in terms of entry 82 of the first schedule to the said Act and, therefore, section 5G of the said Act was not applicable.	Reasoning
For the aforestated reasons, the departments appeal is allowed the impugned judgment and order of the High Court dated 2.7.1999 passed in Tax Revision Case	Decision
No. 129 of 1999 and the judgment and order of the Sales Tax Appellate Tribunal dated 22.12.1995 passed in T.A. Nos.	Decision
676 677 of 1995, are set aside.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of this case, there will be no order as to costs.	Decision
