 BANUMATHI, J. These appeals arise out of the judgment dated 29.10.2003 passed in the Writ Petition Nos.4917 and 5044 of 2000 and order dated 29.12.2003 passed in review petition by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh at Hyderabad dismissing the writ petitions as well as the review petitions holding that the levy of sewerage cess levied on the appellant by the respondentBoard is in accordance with Section 55 of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1989 (HMWSS Act) and	Issue
Clause 16 of the agreement entered into between the appellant and the Board.	None
The facts giving rise to these appeals are that the appellant M s Vasant Chemicals Limited which is an amalgamation of three companies is engaged in the manufacture and export of dye intermediates and other organic chemicals in their units at Jeedimetla Industrial Estate, Ranga Reddy District, Hyderabad.	Facts
The effluents of the appellant industry and other industries were not of acceptable standards to be let into the sewer line of the Board and required treatment and therefore, the industrial units in Jeedimetla Estate decided to establish the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP).	Facts
Hence, under the joint efforts of all the chemical units and other industries including the appellant, a company was formed namely M s Jeedimetla Effluents Treatment Limited (JETL) in the year 1987 to get the effluents treated at their own cost to bring the quality of the effluents to an acceptable level.	Facts
The appellant and the other industrial units made investment by way of shares in the said company towards its capital.	Facts
According to the appellant, it has invested to the extent of more than 29 of the shares in JETL towards its equity.3.	Facts
After treating the effluents to sewer standards as prescribed under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (Water Act, 1974) and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (Environment Act, 1986) between 1988 and 1995, JETL was discharging the treated waste water effluents into the open drains nalas in Jeedimetla Area.	Facts
After discussion with Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSBthe Board) and the Government of Andhra Pradesh and APPCB, a dedicated pipeline was laid from the premises of JETL to connect to the sewerage system of HMWSSB which is located at a distance of about 10.38 kilometers at Balanagar at an estimated cost of Rs.346 lakhs.	Facts
For the said dedicated pipeline, JETL paid an amount of Rs.75,00,000/ as its contribution and the balance amount was contributed by the Board and the Government of Andhra Pradesh.	Facts
The pipeline became operational on 31.01.1998.	Facts
As per the direction of APPCB, the industries in IDA Jeedimetla are discharging their industrial effluents to JETL, which in turn partially treat effluents and let into the dedicated pipeline connecting JETL and sewer line at Boards sewer at Kukatpalli, Balanagar and then carried to Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Amberpet.4.	Facts
The appellant has obtained bulk water supply connection from the respondentHMWSS Board and the Board accorded sanction for supply of 36,200 gallons water per day Rs.12 per kilo litre to the appellantIndustry.	Facts
An agreement was entered into by the appellant with the respondentBoard on 27.04.1995 stipulating the terms and conditions of supply of water and the payments required to be made in terms thereto.	Facts
The agreement provides that HMWSSB will supply water to the appellant industry and water charges will be levied for the supply of water as per the agreement.	Facts
Clause 16 of the agreement inter alia provided for payment of sewerage cess and that the appellant is liable to pay a sewerage cess in accordance with Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	Facts
Clause 17 of the agreement obligates the appellant to avail the sewer facility provided by the HMWSSB if the premises of the appellant is located at a distance of less than thirtyfive meters from the sewer line of the HMWSSB.5.	Facts
The appellant made representations between 1998 and February, 2000 stating that levy of sewerage cess was illegal and contrary to the provisions of HMWSS Act as the appellant is not discharging its effluents into the sewerage system of the Board.	Facts
According to the appellant, the Board insisted upon payment of the arrears and sought payment of the sewerage cess for the period January, 1998 to March, 2000 and sought certain amount towards water cess from 1 st January, 1998 to February, 2000 vide two notices dated 25.01.2000.	Facts
Aggrieved thereby, the appellant filed writ petitions in WP(C	Facts
) No.4917/2000 and WP(C) No.5044/2000 challenging the notices levying of water cess and sewerage cess respectively.	Facts
The writ petitions were dismissed by the High Court by the common judgment dated 29.10.2003 upholding the levy of sewerage cess by holding that such levy is in terms of Section 55 of HMWSS Act.	Facts
The High Court held that though the appellants premises is not directly connected to the sewer line of the Board, the industrial effluents of the appellant are being carried to JETL and after partial treatment at JETL, the same is let into the sewerage system of the Board.	Facts
It was further observed that as per Section 55 of the HMWSS Act, the occupier of the premises from where the sewerage or effluents are let into the sewer facility provided by the Board by any means, has to pay the sewerage cess irrespective of the fact that whether or not the area is served by sewerage system of the Board.	Facts
The High Court pointed out that this statutory liability is incorporated in Clause 16 of the agreement as per which the appellant has to pay sewerage cess along with water cess 20 of the water charges.	Facts
The High Court dismissed the writ petitions vide judgement dated 29.10.2003 holding that the demand notices are not arbitrary and that do not suffer from any legal infirmities.6.	Facts
The appellant filed review petitions being Review MP No.33154/2003 in WP(C) No.4917/2000 and Review MP No.33158/2003 in WP(C) No.5044/2000 before the High Court which came to be dismissed vide order dated 29.12.2003 on the ground that the judgment dated 29.10.2003 does not suffer from any error apparent on the face of the record.	Facts
Mr. V. Giri, learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that since the premises of the appellant industry is situated in the area not served by the sewage system of the Board and in terms of proviso to Section 55 of the HMWSS Act, no sewerage cess is leviable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that since the appellant is covered under proviso to Section 55 of the HMWSS Act, the statutory liability cannot be imposed on the appellant on the basis of Clause 16 of the agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
Without prejudice to the above contentions, it was urged that under the agreement dated 31.08.2000 between the JETL and the Board, various charges are levied on JETL which are in effect sewerage cess and therefore, there cannot be double levy for the same service same taxable event which is impermissible under the law.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that the various documents produced and the contentions raised by the parties in the review petitions were not considered by the High Court and the High Court erred in dismissing the review petitions.8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reiterating the above submissions, on behalf of JETL, Mr. Guru Krishna Kumar, learned senior counsel submitted that under the agreement dated 31.08.2000, five different kinds of charges are levied on JETL by the Board namely (i) capital contribution (clause 4) (ii) sewerage connection charges (clause 4) (iii) charges towards maintenance of sewer line (clause 28) (iv) sewerage maintenance and sewerage treatment charges (clause 28) and (v) sewerage surcharge for effluents above a certain level (clause 29) and those charges though not christened as sewerage cess, they are in effect sewerage cess in terms of Section 55 of HMWSS Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further contended that various charges levied on JETL by virtue of the agreement dated 31.08.2000 correspond to the sewerage cess under Section 55 of HMWSS Act and levy of sewerage cess on the appellant for the same act of discharging of the same sewage, would therefore amount to a double levy on the industrial units.	Arguments of Petitioner
On behalf of the respondent Board, learned senior counsel Mr. Gourab Banerji submitted that the appellant industry, obtaining bulk water supply from the Board and discharging sewage into the sewer line of the Board, is liable to pay sewerage cess under Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that since after partial treatment at JETL, the effluents are let into the sewer line of the Board through which the effluents are carried to Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Amberpet for further treatment, the appellant is connected to the sewerage system of the Board and is liable to pay sewerage cess under Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that Clause 16 of the agreement incorporates the levy under Section 55 of the HMWSS Act and the Rules and Regulations thereunder and as per the terms of the agreement also, the appellants are liable to pay sewerage cess.	Arguments of Respondent
Insofar as the plea of double taxation, it was submitted that the JETL was not a party to the writ petitions filed by the appellant and the subsequent writ petition in WP(C) No.17381/2004 filed by the JETL inter alia challenging the sewerage surcharge under various agreements was already dismissed for default by the High Court.	Arguments of Respondent
We have carefully considered the submissions and perused the impugned judgment and materials on record.	Issue
The following points arise for determination in these appeals Whether the appellant is right in contending that the appellant unit is not connected to the sewerage system of the Board and so the levy of sewerage cess on the appellant under Section 55 of HMWSS Act is not sustainable?(ii)	Issue
Whether the appellant is right in contending that since the appellants unit is not served by a sewerage system of the Board, as per proviso to Section 55 of HMWSS Act, no sewerage cess can be levied?(iii)	Issue
Whether the charges collected from JETL under the agreement dated 31.08.2000 is in effect, sewerage cess in terms of Section 55 of HMWSS Act, thereby amounting to double levy of sewerage cess charge for the same service same taxable amount?	Issue
Appellants statutory liability to pay sewerage cess and Re contention Appellant is covered by the proviso to Section 55 of the Act Section 55 of the HMWSS Act contemplates levy of sewerage cess on the occupier of the premises from where the sewage or industrial effluents, as the case may be, are let into the sewer facility provided by the Board by any means whatsoever irrespective of fact whether or not the area is served by sewerage system of the Board.	Facts
Section 55 of HMWSS Act reads as under Charges towards the use of sewerage cess Every occupier of both domestic and nondomestic premises shall pay to the Board at the rate not exceeding thirty five percent of the bill charging for the water consumed or at such rate as may be prescribed by rules, to defray the capital cost of sewerage and sewage treatment works undertaken by the Board and the operation and maintenance of the sewerage system from time to time Provided that no such charges shall be levied in any premises situated in the areas which are not served by the sewerage system of the Board.	Facts
Admittedly, the appellant industry has obtained sanction for bulk water supply connection from the Board for the supply of 36,200 gallons of water per day Rs.12/ per kilo litre for the manufacture of dye and other chemicals.	Facts
In terms of the sanction of water supply to the appellant, an agreement was entered into with the respondentBoard on 27.04.1995 stipulating the conditions and the payments required to be made in terms thereto.	Facts
The agreement provides for payment of sewerage cess in accordance with Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	None
Clause 16 of the agreement mandates the Board to collect sewerage cess from the appellantindustry in terms of Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	Facts
Clause 17 of the agreement makes it obligatory on the part of the appellant to avail the facility of the Board if it is located within thirtyfive meters from the Boards sewerage system.	Facts
Clauses 16 and 17 read as under Clause 16.	None
In accordance with the provisions of Section 55 of the HMWSSA Act, 1989, the consumer shall pay sewerage cess along with water charges at the rate of 20 of the water charges or such other rates as may be prescribed and determined by the Board from time to time.	None
Clause 17.	None
It shall be obligatory on the part of the consumer to avail the sewers facility provided by the Board if the premises of the consumers are located at a distance less than 35 metres away from the Board sewer line to any point of the boundary of the consumer premises.	None
Appellant industry and other industrial units are producing chemicals, bulk pharmaceuticals and dye intermediates causing heavy pollution.	None
In order to comply with the provisions of Water Act, 1974, the industrial effluents discharged by the appellant industry and others are to be treated otherwise the industrial units will be violating various laws governing the treatment and disposal of sewage including protection of environment.	None
The issue pertaining to pollution, discharge of effluents in the State of Andhra Pradesh including the industrial region of Jeedimetla was the subject matter of a proceeding before this Honble Court being Writ Petition (C) No.1056 of 1990, in the matter of Indian Council for Enviro legal Action and Others.	None
In the said proceedings, a joint action plan was proposed by the CPCB, New Delhi and APPCB and a common effluent treatment plant was ordered to be set up.	None
As the industries were sending their untreated effluents into the sewer, directions were given that the A.P .	None
Pollution Control Board would not accept the effluents unless these conform to the standards prescribed by the Board vide Indian Council for Enviro Legal Action and others v. Union of India and others, (1998) 9 SCC 580.	None
Similar problem arose in the case of World Saviors v. Union of India and others (1998) 9 SCC 247.	None
In order to comply with the provisions of the Water Act, 1974 and the Environment Act, 1986 and in order to carry the industrial sewage to the Boards sewer trunk, a dedicated pipeline to the extent of 10.38 kilo meters from JETL to Kukatpally and Sanathnagar Main Line was laid.	None
The cost of laying the pipeline is stated to be Rs.346 lakhs out of which contribution of the JETL was Rs.75 lakhs and the balance amount was contributed by the Board and the Government of Andhra Pradesh.	None
This dedicated pipeline became operational from 31.01.1998.	Facts
The pipeline from JETL to Balanagar is a dedicated pipeline used exclusively by the JETL.	None
As per the agreement entered into with the Board, the management of the JETL pays the amount to the Board towards surcharge for discharging partially treated effluents from JETL into Board sewer and also for maintenance of the sewerage system.	None
After the industrial effluents are partly treated at JETL, the industrial effluents are let into the dedicated pipeline belonging to the Board system at Balanagar and from there, the sewage is let into 1000 mm diameter sewage trunk main belonging to the Board through which the effluents are carried to Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Amberpet.	Reasoning
A trunk sewer is one which bears the same relation to an entire sewer system that the trunk of a tree bears to its branches, or the main stream of a river bears to its tributaries.	None
It is sometimes called a trunk line sewer, an intercepting sewer, or a trunk line intercepting sewer Ref Environmental Pollution laws in India by Justice T. S. Doabia (2 nd Edition2010) published by LexisNexis Butterworths Wadhwa, Volume 1 at page no.1054 .	None
Graphic description of the sewerage connection is as under chart As per Section 55 of the HMWSS Act, the following essential ingredients are to be satisfied for levy of sewerage cess There has to be an occupier domestic or nondomestic premise2.	None
There should be consumption of water by such occupier3.	None
The rate to be charged would be up to 35 of bill for water consumed or at such rate as may be prescribed by rules and4.	None
The amount collected is towards (a) defraying capital cost of sewerage and sewerage treatment works undertaken by the Board and (b) for operation and maintenance of sewerage system from time to time.	None
The appellant being an occupier of a nondomestic premise having bulk water supply connection from the Board and a consumer of water and eventually discharging sewage effluents into the sewer line of the Board, the essential ingredients of Section 55 are thus satisfied.	None
The levy of sewage cess by the respondent is a statutory levy which the appellant is liable to pay under Section 55 of HMWSS Act.	None
Clause 16 of the agreement provides for payment of sewerage cess in terms of Section 55 of the Act which inter alia stipulates that the appellant is required to pay sewerage cess in accordance with Section 55 of the Act.	Facts
The sewerage cess of 35 levied by the Board for carrying the sewage of the acceptable quality through its transmission system is thus both statutory and in terms of the agreement between the appellant and JETL.	None
Contention of the appellant is that it is not liable to pay sewerage cess to the Board as it is not letting out the sewage effluents to the sewage system of the Board but is carrying the effluents in the tanker, lorries and letting it out in the effluent treatment of JETL and thus is not connected with the sewage line of the Board.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. V. Giri, learned senior counsel for the appellant contended that the appellant industry is not connected with sewerage system of the Board and therefore, levy of sewerage cess under Section 55 of the HMWSS Act is not sustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
Drawing our attention to the finding of the High Court that there is no sewerage line of HMWSSB connecting the appellants premises to the sewerage system of HMWSSB , the learned senior counsel for the appellant submitted that since there is no sewer or drainage line connecting the appellant industry, proviso to Section 55 of the HMWSS Act applies and no sewerage cess is leviable.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that even assuming that the dedicated pipeline from JETL for carrying its treated effluents to the sewerage system of the Board at Balanagar is a sewerage system of the Board which is more than two kilo meters from the premises of the appellant industry, JETL is separately paying the surcharge and the appellant is not connected with the sewerage system and therefore, there cannot be levy of sewerage cess on the appellant under Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
As pointed out earlier, admittedly, the appellant has obtained bulk water supply connection from the Board for supply of 36,200 gallons of water per day Rs.12/ per kilo litre.	Facts
It is also admitted that the appellant is discharging its industrial effluents into the Board sewer line.	None
The appellant being an occupier of the premises who is consuming water and discharging sewage into the sewerage system of the Board, in terms of Section 55 of the HMWSS Act, is liable to pay sewerage cess.	Facts
Though the pipeline from JETL to Kukutpally Balanagar is stated to be the dedicated pipeline, as pointed out earlier, this was laid at the cost of Rs.346 lakhs, out of which, JETL has paid only Rs.75 lakhs.	Facts
The rest of the cost was borne by the Board and the Government of Andhra Pradesh.	None
It is pertinent to note that Clause 4 of the agreement dated 31.01.1998 between JETL and the Board categorically stipulates that the dedicated pipeline from JETL to Kukutpally Balanagar belongs to the Board.	None
As per Section 54 of the Act, sewage which is likely to damage or interfere with the free maintenance of the sewerage system of the Board cannot be passed into the Board sewer and sewage treatment works.	None
In terms of Section 54 of HMWSS Act, Clause 19 is also incorporated in the agreement dated 27.04.1995 between the appellant industry and HMWSSB.	None
As per Clause 19 of the agreement, no effluents shall be discharged into the Boards sewerage system unless such effluents are treated in accordance with the provisions of the Water Act, 1974.	None
Clause 19 reads as under No effluent shall be discharged into the Board sewer unless such effluent is treated in accordance with the provisions of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 relating to discharge and disposal of industrial effluents and other objectionable effluents.	None
Further, the treatment shall also conform to the IS specification laid down from time to time for disposal of effluent into the domestic sewer of the Board.	None
Admittedly, JETL is neither a consumer of bulk water supply nor generating any sewage industrial effluents of its own.	Reasoning
The effluents of the appellant industry are not of acceptable standards for transmission system of the Board.	Reasoning
Before the effluents of the appellant industry are to be let into the sewer line of the Board, the appellant industry has to get the effluents treated at its own cost to bring the quality of the effluents to an acceptable level.	Reasoning
After getting partial treatment from JETL, the effluents are let into the said dedicated pipeline which belongs to the Board at Kukutpally Balanagar and then they are let into 1000 mm diameter sewage trunk belonging to the Board through which the effluents are carried to Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Amberpet measuring a distance of 18.90 kilo meters.	Reasoning
The length of the pipeline from JETL to Amberpet is 29.28 kilo meters.	Reasoning
Though the appellants unit is not directly connected with the Board sewer line, the industrial effluents of the appellant unit partially treated at JETL are ultimately let into the Board sewer line which is finally carried to STP at Amberpet.	Reasoning
In the light of this admitted factual position, the appellant is liable to pay sewerage cess under Section 55 of the Act.	Reasoning
Proviso to Section 55 of the Act contemplates that the sewerage cess shall not be levied on the occupier of the premises if such premises is stated to be in an area which is not served by the sewerage system of the Board.	Reasoning
The proviso implies that the occupier of such premises cannot use the Board sewer by any means whatsoever.	Reasoning
Therefore, the contention of the appellant that it is not liable to pay sewerage cess to the Board as it is not directly letting out sewage effluents into the sewage line of the Board and that it is carrying its effluents in the tanker, lorries and letting out in the effluent treatment plant of JETL and thus not connected with the sewage system of the Board, in our view, is wholly untenable.	Reasoning
Since the sewage of the appellant is ultimately let into the sewer line of the Board, the appellant cannot contend that it is not covered under Section 55 of the Act and that it is covered under proviso to Section 55 of the Act.20.	Reasoning
Placing reliance upon Ultra Tech Cement Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra and another, (2011) 13 SCC 497 , learned senior counsel for the appellant contended that when a particular cess is leviable under an enactment and the said enactment exempts a specific class of persons from paying the said cess, the State Government cannot make the lessee liable to pay the said cess on the ground that the agreement was entered into under a different enactment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Placing reliance upon paras (12) and (20) of the said judgment, it was contended that there is no sewer or drainage line connecting the appellants units or any other industry in Jeedimetla Effluent Treatment Limited to the sewerage system of HMWSSB and neither the appellant nor other industries discharge their sewage into the sewer line of the Board and, therefore, the appellants unit is covered under proviso to Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel further contended that any fiscal extraction is required to be constructed strictly in accordance with the provisions of the charging section and even if a clause for such payment is incorporated into the agreement as the agreement is subject to the provision of the relevant charging section.	Arguments of Petitioner
The above argument proceeds on the presumptive footing as if the appellants unit is covered under proviso to Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	None
Proviso to Section 55 of HMWSS Act states that no charge would be levied in any premises situated outside the sewage system not served by the sewerage system of the Board.	None
It has to be seen whether the appellant is right in contending that the appellant industry is not connected with the sewerage line of the Board and that no sewage of the appellant is let into the sewerage system of the Board and therefore, the appellant is covered under proviso to Section 55 of HMWSS Act.	None
In the process of letting out effluents, two things are involved namely (i) the treatment of industrial effluents to bring down the contents of the effluents to an agreed specification on one part and (ii) the transmission of those partially treated industrial effluents through the sewerage system of the Board.	None
Parties have entered into various agreements and there are three sets of agreements which are as under S. No. Parties Date of Agreement table Let us now consider the effect of the agreement between the appellant and JETL on the statutory liability of the appellant under Section 55 of the Act.	None
The agreement between the appellant and JETL for partial treatment of appellants industrial effluents is the internal contractual agreement between JETL and the appellant.	None
The appellant unit is to treat and process the industrial effluents and bring them down to permissible standard limits in accordance with the provisions of Water Act, 1974 and Environment Act, 1986 relating to discharge and disposal of industrial effluents and other objectionable effluents into sewers before discharging of the effluents into the Board sewer.	Reasoning
The treated effluents should also have to conform to the IS specification laid down from time to time for disposal of effluent into the domestic sewer of the Board.	None
T o discharge their contractual obligation in bringing the industrial effluents to permissible standard limits, the appellant unit entered into an agreement dated 22.01.1996 with JETL engaging it to treat its industrial effluents in accordance with the environmental laws in force.	Reasoning
The appellant instead of treating the effluents at its premises at its own cost engaged JETL for treating its effluents.	Reasoning
Thus, for its convenience, the appellant unit has entered into an agreement with JETL for treating its effluents and the charges paid by them to JETL are towards the treatment of effluents and bring it to permissible standards.	Reasoning
Therefore, the function of JETL is that of an intermediary with whose assistance, the appellant is discharging its statutory obligation.24.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the appellants industrial effluents are carried to JETL in closed tankers and after partial treatment at JETL, let into the Boards sewer line.	Reasoning
Admittedly, the effluents of the appellants unit are not of acceptable standards for transmission through the sewer line of the Board and therefore, the appellants industry and other industries have to get the effluents treated at their own cost to bring the quality of the effluents to an acceptable level by treating the same to some extent.	Reasoning
The sewerage cess of 35 levied by the Board is for carrying the sewerage of acceptable quality through its sewer line and further treating it at STP at Amberpet.25.	Reasoning
The sewerage cess aims to recover the cost of treating the effluents of strength stronger than domestic sewage and to make the effluents of acceptable quality.	Reasoning
In addition to partial treatment at JETL, the effluents require further treatment and their transmission to Sewer Treatment Plant (STP) at Amberpet situated at 18.90 kms from Bala Nagar which requires huge finance.	Reasoning
The maintenance of sewer line is highly essential for proper transmission of the effluents from JETL to Boards sewer system at Amperpet where the Board brings down the industrial effluents to the tolerance limits.	Reasoning
It requires huge amount to maintain the STP treatment of industrial effluents.	Reasoning
Further, it requires high demand of energy, STP personnel to operate and maintain the system, skilled and unskilled workers for proper maintenance of the plant.	Reasoning
The respondentBoard unless it collects sewerage cess and other charges cannot meet the heavy expenditure on the operation and maintenance of sewerage system.	Reasoning
The liability of the appellant to pay sewerage cess to the Board arises from the Statute and also by way of an agreement which was agreed upon by the appellant.	Reasoning
There is no merit in the contention of the appellant unit that its liability has ended upon transferring the industrial effluents to the respondentJETL and that it is not connected to the Boards sewer line.	Reasoning
As discussed earlier, the partially treated effluents of the appellants unit are ultimately let into the sewer line provided by the Board which is being carried to Amberpet STP for further treatment and discharge.	Reasoning
After partial treatment at JETL, when appellants effluents are let into the Boards sewage system, the appellant is not justified in contending that it is not connected to the sewer line of the Board and hence, covered under the proviso to Section 55 of the Act.26.	Reasoning
It is wellsettled that the normal function of a proviso is to except something out of the enactment.	Reasoning
While considering the interpretation of the proviso, in Romesh Kumar Sharma v. Union of India and others, (2006) 6 SCC 510 , this Court held as under 12.	None
The normal function of a proviso is to except something out of the enactment or to qualify something enacted therein which but for the proviso would be within the purview of the enactment.	Reasoning
As was stated in Mullins v. Treasurer of Surrey (1880) 5 QBD 170 (referred to in Shah Bhojraj Kuverji Oil Mills and Ginning Factory v. Subbash Chandra Yograj Sinha AIR 1961 SC 1596 and Calcutta Tramways Co. Ltd. v. Corpn.	None
of Calcutta AIR 1965 SC 1728 ,	None
when one finds a proviso to a section the natural presumption is that, but for the proviso, the enacting part of the section would have included the subjectmatter of the proviso.	None
The proper function of a proviso is to except and to deal with a case which would otherwise fall within the general language of the main enactment and its effect is confined to that case.	None
It is a qualification of the preceding enactment which is expressed in terms too general to be quite accurate.	None
As a general rule, a proviso is added to an enactment to qualify or create an exception to what is in the enactment and ordinarily, a proviso is not interpreted as stating a general rule.	None
If the language of the enacting part of the statute does not contain the provisions which are said to occur in it you cannot derive these provisions by implication from a proviso.	None
said Lord Watson in West Derby Union v. Metropolitan Life Assurance Society 1897 AC 647.	None
Normally, a proviso does not travel beyond the provision to which it is a proviso.	None
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other The sewerage cess levied under Section 55 of the HMWSS Act is a statutory levy on the appellant as it satisfies the essential requirements of Section 55 of the Act.	None
The agreement contract between the appellants unit and JETL does not take away the appellant from the network of the Boards sewer line and its use and treatment of sewerage of the Boards sewerage system.	None
Where the appellants effluents are being eventually sent to the Boards sewer, the contention of the appellant that its premises are not served with a sewer line by the Board defies logic and runs contrary to the object of the Act.	None
The appellant, being an occupier of nondomestic premises, is consuming the water provided by the Board, generating the industrial effluents and using the Boards sewer to release them after partial treatment.	None
In such an admitted position, the appellant cannot escape from the statutory levy by taking a technical approach and interpreting the proviso as a general rule where it is merely a qualifying one.	None
As the appellant eventually lets out its effluents to the Boards sewerage system, the appellant is not right in contending that it is covered under proviso to Section 55 of the Act.	None
Re Contention Levy of double taxation Learned senior counsel for the appellant contended that even assuming that the dedicated pipeline of JETL which connects to the sewerage system of the Board at Balanagar is construed to be Sewer, any levy of sewerage cess is applicable only to JETL and JETL under its agreement with HMWSSB, is paying surcharges and sewerage charges to HMWSSB by collecting the said amount from the appellants and other industries for the said taxable event.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that under Section 55 of HMWSS Act, the sewerage cess is collected for the (i) to defray capital cost of sewerage (ii) for sewage treatment works undertaken by the Board and (iii) for operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that under its agreement dated 31.08.2000 with the Board, JETL is paying various charges like  (i) sewerage connection charges (ii) charges towards maintenance of sewer line (iii) sewerage maintenance and water treatment charges and (iv) sewerage surcharge for effluents above a certain level.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended that various charges paid by JETL to the Board is in essence sewerage cess, though it is collected under different head sewerage surcharge.	Arguments of Petitioner
T aking us through Clause 4 of the agreement with Board dated 31.08.2000, Mr. Guru Krishna Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing for JETL submitted that under agreement dated 31.08.2000, various charges are collected and it additionally provides for levy of surcharge also.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is contended that even though these charges may not be christened as a sewerage cess, they are in effect correspond to the essentials of sewerage cess in Section 55 and a levy of cess from the appellant for the same act of disposal of the sewage would therefore amount to a double levy on the industrial units.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned senior counsel submitted that sewerage cess cannot be exacted from the appellant because it is already been paid by JETL.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that various charges levied on JETL are excessive arbitrary apart from the fact that there is a double levy.30.	Arguments of Petitioner
As rightly contended by learned senior counsel for the respondentBoard, the plea of double payment of sewerage cess was never raised in the writ petition filed by the appellant but it was raised by way of oral submission before the High Court and thereafter, by way of review petition.	Reasoning
The plea of double levy was rightly rejected by the High Court inter alia holding that even assuming for a moment that the petitionercompany is paying some amounts to the JETL, it cannot be said that it is towards sewerage cess .	Reasoning
As pointed out by the learned senior counsel for the respondentBoard, JETL never sought to implead itself as a party respondent in the writ petition filed by the Board.	Reasoning
It is also pertinent to point out that one Mr. G.K.B. Chowdary who was then the Managing Director of the appellantgroup of companies, was also the Managing Director of JETL.	Reasoning
It passes ones comprehension as to why JETL whose Managing Director is the same as the Managing Director of the appellant Group of Companies had not taken any step to get themselves impleaded in the writ petition before the High Court and raise the plea of double taxation.	Reasoning
In the Supreme Court, notice was ordered on 07.07.2004 and permitted the appellant to implead JETL as party respondent.	None
It was thereafter, JETL filed writ petition in WP(C) No.17381/2004	None
(24.09.2004) inter alia for various reliefs (i) That clauses 28 and 29 of the agreement dated 10.06.2003 between the petitioner company Jeedimetla Effluent Treatment Limited and HMWSSB as shylockin and unconscionable, usurious, exorbitant, unconstitutional, ultra vires the powers of the HMWSSB and (ii) That the action of the HMWSSB in collecting various charges under Clause 4 of the agreement and other charges levied upon JETL.	None
The said writ petition that kept pending for many years came to be dismissed by the High Courts order dated 21.12.2015 for nonprosecution.	None
JETL has also filed WP(C) No.20117/2017 challenging the enhancement of sewerage surcharge and the said writ petition is also said to have been dismissed on 25.06.2014.	None
Since, elaborate arguments were advanced regarding excessive and arbitrary levy on JETL as well as the plea of double levy of sewerage cess, we have also considered the matter on merits.	None
Based on three sets of agreements between the parties, there are three kinds of payments as under Payment of sewerage cess by the appellant to the Board in terms of Section 55 of the HMWSS Act and Clause 16 of the agreement dated 27.04.1995b) Payment of treatment and processing service charges by the appellant unit to JETL as stipulated in Clause 19 of the agreement between the appellant and JETL dated 01.04.2000 andc)	Issue
Various charges paid by JETL to the Board pursuant to the agreement dated 31.08.2000 and the earlier agreements.	None
So far as the payment by the appellant unit to the Board, it is the statutory liability of payment of sewerage cess in terms of Section 55 of HMWSS Act and Clause 16 of the agreement which obligates the appellant unit to pay the sewerage cess in terms of Section 55 of the HMWSS Act.	None
The appellant having bulk water supply connection from the Board and being consumer of water and discharging sewage effluents into the sewer line of the Board, the payment of sewerage cess by the appellant unit is the statutory liability under Section 55 of the HMWSS Act and Clause 16 of the agreement.	Arguments of Respondent
Insofar as the charges paid by the appellant to JETL for the treatment and processing of its effluents, it is purely contractual pursuant to the agreement entered into between the appellant unit and JETL dated 01.04.2000 and the earlier agreement dated 22.01.1996.	Reasoning
As pointed out earlier, the appellant unit is obligated to treat and process the industrial effluents and bring them down to permissible standard limits in accordance with the provisions of the Water Act, 1974 and Environment Act, 1986 before they are let into the sewer line of the Board.	Reasoning
T o discharge its statutory as well as contractual obligation, the appellant unit has entered into agreement with JETL for the treatment and processing of appellants effluents before being let into Boards sewer line.	Reasoning
Payment of charges by the appellant to JETL is purely contractual between the parties and the same cannot be considered to be in deference to the statutory cess statutory charge which can only be levied by the Board.	Reasoning
In this regard, the High Court has rightly observed that assuming that the appellant is paying some amount to JETL, the same cannot be termed as sewerage cess.	None
So far as payment of charges by JETL to the respondent Board, the same is governed by the terms and conditions of the agreement between JETL and the Board dated 31.08.2000.	None
JETLs contention is two fold  (i) levy of various charges under the agreement is arbitrary and exorbitant and (ii) double levy of sewerage cess.	None
The gist of the terms and conditions of the contract dated 31.08.2000 between JETL and the Board and various charges levied are as under Clause 4 specifically stipulated that JETL shall be charged towards overall proportionate sewerage maintenance and sewerage treatment charges being incurred by the Board from time to time on the overall sewerage system of the Board2.	Arguments of Petitioner
In terms of Clause 4, the Board has levied sewerage connection charges Rs.4/ per litre for the discharge into the Board sewer (6 equal installments of Rs.23.34 lakhs each by 10 th of each month)	None
T otal Rs.140.04 lakhs3.	None
Clause 18 stipulates that no treated effluent shall be discharged by JETL unless the same is treated in accordance with the provisions of the Water and the Air Acts and the various upper limits of the parameters of the treated industrial effluents shall be within the permissible standard limits prescribed Further, Clauses 22 to 24 give the Board the right to reject effluents of JETL if they are not found to be consistent with the prescribed parameters4.	None
In terms of Clause 28, an amount of rupees one lakh per month is to be paid by JETL towards maintenance of the sewer line.	None
Additionally, JETL has to pay sewerage maintenance and sewerage treatment charges Rs.6 per thousand litres of treated effluents5.	None
Further, as per Clause 29, a surcharge was also levied on JETL for permitting industrial effluents beyond the limits prescribed on two important parameters viz.	None
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and T otal Dissolved Solids (TDS)	None
Each parameter COD and TDS will be considered independent for levy the surcharge.	None
In terms of Rule 4 of Sewerage Rules, the Board shall charge on the applicants seeking to discharge the trade or industrial effluents etc.	None
Rule 4 reads as under Sewerage and Industrial Effluents The Board shall charge on applicants seeking to discharge their trade or industrial effluents, sullage drain, sewer (other than storm sewer or combined sewer) of a private party, State Government, Central Government, or local body or local authority, into Board sewers, towards the special treatment cost of such sewage and the charges shall be as fixed by the Board from time to time, depending upon the nature of such sewage and cost of treatment involved to bring the same within tolerance limits of effluent standards etc.	None
The installation and maintenance of required meters for measuring the volume of effluents shall be insisted at the cost of the applicants, by the board.	None
Subject to the provisions of Water Act, 1974 and Environment Act, 1986 and subject to the restrictions of Section 54 of HMWSS Act and in terms of Rule 4 and other terms and conditions, Board has the right to permit the applicants seeking to discharge their trade or industrial effluents into the Boards sewer system and Sewerage Treatment Plant subject to the imposition of costs.	None
The treatment for letting the trade or industrial effluents into the Boards sewer shall be subject to such terms and conditions and in such form of agreement as may be prescribed in the regulations made by the Board in accordance with these rules.	Reasoning
Having entered into the agreement with the Board on 31.08.2000 and on prior dates, JETL cannot turn around and challenge the terms and conditions imposed upon it by virtue of the agreement.37.	Reasoning
So far as the various payments made by JETL to the Board, levy is in terms of Rule 4 of the Sewerage Rules and as per the contract and is purely contractual between JETL and the respondent Board for letting partially treated the industrial effluents of the appellant and other units into the Boards sewer.	Reasoning
Likewise, charges paid by JETL to the Board cannot be said to be in lieu of the sewerage cess that the appellant unit is liable to pay which is a statutory liability.	Reasoning
It is pertinent to note that many industries about fifty units, apart from the appellant unit, discharge their effluents to the CETP JETL.	Reasoning
The agreement dated 31.08.2000 and the earlier agreements between JETL and the Board are purely contractual consciously entered into between the parties.38.	Reasoning
JETL lets partially treated effluents into the Boards sewerage system for further treatment.	Reasoning
As discussed earlier, for further treatment of sewerage, the effluents are to be taken to Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP) at Amberpet which is situated at the distance of 08.30 kilometres from Balanagar.	Reasoning
It requires huge amount for transmission of the effluents to Boards sewer system at Amberpet where the Board brings down the industrial effluents to tolerance limits.	Reasoning
As pointed out earlier, the treatment of industrial effluents requires high demand of energy, personnel to operate the system and skilled workers for maintenance of the plant.	Reasoning
Unless the Board collects sewerage charge sewerage surcharge, the Board cannot meet the heavy expenditure on the operation and maintenance of sewerage system.	Reasoning
Various other members of JETL who discharge sewage into JETL which is ultimately let into Board sewer line, may or may not be consumers of water supply by the Board.	Reasoning
That apart, members of JETL may have their own source of water supply or they may supplement the supply of water from the Board through different sources either by extraction of ground water or supply through tankers which cannot be quantified by the Board.	Reasoning
In pursuance of the provisions of the HMWSS Act and the Sewerage Rules and pursuant to the agreement dated 31.08.2000, the charges are levied on JETL who in turn collects the charges from its member industrial units who discharge their effluents into JETL.	Reasoning
Therefore, the payments made by JETL to the Board and the charges in turn collected by JETL from the appellant and other member units, cannot absolve the appellant unit from its statutory liability to pay the sewerage cess.	Reasoning
We find no merit in the contention that there is double levy of sewerage cess.39.	Reasoning
Levy of sewerage cess being a statutory levy in terms of Section 55 of HMWSS Act and Clause 16 of the agreement which incorporates the statutory levy under Section 55 of HMWSS Act, the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench rightly recorded concurrent findings upholding the levy.	Reasoning
Observing that the appellant being occupier of the premises, though not directly connected to the sewer line of the Board, is ultimately letting into the sewerage system of the Board after partial treatment at JETL, the High Court was right in holding that the levy of sewerage cess is in accordance with Section 55 of HMWSS Act.	Reasoning
The payment of sewerage surcharges and the other charges by JETL cannot take away the statutory liability of sewerage cess levied on the occupier of the premises who consumes water and lets out the sewage into the Board sewer system.	Reasoning
The payment of sewerage surcharge and other charges by JETL to the respondentBoard will not amount to double levy and the High Court rightly dismissed the writ petitions and also the review petitions filed by the appellant.	Reasoning
The impugned order does not suffer from any infirmity warranting interference.	Reasoning
In the result, these appeals are dismissed.	Decision
The arrears of sewerage cess, if any, to be paid by the appellant within a period of eight weeks from today with 6 interest with effect from the date cess fell due.	Decision
If the arrears are not paid within the stipulated period of eight weeks, it shall carry interest at the rate of 12 thereafter.	Decision
