 Heard counsel on either side at length.	None
Records perused.	None
Even though both sides had cited several decisions of this Court on the scope and application of Section 5 of the Limitation Act, but it is neither necessary nor required to deal with those cases in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case.	None
Land belonging to Respondent Nos. 1 to 4 was acquired by the appellant Improvement Trust, Ludhiana, for development scheme popularly known as 550 Acres Scheme.	Facts
Reference Court had passed the Award and fixed the amount of compensation at rupees 4,27,068.20 paise together with interest at the rate of 9 per annum from the date of the issuance of the notification in favour of Respondent Nos. 1 to 4.	Facts
The appellant did not deposit the amount.	Facts
Respondent Nos. 1 to 4 had to approach the Executing Court for recovery of the amount awarded.	Facts
The property described as	Facts
Khewat No.867 Khautani No.971 Khasra No.272 admeasuring 7K18M entered in jamabandi for the year 198889 in village Jabaddi No.160 Tehsil and District Ludhiana was attached for realisation of the decretal amount.	Facts
Later a notice under Order 21 Rule 66 of the Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter shall be referred to as C.P.C.) was stated to have been issued to the appellant.	Facts
However, despite service of notice, none appeared on behalf of the appellant judgment debtor.	Facts
The property was put to an auction sale on 12/8/1992.	Facts
Respondent No. 5 herein, M s. Jagan Singh and Company (hereinafter shall be referred to as the Company) offered Rs.22,65,000/, and thus was declared as the highest bidder.	Facts
Sale was knocked down in its favour, and later confirmed in its favour.	Facts
The appellant then woke up from its slumber and filed objections under Order 21 Rule 90 CPC raising various grounds.	Facts
Executing Court then framed issues, reproduced by the learned Single Judge in the impugned order.	Facts
The case was thereafter fixed for recording of the evidence of judgmentdebtor on 19/3/1993, 17/4/1993, 8/5/1993 and 29/5/1993.	Facts
However, on the aforesaid dates none appeared on behalf of the appellant.	Facts
Consequently, the evidence of appellant judgment debtor was closed.	Facts
As a necessary consequence thereof appellants objections came to be dismissed in default due to non appearance.	Facts
Mr. P.K. Jain, Advocate used to appear for the appellantTrust, but did not appear on the above mentioned dates.	None
The ordersheet dated 29/5/1993 reproduced in the impugned order passed by the learned Single Judge reflected the same.	None
Case was posted for confirmation of sale on 5/6/1993, again there was no appearance and the sale was confirmed in favour of respondent No.5.	None
It is reported pursuant thereto sale deed was executed in its favour through court.	None
Out of the bid amount of Rs.22,65,000/ the awarded amount due to respondents 1 to 4 was released, and remaining is lying in deposit with the Executing Court.	None
The appellant thereafter filed miscellaneous appeal before the District Judge, Ludhiana, challenging the correctness propriety and validity of the orders passed on 29/5/1993 and 5/6/1993, made over to Additional District Judge, Ludhiana.	None
Said appeal was barred by limitation by two months and few days, exact delay has not been reflected in any of the orders.	None
But after going through the files it appears that delay was for about two months and few days.	None
An application under Section 5 of the Limitation Act was filed to condone delay but was dismissed by the Appellate Court stating therein that no good and sufficient grounds were shown for condonation of delay.	None
Consequently the appeal was also dismissed.	None
Thereafter, appellant under some mistaken advice filed execution second appeal in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh registered as Execution Second Appeal No. 820 of 1994.	None
On objections being raised with regard to its maintainability, in the light of the specific bar created under Section 104 of the CPC, learned Single Judge converted the appeal into civil revision and proceeded to decide as such.	None
Respondent No.5 contended that no error was committed by the Executing Court in dismissing the appellants application for setting aside the sale.	None
Similarly the first Appellate Court also committed no error in dismissing the Appellants appeal as no good and sufficient cause were shown for condoning delay.	None
The objections raised by respondent No.5 found favour by the learned Single Judge of the High Court and the appeal revision of the appellant was dismissed on 9/5/2003.	None
In the light of the aforesaid orders the objections preferred by appellant herein purportedly filed under Order 21 Rule 90 of the CPC met with the fate of dismissal.	Issue
Appellant also filed an application for review of the order dated 9/5/2003 passed by High Court under Order 47 Rule 1 of the CPC but was also dismissed on 8/7/2004, against which C.A. No.2395/2008 has been filed before this Court.	Issue
Since parties are same and common issues arise for consideration they are heard analogously and disposed of by a common order.	Issue
Learned senior counsel appearing for appellant Mr. Salil Sagar with Mr. Arun K. Sinha, contended that appellant had been contesting the matter in right earnest right from the very beginning and had implicit faith and confidence in his Advocate Mr. P.K. Jain, who had been appearing for the appellant not only in this case but in several other cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him there was no reason to doubt that he would not appear on various dates of hearing and then would not even inform the appellant about the progress of the case.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, it has been contended that whatever best was possible to be done by the appellant that had been done, therefore even though there has been some delay, on account of noncommunication of the passing of the impugned order challenged in appeal, delay should have been condoned and the matter should not have been thrown at the threshold.	Arguments of Petitioner
To show its bonafides various ordersheets passed by Trial Court and the Executing Court have been brought to our notice.	Arguments of Petitioner
The envelop maintained by Mr. P.K.Jain, Advocate, for keeping the brief, has been filed to show that dates of hearing were mentioned therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Mr. Vijay Hansaria, learned senior counsel appearing for respondent No.5, with his polite yet usual vehemence submitted that list of dates as filed by the Company would show and reveal the callous and negligent attitude of the appellant or its Advocate, therefore no indulgence should be shown to it.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the indifferent attitude of the appellant in prosecuting the matter had not come to an end and Appellant had learnt no lessons from its previous defaults.	Arguments of Respondent
Even though appeal was dismissed by First Appellate Court on the ground of delay, stood confirmed by the High Court but even the Special Leave Petition was delayed by 258 days in refiling there was further delay of 90 days.	None
No doubt it is true that this Court after considering the appellants application was pleased to condone delay and leave was granted.	None
But this has been argued by Mr. Vijay Hansaria to show the conduct, behaviour and attitude of the appellant in prosecuting the matter.	None
Be that as it may, we are of the opinion that the delay in filing the first appeal before District Judge, Ludhiana, for setting aside the sale has not been so huge warranting its dismissal on such hypertechnical ground.	Reasoning
In fact, according to us, appellant had taken all possible steps to prosecute the matter within time.	Reasoning
Had there been an intimation sent to the appellant by Mr. P.K. Jain, its erstwhile Advocate, and if even thereafter appellant had acted callously then we could have understood the negligent attitude of the appellant but that was not the case here.	Reasoning
No sooner the appellant came to know about the dismissal of its objection filed before the Executing Court, under Order 21 Rule 90 of the CPC it made enquiries and filed the appeal.	Reasoning
While considering the application for condonation of delay no straight jacket formula is prescribed to come to the conclusion if sufficient and good grounds have been made out or not.	Reasoning
Each case has to be weighed from its facts and the circumstances in which the party acts and behaves.	Reasoning
From the conduct behaviour and attitude of the appellant it cannot be said that it had been absolutely callous and negligent in prosecuting the matter.	Reasoning
Even though Mr. Vijay Hansaria appearing for the respondent No.5 has argued the matter at length and tried his best to persuade us to come to the conclusion that no sufficient grounds made out to interfere with the concurrent findings of facts but we are afraid, we are not satisfied with the line of arguments so adopted by the counsel for respondent No.5 and cannot subscribe to the same.	Reasoning
After all, justice can be done only when the matter is fought on merits and in accordance with law rather than to dispose it of on such technicalities and that too at the threshold.	Reasoning
Both sides had tried to argue the matter on merits but we refrain ourselves from touching the merits of the matter as that can best be done by the Executing Court which had denied an opportunity to the appellant to lead evidence and to prove the issues so formulated.	Reasoning
In our opinion, ends of justice would be met by setting aside the impugned orders and matter is remitted to the Executing Court to consider and dispose of appellants objections filed under Order 21 Rule 90 of CPC on merits and in accordance with law, at an early date.	Reasoning
It is pertinent to point out that unless malafides are writ large on the conduct of the party, generally as a normal rule, delay should be condoned.	Reasoning
In the legal arena, an attempt should always be made to allow the matter to be contested on merits rather than to throw it on such technicalities.	Reasoning
Apart from the above, appellant would not have gained in any manner whatsoever, by not filing the appeal within the period of limitation.	Reasoning
It is also worth noticing that delay was also not that huge, which could not have been condoned, without putting the respondents to harm or prejudice.	Reasoning
It is the duty of the Court to see to it that justice should be done between the parties.	Reasoning
For the aforesaid reasons the impugned orders passed by Appellate Court, and order passed by the High Court, are hereby set aside and quashed.	Decision
As a consequence, the matter stands remitted to the Executing Court for deciding the appellants application filed under Order 21 Rule 90 of CPC at an early date on merits.	Decision
Since there are only two contesting parties to the litigation that is to say the appellant and respondent No.5, both would appear before the Executing Court on 20/7/2010.	Decision
Being an old case an endeavour would be made by the Executing Court to take up the case as far as possible, on daytoday basis and no party would seek an undue adjournment in the matter.	Decision
We make it clear that we have expressed no opinion, on the merits of the matter and any observation made herein would not be construed as an expression of opinion on merits.	Decision
We are conscious of the fact that respondent No.5 has been put to inconvenience and harassment as admittedly it had deposited a huge amount of Rs.22,65,000/ in the year 1992 but has not been able to get any fruits thereof till date.	Decision
Therefore the appellants appeal is allowed subject to payment of Rs.50,000/ (Rupees fifty thousand) to respondent No.5 within three weeks hereof.	Decision
Payment of cost is condition precedent, without which the appellant would not be allowed to prosecute its objections.	Decision
The appeal therefore stands allowed to the aforesaid extent.	Decision
The appellant to bear the cost through out.	Decision
In the light of this order, other civil appeal No. 2397/2008 stands allowed to the aforesaid extent only.	Decision
