 Dr Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, J The present appeal arises from a judgement of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission which reversed the judgment of the Chhattisgarh S tate Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission .	Issue
The SCDRC had affirmed the view of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Durg allowing an accident insurance claim.	Issue
The spouse of the appellant obtained three insurance policies from the Life Insurance Corporation of India New Bima Gold Policy LIC Jeevan Tarang Policy and Twenty Years Money Back Policy with profits and accident benefit.	None
The details of the policies are tabulated below table Condition 10 (2) of the first policy, condition 10 (b) of the second policy and condition 11(b) of the third policy contain a stipulation for accident benefit, on which the controversy in the present case rests.	Facts
The stipulation in the New Bima Gold Policy in relation to accident benefit is extracted below, in so far as is material Death of Life Assured	Facts
In addition to sum assured under Basic Plan, an additional sum equal to the Accident Benefit Sum Assured shall be payable under this policy, if the Life Assured shall sustain any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from the accident caused by outward, violent and visible means and such injury shall within 180 days of its occurrence solely, directly and independently of all other causes result in death of the Life Assured.	Facts
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The stipulations in the other two policies are similar, where the accident benefit was payable if the assured sustained any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from the accident caused by outward, violent and visible means, and that such injury solely and directly and independently of other causes results in death.	None
On 3 March 2012, the spouse of the appellant, while riding his motorcycle, experienced pain in the chest and shoulder, suffered a heart attack and fell from the motorcycle.	Facts
He was attended to at 1010 pm on 3 March 2012 by Dr Ajay Goverdhan, a general physician.	Facts
He was referred to Dr SS Dhillon who diagnosed the mishap as having been caused by a sudden fall from the bike.	Facts
Dr Dhillon noted that the patient was experiencing pain in the left side of the chest and in the shoulder and there was a myocardial infarction.	Facts
He referred the patient to a specialist medical center.	Facts
He was taken to the Chandulal Chandrakar Memorial Hospital at Bhilai.	Facts
The OPD card notes the following position at admission Sweating, radiating to left shoulder and 2 episodes of vomiting Following this patient was taken to Dhillon Nursing Home where ECG taken showed Ant.	Facts
Wall M1.	Facts
He was given loading dose of Ant.	Facts
Platelet and Referred.	Facts
On his way to the hospital, Pt. collapsed.	Facts
On reaching here, on examination Pt. had so sign of life.	Facts
HR, O nil, BPNR, Pupil B L fixed.	None
As the above diagnosis indicates, the patient had died by the time that he had been admitted to the above hospital.	None
The report of the physician indicates that death had occurred due to an acute myocardial infarction.	Facts
Dr Ajay Goverdhan furnished his report in Claim Form B indicating that (i) the cause of death was an acute myocardial infarction and (ii) the symptoms of illness were pain in the chest and shoulder.	Facts
The insurance claim was settled in respect of the basic cover of insurance.	Facts
However, the insurer repudiated the claim under the accident benefit component of the insurance policy on the ground that the death of the insured had occurred due to a heart attack and not due to an accident.	Facts
The appellant filed a consumer complaint under the Consumer Protection Act 1986 before the District Forum.	Facts
On 2 May 2013, the District Forum allowed the complaint and directed the respondent to pay the accident benefit under the three policies together with interest at 6 percent per annum.	Facts
The SCDRC by its judgment dated 14 March 2014 rejected the appeal of the insurer holding that It appeared that the death of the insured was due to a fall from the motorcycle and The main cause for the heart attack was the fall from a motorcycle which was an accident under the terms of the policy.	Facts
In a revision by the insurer, the NCDRC by its judgment dated 29 April 2016 reversed the judgment of the District Forum, which had been affirmed by the SCDRC.	None
The NCDRC held that in the terms of the accident cover, the sum assured was payable in the event of an accident caused by outward, violent and visible means.	Facts
Adverting to the medical evidence, the NCDRC held that the pain in the chest and shoulder and the sudden fall from the motorcycle were not the result of an accident caused by outward violent or visible means.	Facts
The award of compensation in terms of the accident benefit was accordingly set aside.	Facts
Assailing the decision of the NCDRC, the spouse of the insured has filed the present appeal.	Facts
The issue before this Court is (i) whether the assureds death was due to a bodily injury resulting from an accident caused by outward, violent and visible means and (ii) whether the injury was proximately caused by the accident.	Issue
It is only when both the questions are answered in the affirmative that the complainant would be entitled to claim under the policy.	None
During the course of the hearing, learned counsel appearing for the appellant argued that the assured suffered a heart attack as a result of the injuries sustained due to a fall from the motorcycle, which was within the purview of the policy.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent argued that the medical reports are indicative of the fact that the death of the assured was due to a heart attack and not an accident and therefore, no claim arises under the policy.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also argued that while determining the insurance cover for accidental death, a distinction has to be made between accidental means and accidental result.	Arguments of Respondent
The distinction sought to be introduced is with a view to make the application of the insurance cover more restrictive.	Arguments of Respondent
The rival submissions fall for our consideration.	None
The policy of insurance indicates that a claim on account of the accident benefit is payable only if the following conditions are satisfied the assured sustained bodily injuries resulting solely and directly from an accident the accident was caused by outward, violent and visible means and that such injury solely and directly and independently of other causes results in the death of the assured.	Reasoning
These conditions are cumulative.	None
The terms bodily injury and outward, violent and visible means have not been defined in the policy.	None
In Union of India v Sunil Kumar Ghosh (1984) 4 SCC 246 , this Court dealt with the expression accident and held thus 13An accident is an occurrence or an event which is unforeseen and startles one when it takes place but does not startle one when it does not take place.	None
It is the happening of the unexpected, not the happening of the expected, which is called an accident.	None
In other words an event or occurrence the happening of which is ordinarily expected in the normal course by almost everyone undertaking a rail journey cannot be called an accident.	None
But the happening of something which is not inherent in the normal course of events, and which is not ordinarily expected to happen or occur, is called a mishap or an accident.	None
P Ramanatha Aiyars Law Lexicon , defines the expression accident as an event that takes place without ones foresight or expectation and event that proceeds from an unknown cause, or is an unusual effect of a known cause, and therefore not expected, chance, causality, contingency.	None
The expression accident in the context of an accident insurance policy has been explained in MacGillivray on Insurance Law	None
In the context of an accidental insurance policy the word is usually contained in phrases such as injury by accident, accidental injury, injury caused by or resulting from an accident or injury caused by accidental means and in each of these phrases it has the connotation of an unexpected occurrence outside the normal course of events.	None
Colinvauxs Law of Insurance explains the expression bodily injury	None
thus It is usual for the policy to require an accident to manifest itself as bodily injury to the assured.	None
The most obvious form of bodily injury is external trauma causing physical injury, but the phrase is not limited to injury to the exterior of the body the term bodily injury, when used in a personal accident policy, is not limited to lesions, abrasions or broken bones.	None
Nor is it essential that there should be an external mark of injury on the assureds body The word violent according to Black Laws Dictionary means Of, relating to, or characterised by strong physical force .	None
2. Resulting from extreme or intense force .	None
3.	None
Vehemently or passionately threatening .	None
The word visible according to Black Laws Dictionary 10 means something which is Perceptible to the eye discernible by sight.	None
2. Clear, distinct, and conspicuous.	None
A passage from Colinvauxs Law of Insurance 11 discusses the effect and the impact of the expressions violent, external and visible Violent.	None
The notion of violence is not limited to the situation where another person does violence to the assured, and it has been said that the word is used simply as the antithesis of without any violence at all.	None
Violent means include any external, impersonal cause, such as drowning, or the inhalation of gas.	None
Thus, violent does not necessarily imply actual violence, as where the assured is bitten by a dog The element of violence will obviously be present where the injury is inflicted by a third party or by some natural phenomenon, since there could otherwise be no effect upon the body of the assured.	None
External.	None
It is the means of causing the injury which must be external, rather than the injury itself.	None
Thus, a rupture or other internal injury is quite capable of falling within the ambit of a personal accident policy.	None
Given this distinction, it appears that the word external in these policies merely serves to reiterate the general principle that the injury must not be attributable to natural causes.	None
It will therefore be obvious that a given type of injury may fall within or without the policy according to the event which caused it, and it is this cause which must always be examined.	None
Visible.	None
It is probable that this word adds nothing to the policy coverage, since every external cause must also be visible.	None
It appears to be included merely for purposes of emphasis.	None
An accident postulates a mishap or an untoward happening, something which is unexpected and unforeseen.	None
A bodily injury caused by an accident is not limited to any visible physical marks in the form of lesions, abrasions or broken bones on the body.	None
A bodily injury can be caused by violent means that are external and relate to 10 10th Edition 11 11th Edition See pg.	None
1126 for case laws relied upon.	None
the use of strong physical force or even threatening someone by the use of violent words or actions.	None
There is a divergence of opinion between courts across international jurisdictions  including the UK, US, Canada and Singapore on whether a distinction should be maintained between accidental means and accidental result while deciding accidental insurance claims.	None
The distinction was laid out in Clidero v Scottish Accident Insurance Co (1892) 19 R. 355 , where the Scottish Court of Session (First Division) unanimously held that the injury suffered by the insured to his colon on slipping while putting on his stocking, which then led to his death was not caused by violent, accidental, external and visible means because the insureds conduct in putting on his stockings was intentional and voluntary and there was no other external factor that affected the insureds movement which resulted in the injury.	None
It was held thus The death being accidental in the sense in which I have mentioned, and the means which lead to the death as accidental, are to my mind two quite different things.	None
A person may do certain acts, the result of which acts may produce unforeseen consequences, and may produce what is commonly called accidental death, but the means are exactly what the man intended to use, and did use, and was prepared to use.	None
The means were not accidental, but the result might be accidental The above distinction was applied by the US Supreme Court in Landress v Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance 291 US 491, 496 (1934) , where the insured while playing golf suffered a sunstroke and died.	None
The complainant sought recovery of the amounts stipulated in one policy, to be paid if death resulted directly and independently of all other causes from bodily injuries effected through external, violent and accidental means, and not directly or indirectly, wholly or partly from disease or physical or mental infirmity, and, in the other policy, if death resulted from bodily injuries effected directly and independently of all other causes through external, violent and accidental means.	None
The majority, while denying the insurance claim, laid down a strict test which differentiated between accidental means and an accidental result.	None
This distinction emerges from the following extract Petitioner argues that the death, resulting from voluntary exposure to the suns rays under normal conditions, was accidental in the common or popular sense of the term, and should therefore be held to be within the liability clauses of the policies.	None
But it is not enough, to establish liability under these clauses, that the death or injury was accidental in the understanding of the average manthat the result of the exposure was something unforeseen, unexpected, extraordinary, an unlookedfor mishap, and so an accident, see Lewis v. Ocean Accident Guarantee Corp., 224 N.Y. 18, 21, 120 N.E. 56, 57, 7 A.L.R. 1129 see, also, AEtna Life Insurance Co. v. Portland Gas Coke Co.	None
(C.C.A.) 229 F. 552, L.R.A. 1916D, 1027, for here the carefully chosen words defining liability distinguish between the result and the external means which produces it.	None
The insurance is not against an accidental result.	None
The stipulated payments are to be made only if the bodily injury, though unforeseen, is effected by means which are external and accidental.	None
The external means is stated to be the rays of the sun, to which the insured voluntarily exposed himself.	None
Petitioners pleadings do not suggest that there was anything in the suns rays, the weather, or other circumstances external to the insureds own body and operating to produce the unanticipated injury, which was unknown or unforeseen by the insured.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
However, Justice Cardozo in his dissenting opinion warned about the inherent problem in creating a distinction between accidental means and accidental result The attempted distinction between accidental results and accidental means will plunge this branch of the law into a Serbonian Bog.	None
When a man has died in such a way that his death is spoken of as an accident, he has died because of an accident, and hence by accidental means .	None
The insured did not do anything which in its ordinary consequences was fraught with danger.	None
The allegations of the complaint show that he was playing golf in the same conditions in which he had often played before.	None
The heat was not extraordinary the exertion not unusual.	None
By misadventure or accident, an external force, which had hitherto been beneficent, was transformed into a force of violence, as much so as a stroke of lightning.	None
The opinion of the court concedes that death from sunstroke, when resulting from voluntary exposure to the suns rays, is an accident.	None
Why?	None
To be sure, the death is not intentional, but that does not make it an accident, as the word is commonly understood, any more than death from indigestion or pneumonia.	None
If there was no accident in the means, there was none in the result, for the two were inseparable.	None
No cause that reasonably can be styled an accident intervened between them.	None
The process of causation was unbroken from exposure up to death.	None
There was an accident throughout, or there was no accident at all.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
In a decision of the Court of Appeal in UK in Dhak v Insurance Company of North America (UK) Ltd 1996 1 WLR 936 , the insured to relieve herself of backpain started consuming alcohol and died dueto acute alcoholism.	None
The accidental insurance policy provided for benefits payable for bodily injury resulting in death or injury within 12 months of the accident occurring during the period of insurance and caused directly or indirectly by the accident.	None
The term bodily injury was defined as one caused by accidental means.	None
The court held that the words caused by accidental means were a clear indication that the terms of the policy required the court to concentrate on the cause of the injury and to inquire whether it was by accidental means.	None
It held thus I have come to the conclusion, however, that it has not been established that the bodily injury to the deceased was caused by accidental means within the meaning of the policy.	None
In reaching this conclusion I have been persuaded that the words caused by accidental means are a clear indication that it is the cause of the injury to which the court must direct its attention.	None
14 1996 1 WLR 936	None
In my judgment, however, whatever the position may be in some other jurisdictions, the terms of this policy require a court in this country to concentrate on the cause of the injury and to inquire whether the injury was caused by accidental means the deceased must have been well aware of the consequences and dangers of drinking alcohol to excess and that she must be taken to have foreseen what might happen in the event of someone drinking to excess I am satisfied that there must have been a point at which she would have realised that any further drinking would be dangerous and that vital bodily functions might be impaired or interrupted.	None
The Canadian Supreme Court, in American International Assurance Life Company Ltd and American Life Insurance Company v Dorothy Martin 2003 1 SCR 158 , has taken a contrary view and moved away from the distinction laid out in Landress (supra).	None
This case dealt with the interpretation of an accidental death benefit provision, which stipulated that the Company will pay the amount of the Accidental Death Benefit upon receipt of due proof that the Life Insureds death resulted directly, and independently of all other causes, from bodily injury effected solely through external, violent and accidental means .	None
The insured in the course of treating a peptic ulcer, developed an addiction to opiate medications and died due to high levels of Demerol in his body.	None
The insurers challenged the claim on the ground that the death was not through accidental means and that selfinjection of Demerol was a deliberate act making the death a foreseeable consequence.	None
Chief Justice McLachlin, speaking for the Bench held thus The first question to be considered is whether deaths caused by accidental means form a subclass of accidental deaths.	None
To put the question another way, is the category of deaths caused by accidental means narrower than that of accidental deaths?	None
The insurers argue that a death is only caused by accidental means when both the death and the actions that are among its immediate causes are accidental.	None
This view seems to me, however, to be problematic.	None
Almost all accidents have some deliberate actions among their immediate causes.	None
To insist that these actions, too, must be accidental would result in the insured rarely, if ever, obtaining coverage.	None
Consequently, this cannot be the meaning of the phrase accidental means in the policy.	None
Insurance policies must be interpreted in a way that gives effect to the reasonable expectations of the parties Reid Crowther Partners Ltd.v.	None
Simcoe Erie General Insurance Co., 1993 1	None
S.C.R 252, at p. 269.	None
A policy that seldom applied to what reasonable people would consider an accidental death would violate this principle.	None
In my view, the phrase accidental means conveys the idea that the consequences of the actions and events that produced death were unexpected.	None
It follows that to ascertain whether a given means of death is accidental, we must consider whether the consequences were expected.	None
We cannot usefully separate off the means from the rest of the causal chain and ask whether they were deliberate.	None
Cardozo J. emphasized in his dissenting judgment in Landress v. Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co., 291 U.S 491 (1934), at p. 501, that if there was no accident in the means, there was none in the result .	None
The converse is equally true if there was no accident in the result, there can be none in the means.	None
As Cardozo J. went on to say, either there was an accident throughout, or there was no accident at all .	None
Hence, to determine whether death occurred by accidental means, we must look to the chain of events as a whole, and we must consider whether the insured expected death to be a consequence of his actions and circumstances.	None
Usually we intend the consequences of our actions.	None
However, sometimes our actions have unintended or unexpected results.	None
When death is the unexpected result of an action, we say that the death was accidental, or that it was brought about by accidental means as opposed to intentional means.	None
In ordinary language, then, death by accidental means and accidental death have the same meaning.	None
I conclude that the phrase accidental means in this insurance policy does not refer to a narrow subclass of the broader category of accidental deaths.	None
Accidental death and death by accidental means connote a death that was in some sense unexpected.	None
The two phrases have essentially the same meaning.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
The Court of Appeal of Singapore in Quek Kwee Kee Victoria v American International Assurance Co. Ltd 2017 1 SLR 461 , agreed with the Canadian Supreme Court in Dorothy Martin (supra) and noted that the courts in many jurisdictions have moved away from the distinction laid out in Landress (supra) we prefer the view that the use of phrases such as accidental means would not restrict the situations covered by a personal accident insurance policy to those where the proximate cause of the insureds injury or death was not a deliberate or voluntary action on the part of the insured.	None
For example, if a person injures himself by driving off a cliff in the mistaken belief that the road continued, that person would have met with an accident just as much as one who slips and fractures his leg while walking on a slippery surface.	None
It would, in our view, accord with ordinary experience to hold that the injury suffered by an insured in such cases would be a result of accidental means.	None
In this regard, we find ourselves in agreement with the observations of McLachlin CJ in Martin courts in the Commonwealth have moved away from this distinction between intended means and unintended results.	None
Although this still appears to be good law in England (see, for example, Dhak v Insurance Co of North America 1996 1 WLR 936 ( Dhak) at 949), the distinction has been rejected in New Zealand (see Groves at 127128), the United States (see Wickman v Northwestern National Insurance Co 908 F 2d 1077 (1st Cir 1990) ( Wickman)), Scotland (see MacLeod v New Hampshire Insurance Co Ltd 1998 SLT 1191), Australia (see the judgment of Wilson, Deane and Dawson JJ in Australian Casualty Co Ltd v Federico 1986 HCA 32 at 1820) and Canada (see Martin v American International Assurance Life Co 2003 SCC 16 ( Martin) at 1013)	None
The respondent has placed reliance upon a decision of a Single Judge of the Patna High Court in Kamlawati Devi v State of Bihar (2002) 3 PLJR 450 , where the deceased who was on election duty was threatened by armed miscreants while relieving himself which triggered a heart attack.	None
Justice Aftab Alam (as his Lordship then was) while discussing precedent from other jurisdictions and authorities on Insurance Law noted that there exists a divergence of opinion about whether a distinction exists between an accidental result and accidental means while assessing a claim under an accident insurance policy.	None
The court while holding that the act of threatening by armed miscreants was covered by the expression external violent and any other visible means, held thus A plain reading of the cover clause in the M.O.U. would make it clear that it is intended to impose a twofold limitation.	None
A death in order to qualify for the insurance cover must not only be accidental but the accident causing death must itself result from some external, violent and other visible means.	None
This two fold limitation is based on what is called, in the Law of Insurance, the distinction between accidental result and accidental means.	None
An unexpected and unforeseen consequence or result from a normal or routine activity may constitute an accident but it would not qualify as accidental means.	None
Thus, if a person suffers a fatal heart attack while dancing (considered to be a normal activity) the death may be called accidental but it would fail to attract the insurance cover because it was not due to accidental means.	None
On the other hand, if a person dies due to heart attack suffered as a result of overexertion on being chased by a ferocious dog (an unintended occurrence, and not a normal activity) the death might attract the insurance cover as it was caused by accidental means.	None
On examining this branch of the law of insurance one finds a series of decisions which tend to do away with the distinction between accidental result death and accidental means.	None
One also finds another set of decisions which though maintaining the formal distinction between accidental result and accidental means have so interpreted the key words in the restrictive clause (e.g. accident, external, violence and any other means etc.)	None
as to greatly relax the rigours of the ordinary meanings of those words.	None
On the facts of the case, the High Court held In the light of the above there can be no denying that the death of Parshuram Singh was an accidental death caused by accidental means.	None
If the view expressed in the book, the Law of Insurance that the words by violent, external and visible means add little if anything to an accident policy is to be accepted, then his death would attract the insurance cover without anything else.	None
But even if the applicability clause in the M.O.U. is to be given a literal interpretation and the distinction between accidental result and accidental means is to be maintained, I come to the unescapable conclusion that the act of threatening by the armed miscreants was plainly covered by the expression external, violent and any other visible means and the deceased encountering those threats while he had gone to relieve himself was clearly an accident that triggered off the heart attack and, thus, resulting solely and directly into his death.	None
It appears to me, therefore, that the death of the petitioners husband was fully covered by the cover clause in the M.O.U. In a Letters Patent Appeal, the Division Bench of the Patna High Court in Branch Manager, United India Insurance Co v State of Bihar (2003) 51 (2) BLJR 117 affirmed the aforesaid judgment and held thus In the present matters, it appears that the Insurance Companies are belabouring under misapprehension that unless the person suffers an external visible injury by external visible means the Insurance Company would not be answerable to it.	None
In our opinion, the phraseology used in the cover does not have the scope to read external visible injury.	None
The phrase simply says in the event of death only resulting solely and directly from accident caused by external violent and any other visible means.	None
There exists a divergence of opinion on whether accidental means and accidental death are to be read as similar or whether in order for an accidental insurance claim to succeed, the means causing the injury or death also have to be accidental in nature.	None
For the purposes of this case, it is not necessary to conclusively decide this question.	Issue
In order to sustain a claim under the accident benefit cover, it must be established that the assured has sustained a bodily injury which resulted solely and directly from the accident.	Reasoning
There must, in other words exist a proximate causal relationship between the accident and the bodily injury.	Reasoning
Moreover, the accident must be caused by outward violent and visible means.	Reasoning
The expression outward violent and visible signifies that the cause of the accident must be external.	Reasoning
Moreover, the injury must be the cause of the death within the period of 180 days.	Reasoning
There has to be proximate relationship between the injury and the death to the exclusion of all other causes.	Reasoning
The outcome of the present case involves interpretation of the accident benefit cover.	Reasoning
Breaking down the clause into its components, what it postulates is that The assured must sustain a bodily injury	None
The injury must solely and directly result from an accident The accident must be caused by outward, violent and visible means The injury must solely, directly and independently of all other causes result in the death of the assured and Death must ensue within a period of 180 days from the injury caused in the accident.	None
What needs to be determined is whether the insured suffered a heart attack as a result of the injuries sustained from the fall from the motorcycle or whether the fall was a result of the assured suffering a heart attack in the first place.	Reasoning
The plain reading of the policy is to be accepted as our guide.	Reasoning
Under the policy, in order for the complainant to prove her claim, she must show direct and positive proof that the accident of the assured falling from his motorcycle caused bodily injury by external outward, violent and visible means.	Reasoning
The complainant will have to prove that the accident and the injuries sustained as a result were a direct or proximate cause of her husbands death.	Reasoning
In the present case, no post mortem of the deceased or police investigation was conducted.	Reasoning
In the absence of a post mortem report indicating the nature of injuries sustained by the insured, we would have to rely upon the medical report that indicates the exact cause of death.	Reasoning
The medical report of Dr Ajay Goverdhan who examined the assured on the date of the accident indicated that the insured suffered shoulder and chest pain and that the exact cause of death was an acute myocardial infraction.	Reasoning
The insured was referred to a specialist, Dr SS Dhillon, who also recorded in his report that the diagnosis did not show the cause of death to be accidental.	Reasoning
Dr S S Dhillon noted that the insured was experiencing pain in the left side of the chest and in the shoulder and there was a myocardial infarction.	Reasoning
The insured was referred to Chandu Lal Memorial Hospital, a specialist medical center, where the OPD records noted that an ECG was taken at Dhillon Nursing Home and the insured was sweating and that he had chest pain, radiating to the left shoulder along with two episodes of vomiting.	Reasoning
He died before he reached the hospital.	Reasoning
There is no material on record to indicate that the assured sustained specific injuries as a result of a fall from the motorcycle or that the injuries were caused by outward, violent and visible means, which was the sole and proximate cause of his death.	Reasoning
There is no direct nexus or causation between the assured suffering a heart attack and injuries sustained in an accident by outward, violent and visible means.	Reasoning
Nothing has been brought on record to show that the injuries sustained by falling from the motorcycle aggravated the assureds condition that eventually led to his death.	Reasoning
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, the medical evidence on record is itself proof that the insured died due to a heart attack and not due to an accident of falling from the motorcycle.	Reasoning
The heart attack had a distinct effect of the insured falling off from his motorcycle.	Reasoning
In a case decided by the NCDRC  LIC of India v Smt Mamta Rani II (2014) CPJ 624 (NC) RP No. 4468 of 2012  clause 10.2 of the insurance policy provided an accident benefit cover if the assured sustained any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from the accident caused by outward, violent and visible means.	None
The assured died of a heart attack.	None
The district and state forums allowed the claim of the complainant for accidental benefit.	None
However, the NCDRC rejected the claim and held thus it is clear that in case of death of life assured, the additional accident benefit equal to the sum assured is payable only if the life assured dies because of any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from an accident by outward, violent and visible means.	None
In the instant case, as per the record, the life assured died on 01.07.2002 due to heart attack.	None
There is no evidence on record to indicate that the life assured died because of some injury suffered in an accident.	None
Thus, the fora below have committed a material illegality in awarding the accident benefit to the respondents against the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.	None
Similarly, in Swaranjit Kaur v ICICI Lombard General Insurance Co Ltd 2015 SCC OnLine NCDRC 4168 , the assured while travelling on his scooter, suffered a heart attack and fell from his scooter.	None
The claim for accidental benefit cover was repudiated on the ground that the insured had died a natural death because of heart attack.	Facts
The state commission set aside the order of the district forum allowing the claim.	None
The NCDRC while upholding the state commissions judgment, noted that the onus to prove that the insured had died as a result of an accident and not a heart attack was on the claimant.	None
It held thus On perusal of the copy of repudiation letter, it is clear that the respondents repudiated the insurance claim on the ground that cause of death of insured was heart attack.	None
On perusal of the report of the investigator, we find that the stand of the petitioners in the statement made before the investigator on 17.8.2006 was that while driving the scooter insured suffered a heart attack, consequently, he fell down from the scooter and died.	None
From this, it is clear that the accident took place after the insured had suffered heart attack.	None
Otherwise also, in order to succeed in the insurance claim, the onus of proving that the insured had died as a result of accident was on the petitioners.	None
Undisputedly, incident was not reported to the police nor post mortem to establish cause of death was done.	None
No evidence has been produced by the petitioners to prove the cause of death of the insured.	None
There is nothing in the statement of the petitioners as recorded by the investigator that the insured had suffered any bodily injuries due to fall from the scooter.	None
Thus, under the circumstances, the conclusion of the State Commission that cause of death of the insured was heart attack and not an accident cannot be faulted The High Court of Madras held in Life Insurance Corporation v Minor Rohini 2012 (1) MWN (Civil) 740.	None
Also see New India Assurance Company Limited v K. Thilagam 2009 (2) TN MAC 197 that in the absence of any evidence that the assured had sustained any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from the accident caused by outward, violent or visible means, it cannot be said that the death due to a heart attack would amount to an accident for the purposes of accidental insurance claim under the policy.	None
In Krishna Wati v LIC of India 1 (2006) CPJ 21 (NC), the NCDRC had to deal with whether the accidental injuries which resulted in the death of the assured due to a heart attack after three days of the accident could be termed as an accidental death or a natural death.	None
The assured while riding his bicycle was attacked by a cow and upon arriving at the hospital complained of pain in the legs and in the chest, because of a fall from his bicycle.	None
The NCDRC relied on the investigation report and the allowed the claim for accident insurance.	None
It held thus In our view, from the record as it is, it is apparent that first the accident took place, resulted in injuries and chest pain which ultimately resulted in death.	None
May be, the death in the medical terms be described as due to heartattack, but the main cause for leading to heartattack was injury caused due to accident.	None
Accident is the basis for causing chest pain and thereafter heartattack In the present case, there is no evidence to show that any bodily injuries were suffered due to the fall from the motorcycle or that they led to the assured suffering a heart attack.	None
There is no evidence to show that the accident took place as a result of any outward, violent and visible means.	Reasoning
The assured died as a result of a heart attack which was not attributable to the accident.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, we are of the view that the judgment of the NCDRC dated 29 April 2016 does not suffer from any error.	Decision
The appeal shall accordingly stand dismissed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
