 HEGDE, J. 1.	None
Some of the defendants in the suit have brought this appeal after obtaining certificate under Article 133(1)(a) of the Constitution.	Facts
The suit was brought by one Kochi for partition and possession of an half share in the suit properties on the strength of her title to the same.	Facts
Her case was that the suitschedule properties were owned by two brothers by name Ittiri and Ittaman each one of them had a half share of those properties they were tenants in common after the death of Ittiri she became entitled to his share.	Facts
The suit was resisted by the defendants on two grounds namely (1) that the plaintiff had no title to the suit properties and (2) that even if she had any title, it was lost by ouster.	Facts
The trial court accepted the defendants case and dismissed the suit.	Facts
In appeal the High Court of Kerala partly allowed the plaintiffs claim.	Facts
It came to the conclusion that in respect of some of the items mentioned in the plaintschedule, Ittiri and Ittaiman were coowners and Ittiris share after his death devolved on the plaintiff.	Facts
As regards the other properties included in the plaintschedule, the High Court came to the conclusion that they were of the exclusive ownership of Ittaman.	Facts
Therefore the plaintiff cannot claim any share therein.	Facts
2. Aggrieved by that decision some of the defendants have brought this appeal.	Issue
3.	None
We shall first take up the question as to the plaintiffs title to the properties decreed in her favour by the High Court.	Issue
It was not disputed before us that Ittiri and Ittaman were coowners of those properties during their life time.	Reasoning
It was also not disputed that Kochi, the plaintiff in the suit was the daughter of Ittiri through his wife Kunji but her claim is resisted on the ground that she had an elder brother by name Ayyappankutty at the time of the death of her father and therefore Ittiris share devolved on Ayyappankutty.	Reasoning
Hence the plaintiff is not entitled to claim the same.	Reasoning
The essential question for decision is whether Ayyappankutty was the brother of the plaintiff.	None
The plea advanced on behalf of the defendants is that Ittiri and his brother Ittaman had a common wife by name Kurumba and through her the two brothers got a son by name Ayyappankutty.	Arguments of Respondent
Sometime after the birth of Ayyappankutty, Ittiri took Kunji as his wife.	Arguments of Respondent
Thereafter Kurumba became the exclusive wife of Ittaman.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence Ayyappankutty was the common son of Ittiri and Ittaman.	Arguments of Respondent
That being so under the customary law governing the parties, Ayyappankutty was the sole heir to the estate of Ittiri.	Arguments of Respondent
The plaintiff denied these allegations.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to her Kurumba was not the wife of Ittiri.	Arguments of Petitioner
She was the wife of Ittaman and therefore Ayyappankutty was not the son of Ittiri.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial court held that Kurumba was the common wife of Ittiri and Ittaman and Ayyappankutty was the son of Ittiri and Ittaman through Kurumba whereas the High Court came to the conclusion that Kurumba was the wife of Ittaman alone and Ayyappankutty was the son of Ittaman through Kurumba.	None
We have to decide which one of these two conclusions is the correct one.	None
It is not denied that if Ayyappankutty is not the brother of the plaintiff, she was solely entitled to the properties left behind by Ittiri.	None
5.	None
For coming to the conclusion that Ayyappankutty was the son of Kurumba through Ittiri and Ittaman, the trial court relied on certain circumstances.	Reasoning
The first circumstance relied on is that in the community to which the parties belong, there was a custom permitting brothers taking a common wife and further admittedly Ayyappankutty and his younger brother Kandu had taken a common wife by name Malu and their other two brothers Raman and Ittiri had taken one kochi as their wife hence that court assumed that it was likely that Ittiri and Ittaman had taken a common wife.	Reasoning
This, in our opinion, is fallacious reasoning.	Reasoning
From the existence of the custom in question, it does not follow that Ittiri and Ittaman had taken a common wife.	Reasoning
In fact it is seen from the evidence in the case that all the son of Kurumba did not take a common wife.	Reasoning
Out of them Ayyappankutty and Kandu took one wife and Raman and Ittiri took another wife.	Reasoning
It is also admitted that Kunji was not the common wife of Ittiri and Ittaman.	Reasoning
The other circumstance relied on by the learned trial Judge in support of his conclusion is that Kurumba must have been the common wife of Ittiri and Ittaman is rather a strange one.	Reasoning
It reasoned thus Ayyappankutty is eight years older than the plaintiff in the normal course Ittiri, the elder brother would have been married earlier than Ittaman if that was so it was not likely that younger brothers first child would have been older than the elder brothers first child, hence Ayyappankutty must have been the son of Ittiri and Ittaman.	Reasoning
According to the evidence of the plaintiff, her mother had given birth to two children before giving birth to her but both of them had died.	Reasoning
She also deposed that the first child born to her mother was six years older than her.	Reasoning
There is no reason to disbelieve this evidence.	Reasoning
Apart from that the circumstance relied on by the trial court is rather fanciful.	Reasoning
There is nothing strange if a younger brother gets a child earlier than his elder brother.	Reasoning
Quite clearly the trial court has allowed itself to be influenced by irrelevant considerations.	Reasoning
6.	None
The oral evidence bearing on the point under consideration is of inconclusive nature.	Reasoning
It was not possible for the witnesses to speak to circumstances that were existing in the last quarter of the last century when Ittiri and Ittaman lived.	Reasoning
Therefore naturally the witnesses could only given reputation evidence.	Reasoning
Under those circumstances the High Court was right in not placing much reliance on the oral evidence adduced in this case.	Reasoning
In its view the defendants had not come forward with the true version.	Reasoning
There is good ground for coming to this conclusion.	Reasoning
Before filing the suit the plaintiff caused a lawyers notice to be given.	Reasoning
Therein it was stated that she was the daughter of Ittiri and his properties devolved on her after his death.	Reasoning
To this notice the respondents caused a reply to be given through a lawyer.	Reasoning
Therein it was not stated that as Ayyappankutty was her elder brother, she was not the heir of Ittiri.	Reasoning
All that was stated in that reply was that the plaintiff had no right to the suit properties.	Reasoning
The case that Ayyappankutty was the son of Ittiri was put forward for the first time in the written statement.	Reasoning
That plea appears to be an afterthought.	None
It is surprising that the learned trial judge accepted the tame explanation given on behalf of the defendants that the lawyer who issued the reply to the notice did not take proper instructions.	Reasoning
The High Court has rightly rejected that plea.	Reasoning
In the written statement, it was pleaded that both Ayyappankutty as well as Kundru (defendant No. 1) were the sons of Ittiri and Ittaman but while adducing evidence the case that Kandu was the son of Ittiri was given up.	Reasoning
Evidently there was satisfactory evidence to show that Kandu was born long after the death of Ittiri.	Reasoning
It was evident that the defendants have been changing their version from stage to stage.	Reasoning
7.	None
In Ext. D1, the partition deed, dated February 18, 1958, entered into amongst the descendants of Ittaman, 3rd and 4th defendants have been described as children of Ayyappankutty and the 1st defendant through their common wife Malu.	Reasoning
Similarly defendants 5 and 6 have been described as the children of Raman and Ittiri, the two brothers.	Reasoning
This shows that it was not uncommon in the family of the parties to describe an individual as the child of two fathers even though one of the fathers was dead at the time of the execution of the document.	Reasoning
But in a large number of documents to which Ayyappankutty was a party viz., Ext. D3, D5, D6, D12, D14, D16, D21, D24 and D25, he was described as the son of Ittaman.	None
If he had been the son of Ittiri and Ittaman, it is natural to expect that he would have been described as such in those documents.	Reasoning
This is an important circumstances to show that Ayyappankutty was likely to have been the son of Ittaman only and not of Ittiri as well.	Reasoning
On an appreciation of evidence on record, the High Court has come to the conclusion that Ayyappankutty was not the son of ittiri.	Reasoning
We see no reason to come to a different conclusion.	None
8.	None
This takes us to the question whether the plaintiff lost her right by ouster.	None
In support of the contention that the plaintiff had lost her right by ouster, our attention was invited to a large number of documents executed by the descendants of Ittaman during the last about 60 years prior to the institution of the suit wherein they dealt with the suit property as if they were the exclusive owners thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
Admittedly the plaintiff was mostly living with her husband but she has sworn to the fact that she was coming to the family house for delivery and that she was being given a portion of the income of the suit property.	Reasoning
This evidence has been believed by the high Court.	Reasoning
We have been taken through the evidence and we see no reason to differ from the conclusion reached by the High Court.	Reasoning
It has not been established by satisfactory evidence that the plaintiff had the knowledge of the alienations effected by the descendants of Ittaman.	Reasoning
Evidence of a conclusive character is necessary to show that a cosharers right has been lost by ouster.	Reasoning
The fact that the plaintiff was given money now and then for expenses was not disputed before us.	Reasoning
but what was stated on behalf of the appellants is that they were small amounts given out of affection and not because that she had any right to the property.	Reasoning
We are unable to accept this explanation.	Reasoning
There is sufficient evidence in the case to show that the plaintiff had participated in the income of the property.	Reasoning
Hence the plea of ouster fails.	Reasoning
9.	None
In the result this appeal fails and the same is dismissed with costs.	Decision
