 Sikri, J. 1.	None
This is an appeal by certificate of the High Court of Calcutta against its judgment in a reference made to it under S. 66 (1) of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	Issue
The question referred to by the Appellate Tribunal wasWhether, in the case of the assessee, an investment company, its dividend income is part of its profits and gains chargeable to tax under S. 10 of the Indian Incometax Act, 1922?	Issue
2.	None
In the Statement of the Case, dated December 3, 1953, the Appellate Tribunal gave the following facts The appellant, Bengal and Assam Investors Ltd., hereinafter referred to as the assessee, was incorporated on January 30, 1947, and commenced business on March 19,1947.	Facts
According to its memorandum of association, the companys objects are3.	Facts
The objects for which the Company is established are(and it is expressly declared that the several subclauses of this clause and all the powers thereof are to be cumulative and in no case is the generality of any one subclause to be narrowed or restricted by any particularity of any other subclause, nor is any general expression in any subclause to be narrowed or restricted by any particularity of expression in the same subclause or by the application of any rule of construction ejusdem generis or otherwise)	None
(1) To acquire and to hold shares, stocks, debentures, debenturestock, bonds, obligations and securities issued or guaranteed by any company constituted or carrying on business in British India or elsewhere, or in any Brithsh Colony, or dependency, or possession, or in any foreign country, and debentures, debenturestock, bonds, obligations and securities, issued or guaranteed by any Government, specially including the Government of India and a Provincial Government, sovereign ruler, commissioner, Public body, or authority, imperial, supreme, national, municipal, local or otherwise whether in India or elsewhere (2) To acquire any such shares, stocks, debentures, debenturestock, bonds, obligations, or securities by original subscription, tender, purchase, exchange, or otherwise, and to subscribe for the same either conditionally or otherwise, and to guarantee the subscription thereof and to exercise and enforce all rights, and powers conferred by or incident to the ownership thereof.	Facts
(8) To sell, invest in and vary the investment and to reinvest in any shares, stocks, debentures stocks, bonds, and obligations and securities.	None
(11) To advance, deposit with or lend money, securities and property to or receive loans or grants or deposits from the Government.	None
(12) To lend money, either with or without security, and generally to such persons and upon such terms and conditions as the Company may think fit.	None
(13) To undertake financial and commercial obligations, transactions and operations of all kinds.	None
Provided that nothing herein contained shall be deemed to empower the Company to carry on the business of banking.	None
The company closed its accounts for the first time on June 30, 1947 and its accounting period was the year ending with June.	Facts
In the assessment for 194849 a net loss of Rs. 2,194 was computed.	Facts
In the assessment for 194950 its grossedup dividend income was Rs. 32,727 but its expenditure (including interest on borrowings to acquire shares, etc.) was Rs. 1,06,583, the resultant loss being Rs. 73,856.	Facts
The Incometax Officer treated this figure as unabsorbed business loss.	Facts
In the assessment for 195051, the gross dividend income was Rs. 1,12,238 and the expenditure (including interest on borrowings, etc.) was Rs. 51,843 leaving a net income for the previous year ending with June 30, 1949, of Rs. 66,395.	Facts
The Incometax Officer in its order, dated August 1, 1951, held that as the sum of Rs. 66,395 was profit from dividends, business losses of 194849 and 194950 could not be set off.	Facts
The assessee filed two appeals against the assessments made for 194950 and 195051, and the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, by his order, dated December 18, 1951, disposed of them by a common order.	Facts
He held that the dividend income was not business income and was assessable under S. 12 of the Act.	Facts
Accordingly, for the assessment year 194950 he determined the loss from other sources at Rs. 73,324 and he held that it could not be carried forward as it was a loss from other sources under S. 12.	Facts
The assessee filed two appeals before the Incometax Appellate Tribunal, which by its order, dated January 12, 1953, dismissed the appeals on two alternative grounds firstly it held that the divided income was assessable only under S. 12 of the Act, as the assesse was an investment company.	Facts
In the alternative, the Appellate Tribunal held that even if the company were to be a dealer in shares, even then in tis opinion the dividend received as registered shareholders would be dividend as such and assessable under S. 12.	Facts
The Appellate Tribunal concluded that in our opinion, on either view of the case, the loss of the preceding years cannot be adjusted against the dividend income of the assessee earned during the years 194950 and 195051.	Facts
3.	None
The assessee then applied for a reference and suggested three question follow(1)	Facts
Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case the assessee company is an investment holding company or an investment dealing company.	Facts
(2) Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case the dividends earned by the company should have not been assessed under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation under S. 10 of the Indian Incometax Act.	Facts
(3) Whether in the facts and circumstances of the case the loss brought forward from preceding years under S. 24 (2) of the Indian Incometax Act should have not been set off against the dividends earned by the assessee company during the year in question.	Facts
4. The Commissioner of Incometax in his reply suggested the following questionWhether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the tribunal was justified in holding that the loss sustained by the assessee in the preceding years cannot be set off against the dividend income earned by the assessee in the previous year for the assessment year 195051 under Section 24 (2) of the Incometax Act?	Facts
The Tribunal, however, as mentioned earlier, referred the question already set out above.	None
5.	None
The High Court, by its judgment, dated Autgust 31, 1955 found it impossible to deal with the reference and answer the question asked without obtaining from the Tribunal further and fuller statement of the case.	Facts
The High Court, therefore, referred the case back to the Appellate Tribunal under Section 66 (4) of the Act.in order that the Tribunal may draw up and submit to that Court a supplementary statement of the case, indicating clearly what view it took as to the effect of the Appellate Assistant Commissioners order in passing its appellate judgment and on what basis regarding the year 194950 it has made the present reference.	Facts
To put the matter in a more definite form, the Tribunal should indicate whether it regarded the Appellate Assistant Commissioners order as having effectively revised the assessment order and if it took that view of the Appellate Assistant Commissioners order, what the revision was, particularly whether any amount was left in the assessment as unabsorbed business loss after the transfer of an amount to loss under other sources as directed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, had been carried out.	Facts
6.	None
The Appellate Tribunal submitted a supplementary statement of the case, dated February 18, 1957.	Facts
It was observed in the statement of the case thatthe Appellate Tribunal read the orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner to mean that the assessee company was an investment company was an investment company and was not a company which dealt in shares.	Facts
The quantum of the loss in the assessment year 194950 as suggested in the Appellate Assistant Commissioners order was not adverted to by the Appellate Tribunal at the time of the hearing of appeal as no arguments were addressed to them on that point.	Facts
The supplementary statement mostly contained an interpretation of the orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Appellate Tribunal the only fresh fact included was the information that the Incometax Officer in conformity with the order of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner revised the assessment order for 194950 so as to change the figures and held that the loss arising from the setoff of interest against the dividend income was a loss under the head other sources while the balance was a business loss and was directed to be carried forward.	Facts
In this order the Incometax Officer had stated that loss under other sources cannot be carried forward as it is under Section 12.	Facts
Business loss of Rs. 532 will be carried forward 7.	Facts
The reference was then heard by a Bench consisting of Mitter and Ray, JJ.	Facts
It was argued before the High Court thatinasmuch as dividend is not expressly mentioned in S. 12 in the case of an investment company assessee whose business is to invest in shares dividend income therefrom should be computed under S. 10 as its business income with the result that the assessee can claim the benefit of S. 24 (2) of the Act.	Facts
This contention, however, did not appeal to the High Court.	Facts
The High Court held that It cannot be suggested in this case that the assessee investment company had no business of any kind.	Facts
It certainly had one but when it held shares on which dividends were received tax has to be computed under S. 12 and the assessee cannot say that this being its main activity the income received was its business income under S. 10.	Facts
In the result, the High Court answered the question in the negative.	None
8.	None
Mr. S. T. Desai, learned counsel for the assessee, at the outset asked us to modify the question referred to the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He said that he had asked for three questions to be framed and that the Commissioner in his reply had also suggested the real question which arose out of the order of the Appellate Tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further says that the real point in this case is not whether the dividend income is assessable under S. 10 or S. 12, but whether under S. 24 (2) the assessee is entitled to set off the deficiency or loss occurring in the earlier years.	Arguments of Petitioner
But the High Court was neither requested to issue a mandamus nor requested to modify or formulate another question and we are not prepared to frame a new question by way of modification of the question referred to the High Court.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Confining ourselves then to the question actually referred to the High Court, the problem is quite simple, the problem being whether an investment company like the assessee company can claim to have its dividends computed under S. 10 or S. 12 of the Act.	None
Mr. Desai contends that if you look at the objects of the company it is apparent that the company is carrying on business.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further relies on Commissioner of Incometax v. Cocanada Radhaswami Bank Ltd., Kakinada, 196557 ITR 306 (AIR 1966 SC 47 ), and says that at any rate if the dividend income is computed under S. 12, it still is business income for the purpose of Section 24 (2).	Arguments of Petitioner
He then draws our attention to Commissioner of Incometax v. Chugandas and Co., 196555 ITR 17 (AIR 1965 SC 568 ), where this Court held that there is no reason to restrict the condition of the applicability of the exemption under S. 25 (3) only to income on which the tax was payable under the head Profits and gains of business, profession or vocation.	Arguments of Petitioner
The exemption under S. 25 (3) is general.	Arguments of Petitioner
But these two cases have no bearing on the question whether the dividend income has to be computed under s. 10 or S. 12 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
They may have reference to the question sought to be raised before us by way of modification and which we have declined to modify.	Arguments of Petitioner
The main argument of Mr. Desai is that when a company is formed for the purpose of acquiring shares and making investments and generally undertaking financial and commercial obligations and transactions and operations of all kinds, the dividend income must be computed under S. 10 because the company is formed expressly for the purpose of carrying on business and holding shares in the course of it.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection herefers to the following passage from the judgment of Lord Sterndale in Commissioner of Inland Revenue v. Korean Syndicate Ltd., (1921) 12 Tax Cas 181 at p.	Arguments of Petitioner
202But	Arguments of Petitioner
the fact that the limited company comes into existence in a different way is a matter to be considered.	Arguments of Petitioner
An individual comes into existence for many purposes, or perhaps sometimes for none, whereas a limited company comes into existence for some particular purpose, and if it comes into existence for the particular purpose of carrying out a transaction by getting possession of concessions and turning them to account, then that is a matter to be considered when you come to decide whether doing that is to carrying on a business or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	None
The learned counsel for the Revenue, Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, contends that the company was not holding shares as part of its stockintrade, but was holding them merely as an investment company, and he says that in this respect an investment company even though it is formed under the Companies Act is in no way different from an individual who invests his own moneys or borrows and invests monies in shares for the purpose of getting dividends.	Arguments of Respondent
He drew our attention to East India Prospecting Syndicate, Calcutta v. Commissioner of Excess profits Tax, Calcutta, 195119 ITR 571 (AIR 1952 Cal 40 ), where the Calcutta High Court in dealing with the Excess Profits Tax Act (XV of 1940) held that the mere holding of property or investments cannot amount to a business within the meaning of that term as used in the Indian Incometax Act, 1922, and can only amount to a business as that term is used in the Excess profits Tax Act, 1940, by reason of the proviso to S. 2 (5) of that Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The proviso to S. 2 (5) of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940, only makes the holding of investments or property by limited companies and incorporated societies tantamount to carrying on of business.	Arguments of Respondent
But the assessee in that case was not carrying on any investment business at all, and, therefore, the decision is of not much assistance to us.	Arguments of Respondent
The only assistance we can derive from that decision is that the Central Legislature in enacting the Excess Profits Tax Act understood the word Business to mean that the term would not include a mere holding of investments, and made a special provision to rope in limited companies or incorporated societies which were holding investments or property within the definition of the word business.	Arguments of Respondent
11.	None
Before the amendment of S. 12 by S. 9 of the Finance Act, 1955, it had been held by the Bombay High Court in Commissioner of Incometax v. Ahmuty and Co. Ltd., 195527 ITR 63 (Bom), that where a company was a dealer in shares which constituted its stockintrade the dividend income received by the assessee in respect of its shares was income from business chargeable under S. 10 and the Incometax authorities could to compel the assessee to show the income under S. 12.	Reasoning
But there is not case where it had been held that even if the shares are not stockintrade of the assessee company the dividend can be assessed under S. 10.	Reasoning
It seems that in practice an investment company was being assessed under S. 12 in respect of dividend income received by it.	Reasoning
(See for example Eastern Investment Ltd. v. Commissioner of Incometax West Bengal, 195120 ITR 1 (AIR 1951 SC 278 ), Which is a case which came up to the Supreme Court.	Reasoning
12.	None
It seems to us that on principle before dividends on shares can be assessed under S. 10, the assessee, be it an individual or a company or any other entity must carry on business in respect of shares that is to say, the assessee must deal in those shares.	Reasoning
It is evident that if an individual person invests in shares for the purpose of earning dividend he is not carrying on a business.	Reasoning
The only way he can come under S. 10 is by converting the shares into stockintrade ,i.e., by carrying on business of dealing in stocks and shares as did the assessee in Commissioner of Incometax, Bombay v. Bai Shirinbai, 196246 ITR 86 (AIR 1963 SC 477 ).	Reasoning
13.	None
Mr. Desai laid a great deal of stress on the argument that the very fact that a company is incorporated to carry on investment shows that the company is carrying on business.	Reasoning
We are unable to agree with this contention.	Reasoning
Bhagwati, J. observed in Lakshminarayan Ram Gopal and Son Ltd. v. Government of Hyderabad, 195425 ITR 449 (AIR 1954 SC 364 ), that when a company is incorporated it may not necessarily come into existence for the purpose of carrying on a business.	Reasoning
He further observed that the object of an incorporated company as laid down in the memorandum of association are certainly not conclusive of the question whether the activities of the company amount to carrying on of business.	Reasoning
14.	None
Apart from showing mere investment, no facts have been brought out in this case to show that the company was in any way carrying on business in respect of shares.	Reasoning
Its position, on the facts placed before us, is in no way different from an individual merely buying shares with a view to holding them for the purpose of earning dividends.	Reasoning
No authority has been cited before us that in the case of an individual to acquire and hold shares with the object of receiving dividends is to carry on business.	Reasoning
We are unable to hold that if a company does the same, it carried on business within S. 10 of the Act.	Reasoning
15.	None
In the result we agree with the conclusion of the High Court that the answer to the question must be in the negative.	Decision
The appeal, therefore, fails and is dismissed with costs.	Decision
16.	None
Appeal dismissed.	None
