Adarsh Kumar Goel, J. This appeal has been preferred under Section 15 Z of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (the Act) against order dated 6th August, 2014 passed by the Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai (the SAT) in Appeal No.111 of 2012.	None
The SAT upheld the order of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) dated 13th April, 2012 rejecting the application of the appellants for withdrawal of the public offer to acquire shares of the Golden Tobacco Ltd. in terms of public announcement (PA) dated November 12, 2009 under the provisions of SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 (the Takeover Regulations).	None
FACTS Golden Tobacco Limited (the target company) is a company having its registered office at Tobacco House, S.V. Road, Vile Parle (West), Mumbai 400 056.	Facts
The equity shares of the target company are listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE).3.	Facts
On November 12, 2009, Mr. Pramod Jain and Pranidhi Holdings Private Limited (the acquirers) along with J.P. Financial Services Private Limited (the person acting in concert (PAC) made PA through VC Corporate Advisors Private Limited (the merchant banker) in accordance with regulations 10 and 12 read with regulation 14.	Facts
As on the date of the PA, the acquirers and PAC collectively held 11, 39, 002 equity shares (6.47) of the target company.	Facts
The PA was voluntarily made by the acquirers and the PAC to acquire 44, 02, 201 equity shares (25) of the target company from its equity shareholders at a price of Rs.101/ (the offer price) per equity share.	Facts
At that time, market price of the target company shares was Rs.109/ per share.	Facts
Networth of the target company as on 31st March, 2009 was Rs.42.44 crores.	Facts
Net current assets were Rs.134.4 crores and gross sales were Rs.173.68 crores.	Facts
The offer was for hostile takeover of the target company.	Facts
The PA mentioned that the prime object of the offer was to acquire substantial shares voting rights accompanied with the change and control of the management of the target company.	Facts
The acquisition was in the nature of strategic investment for diversification and growth and to reap the benefit of corporate opportunities.	Facts
The draft letter of offer also mentioned that the PAC had advanced loan against shares of the target company and on account of default, it acquired the said shares representing 5.05 of the equity share capital.	Facts
The acquirers and the PAC had also acquired 71034 equity shares at highest and average price of Rs.100.15 and Rs.89.13 respectively.	Facts
Thus, the acquirers and the PAC had 6.47 of the issue of equity share capital as on the date of PA.	Facts
The background of the acquirers mentioned in the DLO was that Mr. Pramod Jain was prime Director of PHPL and had experience in financial and consultancy services.4.	Facts
The acquirers and PAC, through the merchant banker, filed the draft letter of offer (DLO) with SEBI on November, 26, 2009.	Facts
During examination of the DLO, certain complaints were received by SEBI against the acquirers and PAC as well as against the target company and its promoters.	Facts
The appellants (the acquirer) in their complaints to SEBI and other proceedings including petition under Section 397/398 of the Companies Act before the Company Law Board and a suit before the Civil Court inter alia questioned the transaction for joint development of Vile Parle Property in terms of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) dated 26th September, 2009 with Sheth Developers and Suraksha Realty Ltd.	Facts
Various correspondences were exchanged between SEBI and the merchant banker, acquirers, PAC, the target company and certain other entities in respect of such complaints.5.	Facts
The appellants vide application dated 8th October, 2011 sought permission to withdraw the offer under Regulation 27(1)(d).	Facts
The stand of the appellants in the said letter was that the SEBI had not taken any decision on the DLO in two years during which period the management of the target company had systematically siphoned off its coffers, depleted its valuable fixed assets and eroded its net worth substantially with the intention of making it a shell company.	Facts
This has defeated the very object of the offer, without any fault on the part of the acquirers.	Facts
The management had availed huge high cost borrowing from banks and financial institutions against its property, including 18.7 per cent shares out of the promoters shareholdings.	Facts
Disputes were pending before the arbitrator arising out of default in payments.	Facts
Most valuable assets of the target company had been encumbered in violation of SEBI regulations and against the interest of minority shareholders and the acquirers.	Facts
Since the date of PA, financial position of the target company had deteriorated substantially.	Facts
ORDER OF SEBI The SEBI vide order dated 13th April, 2012 declined to permit withdrawal of the PA but observed that alleged violation of Regulation 23 by the target company shall be investigated.	Facts
It was held that as per Regulation 23(1), the target company was entitled to dispose of its assets with the approval of the shareholders even after the PA.	Facts
Correspondence which the SEBI had with the acquirers was referred to, with a view to explain the delay in deciding the DLO.	Facts
It was observed that the SEBI had informed the merchant banker of the appellants on 3rd February, 2010 that it was not competent to administer the authenticity of the process of Resolution in the General Body Meeting (GBM) dated 18th January, 2010.	Facts
The merchant banker vide letter dated 5th May, 2010 informed the SEBI that the acquirers had reached a settlement with the target company and withdrawn their petition before the Company Law Board (CLB) against the Resolution dated 18th January, 2010.	Facts
SEBI had also advised the merchant banker that it had not been provided any material in support of the allegation of violation of Regulation 23 by the target company in selling its assets.	Facts
The merchant banker informed the SEBI vide letter dated 19th May, 2011 that the acquirers had filed a suit for restraining the target company from creating any third party interest in the assets of the target company.	Facts
The SEBI had also received complaints against the acquirers and the PAC which were being looked into when the PAC vide letter dated 2nd August, 2011 sought permission to withdraw the PA.	Facts
Vide letter dated 9th August, 2011, the acquirers requested that the process of open offer be kept in abeyance.	Facts
SEBI vide email dated 9th September, 2011 responded to the merchant banker, seeking tabulated list of the allegations of the acquirers and the PAC but instead of doing so, the merchant banker forwarded request for withdrawal of the PA.	Facts
It was observed that in the circumstances there was no delay on the part of the SEBI.	Facts
It was further observed that the acquirers had challenged the Resolution of the Extra Ordinary General Meeting (EGM) and had also filed a suit.	Facts
The acquirers entered into an amicable settlement before the CLB.	Facts
SEBI had no jurisdiction in the matter.	Facts
Referring to Regulation 22, it was observed that the acquirers could make PA only after most careful consideration and must ensure that it is able to implement the offer.	Facts
Referring to Regulation 27, it was observed that public offer once made could not be withdrawn except in the circumstances provided in the said Regulation which had to be construed strictly.	Facts
Unchecked automatic withdrawal of offer was capable of being misused.	Facts
It was also observed that the acquirers should have used due diligence with regard to the allegation in FIR dated 25th July, 2009 about personal borrowings by promoters of the target company by sale of prime properties as the PA was much after the FIR.	Facts
The acquirers and the PAC had already purchased substantial shares of the target company and thus, could not make PA without exercising due diligence regarding the financial condition and quality of management of the target company.	Facts
The acquirers were not strangers to the target company.	Facts
They had 6.47 per cent shares.	Facts
Discovery of adverse effects pertaining to financial health subsequent to the PA could not be a ground to withdraw the PA.	Facts
Doing so will jeopardize the interests of the shareholders.	Facts
The takeover regulations laid down a selfcontained code and withdrawal of public offer was not governed by principles of withdrawal of an offer under the Contract Act, 1872.	Facts
ORDER OF SAT	None
The above view has been affirmed by the SAT in its impugned order (by majority).	None
As regards the timeline stipulated in Regulation 18, it was observed that under the second proviso thereto, the SEBI could take time in making inquiry on a complaint and thereafter could call for a revised letter of offer with or without rescheduling the date of opening or closing the offer.	Facts
However, it was observed that in the present case, SEBI was wholly unjustified in taking more than two years for offering its comments on the letter of offer submitted by the appellants.	Facts
This, however, did not constitute a ground to permit withdrawal of the PA.	Facts
As regards the contention that the public offer was frustrated and became impossible of implementation on account of encumbering of the most valuable property of the target company in violation of Regulation 23 and other steps of the promoters making the target company a shell company, it was observed that the target company had taken decision to develop its Vile Parle property even before the PA.	Facts
Appellant No.1 had given his offer for joint development of the said property on 29th September, 2008 but the said offer was rejected and Sheth Developers were shortlisted for the purpose.	Facts
It was thereafter that the appellants decided to make hostile takeover public offer to frustrate the decision of the target company to develop the property with Sheth Developers.	Facts
It will be appropriate to refer to the findings of the SAT in this regard We see no merit in the above contentions.	Facts
Admittedly, GTL had decided to develop the VileParle property even before public offer was made by appellants on November 12, 2009.	Facts
In fact Appellant No. 1 had made an offer to GTL on September 29, 2008 for joint development of VileParle property by offering 150 crores as non refundable amount and had suggested profit sharing in the joint venture at a ratio 5050.	Facts
However, GTL rejected the offer made by appellants and on recommendation of Ernst Young shortlisted Sheth Developers as best 20 bidder for joint development of VileParle property.	Facts
Thereupon appellants decided to make hostile public offer on November 12, 2009 with a view to frustrate decision of GTL to develop the VileParle property jointly with Sheth Developers.	Facts
Although object of the proposal to acquire 25 shares of GTL at Rs. 101/ per share as against the market price of Rs.109/ per share, as stated in the public offer was to obtain substantial stake voting rights of GTL, it is not in dispute that appellants were basically interested in developing the VileParle property.	Facts
Thus, it is evident that appellants being frustrated in their endeavour to develop the VileParle property, had resorted to the mechanism of public offer with a view to frustrate the decision of GTL in jointly developing the VileParle property with Sheth Developers.	Facts
Therefore, appellants having made public offer out of frustration on account of not being able to develop the VileParle property, are not justified in alleging that entrusting the development of VileParle property to Sheth Developers has frustrated the public offer made by appellants.15.	Facts
Admittedly, after making public offer, appellants had filed Company Petition No. 3 of 2010, wherein specific grievance was made to the effect that GTL had entered into MOU with Sheth Developers without disclosing all material facts to the shareholders and without the approval of shareholders which was in gross violation of regulation 23 of SAST Regulations, 1997.	Facts
It was also alleged in the Company Petition that the promoters of GTL have been mismanaging the affairs of the company and have siphoned of huge amounts from the company, as a result whereof, there has been deep decline in the performance and profitability of the company.	Facts
Appellants had also sought an order restraining GTL from holding EGM which was scheduled to be held on January 18, 2010.16.	Facts
Company Law Board in its order dated January 19, 2010, recorded statement made by counsel for GTL that in the EGM held on January 18, 2010 requisite resolutions have been passed in relation to development of VileParle property and in implementation of the said resolution third party rights have been created.	Facts
By that order Company Law Board directed that during the pendency of Company Petition No. 3 of 2010 GTL shall not act upon resolution dated January 18, 2010 any further.	Facts
From aforesaid order passed by Company Law Board it is clear that in view of resolution passed in the EGM held on January 18, 2010, violation of regulation 23 committed by GTL in relation to development of VileParle property stood rectified.	Facts
Dispute, if any in relation to passing of resolution on January 18, 2010 was to be considered at the hearing of Company Petition No. 3 of 2010.17.	Facts
However, on February 8, 2010, appellants withdrew Company Petition No.3 of 2010 by merely recording that the parties have amiably settled the matter without any further claims against each other.	Facts
Having settled the dispute relating to development of VileParle property with the promoters management of GTL on the basis of undisclosed reasons and having withdrawn Company Petition No. 3 of 2010 unconditionally, it is not open to appellants to allege that their public offer is frustrated on account of GTL entering into MOU with Sheth Developers for development of VileParle property.18.	Facts
Similarly, having settled the dispute relating to siphoning of funds by GTL during 20092010 which plea was specifically raised in Company Petition No. 3 of 2010, appellants are not justified in agitating the very same issue before SEBI on ground that GTL has siphoned of its funds during the year 20092010 and 20102011.	Facts
In other words, since the plea of siphoning of funds by GTL during the year 20092010 and prior thereto having been specifically raised in Company Petition No. 3 of 2010 and that issue having been settled by appellants with the promoters management of GTL for undisclosed reasons, the appellants are not justified in reagitating the very same issue before SEBI in relation to siphoning of funds either during 20092010 or during 20102011.21.	Facts
It is relevant to note that appellants, subsequent to withdrawal of Company Petition No. 3 of 2010 in February 2010, have filed S. C. Suit No. 817 of 2011 in April 2011 before the City Civil Court at Mumbai, alleging for the first time that the Company Petition No. 3 of 2010 was withdrawn on account of oral assurance given by promoters of GTL that VileParle property would be developed only after holding public auction and that the promoters of GTL have committed breach of that oral assurance.22.	Facts
Admittedly, City Civil Court at Mumbai has granted ad interim relief in favour of appellants on April 26, 2011 and that ad interim order continues to be in operation till date.	Facts
Therefore, irrespective of the fact that SEBI was not justified in taking more than two years for approving the draft letter of offer, in the facts of present case, grievance of appellants that the public offer is frustrated and has become impossible of performance cannot be accepted, because, both grounds based on which appellants had sought withdrawal of public offer, were in fact settled by appellants on the basis of oral assurance given by promoters of GTL and further, for the alleged breach of oral assurance, appellants have filed Suit in the Bombay City Civil Court and obtained stay of development of VileParle property and that stay is admitted operating till date.23.	Facts
Strong reliance was placed by counsel for appellants on decision of SEBI dated February 14, 2014 wherein penalty of 1 crore has been levied against the promoters of GTL interalia for violating regulation 23 of SAST Regulations, 1997.	Facts
No doubt that entering into an MOU by GTL with Sheth Developers on November 26, 2009 without obtaining approval of general body of shareholders was in violation of regulation 23 of SAST Regulations, 1997.	Facts
However, admittedly on January 18, 2010 the general body of shareholders has authorized GTL to enter into Joint Development Agreement is in respect of VileParle property.	Facts
In view of approval granted by the general body of shareholders on January 18, 2010, grievance of appellants that VileParle property has been encumbered in violation of regulation 23 does not survive at least from January 18, 2010.26.	Facts
Apart from above, as late as on August 9, 2011 appellants had addressed a letter to SEBI requesting them to keep the process of open offer in abeyance, because, in the proceedings pending before the City Civil Court at Mumbai, GTL had filed an affidavit stating that in the board resolution dated May 25, 2011 company has decided not to proceed further with the MOU dated November 26, 2009 (wrongly stated therein as December 26, 2009) entered with Sheth Developers and instead take necessary steps to develop the VileParle property by the company of its own.	Facts
By the said letter dated August 9, 2011 appellants called upon SEBI to investigate about the exact legal status of the VileParle property, investigate regarding possession of the original title deeds of VileParle property and investigate regarding possession of the original title deeds of VileParle property, investigate regarding usage of funds etc.	Facts
It was further stated in the said letter until appellants are assured of their concern on the above issues, SEBI should keep the process of open offer in abeyance.27.	Facts
Aforesaid letter dated August 9, 2011, clearly falsifies the case of appellants that the actions taken by promoters of GTL during the course of two years has frustrated the public offer, because, if public offer was frustrated, appellants would not have asked SEBI to keep the process of public offer in abeyance.	Facts
Having asked SEBI on August 9, 2011 to keep the process of public offer in abeyance, appellants were not justified in filing application on October 11, 2011 seeking permission to withdraw the open offer on ground that inordinate delay has frustrated the open offer.	Facts
We have heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
CONTENTIONS OF THE APPELLANTS Main contention raised on behalf of the appellants is that there is no justification for long delay on the part of the SEBI in granting approval to the offer of the appellant and situation having changed to the prejudice of the appellant, the appellants are entitled to withdraw their offer.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since under the scheme of the regulations, the appellants could not withdraw the offer once made except in circumstances mentioned in Regulation 27, the regulation should be read as creating an obligation on the part of the SEBI to take speedy decision and if there was unexplained delay resulting in prejudice to the appellantsacquirers, the appellants are entitled to be absolved of the liability to honour the offer.	None
GTL had become a BIFR company on account of siphoning off funds by the promoters.	None
It was submitted that in absence of obligation to approve the offer within reasonable time, the promoters could take steps to siphon the funds or dispose of the assets which could prejudice the interests of the acquirer.	None
Thus, it could not be held that the acquirer was indefinitely bound by the offer.	None
Reference was also made to the timeline provided in Regulation 22 and the provisions of Regulation 23.	None
It was submitted that while normal ups and downs in the market may not be a ground to permit withdrawal of offer, unilateral action of the promoters resulting in transfer of assets could certainly be the ground to permit withdrawal of offer.	None
The object of binding an acquirer to the offer is to protect the interest of the shareholders but this was required to be balanced with the interest of the acquirer.	None
If the assets are unduly transferred by the promoters after the PA, the acquirer was entitled to be relieved from the offer.	None
SEBI in its capacity as regulator has to adopt an approach which is fair to all.	None
In the facts of present case, the decisions of this Court in Nirma Industries Limited vs. Securities and Exchange Board of India (2013) 8 SCC 20 )and Securities and Exchange Board of India vs. M s. Akshya Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (2014) 11 SCC 112 )relied upon in the impugned order are not applicable.	None
Even if clause (d) of regulation 27 is read ejusdem generis	None
so as to apply only in situations where it is impossible for the acquirer to perform the public offer, it cannot exclude situations where SEBI itself is satisfied that serious prejudice was caused to the acquirer by intervening actions of the promoters in alienating or encumbering the assets of the company, rendering it inequitable to require the acquirer to be bound by its offer.	None
Thus, the obligation of the acquirer cannot be divorced from the conduct of the promoters in the intervening period.	None
Apart from distinguishing the judgment in Nirma Industries Limited (supra) which has been followed in the impugned order, the judgment in M s. Akshya Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd (supra) was also sought to be distinguished as being limited to cases where delay by SEBI does not cause any serious prejudice to the acquirer.10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, the submissions of the appellants are two fold The SEBI failed to adhere to the timeline prescribed under the Takeover Code which rendered it impossible for the appellants to conclude their open offer.	Arguments of Petitioner
Adherence to timeline prescribed under Regulations 18(2), 22(2), (3) and (4) are critical under the Takeover Code, the Bhagwati Committee Report and the International Practice.	Arguments of Petitioner
The time is of essence in cases of hostile takeover.(ii)	Arguments of Petitioner
The existing promoters should not be given an opportunity to administer a poison pill to defeat the offer of the potential acquirers.	Arguments of Petitioner
This principle is recognized under Regulation 23.	None
Adverting to the facts it was submitted that first complaint against the appellants was received on 8th January, 2010 i.e. 21 days after the PA.	Arguments of Petitioner
Complaints against the appellants were frivolous.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants duly responded to the complaints in timely manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
The complaints were made at the behest of the promoters.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants pointed out various illegal acts of the promoters but the SEBI failed to take any action.	Arguments of Petitioner
The appellants requested the SEBI to keep the open offer in abeyance till action was taken against the promoters.	Arguments of Petitioner
This justifies the prayer of the appellants to withdraw the open offer.12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel for the appellants submitted that all the members of the SAT (majority as well as minority) have held the delay by SEBI to be unjustified but still, on erroneous interpretation, right of the appellants to withdraw the public offer has not been upheld.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference was made to the complaint about transfer of valuable property of the Company which was unencumbered at the time of PA.	Arguments of Petitioner
The funds raised from the transaction have been siphoned off.	Arguments of Petitioner
One of the key promoters was arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of the Police and remained in jail for one and a half years.	Arguments of Petitioner
Chargesheet was filed against him.	Arguments of Petitioner
The financial ratio of the target company reflects manner in which financial position quickly deteriorated after the PA.	Arguments of Petitioner
The petition filed by the acquirers before the Company Law Board was withdrawn on the assurance of the promoters that the assets will not be encumbered without the public auction.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thereafter, the matter was pending in the civil suit.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thus, there was a breach of Regulation 23.13.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sundaram submitted that open offer was not a concluded contract but mere invitation to the public to offer their shares.	Arguments of Petitioner
The result of not allowing the offer to be withdrawn will be that the promoters will be able to sell their shares at the price specified in open offer even when the value of the shares was far lower.	Arguments of Petitioner
This will be against the policy of law underlying the Takeover Regulations.	Arguments of Petitioner
Moreover, the action of the SEBI was required to be fair, reasonable and consistent with Article 14 of the Constitution.14.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Sundaram sought to distinguish the judgments of this Court in Nirma Industries Limited (supra) and M s. Akshya Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra) by submitting that unlike the said cases, in the present case, there was undue delay on the part of the SEBI and prejudice was caused to the acquirers for reasons not attributable to them.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submitted that doctrine of frustration under Section 56 of the Contract Act will clearly apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
As a regulator, the SEBI is duty bound to protect the interest of the acquirer and also to ensure that a genuine attempt by an acquirer is not defeated by the promoters by their unilateral action.	Arguments of Petitioner
RESPONSE BY THE SEBI	None
Shri Arvind P. Datar, learned senior counsel for the SEBI opposed the above submissions, he submitted that adverse finding against SEBI on the issue of delay was unjustified, but even if the said finding was upheld, the withdrawal of open offer was not permissible under Regulation 27(1)(d) of the Takeover Regulations.	Arguments of Respondent
The acquirers held 6.47 share and had lent Rs.8.5 crores to the target company.	Arguments of Respondent
They had purchased shares worth Rs.63.33 lakhs before making the PA.	Arguments of Respondent
The first appellant was aware of the acts of mismanagement by the promoters of the target company.	Arguments of Respondent
The PA was made with the intention of curbing fraudulent and the illegal practices of the promoters and for the target companys benefit.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants approached SEBI to investigate the illegalities knowing fully well that SEBIs role was only to regulate the security market.	Arguments of Respondent
For mismanagement or other illegalities, remedy was under Section 397/398 of the Companies Act which remedy the appellants had taken.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants reached an amicable settlement with the target company and thereafter approached the civil court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was wrong to state that the target company had become defunct.	Arguments of Respondent
The target company continued to own the Vile Parle property worth Rs.2000 crores.16.	Arguments of Respondent
Shri Datar submitted that more than 43 complaints letters were received which were to be dealt with by SEBI.	Arguments of Respondent
In such circumstances, it could not be held that there was undue delay on the part of the SEBI in dealing with the DLO.17.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the appellants ought to have exercised due diligence before making the PA.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants were not strangers and had 6.47 shares.	Arguments of Respondent
They had advanced loan of Rs.8.5 crores and acquired shares worth Rs.66.33 lakhs before the PA.	Arguments of Respondent
They were aware of the FIR and alleged acts of mismanagement they had resorted to public offer out of frustration against the decision of the target company developing the Vile Parle property with Sheth Developers.	Arguments of Respondent
They settled the matter before the Company Law Board with the target company and also approached the civil court for alleged breach of settlement and obtained stay of development of the Vile Parle property.	Arguments of Respondent
In these circumstances, the plea of frustration could not be allowed to be raised by the appellants.	Arguments of Respondent
The PA could not be allowed to be withdrawn merely on the ground that the acquirers find it not to be a prudent decision.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover, the company still owns assets and was not a shell company and no prejudice was suffered by the acquirers.	Arguments of Respondent
Referring to the penalty levied by SEBI on the target company for entering into a MoU without approval of the General Body, it was submitted that this could not furnish a ground for withdrawal of the PA.	Arguments of Respondent
Appellants had raised the issue before the CLB and settled the matter.	Arguments of Respondent
QUESTIONS The rival submissions require us to determine the following questions To what extent is the timeline laid down under the Takeover Regulations required to be adhered to and effect of delay by SEBI in the present case?(ii)	None
To what extent unilateral action of the target company in dealing with the property of the company after a hostile public offer is made furnish cause of action to the acquirers to withdraw the public offer and whether in the present case, decision not permitting withdrawal of public offer is justified?	None
THE TAKEOVER REGULATIONS Needless to mention that mergers and takeovers are well known processes in the corporate world.	None
Acquisition of controlling interest of a company can be friendly or hostile.	None
In a friendly acquisition, management of the target company sells its controlling shares to the acquirer.	None
Where management of the target company is unwilling to negotiate with an acquirer, the acquirer can directly approach the shareholders by making an open offer which is called Hostile takeover.	None
A Hostile takeover helps to unlock the hidden value of the shares and puts pressure on the management to work efficiently.	None
On the other hand, it has potential of unduly upsetting the normal functioning of a target company.	None
Thus, there is an undoubted need to regulate the process of acquisition and takeovers in post liberalisation era after 1991.	None
It is well known that takeover attempt being unpleasant for the target company is normally met with defence strategies such as Poison Pills (making takeover unviable for the acquirer by making the cost of acquisition unattractive), Shark Repellents (measures to repel an unwanted takeover) sale of valuable assets, etc.	None
Justice P.N. Bhagwati Committee was appointed in November, 1995 to review the existing framework of regulations and to suggest amendments in the interest of investors and all parties concerned in the acquisition process.	None
The Committee kept in mind the following principles Equality of treatment and opportunity to all shareholders.ii. Protection of interests of shareholders.iii.	None
Fair and truthful disclosure of all material information by the acquirer in all public announcements and offer documents.iv.	None
No information to be furnished by the acquirer and other parties to an offer exclusively to any one group of shareholders.v.	None
Availability of sufficient time to shareholders for making informed decisions.vi.	None
An offer to be announced only after most careful and responsible consideration.vii.	None
The acquirer and all other intermediaries professionally involved in the offer, to exercise highest standards of care and accuracy in preparing offer documents.viii.	None
Recognition by all persons connected with the process of substantial acquisition of shares that there are bound to be limitations on their freedom of action and on the manner in which the pursuit of their interests can be carried out during the offer period.ix.	None
All parties to an offer to refrain from creating a false market in securities of the target company.x.	None
No action to be taken by the target company to frustrate an offer without the approval of the shareholders.	None
(Justice P.N. Bhagwati Committee Report on Takeovers)	None
The Committee made various recommendations including requirement of disclosure by the acquirers, procedure for public announcements, obligations of the acquirers and the target company.	None
This led to the adoption of the 1997 Takeover Regulations.	None
We may reproduce some of the Regulations which are necessary for the decision of controversy in the case before us Acquisition of fifteen per cent or more of the shares or voting rights of any company.10.	None
No acquirer shall acquire shares or voting rights which (taken together with shares or voting rights, if any, held by him or by persons acting in concert with him), entitle such acquirer to exercise fifteen per cent or more of the voting rights in a company, unless such acquirer makes a public announcement to acquire shares of such company in accordance with the regulations.	None
Acquisition of control over a company.12.	None
Irrespective of whether or not there has been any acquisition of shares or voting rights in a company, no acquirer shall acquire control over the target company, unless such person makes a public announcement to acquire shares and acquires such shares in accordance with the regulations.	None
Timing of the public announcement of offer.14.	None
(1) The public announcement referred to in regulation 10 or regulation 11 shall be made by the merchant banker not later than four working days of entering into an agreement for acquisition of shares or voting rights or deciding to acquire shares or voting rights exceeding the respective percentage specified therein .Submission of letter of offer to the Board.18.	None
(1) Within fourteen days from the date of public announcement made under regulation 10, 11 or 12 as the case may be, the acquirer shall, through its merchant banker, file with the Board, the draft of the letter of offer containing disclosures as specified by the Board.(2)	None
The letter of offer shall be despatched to the shareholders not earlier than 21 days from its submission to the Board under subregulation (1)Provided that if, within 21 days from the date of submission of the letter of offer, the Board specifies changes, if any, in the letter of offer (without being Page 35 of 75 under any obligation to do so), the merchant banker and the acquirer shall carry out such changes before the letter of offer is despatched to the shareholders Provided further that if the disclosures in the draft letter of offer are inadequate or the Board has received any complaint or has initiated any enquiry or investigation in respect of the public offer, the Board may call for revised letter of offer with or without rescheduling the date of opening or closing of the offer and may offer its comments to the revised letter of offer within seven working days of filing of such revised letter of offer.(3)	None
The acquirer shall, while filing the draft letter of offer with the Board under subregulation (1), pay a fee as mentioned in the following table, by bankers cheque or demand draft drawn in favour of the Securities and Exchange Board of India.	None
General Objections of the acquirer.22.	None
(1) The public announcement of an offer to acquire the shares of the target company shall be made only when the acquirer is able to implement the offer.(2)	None
Within 14 days of the public announcement of the offer, the acquirer shall send a copy of the draft letter of offer to the target company at its registered office address, for being placed before the board of directors and to all the stock exchanges where the shares of the company are listed.(3)	None
The acquirer shall ensure that the letter of offer is sent to all the shareholders (including nonresident Indians) of the target company, whose names appear on the register of members of the company as on the specified date mentioned in 1 Inserted by the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 992002.	None
Page 47 of 75 the public announcement, so as to reach them within 45 days from the date of public announcement.	None
General obligations of the board of directors of the target company.23.	None
(1) Unless the approval of the general body of shareholders is obtained after the date of the public announcement of offer, the board of directors of the target company shall not, during the offer period,(a) sell, transfer, encumber or otherwise dispose of or enter into an agreement for sale, transfer, encumbrance or for disposal of assets otherwise, not being sale or disposal of assets in the ordinary course of business, of the company or its subsidiaries or(b) issue 2 or allot any authorised but unissued securities carrying voting rights during the offer period or(c) enter into any material contracts.	None
Withdrawal of offer.27.	None
(1) No public offer, once made, shall be withdrawn except under the following circumstances(a) (b) the statutory approval(s) required have been refused(c) the sole acquirer, being a natural person, has died(d) such circumstances as in the opinion of the Board merit withdrawal.	None
Boards right to investigate.38.	None
The Board may appoint one or more persons as investigating officer to undertake investigation for any of the following purposes, namely(a) to investigate into the complaints received from the investors, the intermediaries or any other person on any matter having a bearing on the allegations of substantial acquisition of shares and takeovers (b) to investigate suo motu upon its own knowledge or information, in the interest of the securities market or investors interest, for any breach of the regulations(c) to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act and the regulations are being complied with for any breach of the regulations.	None
In Nirma Industries Limited (Supra), the acquirer after making PA sought withdrawal therefrom on the ground of embezzlement of funds by the target company.	None
SEBI rejected the application with the observation that the acquirer ought to have used due diligence prior to making the public offer.	None
Rejecting the plea that the embezzlement and siphoning off of funds by the target company could not have been found by third party even after exercising diligence, this Court held under the scheme of the takeover code public offer once made could not be withdrawn so as to deprive the shareholders of their valuable right to have exit option and also to ensure that public announcement is not made by way of speculation.	None
The scheme of takeover code was held to be as follows A conspectus of the aforesaid Regulations would show that the scheme of the Takeover Code is (a) to ensure that the target company is aware of the substantial acquisition (b) to ensure that in the process of the substantial acquisition or takeover, the security market is not distorted or manipulated and (c) to ensure that the small investors are given an option to exit, that is, they are offered a choice to either offload their shares at a price as determined in accordance with the Takeover Code or to continue as shareholders under the new dispensation.	None
In other words, the Takeover Code is meant to ensure fair and equal treatment of all shareholders in relation to substantial acquisition of shares and takeovers and that the process does not take place in a clandestine manner without protecting the interest of the shareholders.	None
It is keeping in view the aforesaid aims and objects of the Takeover Code that we shall have to interpret Regulation 27(1).	None
As regards the scheme of Regulation 27, it was further observed A bare perusal of the aforesaid Regulations shows that Regulation 27(1) states the general rule in negative terms.	None
It provides that no public offer, once made, shall be withdrawn.	None
Since clause (a) has been omitted, we are required to interpret only the scope and ambit of clauses (b), (c) and (d).	None
The three subclauses are exceptions to the general rule and, therefore, have to be construed very strictly.	None
The exceptions cannot be construed in such a manner that would destroy the general rule that no public offer shall be permitted to be withdrawn after the public announcement has been made.	None
Clause (b) would permit a public offer to be withdrawn in case of legal impossibility when the statutory approval required has been refused.	None
Clause (c) again provides for impossibility when the sole acquirer, being a natural person, has died.	None
Clause (b) deals with a legal impossibility whereas clause (c) deals with a natural disaster.	None
Clearly clauses (b) and (c) are within the same genus of impossibility.	None
Clause (d) also being an exception to the general rule would have to be naturally construed in terms of clauses (b) and (c).	None
Mr. Divan has placed a great deal of emphasis on the expression such circumstances and in the opinion to indicate that the Board would have a wide discretion to permit withdrawal of an offer even though it is not impossible to perform.	None
We are unable to accept such an interpretation.67.	None
Applying the aforesaid tests, we have no hesitation in accepting the conclusions reached by SAT that clauses (b) and (c) referred to circumstances which pertain to a class, category or genus, that the common thread which runs through them is the impossibility in carrying out the public offer.	None
Therefore, the term such circumstances in clause (d) would also be restricted to a situation which would make it impossible for the acquirer to perform the public offer.	None
The discretion has been left to the Board by the legislature realising that it is impossible to anticipate all the circumstances that may arise making it impossible to complete a public offer.	None
Therefore, certain amount of discretion has been left with the Board to determine as to whether the circumstances fall within the realm of impossibility as visualised under clauses (b) and (c).	None
In the present case, we are not satisfied that circumstances are such which would make it impossible for the acquirer to perform the public offer.	None
The possibility that the acquirer would endup making losses instead of generating a huge profit would not bring the situation within the realm of impossibility.70.	None
Mr. Venugopal, in our opinion, has rightly submitted that the Takeover Regulations, which is a special law to regulate substantial acquisition of shares and takeovers in a target company lays down a selfcontained code for open offer and also that interest of investors in the present case required that they should be given an exit route when the appellants have acquired substantial chunk of shares in the target company.	None
He has correctly emphasized in his submissions that the orderly development of the securities market as a whole requires that public offers once made ought not to be allowed to be withdrawn on the ground of fall in share price of the target company, which is essentially a business misfortune or a financial decision of the acquirer having gone wrong.	None
SEBI as well as SAT have correctly concluded that withdrawal of the open offer in the given set of circumstances is neither in the interest of investors nor development of the securities market.90.	None
We are inclined to agree with the submission made by Mr Venugopal that the appellants cannot be permitted to wriggle out of the obligation of a public offer under the Takeover Regulation.	None
Permitting them to do so would deprive the ordinary shareholders of their valuable right to have an exit option under the aforesaid Regulations.	None
The SEBI Regulations are designed to ensure that public announcement is not made by way of speculation and to protect the interest of the other shareholders.	None
Very solemn obligations are cast on the Merchant Banker under Regulation 24(1) to ensure that24.	None
(1)(a) the acquirer is able to implement the offer(b) the provision relating to escrow account referred to in Regulation 28 has been made(c) firm arrangements for funds and money for payment through verifiable means to fulfil the obligations under the offer are in place(d) the public announcement of offer is made in terms of the Regulations(e) his shareholding, if any in the target company is disclosed in the public announcement and the letter of offer.91.	None
Regulation 24(2) mandates that the Merchant Banker shall furnish to the Board a due diligence certificate which shall accompany the draft letter of offer.	None
The aforesaid Regulation clearly indicates that any enquiries and any due diligence that has to be made by the acquirer have to be made prior to the public announcement.	None
It is, therefore, not possible to accept the submission of Mr Shyam Divan that the appellants are to be permitted to withdraw the public announcement based on the discovery of certain facts subsequent to the making of the public announcement.	None
In such circumstances, in our opinion, the judgments cited by Mr Shyam Divan are of no relevance.	None
As regards the effect of delay on the part of SEBI, it was observed A perusal of the aforesaid Regulation clearly shows that the acquirer is required to file the draft letter of offer containing disclosures as specified by the Board within a period of 14 days from the date of public announcement.	None
Thereafter, letter of offer has to be dispatched to the shareholders not earlier than 21 days from its submission to the Board.	None
Within 21 days, the Board is required to specify changes if any, that ought to be made in the letter of offer.	None
The merchant banker and the acquirer have then to carry out such changes before the letter of offer is dispatched to the shareholders.	None
But there is no obligation to do so.	None
Under the second proviso, the Board may call for revised letter of offer in case it finds that the disclosures in the draft letter of offer are inadequate or the Board has received any complaint or has initiated any enquiry or investigation in respect of the public offer.	None
It is important to notice that in the first proviso the Board does not have any obligation to specify any change in the draft letter of offer within a period of 21 days.	None
In the present case, in fact, the Board had not specified any changes within 21 days.	None
We have already noticed earlier that the letter of offer was lacking and deficient in detail.	None
The appellants themselves were taking time to submit details called for, by their merchant bankers through various letters between 882005 to 2032006.	None
We have already noticed the repeated advice given by the Merchant Banker to enhance the issue size of the open offer and to comply with other requirements of the Takeover Regulations.	None
The appellants, in fact, were prevaricating and did not agree with the interpretation placed on Regulation 27(1)(d) by the Merchant Banker.	None
We, therefore, reject the submission of Mr Shyam Divan that there was delay on the part of SEBI in approving the draft letter of offer.	None
In M s. Akshya Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. (supra), this Court held that SEBI is not justified in causing delay in dealing with the issuance of its comments on a letter of offer as delay can lead to controversy as to whether the belated action was bona fide exercise of statutory power.	None
However, delay by itself may not vitiate action of the SEBI.	None
The SEBI has to be guided by the overall interest of the shareholders in dealing with the prayer for withdrawal from the public offer.	None
The economic unviability is no ground to justify prayer for such withdrawal.	None
The relevant observations are With regard to delay, we do not find much substance in the submission of Mr C.U. Singh.	None
Mr Singh has sought to explain the delay on the ground that information sought by the appellant was not given by the respondent.	None
In our opinion, this was no ground for the appellant to delay the issuance of comments on the letter of offer, especially not for a period of 13 months.	None
In the event the information was not forthcoming, the appellant had the power to refuse the approval of the public offer.	None
It is true that under Regulation 18(2), SEBI was required to dispatch the necessary letters to the shareholders within a reasonable period.	None
It is a matter of record that the comments were not offered for 13 months.	None
Such kind of delay is wholly inexcusable and needs to be avoided.	None
It can lead to avoidable controversy with regard to whether such belated action is bona fide exercise of statutory power by SEBI.	None
By adopting such a lackadaisical, if not callous attitude, the very object for which the Regulations have been framed is diluted, if not frustrated.	None
It must be remembered that SEBI is the watchdog of the securities market.	None
It is the guardian of the interest of the shareholders.	None
It is the protective shield against unscrupulous practices in the securities market.	None
Therefore, SEBI like any other body, which is established as a watchdog, ought not to act in a lackadaisical manner in the performance of its duties.	None
The timeframe stipulated by the Act and the Takeover Regulations for performing certain functions is required to be maintained to establish the transparency in the functioning of SEBI.31.	None
Having said this, we are afraid such delay is of no assistance to the respondent.	None
It will not result in nullifying the action taken by SEBI, even though belated.	None
Ultimately, SEBI is charged with the duty of ensuring that every public offer made is bona fide for the benefit of the shareholders as well as acquirers.	None
In the present case, SEBI has found that permitting the respondent to withdraw the public offer would be detrimental to the overall interest of the shareholders.	None
The only reason put forward by the respondent for withdrawal of the offer is that it is no longer economically viable to continue with the offer.	None
Mr Nariman has referred to a tabular statement and data to show that there is no substantial variation in the share prices that ensued making of the public offer.	None
Having seen the Table, we find substance in the submission of Mr Nariman that there is hardly any variation in the shares of the target company from 20102011 till 30112011.	None
The variation seems to have been between Rs 78.10 (on 24112011) and Rs 87.60 (on 20102011).	None
Such a variation cannot be said to be the result of the public offer.	None
But this will not detract from the wellknown phenomena that public announcement of the public offering affects the securities market and the shares of the target company.	None
The impact is immediate.35.	None
We are also not impressed by the submission of Mr Nariman that it has now become economically impossible to give effect to the public offer.	None
This very submission has been rejected in Nirma Industries Ltd.	None
We reiterate our opinion in Nirma Industries Ltd. that under Regulations 27(1)(b), (c) and (d), a public offer, once made, can only be permitted to be withdrawn in circumstances which make it virtually impossible to perform the public offer.	None
In fact, the very purpose for deleting Regulation 27(1)(a) was to remove any misapprehension that an offer once made can be withdrawn if it becomes economically not viable.	None
We are of the considered opinion that the distinction sought to be made by Mr Nariman between a voluntary public offer and a triggered public offer is wholly misconceived.	None
Accepting such a submission would defeat the very purpose for which the Takeover Code has been enacted.	None
OUR FINDINGS Re.	None
Question (i) Applying the decisions of this Court to the facts of the present case, we are in agreement with the finding recorded by the SAT that there was undue delay on the part of the SEBI in dealing with the DLO.	Reasoning
No doubt, in a given case timeline prescribed under the Regulations may not be adhered to when the SEBI justifiably takes time in dealing with the complaints, as rightly submitted by Shri Datar, in the present case, the stand of the SEBI itself is that it could not go into the complaints for which the right forum was CLB.	Reasoning
As regards the time taken in dealing with the complaints against the acquirers, the SEBI could have promptly proceeded with the matter.	Reasoning
However, mere upholding of finding of SAT on the aspect of delay by SEBI is not enough to hold that the appellants are entitled to withdrawal of the public offer.	Reasoning
The withdrawal has to be dealt with under Regulation 27, as held by this Court.	Reasoning
The general principle is that public offer once made cannot be withdrawn.	Reasoning
Exception to the rule is the specified situations under the Regulation as laid down by this Court in above decisions particularly in Nirma Industries Limited (Supra) (2013) 8 SCC 20 para 67).	Reasoning
In the present case, though SEBI was not justified in causing delay in giving its comments on public offer, this by itself is not enough to justify withdrawal from public offer so long as the case does not fall under Regulation 27.	Reasoning
First question is answered accordingly.	Reasoning
Re.	None
Question (ii) As already observed above, under the scheme of the regulations public offer has to be made after due diligence (Regulation 22).	Reasoning
Obligation of the board of directors under Regulation 23 against alienation of assets, issuance of unissued securities carrying voting rights or entering into material contracts is applicable only if approval of general body of shareholders is not obtained.	Reasoning
We are not dealing with validity of imposition of fine on the target company for its decision in dealing with Vile Parle property, without approval of the general body as this issue is not before us.	Reasoning
The fact remains that ex post facto approval of the general body has since been obtained.	Reasoning
Moreover, SEBI had observed that this aspect of the matter will be separately enquired into.	Reasoning
It is clear that under the scheme of Regulation 23, there is no bar to a decision with the approval of the general body of shareholders, if otherwise valid.	Reasoning
The question whether unilateral decisions of the target company have rendered the carrying out of the public offer possible, is a question to be decided on facts of each case.	Reasoning
In the present case, the SEBI as well as the SAT have concurrently held that public offer is capable of being carried out and has not become impossible.	Reasoning
The assets are available with the target company.	Reasoning
Finding has also been recorded about the circumstances preceding the public offer and the conduct of the acquirer which is based on record.	Reasoning
The steps for development of the Vile Parle property had already been initiated and the acquirer had taken remedies before the CLB against the decision of the target company and had settled the matter with the target company.	Reasoning
It is clear from the scheme of the regulations that there is no absolute bar for the target company to take decision about its assets, subject to compliance with statutory procedure and subject to the decision being otherwise valid.	Reasoning
There is no doubt that against any mala fide, illegal or unjustified decision of the target company, remedies at appropriate fora are available to the aggrieved parties.	Reasoning
Thus, there is no justification for automatic withdrawal from public offer without clear prejudice to the acquirer to the extent of rendering the carrying out of public offer impossible.	Reasoning
In the facts of the present case, we do not find any ground to interfere with the concurrent finding of the SEBI and the SAT that request for withdrawal from public offer was not justified.	Reasoning
Question (ii) is answered accordingly.28.	Reasoning
In view of the above, we do not find any merit in this appeal and the same is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
