Arun Kumar, J. The question which arises for consideration in this bunch of appeals is regarding exigibility of cinder to excise duty.	Facts
The respondents in all the appeals use coal as fuel for producing steam to run the machines used to their factories to manufacture the end product.	Facts
Coal is burnt in the boilers or furnaces for producing steam.	Facts
Normally coal when it is burnt in boilers is reduced to ash.	Facts
Some part of coal does not get fully burnt because of its low combustible quality.	Facts
This unburnt or half burnt portion of coal is left out in the boilers.	Facts
It is called cinder.	Facts
Though the respondents are engaged in manufacturing different end products, one thing is common between them and that is that they all use coal as a fuel.2.	Facts
The First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act contains various entries which is a list of excisable goods.	Facts
The list also gives rates of duty leviable on the respective items.	Facts
Clinder is not mentioned in any of the entries to the First Schedule Chapter 26 of the Schedule contains an entry at Serial No. 26.21 which is as under.	None
Other slag and ash, including seaweed ash (kelp)  8	None
The Revenue seeks to cover cinder under the said entry to make it subject to levy of excise duty.	Facts
The respondents have resisted this claim of the Revenue.	Facts
This has led to the present litigation.	Facts
The learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India, i.e. the Central Excise Department, raised following points in support of the stand of the Department that cinder is liable to be subjected to levy of excise duty In view of the Entry No. 26.21 in the Central Excise Tariff Act cinder is per se exigible to excise duty as it is covered under an entry in the First Schedule to the Tariff Act.	Facts
According to him, the fact that an item finds mention in the Schedule to the Tariff Act per se becomes excisable.	Facts
The said Schedule contains a list of excisable goods and all items in the Schedule are liable to payment of excise duty.2) Section 3 of the Central Excise and Salt Act is the charging Section from which the twin test of excisable goods being manufactured in India and capable of being marketable emerge.	Facts
According to the learned ASG both the tests and satisfied in the present case.	Facts
It is argued that cinder is a byproduct of coal which emerges in the course of manufacture of the end product.	Facts
Cinder is sold by the various assessees from their factories.	Facts
Therefore, it is marketable.	Facts
Thus both the tests are satisfied.3)	Facts
The question involved in the present appeals is more a question of fact which the High Court should not have entertained in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India.	Facts
Apart from the above points urged on behalf of the Revenue, some points emerge from the contentions raised by the learned counsel appearing for the assessees.	Facts
They areIn the statutory appeals filed by the Revenue against the judgment of the Customs Excise Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal in the case of the Tata Iron and Steel Company (C.A. No. 4051/2003), it has been argued that the show cause notice issued by the departmental authorities was beyond time.	Facts
Section 11A of the Central Excise Act which allows an extended period of limitation for issue of Show Cause Notice could not be invoked in the facts of the case because all necessary facts were being disclosed regularly by the Company to the Revenue authorities and there was no concealment or suppression or misrepresentation .	Facts
Therefore, the show cause notice being highly belated was liable to be quashed.	Facts
Another point raised in the Tata Iron Companys case is that clinder is a waste emerging from coal and the Company was spending much more on its removal from the site as compared to what it was getting from its sale.	Facts
This point has been raised in some other cases also.	Facts
This is a point which would arise on the facts of particular cases.	Facts
Proper pleadings have to be there.	Facts
The Tribunal being the fact finding body ought to have adverted to it.	Facts
Unfortunately, this aspect has not received any attention before the Tribunal.	Facts
What is Cinder Cinder is obtained as a result of burning coal in the boilers and furnaces in factories.	None
When coal is fully burnt it is reduced to ash.	Facts
When it is not fully burnt, it leaves pieces behind.	None
Such pieces of unburnt or partly burnt coal are called cinder.	None
Cinder loses its capacity to produce flame.	None
That is why it is of no use in the boiler and is left out.	None
Since it is left with some combustible value, it is described as inferior quality coal.	None
Mc Graw  Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms describes cinders as Incombustible residue from a burning processin particular, small pieces of clinker from the burning of soft coal.	None
According to the New Websters Dictionary of the English Language one of the meanings of cinder is a burnedoutor partially burned piece of coal, wood or other substance.	None
An important distinguishing factor is that coal is used in factories as fuel and not as raw material for purposes of manufacturing the end product.	Facts
The learned ASG appearing for the Union of India submitted that cinder is a byproduct of coal.	Facts
Even if cinder is a byproduct of coal, it is not a byproduct of the raw material used in a factory for manufacturing the end product.	Facts
It is a byproduct of an item of fuel.	None
Point I Whether inclusion of an item in the entries to the First Schedule to the Tariff Act per as makes the item exigible to excise duty?	None
This point needs a reference to relevant statutory provisions.	None
Material portion of Section 3 of the Central Excise Act, 1944 is reproduced as under Section 3 Duties specified in the First Schedule to be levied.(1)	None
There shall be levied and collected in such manner as may be prescribed, duties of excise on all excisable goods other than salt which are produced or manufactured in India and a duty on salt manufactured in, or imported by land into, any part of India as, and at the rates, set forth in the first Schedule.	None
The following key words occurring in this provision have been defined in the Act as under Section 2 a) b) c) d) excisable goods means goods specified in the First Schedule as being subject to a duty of excise and includes salt e) (f) manufacture includes any process incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product The learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Union argued that Section 3 of the Act is the charging Section.	None
It provides that excise duty is to be levied on all excisable goods.	Arguments of Petitioner
Excisable goods are listed in the First Schedule to the Tariff Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, Section 3 read with Section 2(d) makes it clear that an item which is listed in the First Schedule to the Tariff Act is exigible to excise duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that in view of entry No. 26.21 in the First Schedule cinder is liable to levy of excise duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, cinder is nothing but ash.	Arguments of Petitioner
From this argument, it follows that cinder is being equated to ash in order to bring it within Entry No. 26.21 of the First Schedule.	Arguments of Petitioner
As seen earlier, cinder is not ash it is something between coal and coal ash.	None
For the sake of deciding this issue, we will assume that cinder is ash the therefore is liable to be covered under entry 26.21.	None
The real question to be considered is whether all items listed in the First Schedule to the Tariff Act per se become subject to levy of excise duty.	None
According to the learned counsel for the Revenue, all excisable goods listed in the first Schedule are subject to the liability to pay excise duty in view of Section 3 of the Act.	Facts
Excisable goods as per Section 2(d) are those which are specified in the First Schedule to the Tariff Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ash being found mentioned in Entry 26.21 in the First Schedule, it per se becomes liable to payment of excise duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his argument, the learned counsel relied on M s. Khandelwal Metal and Engineering Works and Another vs. Union of India and others (1985) 3 SCC 620.	Arguments of Petitioner
This was a case of levy of additional customs duty under Section 3(1) of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975.	None
This duty is leviable in addition to the customs duty under Section 12 of the Customs Act.	None
The additional customs duty is leviable on items imported into India if like articles if produced or manufactured in India are liable to payment of excise duty.	None
The argument on behalf of the assessee was that brass scrap imported by it was not subject to levy of the additional customs duty which is in the nature of counter veiling duty.	Arguments of Respondent
It cannot be levied on brass scrap because such scrap is not manufactured in India.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention of the assessee was rejected on the ground that brass scrap was being produced in India.	None
The argument on behalf of Revenue was that waste and scrap is mentioned in Entry 26A of the First Schedule to the Tariff And and is therefore exigible to excise duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since reliance was placed on the argument that waste and scrap being found in relevant entry in the First Schedule to the Tariff Act and therefore were exigible to customs duty, this authority was pressed into service in support of the argument that presence of an item in an Entry to the First Schedule to the Act makes it per se subject to levy of excise duty.	None
In our view, this authority is of no help to the appellants.	None
This was basically a case of levy of additional customs duty, for which different considerations apply.13.	None
He also relied on the following observations contained in Associated Cement Company Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Customs (2001) 4 SCC 593 )81.	Arguments of Petitioner
Under the Central Excise Act, 1944, in the definition of the words excisable goods under Section 2(d), the very specification or inclusion of goods in the First and Second Schedules of the Central Excise Tariff Act would make them excisable goods subject to duty.	Arguments of Petitioner
These observations were made in the context of provisions of the Customs Act, 1962.	None
The charging Section in that Act is Section 12 which refers to dutiable goods.	None
The expression dutiable goods has been defined in Section 2 (12) of the Act as goods which are chargeable to duty and on which duty has not been paid.	None
In the present case however, we are considering the expression excisable goods in the light of provisions contained in Section 3 of the Central Excise Act, 1944.	None
Section 3 qualifies to expression excisable goods by laying down the further requirement that such goods should be produced or manufactured in India.	None
Such a requirement is not there is the Customs Act.	None
Therefore, the above observations have no bearing on the issue involved in the present case.	None
We are unable to accept the proposition advanced by the learned Additional Solicitor General.	None
A close look at Section 3 of the Central Excise Act shows that the words excisable goods have been qualified by the words which are produced or manufactured in India.	Reasoning
Therefore, simply because goods find mention in one of the entries of the First Schedule does not mean that they become liable for payment of excise duty.	Reasoning
Goods have to satisfy the test of being produced or manufactured in India.	Reasoning
It is settled law that excise duty is a duty levied on manufacture of goods.	Reasoning
Unless goods are manufactured in India, they cannot be subjected to payment of excise duty.	Reasoning
There is no merit in the argument that simply because a particular item is mentioned in the First Schedule, it becomes exigible to excise duty.	Reasoning
(See Hyderabad Industries Ltd. and another vs. Union of India and others (1995) 5 SCC 338 and Moti Laminates Pvt. Ltd. and others vs. Collector of Central Excise, Ahmedabad (1995) 3 SCC 23 ).	Reasoning
Therefore both an authority and on principle, for being exigible to excise duty, excisable goods must satisfy the test of being produced or manufactured in India.	Reasoning
The argument to the contrary is rejected.	Reasoning
Point 2 Does the item in question satisfy the test of being manufactured in India and marketability?	None
While discussing the earlier issue, we have already emphasised the requirement of goods being manufactured in India being satisfied before excise duty can be levied on goods.	None
This requirement is a sine qua non for levy of excise duty.	None
Excise duty in fact is an incidence of manufacture.	None
What is the meaning of manufacture in the context of excise law?	None
We have already quoted the definition of the word manufacture as contained in Section 2(f) of the Act.	None
According to this definition, manufacture includes any process incidental or ancillary to the completion of a manufactured product.	None
The word manufacture used as a verb is generally understood to mean as bringing into existence a new substance.	None
It does not mean merely to produce some change in a substance.	None
To quote from a passage in the Permanent Edition of Words and Pharases Vol.	None
XXVI manufacture implies a change, but every change is not manufacture and yet every change of an article is the result of treatment, labour and manipulation.	None
But something more is necessary and there must be transformation a new and different article must emerge having a distinctive name, character or use.	None
Manufacture may involve various processes.	None
The aim of any manufacturing activity is to achieve an end product.	None
Depending on the nature of manufacturing activity involved, processes may be several or one.	None
The natural meaning of the word process is a mode of treatment of some material in order to produce a good result.	None
Every process which is incidental or ancillary to the completion of manufactured product is included within the meaning of manufacture.	None
The word process has not been defined in the Act.	None
In its ordinary meaning process is a mode of treatment of certain material in order to give a desired shape to the material.	None
It is an activity performed on a given material in order to transform it into something.	None
The word manufacture has been defined in various judgments of this Court.	None
In South Bihar Sugar Mills vs. Union of India (AIR 1968 SC 922 ), this court observed The Act charges duty on manufacture of goods.	None
The word manufacture implies a change every change in the raw material is not manufacture.	None
There must be such a transformation that a new and different article must emerge having a distinctive name, character or use.	None
In M s. Hindustan, Polymers vs. Collector of Central Excise (1989) 4 SCC 323 )	None
this Court observed Excise Duty is a duty on the act of manufacture.	Reasoning
Manufacture under the excise law, is the process or activity which brings into being articles which are known in the market as goods and to be goods these must be different, identifiable and distinct articles known to the market as such.	None
It is then and then only that manufacture takes place attracting duty.	None
In order to be goods, it was essential that as a result of the activity, goods must come into existence.	None
For articles to be goods, these must be known in the market as such as these must be capable of being sold or are being sold in the market as such, in order, therefore, to be manufacture , there must be activity which brings transformation to the article in such a manner that different and distinct article comes into being which is known as such in the market.	None
According to M s. Ujagar Prints and others (II) vs. UOI and others (1989) 3 SCC 488 ) the test to ascertain that there is manufacture is whether the change or the series of changes brought about by the application of process take the commodity to the point where, commercially it can no longer be regarded as the original commodity but is, instead, recognised as a distinct and new article that has emerged as a result of the processes.	None
In Collector of Central Excise, BombayII vs. M s. Kiran Spinning Mills (1988) 2 SCC 348 ), the assessee used to cut running length fibre into short length fibre.	None
In this process it brought a change in the substance but did not bring into existence a new substance.	None
The character and use of the substance remained the same.	None
It was held that no manufacturing activity was involved and therefore there was no further liability to excise duty.	None
It was emphasized that the taxable event under the Excise Law is manufacture.	None
Since there was no manufacture in this case there was no liability to pay excise duty.	None
On the same lines there is a recent decision of this court in Collector of Central Excise vs. TechnoWeld Industries (2003 (155) ELT 209 ).	None
The process in this case was drawing wires from wire rods that is from bigger guage wire rods smaller guage wire rods were drawn.	None
The goods continued to be described as wire rods.	None
It was held that no manufacture as such was involved and therefore there was no liability to pay excise duty.	None
It was reiterated that a product becomes excisable only if there is manufacture.	None
In Collector of Central Excise, Jaipur vs. Rajasthan State Chemical Works, Deedwana, Rajasthan and others (1991) 4 SCC 473 ), this Court adverted to the meaning of process as well as manufacture.	None
The following passage occurring in the judgment are useful for present purpose Manufacture implies a change but every change is not manufacture, yet every change of an article is the result of treatment, labour and manipulation.	None
Naturally, manufacture is the end result of one or more process through which the original commodities are made to pass.	None
The nature and extent of processing may very from one class to another.	None
There may be several stages of processing a different kind of processing at each stage.	None
With each process suffered the original commodity experiences a change.	None
Whenever a commodity undergoes a change as a result of some operation performed on it or in regard to it, such operation would amount of processing of the commodity.	None
But it is only when the change or a series of changes takes the commodity to the point where commercially it can no longer be regarded as the original commodity but instead is recognised as a new and distinct article that a manufacture can be said to take place.	None
Manufacture thus involves series of processes.	None
Process in manufacture or in relation to manufacture implies not only the production but the various stages through which the raw material is subjected to change by different operations.	None
It is the cumulative effect of the various processes to which the raw material is subject (sic that the) manufactured product emerges.	None
Therefore, each steps towards such production would be a process in relation to the manufacture.	None
Where any particular process is so integrally connected with the ultimate production of goods that but for that process manufacture of processing of goods would be impossible or commercially inexpedient, that process is one in relation to the manufacture.	None
That natural meaning of the word process is a mode of treatment of certain materials in order to produce a good result, a species of activity performed on the subject matter in order to transform or reduce it to a certain stage.	None
According to Oxford Dictionary one of the meanings of the word process is a continuous and regular action or succession of actions taking place or carried on in a definite manner and leading to the accomplishment of some result.	None
The activity contemplated by the definition is perfectly general requiring only the continuous or quick succession.	None
It is not one of the requisites that the activity should involve some operation on some material in order to (sic effect) its conversion to some particular stage.	None
There is nothing in the natural meaning of the word process to exclude its application to handling.	None
There may be a process which consists only in handling and there may be a process which consists only in handling and there may be a process which involves no handling or not merely handling but use or also use.	None
It may be a process involving the handling of the material and it need not be a process involving the use of material.	None
The activity may be subordinate but one in relation to the further process of manufacture.	None
Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax (Law), Board of Revenue (Taxes), Ernakulam vs. M s. Thomas Stephen Co. Ltd., Quilon (1988) 2 SCC 264 ) is a case under the Kerala General Sales Tax Act, 1963.	None
The assessee used to purchase cashew shells for use as fuel in the kiln in the factory.	None
Under the Act levy of tax was on consumption of goods in the manufacture of other goods for sale or otherwise.	None
The difference between use of goods in manufacture as raw material and use for other ancillary purposes was brought out.	None
Goods used for ancillary purposes like fuel in the process of manufacture were held not to be exigible to tax.	None
Since cashew shells were used only as fuel and they did not get transformed into the end product they were held to be not exigible to tax.	None
Cashew shells were used in aid of manufacture of goods and as such they did not attract levy of tax.	None
In the case in hand also coal which leads to production of cinder is not used as a raw material for the end product.	Reasoning
It is being used only for ancillary purpose that is as a fuel.	Reasoning
Therefore, irrespective of the fact whether any manufacture is involved in production of cinder it should be held to be out of the tax net for the reason that it is not a raw material for the end product.	None
In producing cinder, there is no manufacturing process involved.	None
Coal is simply burnt as fuel to produce steam.	Facts
Coal is not tampered with, manipulated or transformed into the end product.	None
For purpose of manufacture the raw material should ultimately get a new identity by virtue of the manufacturing process either on its own or in conjunction or combination with other raw materials.	None
Since coal is not a raw material for the end product in all the cases before us, the question of getting a new identity as an end product due to manufacturing process does not arise.	None
In Collector of Central Exise, New Delhi vs. M s. Ballarpur Industries Ltd. (1989) 4 SCC 566 ), the raw material in the course of chemical reactions got burnt up and lost its apparent identity.	None
To be more precise, the input of sodium sulphate in the manufacture of paper would not cease to be of raw material by reason alone of the fact that in the course of the chemical reactions, this ingredient is consumed and burnt up.	None
All the same it remained a raw material.	None
It was held that the relevant test is not the absence of the raw material in the end product, but the dependence of the end product for its essential presence at the delivery end of process.	None
What follows from this is that the raw material which we are concerned about is the raw material which is linked with emergence of the end product.	None
It has to be present in the end product whether visibly or invisibly.	None
Use of an item as fuel cannot be called part of the manufacturing activity in relation to production of the end product.	None
Therefore, cinder cannot be said to be a byproduct of the final product.	None
At best it is a byproduct of coal which is used as fuel.	None
Can burning of coal be called manufacturing?	None
The locomotive steam engines used to run on coal.	None
Coal was being constantly burnt in the boiler of the engine.	None
The constant burning of coal produced cinder.	None
Could it be said that the engine driver was manufacturing cinder?	None
Is any manufacturing activity involved?	None
Burning of coal for purposes of producing steam cannot be said to be manufacturing activity.	None
Therefore, neither ash nor cinder can be said to be products of a manufacturing process.	None
Form burning coal when you get either cinder or ash, it cannot be said that a new product had emerged.	None
Cinder remains coal.	None
In fact, the Department has itself described it as unburnt part of coal in the grounds of appeal in C.A. No. 21682169 of 2001 in the Ahmedabad Electricity Supply Company Case Cinder is not a new product.	None
After correctly describing cinder as unburnt part of coal, the Revenue cannot equate it to ash simply to somehow bring it within Entry 26.21.	None
of the Tariff Act.	None
In the First Schedule to the tariff, cinder does not find any place anywhere.	None
It appears that it is because of this that the Revenue had to fall back upon entry 26.21 in the First Schedule in order to cover cinder within the excise net.	None
The new tariff that is Tariff Act, 1985 does not have a residuary entry like entry 68 in the old tariff.	None
Instead the new tariff has interpretative notes.	None
Whenever some byproduct of a product is sought to be included for taxability it has been so said in the interpretative notes.	None
However, regarding coal there is no interpretative note nor there is anything about cinder.	None
When cinder is derived from coal it could have at best been treated as coal for purposes of entries in the First Schedule to the Tariff Act.	None
But that would not suit the department because coal is exempt from excise duty.	None
The department now describes cinder as coal ash.	None
But coal ash also falls the test of being manufactured in India.	None
It cannot be subjected to levy of excise duty.31.	None
The learned counsel appearing for the assessee brought to our notice several judgments of the CEGAT holding that cinder was not exigible to payment of excise duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Against some of the judgments statutory appeals filed before this Court were dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
In Commissioner of Central Excise, Calcutta vs. Papyrus Papers (33 ELT 97) it was held by CEGAT that cinder obtained by burning coal in boiler does not constitute manufacture of excisable commodity even if sold for a price.	Arguments of Respondent
In Collector of Central Excise vs. Kesoram Rayons the CEGAT held that cinder obtained on burning coal in the boiler as a fuel is not exigible to excise duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Civil appeal filed by the Collector of Central Excise, Calcutta against the said judgment was dismissed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
H.M.M. Ltd. vs. Collector of Central Excise (1989)	Arguments of Respondent
Vol. 40 ELT 422) is another judgment of the CEGAT holding cinder to be coal waste.	Arguments of Respondent
Merely because it could fetch some price on sale it is not exigible to excise duty.	Arguments of Respondent
Appeal against this judgment was also dismissed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
Same is the situation about decisions of the CEGAT in CCE vs. Mafatal Fine Spinning (92 ELT A145) and CCE vs. Swadeshi Cotton Mills (82 ELT A160).	Arguments of Respondent
Both these cases are regarding cinder being held to be not exigible to excise duty and appeals against orders of the CEGAT in these cases were dismissed by this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
The Bombay High Court noting this consistent view of the CEGAT regarding nonexigibility of cinder to tax held in Century Rayon vs. Union of India (2002(142) ELT 319) that cinder produced from use of coal as fuel could not be treated as excisable commodity.	Arguments of Respondent
Against this decision of the High Court, Special Leave Petition was dismissed by this Court.32.	Arguments of Respondent
Recently this Court had occasion to deal with a case of excise duty sought to be levied on spent earth.	None
This was in Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh vs. Markfed Vanaspati and Allied Industries (2003) 153 ELT 491 ).	None
Excise duty was being paid on earth.	None
Spent earth is a residue resulting from treatment of fatty substances.	None
The spent earth remained earth even after processing though its capacity to absorb was reduced.	None
It was held that no excise duty was leviable on spent earth.	None
The facts in this case quite similar to the facts of the case in hand.	None
In Markfed Case earth was reduced to spent earth with a reduced potency to absorb.	None
In the case in hand coal was reduced to inferior quality coal which was no longer of use in the furnaces in the factories, therefore, it could reasonably be said that cinder i.e. coal of reduced quality still was coal and not exigible to excise duty.	None
In Modi Rubber Ltd., Modi Nagar, U.P. and Anr.	None
vs. Union of India and others (1987) 29 ELT 502 Delhi) it was held that waste scrap obtained not by any process of manufacture but in the course of manufacturing the end product was not exigible to excise duty.	None
This was a case of manufacture of tyres, tubes etc.	None
In the course of manufacturing process of produce the end produce i.e. tyres, tubes, flaps etc. waste was obtained in the shape of cuttings.	None
It was held that this was not exigible to tax even though the waste may have some saleable value.	None
The essential reason for this was that there was no transformation in the case of waste scrap to a new and different article.	None
No new substance having a distinct name, character and use was brought about.	None
Manufacturing process involved treatment, labour or manipulation by the manufacturer resulting in a new and different article.	None
It requires a deliberate skillful manipulation of the inputs or the raw materials.	None
This was not so in case of scrap.	None
It is worth mentioning that in UOI and others vs. Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd. and Anr.	None
(1995 Suppl.	None
(2) SCC 465) , it was held that waste or rubbish which is thrown up in the course of manufacture could not be said to be a produce of manufacture exigible to excise duty.	None
In this case the assessees manufactured aluminium products out of the aluminium ingots.	None
In the process of manufacture dross and skimmings arise and accumulate in the furnace in the shape of ashes as a result of oxidization of metal.	None
Aluminium dross contain an amount of metal from which they come but they lack not only metal body but also metal strength, formability and character.	None
Such dross and skimmings are distinct from scrap which is a metal of good quality.	None
Dross and skimmings though obtained during process of manufacture were held to be not exigible to excise duty at the relevant time.	None
Since the dross and skimmings were sold in the market it was argued that they were a marketable commodity and should be subject to levy of excise duty.	None
The court observed that these were nothing but waste or rubbish which is thrown up in the course of manufacture.	None
This judgment also answers the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant based on Khandelwal Metals case (supra) wherein brass scrap produced during manufacturing of brass goods were considered to be liable to excise.	None
In the present case cinder though sold for small price cannot be said to be a marketable commodity in the sense the word marketable is understood.	None
Due to sheer necessity cinder has to be removed from the place where it occurs because unless removed it will keep on accumulating which in turn lead to loss of precious space.	None
Facts noted in TISCOs case by the lower authorities show that TISCO had been paying substantial amount for removing cinder to a dumping ground.	None
From the dumping ground it was picked up by parties to whom it was sold.	None
As per the averment, TISCO is spending many times more on removing cinder than what is realizes from its sale.	None
These are matters of fact which have not been gone into by the authorities concerned and therefore it is too late for us to go into all this.	None
Applying the tests laid down in these judgments, it is not possible to say that cinder satisfies the requirement of being manufactured in India.	None
From the above discussion it is clear that to be subjected to levy of excise duty excisable goods must be produced or manufactured in India.	Reasoning
For being produced and manufactured in India the raw material should have gone through the process of transformation into a new product by skillful manipulation.	Reasoning
Excise duty is an incidence of manufacture and, therefore, it is essential that the product sought to excise duty should have gone through the process of manufacture.	Reasoning
Cinder cannot be said to have gone through any process of manufacture, therefore, it cannot be subjected to levy of excise duty.	Reasoning
The onus to show that particular goods on which excise duty is sought to be levied have gone through the process of manufacture in India is on the revenue.	None
They have done nothing to discharge this onus.	None
For this reason alone they must fail.	None
The Department has been consistently taking a stand that cinder is not excisable as it does not involve any manufacturing activity.	None
The Department issued a clarification vide Circular No.	None
B. 352/75TRU (pt) dated 6th June 1975.	None
According to it coal ash left out in burning of coal would not attract duty under item 68 for the reason that in the burning of coal as fuel, resulting in coal ash as a waste product no manufacturing process is involved.	None
With the introduction of the new tariff in 1986 and specific entry for ash being included in the Tariff Chapter 26, the issue again revived.	None
Notification No. 76/86 dated 10th February, 1986 exempted cinder from levy of excise duty.	None
The whole thing was sought to be overturned after the annual budget for the year 199697.	None
The Tariff Act, 1975 was amended by virtue of the Tariff Act, 1985.	None
The exemption was withdrawn by virtue of notification No.11/96 dated 23rd July, 1996 in view of the annual budget for the year 199697.	None
The Commissioner of Central Excise vide Trade Notice No. 35 of 1998 dated 21st August, 1998 clarified that coal ash (cinder) is specified in the Schedule to the Tariff Act and read with Section 2(d) of the Central Excise Act was subject to levy of excised duty.	None
This sudden turn is not only unjustified but also is contrary to law.	None
Why we say it is contrary to law is because the department clarified in June, 1975 that cinder is not exigible to excise duty as in its emergence no manufacturing process is involved.	Reasoning
How can suddenly cinder become exigible to excise duty?	None
The procedures which lead to emergence of cinder have remained the same as they were in 1975.	None
It is was not the result of manufacturing process in 1975, it is not so even now.	None
This aspect was not taken into consideration at all.	None
Interestingly in the Circular No. 386/19/98CX dated 7th April, 1998 the Central Board of Excise and Customs while declaring coal ash (cinder) as subject to levy of excise duty, states that the commodity also satisfied the tests of marketability and has a distinct commercial identity known to trade.	None
There is no reference to the essential test of being manufactured in India.	None
It is for falling this test that the item was excluded from levy of excise duty earlier in 1975 How can you ignore it now?	None
In view of our finding that cinder cannot be subjected to levy of excise duty because it is not an item of goods which has been subjected to process of manufacture, it is not necessary for us to go into any other point.	Reasoning
We may only note that courts have evolved another test of marketability i.e. to be exigible to excise duty goods must be marketable.	Reasoning
It is not disputed that cinder is being sold by the accessees.	Reasoning
But can it be said to be marketable goods in the sense word marketable is used?	Reasoning
We doubt it.	Reasoning
However, this need not detain us since cinder does not satisfy the test of being manufactured in India.	Reasoning
Even if it is saleable, it does not make any difference.	Reasoning
The result is that the contention of the Revenue that cinder is liable to payment of excise duty is hereby rejected.	Reasoning
Point 3	None
The objection is that the High Court should not have entertained a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India in the facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
At the outset we may note that was have only one Civil Appeal in the case of Ahmedabad Electricity Company (C.A. No. 216869/2001) which is arising from proceedings before the High Court under Article 226.	Reasoning
The remaining matters in the bunch are statutory appeals under Section 35L of Central Excise Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, this court has to go into the matter on merits.	Reasoning
Moreover, in the Ahmedabad Electricity Companys case challenge by way of Writ Petition under Article 226 was to a Circular dated 7th April, 1998 issued by the Central Board of Excise and Customs and the consequential Trade Notice No. 36/98 dated 22nd May, 1998 issued by the office of the Commissioner of Central Excise and Customs, Ahmedabad by which it was clarified that coalash (cinder) is an excisable commodity classifiable under subheading No. 26.21 of the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985.	Reasoning
In the first place no objection regarding maintainability of the Writ Petition seems to have been taken before the High Court.	Reasoning
Even if such an objection was raised, the same would have been a futile attempt.	Reasoning
In the facts of the case the High Court would have been justified in rejecting such an objection.	Reasoning
The impugned circular could not have been challenged before the departmental authorities as they would have felt bound by it.	Reasoning
We find no merit in the objection.	Reasoning
The same is rejected.	None
All the appeals filed by the Revenue stand dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
