 N. Variava, J. This Appeal is against a Judgment dated 10th October, 2000 passed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court.	Issue
Briefly stated the facts are as follows The Appellant entered into a contract with the 1st Respondent on 9th May, 1997.	Facts
This contract contained a arbitration clause which provided that arbitration was to be as per the rules of the International Chamber of Commerce (for short ICC).	Facts
On 23rd October, 1997 the 1st Respondent filed a request for arbitration with ICC.	Facts
Parties agreed that the arbitration be held in Paris, France.	Facts
ICC has appointed a sole arbitrator.	Facts
3. 1st Respondent filed an application under Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter called the said Act) before the IIIrd Additional District Judge, Indore, M.P. against the Appellant and the 2nd Respondent.	Facts
One of the interim reliefs sought was an order of injunction restraining these parties from alienating, transferring and or creating third party right, disposing of, dealing with and or selling their business assets and properties.	Facts
The Appellant raised the plea of maintainability of such an application.	Facts
The Appellant contended that Part I of the Act would not apply to arbitrations where the place of arbitration is not in India.	Facts
This application was dismissed by the IIIrd Additional District Judge on 1st February, 2000.	Facts
It was held that the Court at Indore had jurisdiction and the application was maintainable.	Facts
The Appellant filed a Writ Petition before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Indore Bench.	Facts
The said Writ Petition has been dismissed by the impugned Judgment dated 10th October, 2000.	Facts
On behalf of the Appellants, Mr. Sen submits that Part I of the said Act only applies to arbitrations where the place of arbitration is in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that if the place of arbitration is not in India then Part II of the said Act would apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
He relies on subsection (2) Section 2 of the said Act which provides that Part I shall apply where the place of arbitration is in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that subsection (2) of Section 2 makes it clear that the provisions of Part I do not apply where the place of arbitration is not in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen points out that the said Act is based on UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that Article 1(2) of UNCITRAL Model Law provides that the law, except Articles 8, 9, 35 and 36 of the Model Law, would apply only if the Arbitration takes place in the territory of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that Article 9 of the UNCITRAL Model Law permits a party to request a Court for interim measure even if the arbitration is not in the territory of the State.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that whilst framing the said Act the Legislature has purposely not adopted Article 1(2) of the UNCITRAL Model Law.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that this clearly shows that the intention of the Legislature that they did not want	Arguments of Petitioner
Part I apply to arbitrations which take place outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen points out that Section 2(f) of the said Act defines an international commercial arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that an international commercial arbitration could take place either in India or outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that if the international commercial arbitration takes place out of India then Part I of the said Act would not apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that Part II of the said Act applies to foreign awards.	Arguments of Petitioner
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen fairly draws the attention of this Court to subsections (3), (4) and (5) of Section 2, which read as follows 2(3)	Arguments of Petitioner
This Part shall not affect any other law for the time being in force by virtue of which certain disputes may not be submitted to arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
(4) This Part except subsection (1) of section 40, sections 41 and 43 shall apply to every arbitration under any other enactment for the time being in force, as if the arbitration were pursuant to an arbitration agreement and as if that other enactment were an arbitration agreement except in so far as the provisions of this Part are inconsistent with that other enactment or with any rules made thereunder.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), and save in so far as is otherwise provided by any law for the time being in force or in any agreement in force between India and any other country or countries, this Part shall apply to all arbitrations and to all proceedings relating thereto.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that subsections (3), (4) and (5) of Section 2 would necessarily only apply to arbitration which take place in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that, therefore, even though the subsection (4) of Section 2 uses the words every arbitration and subsection (5) of Section 2 uses the words all arbitrations and to all proceedings relating thereto, they must necessarily refer only to arbitrations which take place in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that otherwise there would be a conflict between sub section (2) on one hand and sub sections (4) and or (5) on the other.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that if it is held that Part I applies to all arbitrations i.e. even to arbitrations whose place of arbitration is not in India, then Sub section (2) of Section 2 would become redundant and or otiose.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that in this matter arbitration is being held in Paris i.e out of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that to such arbitrations Part I does not apply.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that Sections 9 and 17 fall in Part I.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that Sections 9 and 17 would not apply and cannot be used in cases where the place of arbitration is not in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen Submits out that Part II deals with enforcement of foreign awards and makes elaborate provisions in respect thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that in Part II there is no provision similar to Sections 9 and 17.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the Legislature, whilst providing for foreign awards, has purposely omitted to make any provision for interim measures either by the Court or by arbitral tribunal.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the reason for this is obvious.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that in cases, where arbitrations take place outside India they would be governed by the rules of the country or the body under whose jurisdiction they are being conducted.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that under the ICC Rules of Arbitration Article 23 provides for interim measures.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that the remedy, if any, is to apply for interim relief under Article 23.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that a plain reading of Section 9 also makes it clear that it would not apply to arbitrations which take place outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that Section 9 provides that an application for interim measure must be made before the award in enforced in accordance with Section 36.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that Section 36 deals with enforcement of domestic awards only.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that provisions for enforcement of foreign awards are contained in Sections 48, 49, 57 and 58.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that it is very significant that Section 9 does not talk of enforcement of the award in accordance with Sections 48, 49, 57 and 58.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that this also makes it clear that the provisions of Part I of the said Act do not apply to arbitrations which do not take place in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen also relies on Section 5 of the said Act and submits that the underlying principle is that a judicial authority should not interfere except as provided in said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the rational behind this is that there should be minimum interference by Courts.	Arguments of Petitioner
11.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen submits that the Court in Indore could not have entertained the application under Section 9 as Part I did not apply to arbitrations which take place outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that the Court in Indore and the High Court were wrong in rejecting the application of the appellant and in holding that the Court had jurisdiction.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen states that on this aspect there is no authority of his Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that a number of High Courts including the High Courts at Orissa, Bombay, Madras, Delhi and Calcutta have held that Part I of the said Act would not apply to arbitrations which take place outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that earlier, two single Judges of the Delhi High Court had held that Part I applies to arbitrations which take place outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He points out that now a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court has held that Part I does not apply to arbitrations which take place outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that therefore now the only High Court which has held, that Part I applies to arbitrations which take place outside India, is the Madhya Pradesh High Court, which has so held by the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sen took us through the authority of the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in the case of Marriott International Inc. vs. Ansal Hotels Ltd. reported in AIR (2000)	Arguments of Petitioner
Delhi 377.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also took us through an unreported Judgment of a Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court dated 27th January, 1998 in the case of Keventea Agro Ltd. vs. Agram Company Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
These authorities adopt, more or less, the same reasoning as has been canvassed by Mr. Sen. The Delhi High Court further notices that this reasoning may lead to a situation where a party may be left remedyless and, therefore, would work hardship on a party.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Delhi High Court however, observed as follows We may agree with the learned counsel for the appellant that it may, in some cases, lead to hardship to a party, however, when the language of the statute is plain and unambiguous and admits of only one meaning.	Arguments of Petitioner
The question of construction of statute arises, for the Act speaks for itself even if the result is strange or surprising, unreasonable or unjust or oppression as it is not for the Courts to extend the scope of the statute beyond the contemplation of the legislature.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is entirely for the legislature to look into this question.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand Mr. Sundaram for the Respondents has taken us through the various provisions of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He has ably submitted that a conjoint reading of the provisions shows that Part I is to apply to all arbitrations.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that unless the parties by their agreement excludes its provisions Part I would also apply to all international commercial arbitrations including those that take place out of India.	Arguments of Respondent
At first blush the arguments of Mr. Sen appear very attractive.	Arguments of Respondent
Undoubtedly subsection (2) of Section 2 states that Part I is to apply where the place of arbitration is in India.	Arguments of Respondent
Undoubtedly, Part II applies to foreign awards.	Arguments of Respondent
Whilst the submissions of Mr. Sen are attractive one has to keep in mind the consequence which would follow if they are accepted.	Arguments of Respondent
The result would a) amount to holding that the Legislature has left a lacunae in the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
There would be a lacunae as neither Part I or II would apply to arbitrations held in a country which is not a signatory to the New York Convention or the Geneva Convention (hereinafter called a nonconvention country).	Arguments of Respondent
It would mean that there is no law, in India, governing such arbitrations.	Arguments of Respondent
b) lead to an anomalous situation, inasmuch Part I would apply to Jammu and Kashmir in all international commercial arbitrations but Part I would not apply to the rest of India if the arbitration takes place out of India.	Arguments of Respondent
c) lead to a conflict between subsection (2) of Section 2 on one hand and subsections (4) and (5) of Section 2 on the other.	None
Further subsection (2) of Section 2 would also be in conflict with Section 1 which provides that the Act extends to the whole of India.	None
d) leave a party remediless inasmuch as in international commercial arbitrations which take place out of India the party would not be able to apply for interim relief in India even though the properties and assets are in India.	None
Thus a party may not be able to get any interim relief at all.	Arguments of Respondent
It is thus necessary to see whether the language of the said Act is so plain and unambiguous as to admit of only the interpretation suggested by Mr. Sen.	None
It must be borne in mind that the very object of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act of 1996, was to establish a uniform legal framework for the fair and efficient settlement of disputes arising in international commercial arbitration.	Reasoning
The conventional way of interpreting a statute is to seek the intention of its makers.	Reasoning
If a statutory provision is open to more than one Interpretation then the Court has to choose that Interpretation which represents the true intention of the legislature.	Reasoning
This task often is not an easy one and several difficulties arise on account of variety of reasons, but at the same, it must be borne in mind that it is impossible even for the most imaginative legislature to forestall exhaustively situations and circumstances and circumstances that may emerge after enacting a statute where its application may be called for.	None
It is in such a situation the Courts duty to expound arises with a caution that the Court should not try to legislate.	Reasoning
While examining a particular provision of a statute to find out whether the jurisdiction of a Court is ousted or not, the principle of universal application is that ordinarily the jurisdiction may not be ousted unless the very statutory provision explicitly indicates or even by inferential conclusion the Court arrives at the same when such a conclusion is the only conclusion.	Reasoning
Notwithstanding the conventional principle that the duty of judges is to expound and not to legislate.	None
The Courts have taken the view that the judicial art of interpretation and appraisal is imbued with creatively and realism and since interpretation always implied a degree of discretion and choice, the Court would adopt particularly in areas such as constitutional adjudication dealing with social and xxx xxx.	None
Courts are therefore, held as finishers, refiners, and polishers of legislatures which gives them in a state requiring varying degrees of further processing.	None
(See Corrocraft Ltd. vs. Pan American Airways (1968)3 WLR 714 at page 732, AIR 1975 SC 1951 at page 1957.	None
If a language used a capable of bearing more than one construction, in selecting the true meaning, regard must be had to the consequences, resulting from adopting the alternative constructions.	None
A construction that results in hardship, serious inconvenience, injustice, absurdity or anomaly or which leads to inconsistency or uncertainty and friction in the system which the statute purports to regulate has to be rejected and preference should be given to that construction which avoids such results.	None
(See Johnson vs. Moreton (1978) 3 All.	None
ER37 and Stock vs. Frank Jones (Tipton) Ltd. (1978)	None
1	None
All.	None
ER 948).	None
In selecting out of different interpretations the Court will adopt that which is just reasonable and sensible rather than that which is none of those things, as it may be presumed that the legislature should have used the word in that interpretation which least offends our sense of justice.	None
In Shanon Realites Ltd. vs. Sant Michael (924) A.C. page 185 at page 192193 Lord Shaw stated, Where words of a statute are clear, they must, of course, be followed, but in their Lordships opinion where alternative constructions are equally open that alternative is to be chosen which will be consistent with the smooth working of the system which the statute purports to be regulating and that alternative is to be rejected which will introduce uncertainty, friction or confusion into the working of the system.	None
This principle was accepted by Subba Rao, J. while construing Section 193 of the Sea Customs Act and in coming to the conclusion that the Chief of Customs Authority was not an officer of custom.	None
(AIR 1961 SC 1549 ).	None
A reading of the provisions shows that the said Act applies to arbitrations which are held in India between Indian nationals and to international commercial arbitrations held in India or out of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Section 2(f) defines an international commercial arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
The definition makes no distinction between international commercial arbitrations held in India or outside India.	None
An international commercial arbitration may be held in a country which is a signatory to either the New York Convention or the Geneva Convention (hereinafter called the convention country).	None
An international commercial arbitration may be held in a nonconvention country.	None
The said Act nowhere provides that its provisions are not to apply to international commercial arbitrations which take place in a nonconvention country.	None
Admittedly Part II only applies to arbitrations which take place in a convention country.	None
Mr. Sen fairly admitted that Part II would not apply to an international commercial arbitration which takes place in a nonconvention country.	None
He also fairly admitted that there would be countries which are not signatories either to the New York Convention or to the Geneva Convention.	None
It is not possible to accept submission that the said Act makes no provision for international commercial arbitrations which take place in a nonconvention country.	None
Section 1 of the said Act reads as follows Short title, extent and commencement.  	None
(1) This Act may be called the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.	None
It extends to the whole of India Provided that Parts I, III and IV shall extend to the State of Jammu and Kashmir only in so far as they relate to international commercial arbitration or, as the case may be, international commercial conciliation.	Arguments of Respondent
The words this Act means the entire Act.	None
This shows that the entire Act, including Part I, applies to the whole of the India.	None
The fact that all Parts apply to whole of India is clear from the proviso which provides that Parts, I, III and IV will apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir only so far as international commercial arbitrations conciliations are concerned.	Arguments of Respondent
Significantly the proviso does not state that Part I would apply to Jammu and Kashmir only if the place of the international commercial arbitration is in Jammu and Kashmir.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus if subsection (2) of Section 2 is read in the manner suggested by Mr. Sen there would be a conflict between Section 1 and Section 2(2).	None
There would also be an anomaly inasmuch as even if an international commercial arbitration takes place outside India,	Arguments of Respondent
Part I would continue to apply in Jammu and Kashmir, but it would not apply to the rest of India.	None
The Legislature could not have so intended.	None
Section 2(a) defines arbitration as meaning any arbitration whether or not administered by a permanent arbitral institution.	None
Thus, this definition recognises that the arbitration could be under a body like the Indian Chambers of Commerce or the International Chamber of Commerce.	None
Arbitrations under International Chambers of Commerce would be held, in most cases, out of India.	None
Section 2(c) provides that the term arbitral award would include an interim award.	None
Section 2(f) of the said Act defines an international commercial arbitration.	Arguments of Petitioner
It reads as follows 2(f) international commercial arbitration means an arbitration relating to disputes arising out of legal relationships, whether contractual or not, considered as commercial under the law in force in India and where at least one of the parties is an individual who is a national of, or habitually resident in, any country other than India or a body corporate which is incorporated in any country other than India or a company or an association or a body of individuals whose central management and control is exercised in any country other than India or the Government of a foreign country.	None
As stated above the definition of international commercial arbitration makes no distinction between international commercial arbitrations which take place in India or internal commercial arbitrations which take place outside India.	None
Section 2(e) defines Court as follows 2(e)	None
Court means the principle Civil Court of original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the High Court in exercise of its ordinary original civil jurisdiction, having jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the subjectmatter of the arbitration if the same had been the subjectmatter of a suit, but does not include any civil court of a grade inferior to such principal Civil Court, or any Court of Small Causes.	None
A Court in one which would otherwise have jurisdiction in respect of the subject matter.	None
The definition does not provide that the Courts in India, will not have jurisdiction if an international commercial arbitration takes place outside India.	None
Courts in India would have jurisdiction even in respect of an international commercial arbitration.	None
As stated above an ouster of jurisdiction cannot be implied.	None
An ouster of jurisdiction has to be express.	None
Now let us look at subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of Section 2.	None
Subsection (2) of Section (2) provides that Part I would apply where the place of arbitration is in India.	Arguments of Respondent
To be immediately noted that it is not providing that Part I shall not apply where the place of arbitration is not in India.	None
It is also not providing that Part I will only apply where the place of arbitration is in India (emphasis supplied).	None
Thus the Legislature has not provided that Part I is not to apply to arbitrations which take place outside India.	None
The use of the language is significant and important.	None
The Legislature is emphasising that the provisions of Part I would apply to arbitrations which take place in India, but not providing that the provisions of Part I will not apply to arbitrations which take place out of India.	None
The wording of subsection (2) of Section 2 suggests that the intention of Legislature was to make provisions of Part I compulsorily applicable to an arbitration, including an international commercial arbitration, which takes place in India.	Arguments of Respondent
Parties cannot, by agreement override or exclude the nonderogable provisions of Part I in such arbitrations.	None
By omitting to provide that Part I will not apply to international commercial arbitrations which take place outside India the affect would be	None
that Part	None
I would also apply to international commercial arbitrations held out of India.	None
But by not specifically providing that the provisions of Part I apply to international commercial arbitrations held out of India, the intention of the Legislature appears to be to ally parties to provide by agreement that Part I or any provision therein will not apply.	None
Thus in respect of arbitrations which take place outside India even the nonderogable provisions of Part I can be excluded.	None
Such an agreement may be express or implied.	None
If read in this manner there would be no conflict between Section 1 and Section 2(2).	None
The words every arbitration in subsection (4) of Section 2 and the words all arbitrations and all proceedings relating thereto in subsection (5) of Section 2 are wide.	None
Subsections (4) and (5) of Section 2 are not made subject to subsection (2) of Section 2.	None
It is significant that subsection (5) is made subject to subsection (4) but not to subsection (2).	None
The accept Mr. Sens submission would necessitate adding words in subsections (4) and (5) of Section 2, which the Legislature has purposely omitted to add viz.	None
Subject to provision of subsection (2).	None
However read in the manner set out hereinabove there would also be no conflict between subsection (2) of Section 2 and subsections (4) and or (5) of Section 2.	None
That the Legislature did not intend to exclude the applicability of Part I to arbitrations, which take place outside India, is further clear from certain other provisions of the said Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subsection (7) of Section 2 reads as follows An arbitral award made under this Part shall be considered as a domestic award.	None
As is set out hereinabove the said Act applies to (a) arbitrations held in India between Indians (b) international commercial arbitrations.	Arguments of Petitioner
As set out hereinabove international commercial arbitrations may take place in India or outside India.	Arguments of Petitioner
Outside India an international commercial arbitration may be held in a convention country or in a nonconvention country.	None
The said Act however only classifies awards as domestic awards or foreign awards.	None
Mr. Sen admits that provisions of Part II makes it clear that foreign awards are only those where the arbitration takes place in a convention country.	None
Awards in arbitration proceedings which take place in a nonconvention country are not considered to be foreign awards under the said Act.	None
They would thus not be covered by Part II.	None
An award passed in an arbitration which takes place in India would be a domestic award unless the intention be no need to define an award as a domestic award unless the intention was to cover awards which would otherwise not be covered by this definition.	None
Strictly speaking an award passed in an arbitration which takes place in a nonconvention country would not be a domestic awards.	None
Thus the necessity is to define a domestic award as including all awards made under Part I.	None
The definition indicates that an award made in an international commercial arbitration held in a nonconvention country is also considered to be a domestic award.	None
Section 5 provides that a judicial authority shall not intervene except where so provided in Part I. Section 8 of the said Act permits a judicial authority before whom an action is brought in a matter to refer parties to arbitration.	None
If the matters were to be taken before a judicial authority in India it would be a Court as defined in Section 2(e).	None
Thus if part I was to only apply to arbitrations which take place in India the term Court would have been used in Sections 5 and 8 of the said Act.	None
The Legislature was aware that, in international commercial arbitrations, a matter may be taken before a judicial authority outside India.	None
As Part I was also to apply to international commercial arbitrations held outside India the term judicial authority has been used in Sections 5 and 8.	None
The beginning part of Section 28 reads as follows Rules applicable to substance of dispute.	None
(1) where the place of arbitration is situate in India, xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx	None
xxx xxx Section 28 is in Part I.	None
If Part I was not to apply to an arbitration which takes place outside India there would be no necessity to specify that the rules are to apply where the place of arbitration is situate in India.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has been held in the case of National Thermal Power Corporation vs. Singer Company and others reported in (1992) 3 SCC 551 that in International commercial arbitrations parties are at liberty to choose, expressly or by necessary implication, the law and the procedure to be made applicable.	None
The procedure or the rules governing such arbitration may be of the country where the arbitration is being held or the body under whose aegis the arbitration is being held.	None
All bodies which conduct arbitrations and all countries have rules and laws governing arbitrations.	None
Thus Section 28 does not provide for rules where the place of arbitration is out of India.	None
Mr. Sen had also submitted that Part II, which deals with enforcement of foreign awards does not contain any provision similar to Section 9 or Section 17.	Reasoning
As indicated earlier Mr. Sen had submitted that this indicated the intention of Legislature not to apply Sections 9 and 17 to arbitrations, like the present, which are taking place in a foreign country.	Reasoning
The said Act is one consolidated and integrated Act.	None
General provisions applicable to all arbitrations will not be repeated in all chapters or parts.	None
The general provisions will apply to all chapters or parts unless the statute expressly states that they are not to apply or where, in respect of a matter, there is a separate provision in a separate Chapter or Part.	None
Part II deals with enforcement of foreign awards.	None
Thus Sections 44 in (Chapter I) and Section 53 (in Chapter II) define foreign awards, as being awards covered by arbitrations under the New York Convention and the Geneva Convention respectively.	None
Part II then contains provisions for enforcement of foreign awards which necessarily would be different.	None
For that reason special provisions for enforcement of foreign awards are made in Part II.	Arguments of Petitioner
To the extent that Part II provides a separate definition of an arbitral award and separate provisions for enforcement of foreign awards, the provisions in Part I dealing with these aspects will not apply to such foreign awards.	None
It must immediately be clarified that the arbitration not having taken place in India, all or some of the provisions of Part I may also get excluded by an express or implied agreement of parties.	None
But if not so excluded the provisions of Part I will also apply to foreign awards.	None
The opening words of Sections 45 and 54, which are in Part II, read notwithstanding anything contained in Part I. Such a nonobstante clause had to be put in because the provisions of Part I apply to Part II.	None
Mr. Sen had also relied upon Article 1(2) of the UNCITRAL Model Law and had submitted that India has purposely not adopted this Article.	None
He had submitted that the fact that India had not provided (like in the UNCITRAL Model Law) that Section 9 would apply to arbitral proceedings which take place out of India indicated the intention of the Legislature not to apply Section 9 to such arbitrations.	None
We are unable to accept this submission.	None
Article 1(2) of UNCITRAL Model Law reads as follows The provisions of this Law, except articles 8, 9, 35 and 36, apply only if the place of arbitration is in the territory of this State.	Arguments of Petitioner
(Emphasis supplied)	None
Thus Article 1(2) of UNCITRAL Model Laws uses the word only to emphasize that the provisions of that Law are to apply if the place of arbitration is in the territory of that State.	Arguments of Petitioner
Significantly in Section 2(2)	None
the word only has been omitted.	None
The omission of this word changes the whole complexion of the the sentence.	None
The omission of the word only in Section 2(2) indicates that this subsection is only an inclusive and clarificatory provision.	None
As stated above it is not providing that provisions of Part I do not apply to arbitration which take place outside India.	Reasoning
Thus there was a necessity or separately providing that Section 9 would apply.	None
Now let us consider Section 9.	None
It reads as follows Interim measures, etc. by court.	None
A party may, before or during arbitral proceedings or at any time after the making of the arbitral award but before it is enforced in accordance with section 36, apply to a court for the appointment of a guardian for a minor or a person of unsound mind for the purposes of arbitral proceedings or for an interim measure of protection in respect of any of the following matters, namely (a) the preservation, interim custody or sale or any goods which are the subjectmatter of the arbitration agreement (b) securing the amount in dispute in the arbitration (c) the detention, preservation or inspection of any property or thing which is the subjectmatter of the dispute in arbitration, or as to which any question may arise therein and authorising for any of the aforesaid purposes any person to enter upon any land or building in the possession of any part, or authorising any samples to be taken or any observation to be made, or experiment to be tried, which may be necessary or expedient for the purpose of obtaining full information or evidence (d) interim injunction or the appointment of a receiver (e) such other interim measure of protection as may appear to the court to be just and convenient, and the Court shall have the same power for making orders as it has for the purpose of, and in relation to, any proceedings before it.	None
Thus under Section 9 a party could apply to the court (a) before, (b) during arbitral proceedings or (c) after the making of the arbitral award but before it is enforced in accordance with Section 36.	None
The words in accordance with Section 36 can only go with the words after the making of the arbitral award.	None
It is clear that the words in accordance with Section 36 can have no reference to an application made before or during the arbitral proceedings.	None
Thus it is clear that an application for interim measure can be made to Courts in India, whether or not the arbitration takes place in India, before or during arbitral proceedings.	None
Once an Award is passed, then that award itself can be executed.	None
Sections 49 and 58 provide that awards covered by Part II are deemed to be a decree of the Court.	None
Thus foreign awards which are enforceable in India are deemed to be decrees.	None
A domestic award has to be enforced under the provisions of Civil Procedure Code.	None
All that Section 36 provides is that an enforcement of a domestic award is to take place after the time to make an application to set aside the award has expired or such an application has been refused.	Reasoning
Section 9 does suggest that once an award is made an application for interim measure can only be made if the award is a domestic award as defined in Section 2(7) of the said Act.	Reasoning
Thus where the Legislature wanted to restrict the applicability of Section 9 it has done so specifically.	Reasoning
We see no substance in the submission that there would be unnecessary interference by courts in arbitral proceedings.	Reasoning
Section 5 provides that no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided.	Reasoning
Section 9 does not permit any or all applications.	Reasoning
It only permits applications for interim measures mentioned in clauses (i) and (ii) thereof.	Reasoning
Thus there cannot be applications under Section 9 for stay of arbitral proceedings or to challenge the existence or validity of arbitration agreements or the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal.	Reasoning
All such challenges would have to be made before the arbitral tribunal under the said Act.	Reasoning
Mr. Sen had also submitted that the term arbitral award includes an interim award.	Reasoning
He had submitted that it would be open for the arbitral tribunal to pass interim awards and those interim awards could be enforced in India under Part II.	Reasoning
However, there is a difference between an interim award and an interim order.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly, the arbitral tribunal could pass an interim award.	Reasoning
But an interim order or directions passed by the arbitral tribunal would not be enforceable in India.	Reasoning
Thus even in respect of arbitrations covered by Part II a party would be precluded from getting any interim relief.	Reasoning
In any event, on Mr. Sens interpretation, an award passed in arbitral proceedings held in a nonconvention country could not be enforced.	Reasoning
Thus such a partly would be left completely remediless.	Reasoning
If a party cannot secure, before or during the pendency of the arbitral proceedings, an interim order in respects of items provided in Section 9(i) (ii) the result may be that the arbitration proceedings may themselves get frustrated e.g. by non appointment of a guardian for a minor or person of unsound mind or the subject matter of the arbitration agreement not being preserved.	None
This could never have been the intention of the Legislature.	None
To conclude we hold that the provisions of Part I would apply to all arbitrations and to all proceedings relating thereto.	Reasoning
Where such arbitration is held in India the provisions of Part I would compulsory apply and parties are free to deviate only to the extent permitted by the derogable provisions of Part I.	Reasoning
In cases of international commercial arbitrations held out of India provisions of Part I would apply unless the parties by agreement, express or implied, exclude all or any of its provisions.	Reasoning
In that case the laws or rules chosen by the parties would prevail.	Reasoning
Any provision, in Part I, which is contrary to or excluded by that law or rules will not apply.	Reasoning
Faced with this situation Mr. Sen submits that, in this case the parties had agreed that the arbitration be as per the rules of ICC.	Reasoning
He submits that thus by necessary implication Section 9 would not apply.	Reasoning
In our view in such cases the question would be whether Section 9 gets excluded by the ICC Rules of Arbitration.	Reasoning
Article 23 of ICC Rules reads as follows Conservatory and Interim Measures Unless the parties have otherwise agreed, as soon as the file has been transmitted to it, the Arbitral Tribunal may, at the request of a party, order any interim or conservatory measure it deems appropriate.	None
The Arbitral Tribunal may make the granting of any such measure subject to appropriate security being furnished by the requesting party.	None
Any such measure shall take the form of an order, giving reasons, or of an Award, as the Arbitral Tribunal considers appropriate.	None
Before the file is transmitted to the Arbitral Tribunal, and in appropriate circumstances even thereafter, the parties may apply to any competent judicial authority for interim or conservatory measures.	None
The application of a party to a judicial authority for such measures or for the implementation of any such measures ordered by an Arbitral Tribunal shall not be deemed to be an infringement or a waiver of the arbitration agreement and shall not affect the relevant powers reserved to the Arbitral Tribunal.	None
Any such application and any measures taken by the judicial authority must be notified without delay to the Secretariat.	None
The Secretariat shall inform the Arbitral Tribunal thereof.	None
Thus Article 23 of the ICC rules permits parties to apply to a competent judicial authority for interim and conservatory measures.	Reasoning
Therefore, in such cases an application can be made under Section 9 of the said Act.	Reasoning
Lastly it must be stated that the said Act does not appear to be a well drafted legislation.	Reasoning
Therefore the High Courts of Orissa, Bombay, Madras, Delhi and Calcutta cannot be faulted for interpreting it in the manner indicated above.	Reasoning
However, in our view a proper and conjoint reading of all the provisions indicates that Part I is to apply also to international commercial arbitrations which take place out of India, unless the parties by agreement, express or implied exclude it or any of its provisions.	Reasoning
Such an interpretation does not lead to any conflict between any of the provisions of the said Act.	Reasoning
On this interpretation there is no lacunae in the said Act.	Reasoning
This interpretation also does not leave a party remedyless.	Reasoning
Thus such an interpretation has to be preferred to the one adopted by the High Courts of Orissa, Bombay, Madras, Delhi and Calcutta.	Reasoning
It will therefore have to be held that the contrary view taken by these High Courts is not good law.	Reasoning
In this view of the matter we see no reason to interfere with the impugned judgment.	Decision
The Appeal stands dismissed.	Decision
There will be no Order as to costs throughout.	Decision
