 Das Gupta, J.1.	None
Three brothers, Ramakrishna, Narayanaswamy and Mahadeva, who are eightythree, seventynine and sixtynine years of age respectively, are the main figures in this litigation.	Facts
After their fathers death in 1908 the three brothers continued as members of a joint family.	Facts
The eldest brother, Ramakrishna became under the law the Karta of the family.	Facts
When the father died the family was possessed of about 10 acres of land.	Facts
But he had also left some debts and one of the first acts which Ramakrishna had to do as the Manager was the repayment of those debts.	Facts
Ramakrishna had become the Karnam in Narasingampettai in 1902 and even during his fathers lifetime started acquiring property.	Facts
Property to the extent of about 25 acres was acquired for the joint family between the years 1911 to 1931.	Facts
In 1927 Ramakrishna had been transferred to the bigger village of Vepatthur and continued to be there till 1930.	Facts
On his retirement in that year his son Venkatarama succeeded him as the Karnam of Vepatthur.	Facts
Between 1931 to 1946 properties in Vepatthur and other villages, were acquired in the name of Ramakrishnas son Venkatarama, his wife Mangalathammal, his grandson (Venkataramas son) Malalingam.	Facts
Some property was acquired also in the name of Mangalathammals brother Raja Ayyar.	Facts
Monies were also invested in loans in the names of Ramakrishnans wife, Mangalathammal, his son Venkatarama and his grandson, Mahalingam.2.	Facts
The second brother Narayanaswami became a Vakils clerk in Kumbakonam in 1910.	Facts
The third brother Mahadeva who was a boy of thirteen at the time of his fathers death was put into the medical school and qualified as a doctor.	Facts
He was in service as a Sub Assistant Surgeon at the time when the present suit was instituted by Narayanaswamy.	Facts
Both of them earned well and have admittedly acquired properties for themselves out of their own earnings.3.	Facts
As early as the thirties feelings became strained between Ramakrishna, the eldest brother and Narayanaswami the second brother.	Facts
Mahadeva who had to remain away at different places in connection with his service demanded partition of the joint family properties and in this Narayanaswami also seems to have joined him.	Facts
The extreme action of going to Courts was however not taken so long as mother was alive.	Facts
She died early in 1945 at the age of 90 years.	Facts
In December (12th December) 1946 Narayanaswami sent a lawyers notice to Ramakrishna in which he claimed that not only the 25 acres acquired between 1911 and 1931 but also the properties, acquired in the name of Ramakrishnas wife, his son and brotherinlaw, had been acquired with the income of the family and formed part of the joint family properties.	Facts
He claimed also in this notice that family funds of about Rs. 25,000/ was in the hands of Ramakrishna in the shape of cash and Benami investments.	Facts
He demanded a partition of all these properties and of the cattle and other movable properties owned by the family.	Facts
He also called upon Ramakrishna to account for the income derived from the family properties for the last three years at least.	Facts
In all these he claimed a onethird share.4.	None
To this Ramakrishna replied on December 31, 1946.	Facts
He stated that the joint family properties consisted only of 10 acres left by their father and about 25 acres acquired later on and denied that the other properties belonged to the family.	Facts
Soon after this, on the 1st February 1947, Narayanaswami brought this suit for partition and accounts in the Court of the Subordinate Judge, Kumbakonam.	Facts
The eldest brother Ramakrishna was impleaded as the first defendant Mahadeva the third brother, was the second defendant.	Facts
Ramakrishnas son Venkatarama, his wife Mangalathammal and his brotherinlaw Raja Iyer were impleaded as the third, fourth and the fifth defendants respectively.	Facts
Mahalingam was impleaded as the sixth defendant.	Facts
Two other minor sons of Venkatarama were also impleaded.	Facts
They are the seventh and the eighth defendants in the case.5.	Facts
The plaintiffs case was short and simple.	Facts
He claimed that Ramakrishna as the Karta of the joint family managed the family properties and acquired properties with the family funds from 1911 to 1946.	Facts
He thus claimed that not only the 34 acres and 58 cents of land in the village Kumarakshi (mentioned in the A Schedule) which the first defendant Ramakrishna admitted to the joint family property but also properties mentioned in the Schedules B, B1 and B2, and C, C1 and C2 and D for which the sale deeds stood in the name of Ramakrishnas wife or son or grandson or brotherinlaw were joint family properties.	Facts
Heclaimed also that between 1931 and 1946 Ramakrishna, the Karta, had invested family funds in the name of his wife, his son and his grandson and these were also joint family properties.	Facts
The movable properties claimed to be joint family properties were mentioned in Schedule A2, while the house in Thiagarajapuram, also claimed to be joint family property was mentioned in A1 Schedule.	Facts
The plaintiff prayed for allotment to him of one third share of these properties by division in metes and bounds into three equal shares.	Facts
He further prayed for a direction on the first defendant to account for the management of the family properties for three years and for payment to the plaintiff of his share in the amount that may be found due.6.	Facts
The second defendant Mahadeva generally supported the plaintiff though as regards the years 1940, 1941, 1942 and 1943 his case in the written statement was that it was the plaintiff Narayanaswamy and not the first defendant who collected the income from the joint family properties.	Facts
For these four years, he pleaded that the plaintiff was liable to render an account while for the remaining period the first defendant was said to be liable.	Facts
In a schedule to his written statement he mentioned several other items of properties which he claimed belonged to the joint family though one of the sale deeds stood in the name of the sixth defendant Mahalingam and the other in the name of the fifth defendant Raja Ayyar.	Facts
The other defendants contested the suit.7.	Facts
The first defendants case was that though on his fathers death he because in law the Karta of the joint Hindu family the actual management was carried on by the mother till 1940 and from 1940 till the mothers death in 1945 by the plaintiff Narayanaswami.	Facts
It was only after the mothers death that he has taken up the management of the properties.	Facts
He pleaded that of the properties mentioned in the plaint only 34.58 acres mentioned in the A Schedule formed the joint family property.	Facts
(In addition to some of the movable properties mentioned in A2 Schedule).	Facts
He further pleaded that a house in Kumbakonam town which was acquired by the plaintiff in his own name as also some lands in Manalur village in Kumbakonam, Rs. 8,000/ in cash which the plaintiff had obtained on sale of certain lands also formed part of the joint family property.8.	Facts
His wife Mangalathammal, the fourth defendant also pleaded that the properties and the investments standing in her name were made by her own account with the monies which her husband Ramakrishna gave to her from his own earnings.	Facts
These therefore were not part of the joint family property and consequently not liable to partition.9.	Facts
The third defendant (Venkataramas) case was that the purchases of land and investments of money standing in his name were all with his own earnings since he became karnam and did not form part of the joint family property.	Facts
As regards what stood in the name of his son Mahalingam the third defendant pleaded that these were with his own earnings.	Facts
The fifth defendant also pleaded that whatever stood in his name was acquired by him with his own money and did not form part of the joint family of the plaintiff and his brothers.10.	Facts
The learned Subordinate Judge held on a consideration of the evidence that the plaintiffs case that the eldest brother Ramakrishna managed the family property as the Karta from and after their fathers death in 1908 till the date of the suit had been established.	Facts
He also came to the conclusion that in about 1931 Ramakrishna had with him an accumulated income of about Rs. 14,000/ belonging to the family and but very little money of his own.	Facts
From these findings it was an easy step to hold, as the learned Judge did, that the immovable properties mentioned in Schedule A, Al, Bl, C, C1, C2 and D as also Item 5 in Schedule B2 were all properties belonging to the joint family.	Facts
Out of these he found that the properties in Schedule Al, that is, a house in Thiagarajapuram had been given away to the sister Rukmaniammal and was no longer a joint family property and therefore not liable to division.	Facts
The rest of the properties he held was liable to be divided among the three brothers, the plaintiff and the defendants 1 and 2.	Facts
The Court also held that the mortgages and promissory notes on which money had been lent in the names of defendants 3 to 5 belonged to the joint family with the exception of a few standing in the name of the third defendant (Venkatarama) which was held to be the third defendants personal property.	Facts
A preliminary decree was made by the Court in accordance with these findings with a direction that an account be taken with reference to income of the properties in Schedules A, Al, B, Bl, C, Cl and D and Item in Sch. B2 and the house at Kumbakonam mentioned in the Schedule to the first defendants written statement for three years prior to the date of the suit and from the date of the suit till the passing of the final decree.	Facts
As regards the properties in	Facts
Schedule A	Facts
it was directed that the accounting will cease from the date on which the parties took possession of their shares in accordance with the interim decree.11.	Facts
Against this decision the first defendant appealed to the High Court of Judicature at Madras.	Facts
The plaintiff also filed an appeal challenging the decision of the Subordinate Judge that the house in Kumbakonam was a joint family property.	Facts
The High Court allowed the plaintiffs appeal holding that the Kumbakonam house was a separate self acquisition of the plaintiff.	Facts
Against this decision of the High Court no appeal has been preferred and we are no longer concerned with the question whether this house was plaintiffs property or not.12.	Facts
In the appeal preferred by the first defendant the High Court came to the conclusion, disagreeing with the Trial Court, that the first defendant Ramakrishna had saved enough from his separate earnings from which it was quite possible for him to make all the acquisitions and investments in the name of his son, wife and grandson subsequent to 1930.	Facts
In the opinion of the High Court the view of the Subordinate Judge that by 1930 the first defendant had in his hands a sum of Rs. 14,000/accumulated from the income of the joint family lands was surprising and utenable.	Facts
It did not disturb the Trial Courts findings that Schedule D land acquired in the name of the 5th defendant was joint family property, apparently because no appeal had been filed as regards this property.	Facts
Taking these 14 acres to be acquisitions for the family the High Court recorded its conclusion thus When we consider that the joint family nucleus has been more than quadrupled, it is difficult to see what grievance the younger copartners really have, particularly the second defendant, who after keeping for himself his earnings as a Doctor in Government Service finds himself entitled to a share in a greatly increased ancestral patrimony.13.	Facts
Finally the High Court concluded that the plaintiff has not shown that any of the acquisitions or investments in the names of defendants 3, 4 and 6 were made from joint family funds.	Facts
Accordingly, it allowed also the appeal preferred by the first defendant, holding that the only items liable for partition as joint property assets were those in Schedules A and B.	Issue
It also ordered that the first defendant would account for the income from 12th December 1946, the date on which notice demanding partition was sent to him by the plaintiff.	Issue
The present appeal has been preferred by the plaintiff against this decision of the High Court.14.	Facts
Two main arguments were advanced before us by Mr. Rajagopal Sastri in support of the appeal.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first is as regards the properties purchased in the name of the first defendants wife, his son, and his grandson.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned Counsel submitted that the High Court did not record any clear conclusion that at the date of the acquisition of these properties the joint family had not a sufficient nucleus for acquiring these.	None
He argued that the acquisition in the name of the first defendants wife was admittedly with funds advanced by the first defendant himself and if at the date of the acquisition in her name the joint family had sufficient nucleus for acquiring them, the presumption would be that they were acquired with joint family funds notwithstanding the fact that the first defendant may have sufficient funds of his own for the same purpose.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was rightly argued that in such a case the property should be held to be joint family property unless the presumption of the acquired property also being joint family property was rebutted by the first defendant.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also argued that acquisitions in the name of the third defendant and the sixth defendant should also be held to have been made with funds advanced by the first defendant himself and so these also should be presumed to have been acquired with joint family funds if it is shown that the joint family had sufficient nucleus for acquiring these at the date of the acquisitions and the first defendant does not show positively that the funds with which they were acquired did not belong to the joint family.15.	Arguments of Petitioner
The legal position is well settled that if in fact at the date of acquisition of a particular property the joint family had sufficient nucleus for acquiring it, the property in the name of any member of the joint family should be presumed to be acquired from out of family funds and so to form part of the joint family property, unless the contrary is shown.	Reasoning
Vide Amritalal v. Surath Lal, AIR 1942	Reasoning
Cal 553 Appalaswami v. Suryanarayanamurthy, ILR (1948) Mad 440 (AIR 1947 PC 189 ).16.	Reasoning
In the case before us, it is not disputed that the acquisitions in the name of the first defendants wife were made with funds advanced by him.	Reasoning
As regards the acquisitions in the name of the third defendant and his minor son the sixth defendant also we find it reasonable to hold from the evidence, as regards the earnings of the third defendant and other circumstances, that for these acquisitions also money was paid by the first defendant.	Reasoning
The question whether the joint family had at the time of each of these acquisitions sufficient nucleus from which the acquisition could have been made is therefore of great importance.17.	Reasoning
On a consideration of the evidence, as discussed below, we have come to the conclusion that it does not appear that the joint family had at the date of the acquisition made in the names of the first defendants wife, his son, and his grandson sufficient nucleus from which these properties could be acquired.	Reasoning
In coming to this conclusion we have taken into consideration the fact that family funds were spent in purchasing 14 acres of land mentioned in the name of the 5th defendant.18.	Reasoning
The period during which acquisitions admittedly for the joint family were made came to an end in about 1931.	Reasoning
At that time the first defendant had, according to his own evidence, about Rs. 15,000  in his hand.	Reasoning
His case is that this entire amount was what he had accumulated out of his own earnings.	Reasoning
The Subordinate Judge held that a little more than Rs. 14,000/  out of this amount was the savings from the family funds.	Reasoning
We agree with the High Court this conclusion is not justified by the evidence on the record.	Reasoning
As rightly pointed out by the High Court properties worth about Rs. 20,000  had been purchased out of the family income during this period.	Reasoning
During part of this period at least monies had to be spent for other requirements of the family including the expenses on the education of the third brother Mahadeva.	Reasoning
The several documents produced in the case show that at the time of more than one purchase the first defendant had to borrow money on promissory notes to pay the consideration mentioned in the documents.	Reasoning
It is worth mentioning that even the plaintiff was not prepared to say that the family income was sufficient to pay for these purchases.	None
In crossexamination a question was put to him in these words Q. from 1911 out of the family income Rs. 20,000/ worth of lands had been purchased?	None
Can there have been more income from the family lands?The answer is significant.	None
It was in these words A. From the family income, the joint income of myself and Defendant I certainly exceeded Rs. 20,000 .	None
The income of myself and Defendant 1 which went in the purchase of lands may have come to Rs. 10,000 .In	None
other words, the plaintiff himself seems to concede that only Rs. 10,000/ of the family income was available during this period for purchase of lands.	Reasoning
The claim made here that he also contributed to the purchase is clearly inconsistent with his own written statement and with other parts of his evidence and cannot be accepted.19.	Reasoning
The learned Subordinate Judge appears to have been convinced that Ramakrishnas personal earnings were very little.	Reasoning
He thought also that what little Ramakrishna earned was required for the expenses of his own branch of the family.	Reasoning
The learned Judge concluded that he could not have saved out of these earnings.	Reasoning
This view appears to have been mainly responsible for this conclusion that almost the whole of Rs. 15,000/ which the defendant No. 1 admitted to have with him in about 1931 came out of the family funds.	Reasoning
In our opinion, the materials on the record do not justify the Trial Courts view that Ramakrishna could not have accumulated a sum of Rs. 15,000/  out of his own income.	Reasoning
The mamools which he received as Karnam of Narasingampettai and later on of the bigger village of Vepatthur amounted to a considerable quantity of paddy and must have fetched him a goodly income.	Reasoning
There was apart from this, his income from the banana plantations which he had at Narasingampettai.	Reasoning
One of the lease deeds shows a receipt of Rs. 450  for one season.	Reasoning
Taking good years with bad, it would not be unreasonable to think that this also brought him a few thousands of rupees.	Reasoning
We are convinced also on a consideration of his evidence, taken with the entries in the account book of Appaswamy Iyer (Ex. B.101) that he received a sum of Rs. 2,500/ as reward for successfully maintaining the litigation on Appalaswamys behalf.	Reasoning
There can be little doubt that he received a good sum also as fees for writing documents.	Reasoning
One of his witnesses, Nariyanaswami Reddiar, DW 7, has given evidence that he paid the defendant Rs.1000/ as fees for the documents written for him.	Reasoning
Even if this be considered an exaggeration, it is quite celar from the evidence of this witness that Ramakrishna who, it may be noted, was a man of some education, did a flourishing side business as a writer of documents, saved two or three thousand rupees, earned by him by this work during the entire period he served as a Karnam.	Reasoning
It is more than probable that he had other sources of income which he did not think it prudent to mention in the witness box.20.	Reasoning
On a consideration of the circumstances we are convinced that his story that he had Rs.15,000/ in his hands in about 1931 as accumulated out of his own earnings is substantially true.21.	Reasoning
Mr. Rajagopala Sastri has however rightly pointed out that a finding that in 1931 very little remained out of the family income would not be sufficient to show that there was no sufficient nucleus for the acquisition of the different properties in the name of the defendants wife, his son and his grandson after 1931.	Reasoning
For a proper decision of this question it is necessary to consider roughly the income and expenditure out of the admittedly family properties during this period.22.	None
We shall first consider the period, 1931 to 1939, as it is clear from the evidence that during this period the defendant No. 1 carried on the actual management of the joint family properties.	None
It is common case of both the parties that the paddy yield in 1931 was 855 kalams and during 1932 1,000 kalams and during l933, 1118 kalams.	None
For the next five years paddy yield was, according to the respondents counsel, 1058, 1058, 958, 958 and 958 kalams.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants counsel puts his estimate for those years at the higher figures of 1360, 1360, 1160, 1160 and 1160 kalams respectively.	None
These differences in the estimates seems to be mainly due to the fact that while, according to the respondent, the family was in possession of only six acres of mortgaged land in addition to the 35 acres, the appellants case was that an additional area of six acres of mortgaged land was also in the familys possession during these years.	Reasoning
Mr. Rajagopala Sastri was not however able to point out anything on the record in support of this claim.	Reasoning
We think it reasonable therefore to accept as substantially correct the estimate of paddy yield as mentioned before us on behalf of the respondent for these year.	Reasoning
For the year 1939 the yield may be taken as 1153 kalams roughly as in that year the D Schedule lands now found to be the property of the joint family had also been acquired.23.	Reasoning
On an examination of the evidence on the record we accept the price for each kalam of paddy to be Rs. 2.50 nP. for each of the years 1931 and 1932 and 1.19, 1.25, 1.37, 1.50, 1.50, 1.56 and 1.62 for the years 1933 to 1939 respectively, as contended before us on behalf of the respondent.	Reasoning
The total income received from paddy in these nine years thus appears to be about Rs.14,976/. To this has to be added the receipts from the dry crops like black grams and green grams grown on some of the lands.	Reasoning
We accept the evidence given by the defendant that dry crops were not grown in every year and also not on all the lands.	Reasoning
The sale proceeds of black grams and green grams amounted to Rs. 72/ for the year 1935 according to the account book Ex. A98.	Reasoning
Taking this to be the average receipt per year from the dry crops the receipt from these crops during the nine years under consideration amounted to about Rs.	Reasoning
648/. The total income from the crops grown on the joint family lands during the years 1931 to 1939 thus works out approximately to be about Rs. 15,624/ .	Reasoning
adding to this the sum of Rs. 1,100/ received on repayment of the mortgage loan on Ex.187 the joint family earning during these nine years appears to have amounted to about Rs. 16,724/.24.	None
It is now necessary to have some idea of the expenditure incurred during these years.	Reasoning
The claim of expenditure of Rs. 5,172/during these years made before us on behalf of the respondent is not disputed by the appellant.	Reasoning
We think also that the respondents claim that Rs. 1,100/ advanced on the mortgage bond (Ex. 187) was paid from family funds, should be accepted.	Reasoning
We have next to add the sum of Rs. 6,500/ that was paid for the purchase of the D Schedule lands, Rs. 4,030/ paid as kists and Rs. 2,000/ as cultivation expenses including Kariasthans pay.	Reasoning
The total expenditure during the nine years  1931 to 1939  amounted thus to more than Rs. 18,000/.25.	None
Proceeding therefore in the basis on which there is no longer any dispute, that D Schedule lands were acquired out of the family funds, it appears clear that the joint family did not possess sufficient nucleus for making any of the other purchases made during this period, viz.,	Reasoning
the properties mentioned in Schedules B and Bl purchased by the document Ex.125, the properties mentioned in Schedule Cl purchased by the document Ex.	Reasoning
B 124,	Reasoning
the properties mentioned in Schedule C purchased by Ex.129, the properties mentioned in the Schedule to the written statement of the second defendant purchased by documents Exhibits B 134 and B 135.	Reasoning
The High Courts conclusion as regards these properties that they did not form part of the joint family properties and are not liable to partition in the present suit is therefore clearly correct.26.	Reasoning
The properties mentioned in Schedule C2 were purchased on the 24th April 1941 by Ex.136 in the name of the 4th defendant while properties mentioned in Item 1 of B2 Schedule were purchased on the 19th August 1942 by Ex. 126 in the name of the sixth defendant.	None
Though it was the first defendants case that he had nothing to do with these purchases we are convinced on a consideration of the evidence that the monies for these purchases were also advanced by him.	None
To decide whether these properties or the properties mentioned in Item 5 of Schedule B2, a house in Vepatthur, of which mortgage was taken in the name of the first defendant himself by Ex.	None
B 129 on the 10th May 1942, formed part of the joint family property, it is necessary to examine what funds, if any, belonging to the joint family were with the first defendant during these years.	None
The first defendants case, as already indicated, is that from 1940 till the mothers death in 1945 the plaintiff and not he managed the joint family properties so that he did not receive any portion of the joint family earnings during the period.	None
The plaintiff has strenuously denied the truth of this statement.	None
There are several circumstances however which make us think that the first defendants version is true.	None
The most important of these is the fact that the youngest brother Mahadeva, who is clearly siding with the plaintiff in this family quarrel, made a definite assertion in his written statement in these words Similarly the plaintiff has been collecting the income from the joint family properties during the years 1940, 1941, 1942 and 1943.	None
He also stated there that the plaintiff had assured him that he would maintain proper accounts for the collection and expenditure of the income of the joint family land for this period of management and made the definite claim that the plaintiff was liable to render an account for the period of his management.	None
It is true that at the trial Mahadeva tried to explain away this assertion in the written statement by saying that this was based on information given to him by the defendant No. 1.	None
In the very next sentence, however, he again said that this view that the plaintiff was exclusively managing for certain years was his conclusion.	None
It is important to notice in this connection that at the bottom (of) Ex.	None
B190 dated the l3th March 1941 which Mahadeva received from Ramakrishna, Mahadeva made in his own hand an entry in red ink to the following effect 1939 Kuruvai (paddy) sold by Nana1939  Samba Mudal (harvests) by Nana, sold in 1940.27.	None
It is true that there are some letters which indicate that even during 1941 and thereafter Ramakrishna was issuing some instructions to the Karisthan.	None
But, considering the facts mentioned above along with the letters Exhibits B177 and B72 in which detailed instructions about the cultivation were being given by the plaintiff to the Karisthan, we have come to the conclusion that from about 1940, till the mothers death early in 1945 the plaintiff displaced the first defendant from the management of the family lands and took away all the family lands in Kumarakashi and took away all the income from them.28.	Reasoning
The only income from joint family properties that appears to have come into the hands of the first defendant during this period was that from D Schedule lands.	Reasoning
The yield from these lands may roughly be estimated at about 300 kalams for each year.	Reasoning
The price per kalam in 1941 appears from Ex. 100 to have been Rs.	Reasoning
2/5/.	None
The net income, after payment of the kist and debiting the expenses of cultivation etc, may be placed therefore at about Rs.	Reasoning
500/.	None
It is undoubtedly a very rough estimate.	Reasoning
But in the absence of anything more specific on the record we think it proper to accept this as a reasonable basis for ascertaining the nucleus available in the first defendants hands from the B Schedule property.	Reasoning
On this calculation the first defendant appears to have had in his hands about Rs.1,500/ during the years 1940 to 1942.	Reasoning
There was already however a deficit of more than this amount on his management of the properties during the previous period 1931 to 1939.	None
It is reasonable therefore to think that there was no nucleus from the joint family properties which the first defendant could have possibly used in making the acquisitions during 1941 and 1942.	Reasoning
The conclusion of the High Court that these properties did not belong to the joint family and are therefore not liable to partition cannot therefore be disturbed.29.	Reasoning
Some of the properties mentioned in Schedule B2 to the plaint were purchased in 1945 and 1946 by Exs. B 127 and B 128 in the name of the third defendant, Venkatarama.	Reasoning
At the time of these acquisitions the third defendant had been karnam of Vepatthur for over 15 years.	Reasoning
It is not unlikely that he would have saved some portion of his own earnings during this period so as to be able to pay for these purchases out of his own earnings.	Reasoning
It cannot therefore be said reasonably that these purchases were made from funds advanced by the first defendant.	Reasoning
Apart from this it appears that the plaintiff has not been able to show that at the time of these acquisitions the first defendant had with him sufficient income out of the joint family properties for purchasing all these lands.	Reasoning
We have already found that the first defendant resumed management of the joint family properties on his mothers death in 1945.	Reasoning
On the question about the income and expenses during this period there is hardly any evidence worth the name on the record.	Reasoning
On a consideration of all these circumstances, we are of opinion that the High Courts conclusion as regards these properties also that they did not form part of the joint family property is correct.30.	Reasoning
This brings us to Mr. Rajagopal Sastris second argument.	Arguments of Petitioner
While admitting the legal position that in the absence of any evidence of fraud or misappropriation the Karta cannot be called upon to account for the past transactions, learned Counsel stresses the responsibility of the Karta to establish what are the assets available for partition.	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of this, the learned Counsel drew our attention to the decision in Parmeshwar Dube v. Gobind Dube, ILR 43 Cal 459 (AIR 1916 Cal 500(2)).	None
That case laid down the rule that in absence of fraud or other improper conduct the only account the Karta of a joint family is liable for is as to the existing state of the property divisible but that this did not mean that the parties were bound to accept the statement of the Karta as to what the property consisted of and an enquiry should be directed by the Court in a manner usually adopted to discover what in fact the property consisted of at the date of the partition.	None
About the correctness of this proposition there is no dispute.	None
In what manner this principle can be applied depends however on the acts and circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
Where, as in the present case, the evidence already adduced before the court shows prima facie that the Karta could not reasonably be expected to have in his hands at the date of the suit any accumulation worth the name in addition to the immovable properties found on evidence to have been acquired for the family, there can be no justification for calling the Karta to account for his past dealings with the joint family property and its income.	Reasoning
In the circumstances of this case therefore the order of the High Court that there was no liability on the first defendant as managing member to render any account of any kind prior to the 12th December 1946, on which notice demanding partition was issued, does not call for any modification.31.	Reasoning
In the result, the appeal is dismissed with costs.32.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
