 B. Sinha, J. Leave granted.	None
Introduction Constitutional validity of Section 30 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914 (for short the Act) prohibiting employment of any man under the age of 25 years or any woman in any part of such premises in which liquor or intoxicating drug is consumed by the public is the question involved in this appeal which arises out of a judgment and order dated 12.01.2006 passed by the High Court of Delhi in CWP No. 4692 of 1999.	Issue
Background Facts First Respondent is the Hotel Association of India.	Facts
Its members carry on business in hotels.	Facts
Liquor is served in the hotels not only in the bar but also in the restaurant.	Facts
Liquor is also served in rooms as part of room service.	Facts
First Respondent with four others filed a writ petition before the Delhi High Court questioning the validity of the said provision.	Facts
By reason of the impugned judgment, Section 30 of the Act has been declared to be ultra vires Articles 19(1)(g), 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India to the extent it prohibits employment of any woman in any part of such premises, in which liquor or intoxicating drugs are consumed by the public.	Facts
National Capital Territory of Delhi appears to have accepted the said judgment.	None
But as a respondent, it seeks to support the impugned statutory provision, although no Special Leave Petition has been filed by it.	Facts
Appellants herein, who are a few citizens of Delhi, are before us.	Facts
A special leave petition has been filed by the First Respondent questioning that part of the order whereby restrictions had been put on employment of any man below the age of 25 years.	Facts
Submissions Mr. Rajiv Dutta, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants, in support of this appeal, submitted that as nobody has any fundamental right to deal in liquor, being res extra commercium, the State had the right to make a law and or continue the old law imposing reasonable restrictions on the nature of employment therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Arun Jaitley, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents, on the other hand, supported the impugned judgment.	Arguments of Respondent
Constitutional Backdrop The Act is a preconstitutional legislation.	None
Although it is saved in terms of Article 372 of the Constitution, challenge to its validity on the touchstone of Articles 14, 15 and 19 of the Constitution of India, is permissible in law.	None
While embarking on the questions raised, it may be pertinent to know that a statute although could have been held to be a valid piece of legislation keeping in view the societal condition of those times, but with the changes occurring therein both in the domestic as also international arena, such a law can also be declared invalid.	None
In John Vallamattom Anr.	None
v. Union of India (2003) 6 SCC 611 , this Court, while referring to an amendment made in UK in relation to a provision which was in pari materia with Section 118 of Indian Succession Act, observed The constitutionality of a provision, it is trite, will have to be judged keeping in view the interpretative changes of the statute affected by passage of time.	None
Referring to the changing legal scenario and having regard to the Declaration on the Right to Development adopted by the World Conference on Human Rights as also Article 18 of the United Nations Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966, it was held It is trite that having regard to Article 13(1) of the Constitution, the constitutionality of the impugned legislation is required to be considered on the basis of laws existing on 2611950, but while doing so the court is not precluded from taking into consideration the subsequent events which have taken place thereafter.	None
It is further trite that the law although may be constitutional when enacted but with passage of time the same may be held to be unconstitutional in view of the changed situation.	None
Changed social psyche and expectations are important factors to be considered in the upkeep of law.	None
Decision on relevance will be more often a function of time we are operating in.	None
Primacy to such transformation in constitutional rights analysis would not be out of place.	None
It will be in fitness of the discussion to refer to the following text from Habits of the Heart Individualism and Commitment in American Life by R. Bellah, R. Madsen, W. Sullivan, A. Swidler and S. Tipton, 1985, page 286 which suggests factoring in of such social changes.	None
The transformation of our culture and our society would have to happen at a number of levels.	None
If it occurred only in the minds of individuals (as to some degree it already has) it would be powerless.	None
If it came only from the initiative of the state, it would be tyrannical.	None
Personal transformation among large numbers is essential, and it must not only be a transformation of consciousness but must also involve individual action.	None
But individuals need the nurture of crops that carry a moral tradition reinforcing their own aspirations.	None
These are commitments that require a new social ecology and a social movement dedicated to the idea of such a transformation.	None
International Treaties International treaties visvis the rights of women was noticed by this Court in a large number of judgments, some of which we may notice at this stage.	None
In Githa Hariharan v. Reserve Bank of India (1999) 2 SCC 228 , this Court was faced with construing Section 6(a) of Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956 and Section 19(b) of Guardian and Wards Act, 1890.	None
The sections were challenged as violative of the equality clause of the Constitution, inasmuch as the mother of the minor is relegated to an inferior position on ground of sex alone since her right, as a natural guardian of the minor, is made cognizable only after the father.	None
The court relied upon the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, 1979 (CEDAW) and the Beijing Declaration, which directs all State parties to take appropriate measures to prevent discrimination of ail forms against women is quite clear.	None
It was held by the court that the domestic courts are under an obligation to give due regard to International Conventions and Norms for construing domestic laws when there is no inconsistency between them.	None
In Air India v. Nergesh Meerza (1981) 4 SCC 335 , this Court was faced with the constitutional validity of Regulation 46(i)(c) of Air India Employees Service Regulations, it was provided that the services of the Air Hostesses would stand terminated on first pregnancy.	None
The Court after considering various US Supreme Court judgments regarding pregnant women held that the observations made therein would apply to the domestic cases.	None
In Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Female Workers (Muster Roll) Anr.	None
(2000) 3 SCC 224 , the short question which was to be decided by this Court was whether having regard to the provisions contained in Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, women engaged on casual basis or on muster roll basis on daily wages and not only those in regular employment were eligible for maternity leave.	None
The Court while upholding the right of the female workers to get maternity leave relied upon the doctrine of social justice as embodied in Universal Declaration of Human Rights Act, 1948 and Article 11 of the Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women held that the provisions of the same must be read into the service contracts of Municipal Corporation.	None
In Madhu Kishwar Ors.	None
v. State of Bihar Ors.	None
(1996) 5 SCC 125 , challenge was made to certain provisions of Chotanagpur Tenancy Act, 1908 providing succession to property in the male line in favour of the male on the premise that the provisions are discriminatory and unfair against women and, therefore, ultra vires the equality clause in the Constitution.	None
The Court while upholding the fundamental right of the Tribal women to the right to livelihood held that the State was under an obligation to enforce the provisions of the Vienna Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (CEDAW) which provided that discrimination against women violated the principles of equality of rights and respects for human dignity.	None
In Vishaka Ors. v. State of Rajasthan Ors.	None
(1997) 6 SCC 241 , the writ petition was filed for the enforcement of the fundamental rights of working women under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India with the aim of finding suitable methods for realization of the true concept of gender equality and preventing sexual harassment of working women in all work places through judicial process to fill the vacuum in existing legislation.	None
This Court while framing the guidelines and norms to be observed by the employers in work places to ensure the prevention of sexual harassment of women, inter alia, relied on the provisions in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women as also the general recommendations of CEDAW for construing the nature and ambit of constitutional guarantee of gender equality in our Constitution.	None
In Randhir Singh v. Union of India Ors.	None
(1982) 1 SCC 618 , this Court while holding that nonobservance of the principle of equal pay for equal work for both men and women under Article 39(d) of the Constitution amounted to violation of Article 14 and 16, recognized that the principle was expressly recognized by all socialist systems of law including the Preamble to the Constitution of the International Labour Organization.	None
In Liverpool London S.P. I. Association Ltd. v. M.V. Sea Success I Anr.	None
(2004) 9 SCC 512 , this Court had to interpret the meaning and import of the word necessaries used in Section 5 of the Admiralty Court Act, 1861.	None
The Court whiled importing the meaning of the same through Foreign (American) Court decisions, opined It is true that this Court is not bound by the American decisions.	None
The American decisions have merely a persuasive value but this Court would not hesitate in borrowing the principles if the same is in consonance with the scheme of Indian law keeping in view the changing global scenario.	None
Global changes and outlook in trade and commerce could be a relevant factor.	None
With the change of time, from narrow and pedantic approach, the court may resort to broad and liberal interpretation.	None
What was not considered to be a necessity a century back, may be held to be so now.	None
Setting of the Debate In the instant matter, we are in the thick of debate relating to Individual Rights of women.	None
The classical counter to individual rights is the community orientation of rights.	None
There is no such shade to the current matter.	None
Here the individual rights are challenged by a problem of practical import  of enforcement and security.	None
Therefore, the important jurisprudential tenet involved in the matter is not the prioritization of rights inter se but practical implementation issues competing with a right.	None
It is one thing when two norms falling in the same category (for instance Individual Rights versus Community Orientation of Rights) compete and quite another when two norms with unequal hierarchical status come in conflict with each other.	None
At the very outset we want to define the contours of the discussion which is going to ensue.	None
Firstly, the issue floated by the state is very significant, nonetheless does not fall in the same class as that of rights which it comes in conflict with, ontologically.	None
Secondly, the issue at hand has no social spillovers.	None
The rights of women as individuals rest beyond doubts in this age.	None
If we consider (various strands of) feminist jurisprudence as also identity politics it is clear that time has come that we take leave of the theme encapsulated under Section 30.	None
And thirdly we will also focus our attention on the interplay of doctrines of selfdetermination and an individuals best interests.	None
Equality When the original Act was enacted, the concept of equality between two sexes was unknown.	None
The makers of the Constitution intended to apply equality amongst men and women in all spheres of life.	None
In framing Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution, the constitutional goal in that behalf was sought to be achieved.	None
Although the same would not mean that under no circumstance, classification, inter alia, on the ground of sex would be wholly impermissible but it is trite that when the validity of a legislation is tested on the anvil of equality clauses contained in Articles 14 and 15, the burden therefor would be on the State.	None
While considering validity of a legislation of this nature, the court was to take notice of the other provisions of the Constitution including those contained in Part IV A of the Constitution.	None
In Bhe Ors.	None
v. The Magistrate, Khayelisha ors.	None
(2004) 18 BHRC 52, the South African Constitutional Court was required to consider the constitutionality of the Black Administration Act, 1927 (South Africa) and the Regulations of the Administration and Distribution of the Estates of Deceased Blacks (South Africa).	None
This scheme was purporting to give effect to the customary law of succession where principle of male primogeniture is central to customary law of succession.	None
It was held by the majority that the rule of male primogeniture as it applied in customary law to the inheritance of property was inconsistent with the constitution and invalid to the extent that it excluded or hindered women and extramarital children from inheriting property.	None
The rules of succession in customary law had not been given the space to adapt and to keep pace with changing social conditions and values.	None
Instead, they had overtime become increasingly out of step with the real values and circumstances of the society they were meant to serve.	None
The application of the customary law rules of succession in circumstances vastly different from their traditional setting caused much hardship.	None
Thus the official rules of customary law of succession were no longer universally observed.	None
The exclusion of women from inheritance on the grounds of gender was a clear violation of the constitutional prohibition against unfair discrimination.	None
Further, the principle of primogeniture also violated the right of women to human dignity as it implied that women were not fit or competent to own and administer property.	None
Its effect was to subject those women to a status of perpetual minority, placing them automatically under the control of male heirs, simply by virtue of gender differentiation.	None
Remark on changing realities We may now look into the ground reality.	None
In India, hospitality industry has grown by leaps and bounds.	None
As noticed hereinbefore, liquor, in the hospitality industry, is being served not only in the bar but also in the restaurant.	None
Service of liquor is permissible also in the rooms of a hotel.	None
The impugned provision provides for wide restrictions.	None
It prohibits employment of any woman in any part of the premises where liquor is being served.	None
It would prohibit employment of women and men below 25 years in any of the restaurants.	None
As liquor is permitted to be served even in rooms, the restriction would also operate in any of the services including housekeeping where a woman has to enter into a room the logical corollary of such a wide restriction would be that even if service of liquor is made permissible in the flight, the employment of women as airhostesses may be held to be prohibited.	None
Hotel Management has opened up a viesta of young men and women for employment.	None
A large number of them are taking hotel management graduation courses.	None
They pass their examinations at a very young age.	None
If prohibition in employment of women and men below 25 years is to be implemented in its letter and spirit, a large section of young graduates who have spent a lot of time, money and energy in obtaining the degree or diploma in hotel management would be deprived of their right of employment.	None
Right to be considered for employment subject to just exceptions is recognized by Article 16 of the Constitution.	None
Right of employment itself may not be a fundamental right	None
but in terms of both Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India, each person similarly situated has a fundamental right to be considered therefor.	None
When a discrimination is sought to be made on the purported ground of classification, such classification must be founded on a rational criteria.	None
The criteria which in absence of any constitutional provision and, it will bear repetition to state, having regard to the societal conditions as they prevailed in early 20th century, may not be a rational criteria in the 21st century.	None
In the early 20th century, the hospitality sector was not open to women in general.	None
In the last 60 years, women in India have gained entry in all spheres of public life.	None
They have also been representing people at grass root democracy.	None
They are now employed as drivers of heavy transport vehicles, conductors of service carriage, pilots et.	None
al.	None
Women can be seen to be occupying Class IV posts to the post of a Chief Executive Officer of a Multinational Company.	None
They are now widely accepted both in police as also army services.	None
Res Extra Commercium Issue Occupation service in the management of hotel industry is a specialized job.	None
It requires specialized skill.	None
To deprive a large section of successful young men and women from obtaining any job for which they have duly been trained, in our opinion, would be wholly unjust.	None
The State cannot invoke the doctrine of res extra commercium in the matter of appointment of eligible persons.	None
The said principle could have been invoked if the State intended to adopt a policy of prohibition.	None
It is one thing to say that the trade in liquor is regulated but it is another thing to say that such regulations which are principally in the area of manufacture, sale, export and import of intoxicants should be allowed to operate in other fields also.	None
In Kerala Samsthana Chethu Thozhilali Union v. State of Kerala and Others (2006) 4 SCC 327 , this Court held When an employer gives employment to a person, a contract of employment is entered into.	None
The right of the citizens to enter into any contract, unless it is expressly prohibited by law or is opposed to public policy, cannot be restricted.	None
Such a power to enter into a contract is within the realm of the Indian Contract Act.	None
It has not been and could not be contended that a contract of employment in the toddy shops would be hit by Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act.	None
So long as the contract of employment in a particular trade is not prohibited either in terms of the statutory or constitutional scheme, the States intervention would be unwarranted unless there exists a statutory interdict.	None
Even to what extent such a legislative power can be exercised would be the subject matter of debate but in a case of this nature there cannot be any doubt that the impugned rules are also contrary to the provisions of the Indian Contract Act as also the Specific Relief Act, 1963.	None
It was further observed Furthermore, a person may not have any fundamental right to trade or do business in liquor, but the persons right to grant employment or seek employment, when a business is carried on in terms of the provisions of the licence, is not regulated.	None
Parens Patriae Power of State One important justification to Section 30 of the Act is parens patriae power of state.	None
It is a considered fact that use of parens patriae power is not entirely beyond the pale of judicial scrutiny.	None
Parens Patriae power has only been able to gain definitive legalist orientation as it shifted its underpinning from being merely moralist to a more objective grounding i.e. utility.	None
The subject matter of the Parens Patriae power can be adjudged on two counts (i).	None
in terms of its necessity and (ii).	None
assessment of any tradeoff or adverse impact, if any This inquiry gives the doctrine an objective orientation and therefore prevents it from falling foul of due process challenge.	None
(See City of Cleburne v. Cleburne Living Center, 473 U.S. 432, 43941 (1985))	None
Parens Patriae power is subject to constitutional challenge on the ground of Right to Privacy also.	None
Young men and women know what would be the best offer for them in the service sector.	None
In the age of internet, they would know all pros and cons of a profession.	None
It is their life subject to constitutional, statutory and social interdicts  a citizen of India should be allowed to live her life on her own terms.	None
Let us understand various standards which objectify Parens Patriae.	None
Best interests standard is one test in US jurisdiction in Child Custody matters.	None
Similarly other standards have evolved amongst which right to selfdetermination holds an important place.	None
Right to employment visvis Security Competing Values	None
The instant matter involves a fundamental tension between right to employment and security.	None
The fundamental tension between autonomy and security is difficult to resolve.	None
It is also a tricky jurisprudential issue.	None
Right to Self Determination is an important offshoot of Gender Justice discourse.	None
At the same time, security and protection to carry out such choice or option specifically, and state of violencefree being generally is another tenet of the same movement.	None
In fact, the latter is apparently a more basic value in comparison to right to options in the feminist matrix.	None
Privacy rights prescribe autonomy to choose profession whereas security concerns texture methodology of delivery of this assurance.	None
But it is a reasonable proposition that that the measures to safeguard such a guarantee of autonomy should not be so strong that the essence of the guarantee is lost.	None
State protection must not translate into censorship.	None
At the same time we do not intend to further the rhetoric of empty rights.	None
Women would be as vulnerable without state protection as by the loss of freedom because of impugned Act.	None
The present law ends up victimizing its subject in the name of protection.	None
In that regard the interference prescribed by state for pursuing the ends of protection should be proportionate to the legitimate aims.	None
The standard for judging the proportionality should be a standard capable of being called reasonable in a modern democratic society.	None
Instead of putting curbs on womens freedom, empowerment would be a more tenable and socially wise approach.	None
This empowerment should reflect in the law enforcement strategies of the state as well as law modeling done in this behalf.	None
Also with the advent of modern state, new models of security must be developed.	None
There can be a setting where the cost of security in the establishment can be distributed between the state and the employer.	None
Gender equality today is recognized by the European Court as one of the key principles underlying the Convention and a goal to be achieved by member States of the Council of Europe.	None
In the case of Abdulaziz, Cabales And Balkandali v. United Kingdom, 1985 ECHR 7 the court held As to the present matter, it can be said that the advancement of the equality of the sexes is today a major goal in the member States of the Council of Europe.	None
This means that very weighty reasons would have to be advanced before a difference of treatment on the ground of sex could be regarded as compatible with the Convention.	None
Following Abdulaziz (supra) the European Court of Human Rights once again observed in Van Raalte v. The Netherlands, 1997 ECHR 6 In the applicants submission, differences in treatment based on sex were already unacceptable when section 25 of the General Child Care Benefits Act was enacted in 1962.	None
The wording of Article 14 of the Convention (art. 14) showed that such had been the prevailing view as early as 1950.	None
Moreover, legal and social developments showed a clear trend towards equality between men and women.	None
The applicant drew attention to, inter alia, the Courts Abdulaziz, Cabales and Balkandali v. the United Kingdom judgment of 28 May 1985 (Series A no. 94), which stated explicitly that the advancement of the equality of the sexes is today a major goal in the member States of the Council of Europe and that very weighty reasons would have to be advanced before a difference of treatment on the ground of sex could be regarded as compatible with the Convention (loc. cit., p. 38, para.	None
78).	None
(emphasis supplied) (See also SchulerZgraggen v. Swizerland, 1993 ECHR 29 and Petrovic v. Austria, 1998 ECHR 21) Stereotype Roles and Right to Options Professor Williams in The Equality Crisis Some Reflections on Culture, Courts, and Feminism published in 7 WOMENS RTS.	None
L. REP. 175 (1982) notes issues arising where biological distinction between sexes is assessed in the backdrop of cultural norms and stereotypes.	None
She characterizes them as hard cases.	None
In hard cases, the issue of biological difference between sexes gathers an overtone of societal conditions so much so that the real differences are pronounced by the oppressive cultural norms of the time.	None
This combination of biological and social determinants may find expression in popular legislative mandate.	None
Such legislations definitely deserve deeper judicial scrutiny.	None
It is for the court to review that the majoritarian impulses rooted in moralistic tradition do not impinge upon individual autonomy.	None
This is the backdrop of deeper judicial scrutiny of such legislations world over.	None
Therefore, one issue of immediate relevance in such cases is the effect of the traditional cultural norms as also the state of general ambience in the society which women have to face while opting for an employment which is otherwise completely innocuous for the male counterpart.	None
In such circumstances the question revolves around the approach of state.	None
Instead of prohibiting women employment in the bars altogether the state should focus on factoring in ways through which unequal consequences of sex differences can be eliminated.	None
It is states duty to ensure circumstances of safety which inspire confidence in women to discharge the duty freely in accordance to the requirements of the profession they choose to follow.	None
Any other policy inference (such as the one embodied under section 30) from societal conditions would be oppressive on the women and against the privacy rights.	None
The description of the notion of romantic paternalism by the US Supreme Court in Frontiero v. Richardson (411 U.S. 677, 93 S.Ct. 1764) makes for an interesting reading.	None
It is not to say that Indian society is similarly situated and suffers from the same degree of troublesome legislative past but nevertheless the tenor and context are not to be missed.	None
The court noted in this case of military service There can be no doubt that our Nation has had a long and unfortunate history of sex discrimination.	None
Traditionally, such discrimination was rationalized by an attitude of romantic paternalism which, in practical effect, put women, not on a pedestal, but in a cage.	None
As a result of notions such as these, our statute books gradually became laden with gross, stereotyped distinctions between the sexes.	None
The court also maintained the strict scrutiny standard for review and repelled the administrative convenience argument in the following terms In any case, our prior decisions make clear that, although efficacious administration of governmental programs is not without some importance, the Constitution recognizes higher values than speed and efficiency.	None
And when we enter the realm of strict judicial scrutiny, there can be no doubt that administrative convenience is not a shibboleth, the mere recitation of which dictates constitutionality.	None
On the contrary, any statutory scheme which draws a sharp line between the sexes, solely for the purpose of achieving administrative convenience, necessarily commands dissimilar treatment for men and women who are similarly situated, and therefore involves the very kind of arbitrary legislative choice forbidden by the (Constitution).	None
We therefore conclude that, by according differential treatment to male and female members of the uniformed services for the sole purpose of achieving administrative convenience, the challenged statutes violate the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment.	None
In another similar case wherein there was an effective bar on females for the position of guards or correctional counsellors in the Alabama state penitentiary system.	None
The prison facility housed sexual offenders and the majority opinion on this basis inter alia upheld the bar.	None
Justice Marshalls dissent captures the ranges of issues within a progressive paradigm.	None
Dissent in Dothard v. Rawlinson (433 U.S. 321, 97 S.Ct. 2720) serves as useful advice in the following terms It appears that the real disqualifying factor in the Courts view is the employees very womanhood.	None
The Court refers to the large number of sex offenders in Alabama prisons, and to the likelihood that inmates would assault a woman because she was a woman.	None
In short, the fundamental justification for the decision is that women as guards will generate sexual assaults.	None
With all respect, this rationale regrettably perpetuates one of the most insidious of the old myths about women that women, wittingly or not, are seductive sexual objects.	None
The effect of the decision, made I am sure with the best of intentions, is to punish women because their very presence might provoke sexual assaults.	None
It is women who are made to pay the price in lost job opportunities for the threat of depraved conduct by prison inmates.	None
Once again, the pedestal upon which women have been placed has upon closer inspection, been revealed as a cage.	None
It is particularly ironic that the cage is erected here in response to feared misbehavior by imprisoned criminals.	None
He also notes the nature of protective discrimination (as garb) in the following terms The Court points to no evidence in the record to support the asserted likelihood that inmates would assault a woman because she was a woman.	None
Perhaps the Court relies upon common sense, or innate recognition.	None
But the danger in this emotionally laden context is that common sense will be used to mask the romantic paternalism and persisting discriminatory attitudes that the Court properly eschews.	None
To me, the only matter of innate recognition is that the incidence of sexually motivated attacks on guards will be minute compared to the likelihood that inmates will assault a guard because he or she is a guard.	None
The proper response to inevitable attacks on both female and male guards is not to limit the employment opportunities of lawabiding women who wish to contribute to their community, but to take swift and sure punitive action against the inmate offenders.	None
Presumably, one of the goals of the Alabama prison system is the eradication of inmates antisocial behavior patterns so that prisoners will be able to live one day in free society.	None
Sex offenders can begin this process by learning to relate to women guards in a socially acceptable manner.	None
To deprive women of job opportunities because of the threatened behavior of convicted criminals is to turn our social priorities upside down.	None
The Standard of Judicial Scrutiny It is to be borne in mind that legislations with pronounced protective discrimination aims, such as this one, potentially serve as double edged swords.	None
Strict scrutiny test should be employed while assessing the implications of this variety of legislations.	None
Legislation should not be only assessed on its proposed aims but rather on the implications and the effects.	None
The impugned legislation suffers from incurable fixations of stereotype morality and conception of sexual role.	None
The perspective thus arrived at is outmoded in content and stifling in means.	None
No law in its ultimate effect should end up perpetuating the oppression of women.	None
Personal freedom is a fundamental tenet which can not be compromised in the name of expediency until unless there is a compelling state purpose.	None
Heightened level of scrutiny is the normative threshold for judicial review in such cases.	None
Professor Christine A. Littleton in her widely quoted article RECONSTRUCTING SEXUAL EQUALITY, 75 CALR 1279, July 1987 makes a useful observation in this regard The difference between human beings, whether perceived or real, and whether biologically or socially based, should not be permitted to make a difference in the livedout equality of those persons.	None
I call this the model of equality as acceptance.	None
To achieve this form of sexual equality, male and female differences must be costless relative to each other.	None
Having regard to the scope of Section 30 of the Act and the impugned legislation generally the Court has to reach to a finding as to whether the legislative interference to the autonomy in employment opportunities for women is justified as a legitimate aim and proportionate to the aim pursued.	None
In this behalf it would be relevant to understand the approach of European Court of Human Rights which has very often dealt with matters of competing public interests and tuned new legal devices for the same.	None
Doctrine of Proportionality and Incompatibility would definitely find mention in such a discussion.	None
The test to review such a Protective Discrimination statute would entail a two pronged scrutiny (a) the legislative interference (induced by sex discriminatory legalisation in the instant case) should be justified in principle, (b) the same should be proportionate in measure.	None
The Courts task is to determine whether the measures furthered by the State in form of legislative mandate, to augment the legitimate aim of protecting the interests of women are proportionate to the other bulk of wellsettled gender norms such as autonomy, equality of opportunity, right to privacy et al.	None
The bottomline in this behalf would a functioning modern democratic society which ensures freedom to pursue varied opportunities and options without discriminating on the basis of sex, race, caste or any other like basis.	None
In fine, there should be a reasonable relationship of proportionality between the means used and the aim pursued.	None
In United States v. Virginia (518 U.S. 515, 53233 (1996))	None
Justice Ginsburg notes with particular emphasis the need for an intrusive multistage review in sex discrimination statutes.	None
The court observed The heightened review standard our precedent establishes does not make sex a proscribed classification.	None
Supposed inherent differences are no longer accepted as a ground for race or national origin classifications.	None
Physical differences between men and women, however, are enduring.	None
Inherent differences between men and women, we have come to appreciate, remain cause for celebration, but not for denigration of the members of either sex or for artificial constraints on an individuals opportunity.	None
Sex classifications may be used to compensate women for particular economic disabilities they have suffered, to promote equal employment opportunity, to advance full development of the talent and capacities of our Nations people.	None
But such classifications may not be used, as they once were, to create or perpetuate the legal, social, and economic inferiority of women.	None
(internal citations omitted)	None
Changing Stand of the Government of NCT Delhi The Government of NCT Delhi, although did not challenge the impugned judgment of the Delhi High Court, seeks to enter into the fray through a side door.	Reasoning
It, on the one hand, challenges the locus of the appellant which objection, if upheld, would make the appeal liable to be dismissed at the threshold, on the other, seeks to justify the validity of Section 30 of the Act.	Reasoning
It cites examples of Jessica Lal and BMW to highlight dangerous consequences of allowing sale and consumption of liquor by young men below the age of 25 years and vulnerability of women while working in bars.	Reasoning
When the restrictions were in force, they could not prevent such occurrences.	Reasoning
If the restriction goes, some such incidents may again happen.	Reasoning
But only on a presupposition that there is a possibility of some incident happening, we cannot declare a law intra vires which is ex facie ultra vires.52.	Reasoning
We, furthermore, deprecate this practice of the Government of NCT to raise a contention of the aforementioned nature which not only had not been raised before the High Court but in an appeal filed by a few citizens maintainability whereof is in question.	Reasoning
It, having allowed the judgment of High Court to attain finality, is estopped by records to question the correctness of the impugned judgment.	Reasoning
Conclusion53.	Reasoning
In the instant case the end result is an invidious discrimination perpetrating sexual differences.54.	Reasoning
Young men who take a degree or diploma in Hotel Management enter into service at the age of 22 years or 23 years.	Reasoning
It, thus, cannot prohibit employment of men below 25 years.	Reasoning
Such a restriction keeping in view a citizens right to be considered for employment, which is a facet of the right to livelihood do not stand judicial scrutiny.55.	Reasoning
For the reasons aforementioned, we do not find any infirmity in the impugned decision of the High Court.	Decision
The appeal is accordingly dismissed.	Decision
Crossappeal filed by the respondents is allowed.	Decision
There shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
