 N. Sen, J.1.	None
The principal question which falls for determination in this appeal by Special Leave granted by This Court, is whether Gyan Chand Jain, the Respondent No. 1 in this appeal, who purchased a two and half storeyed Bungalow at No. 5C/96, W.E.A. Karol Bagh, New Delhi, at an auction sale held pursuant to the terms of the compromise decree between the mortgagor and the mortgagee, is entitled to recover actual physical possession of the portions in the occupation of the appellants as lessees, the leases in respect of which were created after the decree in the mortgage suit by consent between the parties had been passed, in an application made by the auction purchaser Gyan Chand Jain under Order XXI rules 95 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure.2.	Issue
There is no serious dispute with regard to the facts material for the purpose of this appeal.	Facts
Des Raj Agarwal, the sole proprietor of M s. Raj Kumar and Co., mortgaged the 2 storeyed bungalow No. 5C/96, WEA, Karol Bagh, New Delhi (herein after referred to as the premises) along with various other properties with Oriental Bank of Commerce (hereinafter referred as the Bank) on 28.6.1960 by deposit of title deeds.	Facts
The Bank filed a suit to recover its dues on the mortgage on 6.11 1962.	Facts
On 3.9.1963, a decree was passed by consent of the parties in favour of the plaintiffmortgage for the sum of Rs. 479177.49 with costs and future interest at 6 till realisation of secretal amount.	Facts
The other relevant terms of the consent decree which are contained in clauses 8 and 9 of the compromise are to the following effect8.	None
If the judgment debtor pay Rs. 479177.19 less costs and interest as after March, 1961 within two years of the decree, then whole of the decree shall stand satisfied.9.	None
If full amount of the decree with costs and interest is not paid as agreed above, within two years of the decree, then the decreeholder shall be free to enforce the decree against the property mortgaged which shall be sold in execution of the same and the decree holder shall be entitled to proceed against other property and person of the judgmentdebtor in the case of the proceeds of the property not being sufficient to satisfy the decree.3.	None
After the decree had been passed on 3.9.1963, it appears that the judgmentdebtor leased out different portions of the premises to Dev Raj Dogra, Ish Kumar Khosla and Balwant Singh, the appellants herein, in 1966, 1967 and 1970 respectively.	None
The judgmentdebtor failed to make payment of the decretal dues in terms of the provisions contained in the consent decree and the premises in question were sold by public auction on 28.10.1971.	Facts
Gyan Chand Jain whose bid was the highest, was declared to be the purchaser of the premises and the sale in his favour was confirmed on 6.8.1973.	Facts
On 25.10.76 an application was made on behalf of Gyan Chand Jain, the auction purchaser, in the Delhi High Court under Order XXI Rules 95 and 96 and also Section 151 of the Code of Civil Procedure for the following reliefs(i) Warrants of possession with the direction that vacant physical possession of the entire property be delivered to the applicant, be issued and vacant physical possession of the entire property be got delivered to the applicant (ii) in case the Honble Court comes to a conclusion that the applicant is not entitled to vacate physical possession of any part of the property symbolic possession of that part of the property be granted to him (iii) notices be issued to the persons mentioned in para 9 above to show cause why vacant physical possession of the portions of the property in their occupation be not delivered to the applicant.4.	Facts
The three tenants who were in possession of the respective portions leased out to them and on whom notices had been served, contested the said application.	None
A learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court passed an order of physical possession of the said portions in the respective occupation of the tenants, the appellants before us, to be made over to the auction purchaser Gyan Chand Jain.	None
The Learned Judge held that the tenancies in favour of the tenants had been created after the institution of the suit by the Bank and after the passing of the compromise decree in the said suit and, the said tenancies would have no effect on the rights acquired by the auction purchaser, in view of the provisions contained in Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Facts
The Learned Judge had relied on the judgment of a Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of Ramdas Popat Patilv.	Facts
Fakira Pandu Patil and Ors.,(1)	Facts
AIR 1959 Bom. 19 and also on a decision of Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court in caseJagjiwandas a Firmv.	Facts
Lakhiram Haridasmal Ors.(2) AIR 1968 Guj.	Facts
193 .	Facts
The tenants preferred an appeal against the said order of the learned Judge.	Facts
Before the Division Bench of the Delhi High Court, it was urged on behalf of the tenants that the decision of the Division Bench relied on by the learned Single Judge had been subsequently overruled by a decision of the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in case of Anaji Thamnji Patilv.	Facts
RaghoBhivraj Patil and Ano.AIR 1973 Bom.	Facts
75 and the correctness of the decision of the Gujarat High Court had also been questioned in this Full Bench judgment.	Facts
Various other arguments were also advanced before the Division Bench on behalf of the tenants and the said arguments have been noted in the judgment of the Division Bench.	Facts
The Division Bench, however, dismissed the appeal, accepting the contention put forward on behalf of the respondent auction purchaser that the decision of this Court in the case of M s. Supreme General Films Exchange Ltd. v. His Highness Maharaja Sir Brijnath Singhji Deo of Maihar and Ors.,(1976)	Facts
1	Facts
SCR 237 concludes the controversy.	Facts
The Division Bench also referred to the decision of this Court in caseJayaram Muddaliar v. Ayya Swami and Ors.,AIR 1973 SC 569 Against the judgment and decision of the Delhi High Court the tenants have preferred this appeal after obtaining special leave from this Court.5.	Facts
Mr. Bhatia, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the tenants, the appellants before us, has urged that Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act has no application to the facts and circumstances of this case, as the conditions laid down in the said Section for the applicability of the said section are not satisfied.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the argument of Mr. Bhatia that the requirements of the said Section are(1) there must be a suit or proceeding which is not a collusive one and any right to immovable property must be directly and specifically in question in the said suit or proceeding and (2) transfer or otherwise dealing with the property by any party to the suit or proceeding must affect the right of any other party thereto under any decree or order which may be passed therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhatia has contended that in the instant case the right that the mortgagee had was only to put the property to sale in the event of the mortgagor failing to pay the decretal amount in terms of the provisions of the compromise decree.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is his contention that the right to put the property to sale cannot be said to be a right to immovable property directly and specifically, in question in the suit.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also referred to Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act which empowers the mortgagor while lawfully in possession of the mortgaged property to grant lease in terms of the provisions contained in the said Section.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has submitted that Section 65 A should be read along with Section 52 and both these sections have been incorporated with the object of preserving the interest of the mortgagee by making suitable provisions so that the security of the mortagee might not in any way be affected by any act done by the mortgagor after the creation of the mortgage and also after the institution of any suit for enforcement of the mortgage.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is his submission that in Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act the Legislature has made it manifestly clear that the mortgagor will be entitled to grant a lease of the property in conformity with the provisions of the said Section and he submits that when a mortgagor grants a lease of the mortgaged property in trims of the provisions of Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act, it cannot be said that the granting of any such lease affects the right of the mortgagee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhatia has next contended that in any event Section 52 makes provisions for the parties to the suit or proceeding and can have no application to any outside auction purchaser who is not a party to the suit or proceeding and who only acquires his right after the sale in execution of the decree has been confirmed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhatia argues that the judgment of the learned Single Judge of the Delhi High Court must be held to be wrong, as the learned Single Judge came to his decision relying on the decision of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of Ramdas Popat Patil v. Faklira Pandu Patil and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(supra) and the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Jagjiwandas a Firmv.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lakhiram Haridasmal and Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
(supra) and the decision of the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court in Ramdas Popat Patils case has been overruled by the Full Bench decision of the Bombay High Court in Anaji Thamaji Patil v.Ragho Bhivraj Patil and Anr.	Arguments of Petitioner
(supra) in which the correctness of the decision of the Gujarat High Court has also been questioned.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhatia has commented that the decision of this Court in the case of M s. Supreme General Films Exchange Ltd. v. His Highness Maharaja Sir Brijnath Singhji Deo of Maihar and Ors., (supra) and in the case of Jayaram Muddaliar v.Ayyaswami and Ors., (supra) do not conclude the question involved in the instant case.	Arguments of Petitioner
He has submitted that the right of a third party auctionpurchaser to get physical possession of the property purchased at the auction sale was not considered by the Supreme Court in any of these two decisions and he has further submitted that in these two cases the Supreme Court had indeed proceeded on the assumption that Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act was applicable without considering whether the requirements of the said Section had been complied with or not, as these aspects were not argued before the Supreme Court in these two cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Bhatia has drawn our attention to Order XXI Rule 95 and also to Rule 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure and has submitted that the rights of an auction purchaser are governed by the provisions contained therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is the argument of Mr. Bhatia that in view of the provisions contained therein, the auction purchaser cannot claim physical possession of the portions in the occupation of the appellants, even though the appellants might have been inducted as tenants after the compromise decree in the suit had been passed.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Kakkar, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the auction purchaser, has submitted that as the tenants in the instant case were inducted not only after the institution of the suit for enforcement of the mortgage but also after the compromise decree had been passed therein, Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act must be held to be applicable and it must be held that the tenancies were illegal and were created in breach of the provisions contained in Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Kakkar has argued that Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act does not, in any way, control Section 52 of the said Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is his argument that Section 65A makes provisions with regard to the powers of the mortgagor to grant leases of the mortgaged property after the creation of the mortgage but before the institution of suit, while, on the other hand Section 52 makes provisions for cases of transfer or otherwise dealing with any property after the institution of a suit or proceeding and Section 52 imposes a complete ban on the transfer of any kind or dealing with immovable property except with the authority of the Court during the pendency of the suit or proceeding in which any right to immovable property is directly or specifically in question so that the rights of any party may not be affected when any decree or order is passed in the suit or in the proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Kakkar has referred to Section 58 of the Transfer of Property Act in support of his contention that in case of a mortgage, there is a transfer of an interest in specific immovable property for the purpose of securing of the payment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan.	Arguments of Respondent
He has argued that in a suit for the enforcement of mortgage it must, therefore, he held that the right to immovable property is directly and specifically in question and he has further argued that after the decree for sale is passed in a mortgage suit the mortgagor loses even his right to redeem the property.	Arguments of Respondent
He has submitted that in the instant case tenancies have been created long after the compromise decree in which provision for sale of the mortgaged property had been made and the right of the mortgagee decreeholder to put up the mortgaged property to sale had also arisen for failure on the part of the mortgagorjudgmentdebtor to pay the decretal dues in terms of the compromise decree and the tenancies created by the mortgagor must be held to be illegal and void as they are clearly in contravention of the provisions contained in Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Respondent
He submits that there cannot be any manner of doubt, that the creation of a tenancy affects the value of the property and to that extent affects the security, even though it may be said that the Legislature in its wisdom has thought it fit to permit the mortgagor to grant leases of the mortgaged property in terms of the provisions contained in Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It is his argument that the Legislature has thought it fit not to impose any kind of absolute prohibition in respect of the dealing with any property by the mortgagor after the creation of a mortgage and has imposed only such restrictions which the Legislature thought would not prejudicially affect the security of the mortgagee but the Legislature, however, in Section 52 of the Act has thought fit to impose complete ban on the transfer of or otherwise dealing with any property after the institution of a suit or proceeding in which the right to property is directly or specifically in question, so that the rights of any party thereto may not be affected under a decree or order which may be made in the suit or proceeding.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Kakkar has next submitted that the auctionpurchaser at the Court sale acquires all the right, title and interest of the mortgagor and also of the mortgagee as a result of the purchase and the auctionpurchaser, therefore, steps into the shoes of the mortgagee and becomes entitled to obtain physical possession of the property purchased in the same manner as the mortgagee himself would have been able to do.	Arguments of Respondent
Mr. Kakkar in this connection has referred to the decision of this Court in the case Mangru Mehto and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
v Shri Thakur Taraknath Tarkeshwar Math and Ors(1967) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 125 and also the decision of the Supreme Court inM s. Supreme General Films Exchange Ltd. v.His Highness Maharaja Sir Brijnath Singhji Deo of Maihar and Ors.	Arguments of Respondent
(supra).	Arguments of Respondent
It is the submission of Mr. Kakkar that the decisions of this Court in the case ofM s. Supreme General Films Exchange Lid.	Arguments of Respondent
(supra) and also in the case of Jayaram Muddaliar (supra) conclude the question involved in the present appeal and the Division Bench rightly dismissed the appeal relying on the said decisions.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Before we proceed to deal with the respective contentions of the parties, it will be convenient to consider the material provisions of the relevant statutes to which we were referred in the course of submissions made from the bar.	None
Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act reads as follows During the pendency in any Court having authority within the limits of India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir or established beyond such limits by the Central Government of any suit or proceeding which is not collusive and in which any right to immoveable property is directly and specifically in question, the property cannot be transfered or otherwise dealt with by any party to the suit or proceeding so as to affeet the rights of any other party thereto under any decree or order which may be made therein, except under the authority of the Court and on such terms as it may impose.	None
ExplanationFor the purposes of this section, the pendency of a suit or proceeding shall be deemed to commence from the date of the presentation of the plaint or the institution of the proceeding in a Court of competent jurisdiction, and to continue until the suit or proceeding has been disposed of by a final decree or order, and complete satisfaction or discharge of such decree or order has been obtained, or has become unobtainable by reason of the expiration of any period of limitation prescribed for the execution thereof by any law for the time being in force.8.	None
Material provisions of Section 53(a) and (b) of the said Act are in the following terms(a)	None
A Mortgage is the transfer of an interest in specific immoveable property for the purpose of securing the payment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan, an existing or future debt, or the performance of an engagement which may give rise to a pecuniary liability.	None
The transferor is called a mortgagor, the transferee a mortgagee the principal money and interest of which payment is secured for the time being are called the mortgagemoney, and the instrument (if any) by which the transfer is effected is called a mortgagedeed.(b) Where, without delivering possession of the mortgaged property the mortgagor binds himself personally to pay the mortgagemoney, and agrees, expressly or impliedly, that, in the event of his failing to pay according to his contract, the mortgagee shall a right to cause the mortgaged property to be sold and the proceeds of sale to be applied, so far as may be necessary, in payment of the mortgagemoney, the transaction is called a simple mortgage and the mortgagee a simple mortgagee.9.	None
Section 65A which was subsequently introduced into the Act by Section 30 of the Transfer of Property (Amendment) Act, 1929, provides(1)	None
Subject to the provisions of Subsection (2), a mortgagor, while lawfully in possession of the mortgaged property, shall have power to make leases thereof which shall be binding on the mortgagee.(2) (a) Every such lease shall be such as would be made in the ordinary course of management of the property concerned and in accordance with any local law, custom or usage.(b)	None
Every such lease shall reserve the best rent that can reasonably be obtained, and no premium shall be paid or promised and no rent shall be payable in advance.(c)	None
No such lease shall contain a covenant for renewal.(d)	None
Every such lease shall take effect from a date not later than six months from the date on which it is made.(e)	None
In the case of a lease of buildings, whether leased with or without the land on which they stand, the duration of the lease shall in no case exceed three years, and the lease shall contain a covenant for payment of the rent and a condition of reentry on the rent not being paid within a time therein specified.(3)	None
The provisions of Subsection (1) apply only if and as far as a contrary intention is not expressed in the mortgagedeed and the provisions of Subsection (2) may be varied or extended by the mortgagedeed and, as so varied and extended, shall, as far as may be operate in like manner and with all like incidents, effects and consequences, as if such variations or extensions were contained in that subsection.10.	None
Rules 95 and 96 of Order XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure under which the auctionpurchaser in the instant case had made the application for possession are in the following effect 95 Where the immovable property sold is in the occupancy of the judgmentdebtor or of some person on his behalf or of some person claiming under a title created by the judgmentdebtor subsequently to the attachment of such property and a certificate in respect thereof has been granted under Rule 94, the Court shall, on the application of the purchaser, order delivery to be made by putting such purchaser or any person whom he may appoint to receive delivery on his behalf in possession of the property, and, if need be, by removing any person who refuses to vacate the same.96.	None
Where the property sold is in the occupancy of a tenant or other person entitled to occupy the same and a certificate in respect thereof has been granted under Rule 94, the Court shall, on the application of the purchaser, order delivery to be made by affixing a copy of the certificate of sale in some conspicuous place on the property, and proclaiming to the occupant by beat of drum or other customary mode, at some convenient place, that the interest of the judgmentdebtor has been transferred to the purchaser.11.	None
An analysis of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act indicates that for application of the said section the following conditions have to be satisfied 1.	None
A suit or a proceeding in which any right to immovable property must be directly and specifically in question, must be pending2.	None
The suit or the proceeding shall not be a collusive one3.	None
Such property during the pendency of such a suit or proceeding cannot be transferred or otherwise dealt with by any party to the suit or proceeding so as to affect the right of any other party thereto under any decree or order which may be passed therein except under the authority of Court.	None
In other words, any transfer of such property or any dealing with such property during the pendency of the suit is prohibited except under the authority of Court, if such transfer or otherwise dealing with the property by any party to the suit or proceeding affects the right of any other party to the suit or proceeding under any order to decree which may be passed in the said suit or proceeding.12.	None
It has to be noted that this section imposes a prohibition on transfer or otherwise dealing with any property during the pendency of a suit provided the conditions laid down in the section are satisfied.13.	None
Section 58 makes it clear that in case of a mortgage there is a transfer of an interest in the specific immovable property mortgaged for the purpose of securing the payment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of a loan, an existing or future debt, or the performance of an engagement which may give rise of pecuniary liability.	Arguments of Respondent
It further confers, in case of a simple mortgage where, without delivering the possession of the mortgaged property, the mortgagor binds himself personally to pay the mortgagemoney, a right on the mortgagee to cause the mortgaged property to be sold and the proceeds of sale to be applied, so far as may be necessary in payment of the mortgagedebt.14.	None
Section 65A which, as we noticed earlier, was introduced by the Amending Act, 1929 in recognition of the mortgagors powers exercised bona fide to grant lease of the mortgageproperty in the usual course of management, makes provision with regard to the exercise of such powers by the mortgagor, while the mortgage subsists and the mortgagor is in lawful possession of the mortgagedproperty.	Reasoning
This section further makes it clear that any lease granted by the mortgagor in accordance with the provisions of this section would be binding on the mortgagee.15.	None
Rules 95 and 96 of Order XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure makes provisions for enabling a purchaser of immovable property in a Court sale after obtaining the necessary certificate from the Court in terms of the provisions contained in Rule 94 of the Code to apply for delivery of possession of the immovable property purchased by him at the Court sale.	None
Rule 95 provides for actual physical possession and rule 96 provides for symbolic possession.	None
A plain reading of rule 95 which we have earlier set out, clearly establishes, that the purchaser will be entitled to physical possession of property purchased and the Court will direct delivery of actual possession of the property sold to him by removing any person who refuses to vacate the same, if need be, if the following conditions are satisfied 1.	None
The property sold must be in the occupation of the judgmentdebtor2.	None
The property sold must be in the occupancy of some person on behalf of the judgmentdebtor3.	None
The property sold must be in the occupation of some person claiming under a title created by the judgmentdebtor subsequently to the attachment of the property.16.	None
Rule 96 on the other hand makes it clear that where the property sold is in the occupancy of a tenant or other person entitled to occupy the same, symbolic possession of the property in the manner provided in the said rule is to be made over to the purchaser after the purchaser has obtained the necessary certificate under rule 94 of the Code.17.	None
We shall now proceed to consider the decision of this Court in the case of M s, Supreme General Films Exchange Lid.	Reasoning
v. His Highness Maharaja Sir Brijnath Singh Deo of Maihar and Ors.	Reasoning
(supra) and also the decision of this Court in Jayaram Mudaliar v. Ayya Swami and Ors (supra).	Reasoning
In the case of M s. Supreme General Films Exchange Ltd , the plaintiffrespondent who were the mortgagees of a cinema theatre of which the appellant Supreme General Films Exchange Ltd. claimed to be a lessee in occupation., had filed a suit against the mortgagor and a decree by compromise had been passed in the said suit on 7th May, 1960.	Reasoning
By the said compromise decree it was agreed that the amounts due to the mortgagee decreeholder would be realised by the sale of the theatre.	Reasoning
The Central Bank of India, another creditor of the mortgagor, assigned its rights under the decree to the plaintiff decreeholder.	Reasoning
The theatre was attached in the course of execution of the decree.	Reasoning
The original lease of 1940 on the basis of which the appellant, the Supreme General Films Exchange Ltd. had entered into possession, expired in 1946 but thereafter the Company had continued in possession as a tenant holding over until the impugned leasedeed of 1956 in favour of the company was executed.	Reasoning
The company filed a suit in 1954 for specific performance of the agreement to lease and the lease deed of 1956 was executed in compliance with the terms of the compromise decree passed in the said suit filed by the appellant company.	Reasoning
In the said suit for specific performance by the appellant company, the plaintiff mortgagee was not impleaded as a party.	Reasoning
The plaintiff mortgagee thereafter filed a suit claiming that the lease of 1956 was void as the same came within the mischief of Sections 52 and 65A of the Transfer of Property Act and also Section 64 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
The appellant company contested the said suit contending inter alia that the suit of this nature filed by the plaintiff mortgagee did not lie as it feel outside the purview of Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act.	Reasoning
The Trial Court decreed the said suit of the plaintiff mortgagee and granted the declaration asked for.	Reasoning
The appellantcompany preferred an appeal against the decree of the Trial Court to the High Court which dismissed the said appeal.	Reasoning
Thereafter the appellant company filed a further appeal to this Court by special leave granted by this Court.	Reasoning
This Court for reasons recorded in the judgment held that the plaintiff was entitled to the declaration asked for on proper construction of Section 42 of the Specific Relief Act.	Reasoning
One of the contentions which was raised on behalf of the appellant in this Court was that Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act was not attracted to the lease in question.	Reasoning
Dealing with contention this Court observed at pp. 243244 as followsThe contention that the case fell outside the purview of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act as the lease was executed in purported satisfaction of an antecedent claim rests upon the terms of an agreement of 1948, embodied in a letter, on the strength of which the defendantappellant had filed his suit for specific performance.	None
We find that the terms of the compromise decree in that suit and leasedeed of 1956 purported to confer upon the defendantappellant new rights.	None
Indeed there are good ground for suspecting that the compromise in the suit for specific performance was adopted as a device to get round legal difficulties in the execution of the lease of 1956 in favour of the defendantcompany.	None
We are unable to accept the argument, sought to be supported by the citation of Bishan Singh and Ors.v.	None
Khazan Singh and Anr., (AIR 1951 Assam 101) that the lease was merely an enforcement of an antecedent or preexisting right.	None
We think that it purported to create entirely new rights pendente lite.	None
It was, therefore, struck by the doctrine of lis pendens, as explained by this Court in Jayaram Mudaliarv.	None
Ayyaswami and Ors.	None
(1973 SCR. 139) embodied in Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
An alternative argument of the appellant was that a case falling within Section 65A(2)(a) of the Transfer of Property Act, confining the duration of a lease by a mortgagor to three years, being a special provision, displaces the provisions of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
This argument overlooks the special object of the doctrine oflis pendens which applies to a case in which litigation relating to property in which rights are sought to be created pendente lite by acts of parties, is pending.	None
Moreover, for the purposes of this argument, the defendantappellant assumes that the provisions of Section 65A(2)(e) of the Transfer of Property Act are applicable.	None
If that was so, it would make no substantial difference to the rights of the defendantappellant, which would vanish before the suit was filed if Section 65A applies.	None
We, however, think that, as the special doctrine of lis pendens, is applicable here, the purported lease of 1956 was invalid from the outset.	None
In this view of the matter, it is not necessary to consider the applicability of Section 65A (2)(e), which the defendantappellant denies, to the facts of this case.18.	None
This Court further held agreeing with the concurrent findings of the Trial Court and the High Court that the lease of 1956 was also struck by the provisions of Section 64 of the Civil Procedure Code, as the property continued to remain under attachment at the time of the grant of the lease in 1956.19.	None
It may be noted that in this case the validity of the lease had been questioned by the mortgagee decreeholder in a suit for appropriate declaration.	None
The claim was not for possession by a third party auctionpurchaser in a proceeding under Rules 95 and 96 of Order XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure and the merits of an application under the said provisions of the Code and the scope and effect thereof did not come up for consideration.20.	None
In the case of Mangru Mahto and Ors.	None
v.Shri Thakur Taraknath Tarakashwar Math and Ors., (Supra)	Arguments of Respondent
, the mortgagor had granted lease of the mortgagedproperty to certain persons.	None
In execution of the mortgagedecree, the mortgagee himself purchased the property at the auction.	None
The lessees of the mortgagedproperty had allowed the property to be sold and had not applied for being added as a party.	None
The mortgagee had also obtained the money decree against one of the lessees and in execution of the decree hid attached the mortgaged land.	None
The lessees filed claim petitions objecting to, the attachment under Order XXI Rule 58 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	None
The claim petitions filed by the lessees were allowed and the executing Court held that the leases were genuine.	None
The mortgagee auctionpurchaser did not file any suit under Order XXI rule 63 but latter filed a suit against the mortgagor and the lessees for recovery of possession of the lands, alleging that the leases were collusive transactions and were otherwise not binding on him.	None
The Trial Court dismissed the suit holding that the leases were genuine but the High Court decreed the suit holding that the leases were sham transactions and were made in contravention of Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act.	None
The lessees thereafter preferred an appeal to this Court under certificate granted by the High Court.	None
One of the contentions raised before this Court was that as the mortgagee did not file a suit under Order XXI Rule 63 of the Code of Civil Procedure after the claim petitions of the lessees under Order XXI Rule 58 of the Code of Civil Procedure had been allowed and the mortgagee was not entitled to maintain the suit for recovery of possession of the mortgaged land and for mesne profits on the allegation that the leases were collusive transactions and were otherwise not binding on him.	None
This contention was negatived by this Court for reasons recorded in the judgment.	None
This Court further held that the validity of the leases granted by the mortgagor was hot affected by Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act as the leases were granted before the enactment of Section 65A.	None
As these aspects do not have any material bearing on the question involved in the present appeal, it does not become necessary for us to pursue these two aspects any further.	None
This Court, however, held that the leases in question were not granted by the mortgagor in the ordinary course of management as the agent or bailiff of the mortgagee and were not binding on the mortgagee and in that view of the matter this Court dismissed the appeal.	None
This Court observed at p. 132 as followsA lease granted by the mortgagor, out of the ordinary course of management, though not binding on the mortgagee, is binding as between the mortgagor and the lessee.	None
Such a lessee acquires an interest in the right of the redemption and is entitled to redeem.	None
If such a lease is created before the institution of a suit relating to the mortgage, the lessee must be joined as a party to the suit under Order 34, Rule 1, C.P.C. otherwise he will not be bound by the decree passed in the suit and will continue to retain his right of redemption.	None
But in view of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act, if the mortgagor grants such a lease during the pendency of a suit for sale by the mortgagee, the lessee is bound by the result of the litigation.	None
If the property is sold in execution of the decree passed in the suit, the lessee cannot resist a claims for possession by the auctionpurchaser.	None
The lessee could apply for being joined as a party to the suit and ask for an opportunity to redeem the property.	None
But if he allows the property to be sold in execution of the mortgage decree and they have now lost the present case, the lessees allowed the suit land to be sold in execution of the mortgage decree and they have now lost the right of redemption.	None
They cannot resist the claim of the auctionpurchaser of recovery of possession of the lands.21.	None
It may be noted that the Court immediately after the aforesaid observations has further observed as followsIf a mortgagor in possession of the mortgaged property executes a lease of the property in the ordinary course of management as the agent or bailiff of the mortgagee during the pendency of a suit by the mortgagee to enforce the mortgage, a question may arise whether such a lease is in the eye of the law a lease granted by the mortgagee through his agent and therefore binding on him.	None
But in the present case, that question does not arise as the leases were not granted by the mortgagor in the ordinary course of management as the bailiff or agent of the mortgagee.22.	None
It is to be noticed that this decision arose out of the suit instituted by the mortgagee auctionpurchaser for recovery of possession of mortgagedproperty sold in execution of the mortgage decree and purchased by the mortgagee himself and the decision in this case rested mainly on the basis that the lease was not granted by the mortgagor in the usual course of business.	None
This case was also not concerned with an application by an outside auction purchaser for physical possession of the property purchased by him in an application made under Order XXI Rules 95 and 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and the Court did not have to consider the scope and effect of a proceeding under Order XXI Rule 95 and 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure.23.	None
In our opinion, it cannot, therefore, be said that these two decisions of this Court conclude the question involved in the present appeal before us.24.	None
It may be true that Section 52 and Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act operate in different spheres.	None
Section 65A, as we have earlier noticed deals with the powers of the mortgagor to grant a lease of the mortgaged property, while the mortgagor remains in lawful possession of the same.	Reasoning
Section 52 deals with cases of transfer of or otherwise dealing with any immovable property after any suit or proceeding in which any right to the said immovable property is directly and specifically in question, has been filed.	Reasoning
It is also to be noted that Section 65A which came to be inserted by the Amending Act, 1929, is neither made subject to nor not withstanding the provisions cotitained in Section 52 of the Act.	Reasoning
Section 52 will, however, be only applicable, if the requirements of the said section are satisfied.	Reasoning
We have earlier noticed what the requirements of the said section are.	Reasoning
In the instant case, it does not became necessary for us to consider whether the grant of any lease by a mortgagor in conformity with the provisions of Section 65A of the Transfer of Property Act during the pendency of a suit by the mortgagee to enforce the mortgage will attract the provisions of Section 52 of the Act or will be outside the mischief of the provisions of the said section on the ground that the creation of such a lease may not affect the rights of the mortgagee under any decree or order which may be passed in the suit.	Reasoning
We have earlier quoted the observations of this Court in the case of Mangru Mahto (supra) and it will be noticed that the Supreme Court in the said case did not decide this question and left this question open.	Reasoning
In the instant case an outside auctionpurchaser is seeking recovery of the physical possession of the property purchased by him at the auction from the appellants who are in possession of different portions of the said premises as tenants of the said portions.	Reasoning
The auctionpurchaser in the instant case was not the mortgagee and he was no party to the suit in which the compromise decree was passed.	Reasoning
Section 52 in clear terms speaks of the rights of the parties to the suit or proceeding.	None
In this connection it may be noted that this Court in the case of Jayaram Mudaliar (supra) held at p. 163 as follows It is evident that the doctrine, as stated in Section 52, applies not merely to actual transfers of rights which are subjectmatter of litigation but to other dealings with it by any party to the suit or proceeding, so as to affect the right of any other party thereto.	None
Hence it could be urged that where it is not a party to the litigation but an outside agency, such as the tax collecting authorities of the Government, which proceeds against the subjectmatter of litigation, without anything done by a litigating party, the resulting transaction will not be hit by Section 52.	None
Again, where all the parties which could be affected by a pending litigation are themselves parties to a transfer or dealings with property in such a way that they cannot resile from or disown the transaction impugned before the Court dealing with the litigation the Court may bind them to their own acts.	None
All these are matters which the Court could have properly considered.	None
The purpose of Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act is not to defeat any just and equitable claim but only to subject them to the authority of the Court which is dealing with the property to which claims are put forward.25.	None
The auctionpurchaser derives his right to obtain possession only after the sale in his favour has become absolute and sale certificate has been obtained by him.	None
The mode and manner of obtaining such possession are regulated by Rule 95 and 96 of the Code of Civil Procedure.	Reasoning
It is of interest to note that in the instant case, the auction purchaser had applied for obtaining possession under Rule 95 which provides for actual possession and also under Rule 96 which provides for symbolic possession.	Reasoning
We have earlier set out the provisions of these two rules.	Reasoning
In the facts and circumstances of this case, the auction purchaser, in view of the provisions contained in Rule 95 which regulates the rights of the auctionpurchaser to obtain physical possession of the property purchased, as not entitled to recover the physical possession of the portions in the occupation of the appellants as tenants.	Reasoning
The appellants are not the judgmentdebtors.	Reasoning
They are not in occupation of the property on behalf of the judgmentdebtor.	Reasoning
They are also not claiming to be in occupation under a title created by the judgmentdebtor subsequently to any attachment of the property.	Reasoning
There has been no question of any attachment in the instant case.	Reasoning
The appellants are in the occupation of the respective portions as tenants and they claim to occupy the same as such.	Reasoning
The question of validity or otherwise of the tenancy may have to be considered and determined in an appropriate proceeding.	Reasoning
In the present proceeding, the auctionpurchaser who is an outsider and was not a party to the suit resulting in the compromise decree in execution of which the property was put up for sale, is not entitled to recover physical possession from the appellants in view of the provisions contained in Order XXI Rule 95, and the auctionpurchaser must be held to be entitled to symbolic possession in terms of the provisions contained in Order XXI Rule 96 in respect of the portions in occupation of the appellants.26.	Reasoning
We, accordingly, allow this appeal.	Decision
We set aside the judgment and order passed by the High Court directing physical possession of the portions in the occupation of the appellants to be made over to the auctionpurchaser Gian Chand Jain.	Decision
We direct that symbolic possession of the portions in occupation of the appellants is to be made over to the auctionpurchaser Gian Chand Jain.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of this case, make no order as to costs.	Decision
