 BEG, C.J. 1.	None
Original Suits Nos. 1 to 6 of 1977, before us now have been filed on behalf of the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, and Orissa against the Union of India under, Article 131 of the Constitution of India.	None
There are also before us three writ Petitions, Nos. 67 to 69 of 1977, by three members of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Punjab against tile Union of India and Shri Charan Singh, the Home Minister in the Government of India, and Shri Zail Singh, Chief Minister of Punjab.	None
The six suits and the, three Writ Petitions raise certain common questions of law and fact.	None
They were, therefore, permitted to be argued together.	None
We have already dismissed the suits and petitions after hearing them at length and now propose to state our reasons for doing so as stated in our order of 29th April 1977.	None
Before dealing with, the. questions of fact and law I will indicate the nature of the reliefs, sought by each plaintiff under Article 131 and the grievance of each petitioner under Article 32 of the Constitution.	None
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Rajasthan asked for a declaration that what it described as a directive contained in the letter dated 18th April, 1977, issued by Shri Charan Singh, the Union Home Minister, to the Chief Minister of the State is unconstitutional, illegal and ultra vires the Constitution and also a declaration that the plaintiff St ate is not constitutionally or legally obliged to comply with or to give effect to the directive contained in the said letter.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Madhya Pradesh seeks the declaration that the direction order dated 18th April, 1977, of the defendant through its Home Minister is ultra vires the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Punjab asks for a declaration of what it describes as direction order as ultra vires the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Bihar calls the letter a directive and asks for the declaration that it is unconstitutional and void.	Arguments of Petitioner
it also prays for a declaration that a refusal by the Chief Minister of Bihar to comply with it cannot be made the basis for the issue of proclamation under Article, 356, of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
It also seeks a declaration that Article 356 of the Constitution cannot be invoked for the sole purpose of dissolving the State Legislative Assembly and holding fresh elections for the said Assembly after the defeat of the majority party in the said Assembly in the elections for the Lok Sabha.	Arguments of Petitioner
3.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Himachal Pradesh prays for eight declarations firstly, that the Council of Ministers of the State is not liable to resign and the Legislative Assembly of the plain tiff is not liable to be dissolved on the ground that the Congress Party, which holds a majority in the Legislative Assembly, had lost in the Lok Sabha elections and the Janata Party has come into power at the centre secondly, that the Executive , of the Defendant is not entitled to encroach upon the sole prerogative of the Council of Ministers as to the nature of the advice which the latter thinks fit to render to the Governor thirdly, that the provisions , of Arti cle 356 of the Constitution are not liable to be invoked by the President merely because the Political party which has been returned to power in the Lok Sabha elections happens to be different from the party which holds majority in the Legislative Assembl y of the plaintiff and which might have lost heavily in the said Lok Sabha elections fourthly, that the Legislative, Assembly of the plaintiff is not liable to be dissolved before the expiry of the term under the Constitution because the views of the electorate, have an undergone a change as stated in the letter.	Arguments of Petitioner
of the defendants Home Minister dated 18th April, 1977 fifthly, that the circumstances mentioned in the letter do not constitute a threat to law and order, and, in, any case,  such a threat to law and order cannot form any constitutional basis for dissolution of the Legislative Assembly of the plaintiff sixthly, that reasons and circumstances stated in the letter addressed by the defendant to the plaintiffs Chief Minister and the, resultant threatened action under Article 356 of the Constitution are Wholly unconstitutional and mala fide and that a proclamation issued on.	Arguments of Petitioner
the facts and circumsta nces of the present case, would be utterly void seventhly that the condition precedent and prescribed in Article 356(1) of the Constitution, is nonexistent eighthly, that the Legislature of the plaintiff cannot be dissolved until and unless any proclamation issued under Article 356(1) of the Constitution, is ratified by both Houses of Parliament as envisaged by Article 356	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) of the ConstitutionThe State of Orissa asked for a declaration that the directive contained in, the letter of 18th April, 1977, is Unconstitutional, illegal and ultra vires the Constitution and also that the plaintiff State is not constitutionally or legally obliged to comply with or to give effect to the directive contained in the said letter.	Arguments of Petitioner
4.	Arguments of Petitioner
In addition, each of the plaintiffs in the six suits asks for a permanent as well as an interim injunction in slightly differing terms but the object of all these, injunctions sought is abundantly clear and common.	Arguments of Petitioner
5.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Rajasthan has sought a permanent injunction restraining the defendant from giving effect to the directive contained in the said letter in any Manner.	Arguments of Petitioner
It also asks for permanent injunction restraining the defendant resorting to Article 356 of the Constitution o f India to dissolve the Legislative, Assembly of the State of Rajasthan and from taking any steps for holding fresh elections to the State Assembly before March, 1978.	Arguments of Petitioner
Perpetual injunctions are sought by the State of Madhya Pradesh against the defendant Union of India to restrain its Government from enforcing directions contained in the letter and, or dissolving the Legislature of the State.	None
The State of Punjab prays for a perpetual injunction to restrain the defendant from enforcing the directions contained it, , the statement dated 18th April 1977 and in the letter dated 18th April 1977 to the Chief Minister of the plaintiff State and restraining the defendant from dissolving the Legislative Assembly of the plaintiff State or imposing Presidential Rule under Article 356 before March 1978.	None
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Bihar asks for an injunction against issue by the defendant Union of a Proclamation under Article 356 of the Constitution for the purpose of dissolving t he Bihar State Assembly and holding fresh elections for the State Assembly.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Himachal Pradesh seeks a permanent injunction for restraining the defendant from issuing any Proclamation under Article 356(1) of the Constitution except in a situation contemplated by the provisions and another to restrain the Union Government from, dissolving the legislative assembly of the State until and unless any Proclamation issued under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
356 of the Constitution, is ratified by both the Houses of Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, a prohibitory order, in the nature of a Writ of Quo Usquo (until condition precedent is fulfilled) is sought.	Arguments of Petitioner
The State of Orissa prays for a permanent injunction restraining the defendants from giving effect to the directive contained in the said letter in any manner and, another permanent injunction restraining the defendants from taking recourse to Article 56 of the Constitution of India to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State of Orissa and, from taking any steps foe holding fresh elections to the State Assembly before March 1980.	Arguments of Petitioner
It may be mentioned that the elections to the Legislative Assembly of the State of Orissa took place in 1974.	Arguments of Petitioner
Each of the six States have also asked for interim injunctions so that the reliefs prayed foil in the suits may not become infructuous.	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
The three petitioners in the Writ Petitions from Punjab are Members of the Legislative Assembly of the State of Punjab they assert that there is a threat to their, fundamental right to property in the shape of a right to receive their salaries as Member of the Legislative Assembly as a result of an impending dissolution.	Arguments of Petitioner
They s ubmit that such an impending threat is enough, to enable them to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is obvious that the cause of action set up by the plaintiffs in each suit as well as by the petitioners under Article 32 of the Constitution is said to be furnished by the letter of Shri Charan Singh, the Home Minister in the Union Government, and a statement said to have been made by Shri Shanti Bhushan, the Law Minister in t he Union Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
These, according to the Plaintiffs under Article 131 as well as petitioners under Article 32, provide sufficient grounds for inferring that the Legislative Assembly of each of the States involved will be dissolved, after a Proclamation under Article 356 if what the letter of Shri Charan Singh describes as advice is not carried out by the Chief Minister of each of the six states.	Arguments of Petitioner
The principal common submissions on behalf of the plaintiffs as well as the petitioner s are Firstly, , that the letter of.	Arguments of Petitioner
Shri Charan Singh dated 18th April, 1977, discloses the sole ground of an impending Proclamation under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
356 of the Constitution to be followed by a dissolution of the Legislative Assembly of the State concerned and that such a proclamation, resulting necessarily in the dismissal of the Ministries in the six States and the dissolution of their Legislative Assemblies upon the grounds given in the letter, is prima facie to outside the purview of Article 356 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
Secondly, that, in any case, the condition precedent to the dissolution of the State Legislative Assemblies is a ratification by both Houses of Parliament of the Presidential action under Article 356 so that on dissolution, at any rate, of a Legislative Assembly can take place without ascertaining the wishes of both the Houses of Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
Thirdly, that the grounds given being outside the constitutionally authorised purposes and objectives make the proposed action, on the face of it, mala fide and unconstitutional.	None
Our attention was also drawn to certain assertions in the plaints and petitions for advancing the pleas of malice in fact and mal ice in law.9.	Arguments of Petitioner
The replies on behalf of the Union of India are Firstly, that on allegations made in the plaints no suit before us would fall within the purview of Art.	None
131 of the Constitution which is meant for grievances of States, as such, against the Union Government, and not those relating to mere composition of State Governments and Legislatures without involving constitutional or other legal rights of States as such.	None
Secondly, the questions which arise for gauging the existenc e of a situation, calling for action under Article 356 are, by their very nature, inherently nonjisticiable, and they have also been made nonjusticiable expressly by Article 356(5) of the Constitution so that, even if a State could, as such, b e said to be legally and properly interested in the dispute between its Government and the Union Government about the desirability or need for any action by the Union Government under Article 356 of the Constitution, such, a dispute is outside the sphere of justiciable matters.	None
If the final action or its grounds are nonjusticiable, they could not be indirectly assailed, by challenging a process which may or may not actually produce the apprehended result or action.	Arguments of Respondent
Thirdly, the letter of the Union Home Minister and the speech of the Union Law Minister do not indicate that anything falling outside the wide spectrum of Article 356 of the Constitutions being or will be taken into, account for taking action under Article 356.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence, on matters stated there, no cause of action could be said to have arisen.	None
Fourthly , mere intimation of some facts, fully within the purview of Article 356 of the Constitution, does not justify a prohibition to ac t in future when the situation may by serious enough, on the strength of facts indicated and possibly, other facts also, for action under Article.356 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, the submission was that it could not possibly be predicated now whether there were or not other facts or what other possible facts, which may affect the situation, may arise in future.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that the freedom of constitutionally authorised executive action of the highest executive organs of the Union should not be, impeded by judicial interference except on grounds of clearest and gravest possible character.	Arguments of Respondent
Just now, there was nothing beyond bare possibilities before the Court so that no anticipatory Injunction or Order could be granted .	Arguments of Respondent
The first ground of objection on behalf of the Union is confined to the suits.	Reasoning
But, the remaining three grounds of objection are common to the suits as well as the Writ Petitions.	None
10.	None
On behalf of Union of India notices were accepted and preliminary objections, mentioned above, were taken to the maintainability of the suits and the petitions on the allegations made therein.	None
We, therefore proceeded to hear arguments on the preliminary objections.	None
with, out requiring defendants or respondents to file written statements or replies or framing issues formally.	None
I propose to examine the allegations made in the plaints and in the petitions so as to determine whether assertions made there, on questions of fact, are sufficient to disclose any cause of action necessary to maintain the suits or the petitions for reliefs asked for.	None
As indicated above, the letter of Shri Charan Singh the Home Minister in the Union Government, to the Chief Minister of each State provides the primary source of the grievance of the plaintiffs and petitioners.	Facts
One of these identically phrased letters (the one to the Chief Minister of Rajasthan) may be reproduced here.	Facts
It runs as follows D. O. No. 355/MS T/77 HOME MINISTER INDIA New Delhi, April 18, 1977.	None
Dear Shri Joshi, We have given our earnest and serious consideration to the most unprecedented political situation arising out of the virtual rejection, in the recent Lok Sabha elections, of candidates belonging to the ruling party in various States.	None
The resultant climate of uncertainty is causing grave concern to us.	Facts
We have reasons to believe that this has created a sense of diffidence at different levels of Administration.	Facts
People at large do not any longer appreciate the propriety of continuance in power of a party whic h has been unmistakably rejected by the electorate.	Facts
The climate of uncertainty, diffidence and disrespect has already given rise to serious threats, to law and order.	Facts
2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Eminent constitutional experts have long been of the opinionthat when a Legislature no longer reflects the wishes or views of the electorate and when there are reasons to believe that the Legislature and the electorate are at variance, dissolution, with a view to obtaining a fresh mandate from the electorate would be most appropriate.	Facts
In the circumstances prevailing in your State, a fresh appeal to the political sovereign would not only be permissible, but also, necessary and , obligatory, 3.	Facts
I would, therefore, earnestly commend for your consideration that you may advise pour Governor to, dissolve the State Assembly in exercise of powers under Article 174(2)(b) and seek a fresh mandate from the electorate.	Facts
This alone would, in our considered view, be consistent with constitution al precedents and democratic practices.	Facts
4.	Arguments of Petitioner
I would be grateful if you would kindly let me know by the 23rd what you propose to do.	Facts
With regards, Yours sincerely, Sd  (Charan Singh)	None
Shri Harideo Joshi, Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Jaipur.	None
11.	None
To substantiate the allegation that the letter, constituted a threat of action under Article 356 of the Constitution to dismiss the Government, to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of each plaintiff State and to imposer the Presidents rule upon it, corroboration was sought froma report of a talk of Shri Shanti Bhushan, the Minister for Law, Justice and Company Affairs, on the All India Radio, which appeared in the Statesman of 23rd April 1977.	Facts
Although, reports in newspapers do not constitute admissible evidence of their truth, yet, I reproduce the extract which was either attached to or its substance reproduced in the, plaints, only to test whether, even assuming that its contents were to be proved, by admissible evidence, to be given in due course, all the allegations will, taken together, constitute something actionable.	Facts
The report said Advice to Nine States a Constitutional duty, says Shanti Bhushan.	Facts
Mr. Shanti Bhushan, Union Law Minister, said on Friday night that a clear case had been made out for dissolution of the Assemblies in nine Congressruled States and holding of fresh elections, reports Samachar. 12.	Facts
In an interview in the, Spotlight programme of All India Radio he said that the most important basic feature of the Constitution was democracy, which meant that a Government should function with the broad consent of the people and only so long as it enjoyed their confidence.	Facts
If State Governments chose to govern the people after having lost the confidence of the people, they would be undemocratic Governments, he said Under Article 355, a duty had been cast on the Union Government to ensure that State Governments were carried on in accordance with the Constitution.	Facts
The Home Minister, Mr. Charan Singh, had appealed to the Chief Ministers of the nine States to advise their Governors to recommend to the President dissolution of the State Assemblies.	Facts
This was because a serious doubt had been cast on their enjoying the peoples confidence, their party having been rejected in the recent Lok Sabha elections the Law Minister said.	Facts
EXERCISE OF POWER 13.	Facts
Mr .	Facts
Shanti Bhushan was asked whether the Centre would not be failing in its duty if it did not exercise its power at this crucial juncture to test the legitimacy of a State Government.	Facts
Hereplied that after all whenever the power was conferred by the Constitution.	Facts
it was not done simply for the sake of conferring it.	Facts
Obviously the Constitution contemplated the circumstances under which that power should be exercised.	Facts
When those circumstances arose it was obligatory on the part of the Centre to exercise that power.	Facts
14.	None
Mr. Shanti Bhushan said he failed to see why the State Governments objected to going to the people to seek their mandate.	Facts
If we recognise the real sovereignty and supremacy of the people, there cannot be any possible objection.	Facts
If someone claimed a divine right to rule whether the people wanted him or not, the in of course, there could be an objection to go to the people.	Facts
PREMATURE END 15.	Facts
Explaining the Constitutional provisions relating to premature dissolution of State.	Facts
Assemblies, Mr. Shanti Bhushan said two articles deal with this matter.	Facts
Article 172 provided for the normal term which was earlier five years.	Facts
But this had been extended to six years by the Constitution 42nd Amendment Act.	Facts
Then Article 174 gave the Governor the power to dissolve the Legislative Assembly from time to time even during the normal period of five or six years.	Facts
Normally this power was to be exercised with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers.	Facts
He was asked whether it was permissible for the President to resort to Article 356 if the Council of Ministers failed to aid and, advise the Governor to dissolve the Assembly under Article 174.	Facts
16.	None
Mr. Shanti Bhushan explained that under Article 355 a duty had been, cast on the Union Government to ensure that the Governments in States were carried on in accordance with the Constitution.	Facts
The most important provision in the Constitution.	Facts
rather the most important basic feature of the Constitution was democracy which meant that a Government should function with the broad consent of the people and only so long as it enjoyed the confidence of the people.	Facts
CONTINUED CONFIDENCE 17.	Facts
Mr. Shanti Bhushan said that the mere fact that at one time the Governments in the States enjoyed the confidence of the people did not give them the right to govern unless they continued to enjoy that confidence.	Facts
If a situation arose in which a serious doubt was cast upon the Government enjoying the continued confidence of the people, then the provision for premature dissolution of the Assembly immediately came into operation.	Facts
18.	None
The provision not merely gives the power but it casts a duty because this power is coupled with duty, namely, the Assembly must be dissolved immediately and the Government must go to the people to see whether it has continued confidence of the people to govern.	None
Even after having lost the confidence of the people, if the Government chose to govern people, it would be undemocratic.	None
This would not be in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
19.	None
This was precisely the philosophy behind the wide powers given to the President under Articles 355 and 356.	Facts
Obviously some authority had to be given the power to ensure that the functionaries under the Constitution were working in accordance with the Constitution.	Facts
As there were a number of States, obviously no single State could be given this power.	Facts
Therefore, this power was entrusted to the Union Government to see that the State Governments were acting in accordance with the Constitution, which meant in accordance with democratic principles and conventions.	Facts
NOT WHOLLY IMMORAL 20.	None
Answering another question, Mr. Shanti Bhusban did not agree, that the whole of the Constitution 42nd Amendment Act was immoral.	Facts
But there were, serious objections to that Act on the ground of ethics.	Facts
When this amendment was rushed through Parliament, the five years term of the members was over.	Facts
Their term had really expired and they did not have the continued mandate to enact such an important Act as the 42nd Amendment.	Facts
The results of the Lok Sabha elections had also shown that the people had not really given them the mandate to enact the amendment.	None
The other objection to the 42nd Amendment was that during the Emergency important leaders of the opposition parties were in jail.	None
They could not express their views.	Facts
Mr. Shanti Bhushan said that the 42nd Amendment had been enacted.	Facts
As the Ministers had taken an oath to abide by the Constitution, they could not ignore the provisions of the 42nd Amendment so long as it remained.	Facts
With the result it was not possible to, have elections, in those States where the State Governments had not lost the mandate of the people as was, reflected in the Lok Sabha elections.	Facts
I have set out the two basic sources of complaint in the plaints and the petitions in order to consider whether, assuming such statements had been made by the two very responsible and important Ministers of the Union Government, they could sustain suits for injunctions under Article 131 of the Constitution or writ petitions by Members, of a Legislative Assembly to be dissolved.	None
So far as the letter of Shri Charan Singh is concerned, it certainly does not contain even a reference to Article 356 of the Constitution.	None
Nevertheless, the speech of Shri Shanti Bhushan, assuming that it was correctly reported, does mention Articles 355 and 356 of the Constitution and expounds a view of one of the basic purposes of the Constitution the observance of which could, in the opinion of the Law Minister, be secured by, , resort to Art.	None
356 of the Constitution.	Facts
The speech does express the view of the Law Minister that there was a duty cast upon the Union Government by Article 355 of the Constitution to secure a conformity between the current opinion of the, electorate and the composition of the legislatures in the different States where the Governments in power today reflected the opinions of the majority of electors in each State prevalent only at a time when the last election to the State Legislative Assembly was held.	None
The question whether these State Governments retain the confidence of the electorate or not at present could only be answered decisively by the electors themselves.	None
That was the exclusive right and privilege of the electors under a democratic constitutional scheme and the law.	None
According to the Law Minister, the elected representatives cannot set up a right to continue in power now, despite an overwhelmingly adverse verdict of the electorate against the party to which members of these Government belong.	None
In his opinion, to do so would be contrary to the basic norms of democracy underlying our Constitution.	None
21.	None
If what was assumed to be proposed to be done, under the threat of a constitutionally prescribed mode of executive action, could, in, no circumstances, be done under Article 356, we may be able to check a misuse or excess of constitutional power provided judicial control over all purported exercise of power of issuing proclamations, under Article 256, is not either impliedly or expressly barred even if a proposed action is plainly ultra vires	None
But, if the views of the two Union Ministers state the constitutional position correctly, no question of in abuse or misuse of powers for a collateral purpose or a detournement de Pouvoir or a fraud upon the Constitution or malice in face or malice in law (terms denoting different shades, of culpability and types of excess, of power), can arise on.	None
the allegations of threatened action in the cases before us, which really amount only to this The Union Government proposes to act under Article 356 of the Constitution to give electors in the various States a fresh chance of showing whether they continue to have confidence in the State Governments concerned and their policies despite the evidence to the contrary provided by the very recent Lok Sabha elections.	None
One purpose of our Constitution and laws is certainly to give electors a periodic opportunity of choosing their States legislature and, there by, of determining the character of their States Government also.	None
It is the object of every democratic constitution to give such opportunities.	None
Hence, a policy devised to serve that and could not be contrary to the basic structure or scheme of the Constitution.	None
The question whether they should have that opportunity now or later may be a question of political expediency or executive policy.	None
Can it be a question of legal right also unless there is a prohibition against the dissolution of a legislative assembly before a certain period has expired ?	None
If there had been a constitutional prohibition, so that the proposed action of the Union Government could have contravened that constitutional interdict, we would have been obliged to, interfere, but, can we do so when there is no constitutional provision which gives the legislature of a State the right to continue undissolved despite certain supervening circumstances which may, according to, one view, make its dissolution necessary ?	None
11.	None
It may have been possible for this Court to act if facts and the circumstances mentioned to support proposed action were so completely outside the purview of Art.	None
356 or so clearly in conflict with a constitutional provision that a question of excess of power could have apparently arisen.	None
If, for example, an authoritative statement, (on behalf of a Union Government, was issued that a dissolution is proposed only because the Chief Minister or the whole Council of Ministers of a State belongs to a particular caste or creed, it could be urged that the proposed action would contravene the fundamental rights of Indian citizens of equality before the law and absence of discrimination on such a ground.	None
There is, however, no such allegation or its particulars in the plaints before us which may be capable of giving rise to the inference that any such constitutionally prohibited action is intended by the Union Government.	None
The choice between a dissolution and reelection or a retention of the same memberships of the legislature or the Government for a certain period could be matters of political expediency and strategy under a democratic system.	None
Under our system, quest of political power, through formation of several political parties, with different socioeconomic policies and programmes and ideologies, is legal.	None
Hence it cannot be said that a mere attempt to get more political power for a party, as a means of pursuing the programme of that party, as, opposed to that of other parties, is constitutionally prohibited or per se illegal.	None
There may be moral or even political objections to, such courses in certain circumstances.	Reasoning
It may be urged that States should be permitted to function undisturbed by any directions or advise by the Union Government despite their differences with it on matters of socioeconomic or political policy on complexion.	Reasoning
Rights were asserted, on behalf of State legislators, as though they were legal rights to continue.	Reasoning
as legislators untill the expiry of the constitutionally fixed spans of lives of their legislatures, barring cases of earlier dissolution.	Reasoning
We are only concerned here with legal rights to dissolve and legal obstacles to such dissolution.	None
12.	None
It could be argued, with considerable force, on political and moral grounds, that electors should be given a fresh opportunity of pronouncing their verdict upon the policies and programmes of the Governments in the States when very convincing proof of wide , divergence between their views and those of their Governments has become available.	None
The Law Ministers view is that, where there is an overwhelmingly large electoral verdict in a State against the party to which its Government belongs, the situation not only justifies but makes resort to a fresh election or an appeal to the political sovereign imperative.	None
This I think, is largely a political and moral issue.	None
We are only concerned with its relationship to constitutional provisions.	None
If its impact on the minds and feelings of electors or those officers who have to carry on the day to, day administration is such that it will frustrate the very objects of a Government under the Constitution or make it impossible for the Government in a State to function as it ought to under the Constitution, it may come to the conclusion that action under Article 356 of the Constitution is called for.	None
We cannot forget that article 356(1) calls for an assessment of a situation.	None
We, cannot anticipate decisions or interdict possible actions in situations which may or may not arise due to all kinds of factorseconomic, social, moral and political.	None
If the Union Government thinks that the circumstances of the situation demand that the, State Governments must seek a fresh mandate to justify their moral rights in the eyes of the people to continue to exercise power in the interests of their electors, or else the discontent of the masses may have its repercussion not only on the law and order situation but will also affect legal responsibilities or duties which the Union Government has towards a particular State o r towards Indian citizens in general, all of whom live in some State or other, can we say that resort to Article 356 of the Constitution is not called for ?	Reasoning
I think that it is impossible to substitute our judgment for that of the Union Government on such a matter.	None
13.	None
Even if it is possible to see a federal structure behind the setting up, of separate executive, legislative, and judicial organs in, the State and to urge, as it has been urged before us, that so long as the State Governments and their legislatures are not shown to have committed a dereliction of their constitutional duties or violations of any constitutional provisions, they ought not to be interfered with by the Union Government, it is also apparent, both from the mechanism provided by Article 356 of our Constitution, as well as the manner in which it has been used on numerous occasions in the past, since the inception of our Constitution, that the Union Government is capable of enforcing its own views on such matters against those of the State Government as to how the State Governments should function and who should bold the reins of power in the States so as to enable the Constitution to work in the manner the Union Government w ants it to do in a situation such as the one now before us.	None
Article 131 of the Constitution was, certainly not meant to enable us to sit as a Court of appeal on such a dispute between the Union Government and a State Government.	None
And, our Constitution is not an inflexible instrument incapable of meeting the needs of such a situation.	None
It may be that, under our Constitution, there is too great a scope for struggle merely for seats of power so that the grand purposes, enshrined in the Preamble to our Constitution and the correct governmental policies needed by the mass of our people to give reality to their dreams tend to be neglected in scrambles for political power.	None
The issue before us, however, is not whether one party or another has failed in the very objectives and purposes for which people give unto themselves Constitutions such as ours.	None
It is not for us to decide whether a party which has had its opportunities in the past has adequately met the objects of lodging political and legal power in its hands, or, whether those who now wield power at the Centre will do so more wisely, more honestly, or more, effectively, from the point of view of the interests of the masses of our people or public good.	None
These are questions for the people themselves to answer.	None
14.	None
I think that the two Union Ministers have stated certain grounds for inferring that the time has come to give the people the political sovereign a chance to pronounce its verdict on the fates of State Governments and legislatures in the nine States also in a manner which is constitutionally not open to objection.	Reasoning
In so far as article 356 (1) may embrace matters of political and executive policy and expediency courts cannot interfere with these unless and until it is shown what constitutional provision the President is going to contravene of has contravened on admitted grounds of action under Article 356 (1) for, while Article 74(2) disables Courts from inquiring into the very existence or nature or contents of ministerial advice to the President, Article 356(5) makes it impossible for Courts to question the Presidents satisfaction on any ground.	Reasoning
Hence, Court, can only determine the validity of the action on whatever may remain for them to consider on what are admitted, on behalf of the President, to be grounds of Presidential satisfaction.	Reasoning
Learned counsel for the plaintiffs and petitioners, when confronted with Article 35 6 (5), said they would challenge its validity as a provision violating, the basic structure of the Constitution.	Reasoning
We, however, heard objections to the maintainability of suits and petitions even apart from the specific bar in Article 356(5).	Reasoning
And, I propose to deal principally with those other objections.	Reasoning
This Court has never abandoned its constitutional function as the final judge of constitutionality of all acts purported to be done under the authority of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It has not refused to determine questions either of fact or of law so long as it has found itself possessed of power to do it and the cause of justice to be capable of being vindicated by its actions.	Reasoning
But, it cannot assume unto itself powers the Constitution lodges elsewhere or undertake tasks entrusted by the Constitution to other departments of State which may be better equipped to perform them.	Reasoning
The scrupulously discharged duties of all guardians of the Constitution include the duty not to transgress the limitations of their Own constitutionally circumscribed powers by trespassing into what is properly the domain of other constitutional organs.	Reasoning
Questions of political wisdom or executive policy only could not be subjected to judicial control.	Reasoning
No doubt executive policy must also be subordinated to constitutionally sanctioned purposes.	Reasoning
It has its sphere and limitations.	Reasoning
But, so long as it operates within that sphere, its operations are immune from judicial interference.	Reasoning
This is also a part of the doctrine of a rough separation of powers under the Supremacy of the Constitution repeatedly propounded by this Court and to which the Court unswervingly adheres even when its views differ or change on the correct interpretation of a particular constitutional provision.	Reasoning
15. Assuming, therefore, that the letter of Shri Charan Singh in the context of the reported speech of the Law Minister formed the basis of an absolutely correct inference that action under Article 356 of, the Constitution would be taken by the President if the advice to the Chief Ministers of States contained in it is not accepted, the only question we need determine here is whether such a use of Article 35 6 of the Constitution was, in any way, unconstitutional or legally malafide.	None
Another way of putting the same issue would be to ask whether the purposesstated by the Union Law Minister for the proposed action under Article 356 of the Constitution, assuming that such a proposal or threat could be found there, could be said to be extraneous to the purposes of Article 356 of the Constitution.	None
Mr. R. K. Garg arguing for the petitioners from Punjab, has put forward what appears to us to be, according to the very authority cited by the learned counsel, on the mode of construing our Constitution, a very good justification for the view said to have been propounded by the Union Law Minister.	None
Mr. Garg relied on a passage from t he judgment of Sikri, C.J., in H. H. Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalavaru v. State of Kerala (1973 Supp.	None
S.C.R. 1.)	None
I must interpret Art.	None
368 in the setting of our Constitution, in the background of our history and in the light of our aspirations and hopes, and other relevant circumstances.	None
No other constitution combines under its wings such diverse people, numbering now more than 550 millions, with different languages and religions and in different stages of economic development, into one nation, and no other nation is faced with such vast socioeconomic problems.	None
It was also said there (at p. 69)	None
I need hardly observe that I am not interpreting an ordinary statute, but a Constitution which apart from setting up a machinery for government, has a noble and grand vision.	None
The vision was put in words in the Preamble and carried out in part by conferring fundamental rights on the people.	None
The vision was directed to be further carried out by the application of directive principles.	None
It seems to me that if aspirations and hopes of the people, the noble and grand vision found in the preamble and the chapter on Directive Principles of State Policy are to be taken into account in deciding whether the provisions of the Constitution are being carried out by a particular Government or not, the scope of interference under Article 356 of the Constitution, so that the provisions of the Constitution may be observed, becomes quite wide and sweeping.	None
So long as we are bound by the majority view in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra), the purposes and the doctrines lying behind its provisions also become, if one may so put it, more or less, parts of the Constitution.	None
Whether a particular view or proposed action, in a particular situation, amounts to enforcing or subverting the constitution thus becomes a highly controversial political issue on which the letter of the Constitution tends to be relegated to the background.	None
As I am, strictly speaking, only concerned with the law, as I find it in the Constitution, I will now proceed to interpret Article 356 as I find it.	None
It reads 356(1) If the President on receipt of a report from the Governor of a State or otherwise, is satisfied that a situation has arisen in which t he government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution, the President may by Proclamation (a) assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor or any body or authority in the State other than the Legislature of the State (b) declare that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament (c) make such incidental and consequential provisions as appear to the President to be necessary or desirable or giving effect to the objects of the Proclamation, including provision for suspending in whole or in part the operation of any provisions of this Constitution relating to any body or authority in the State Provided that nothing in this clause shall authorise that, President to assume to himself any of the powers vested in or exercisable by a High Court, or to suspend in whole or in part the operation of any provision of this Constitution relating to High Courts.	None
(2) Any such Proclamation may be revoked or varied by a subsequent proclamation.	None
(3) Every Proclamation under this article shall be laid before each House of Parliament and shall, except where it is a Proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation, cease to operate at the expiration of two months unless before the expiration of that period it has been approved by resolutions of both Houses of Parliament Provided that if any such Proclamation (not being a Proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation) is issued at a time when the House of the People is dissolved or the dissolution of the House of the People takes place during the period of two months referred to in this clause and if a resolution approving the Proclamation has been passed by the Council of States, but no resolution with respect to such Proclamation has been passed by the House of the People before the expiration of that period, the Proclamation shall cease to operate at the expiration of thirty days from the date on which the House of the People first sits after its reconstitution unless before the expiration of the said period of thirty days a resolution approving the Proclamation has been also passed by the House of the People.(4)	None
A Proclamation so approved shall, unless revoked, cease to operate on the expiration of a period of six months from the date of the passing of the second of the resolutions approving the Proclamation under clause (3) Provided that if and so often as a resolution approving the continuance in force of such a Proclamation is passed by both Houses of Parliament the Proclamation shall, unless revoked, continue in force for a further period of six months from the date of which under this clause it would otherwise have ceased to operate, but no such Proclamation shall in any case remain in force for more than three years Provided further that if the dissolution of the House of the People takes place during any such period of six months and resolution approving the continuance in force of such Proclamation has been passed by the Council of States, but no resolution with respect to the continuance in force of such Proclamation has been passed by the House of the People during the said period, the Proclamation shall cease to operate at the expiration of thirty days from the date on which the House of the People first sits after its reconstitution unless before the expiration of the said period of thirty days a resolution approving the continuance in force of the Proclamation has been also passed by the House of the People.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the satisfaction of the President mentioned in clause (1) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be questioned in any Court on any ground.	None
It is true that article 356 occurs in part XVIII, dealing with emergency provisions.	None
But there are emergencies and emergencies.	None
An emergency covered by article 352 can only be declared if the President is satisfied that a grave emergency exists whereby the security of India or of any part of the territory thereof is threatened, whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbance, Article 352(3) shows that what is known as the present and imminent danger rule is applicable to such emergencies.	Reasoning
It is not necessary that the grave emergency contemplated by article 352 must be preceded by actual occurrence of war or internal disturbance.	None
The imminence of its danger is enough.	None
But, article 356, in contrast, does not contain such restrictions.	None
The effects of a proclamation of emergency under article 352 are given in articles 353 and 354 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
After the first three articles of Chap.	None
XVIII follows artic le 355 which enacts 355.	None
It shall be the duty of the Union to protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance and to ensure that the Government of every.	Reasoning
State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.	None
Now, the provisions dealing with the proclamation of emergency under article 352, which has to be grave and imminent, seem to be cove red by the first part of the duty of the Union towards a State mentioned in article 355, but the second part of that duty, mentioned in article 355, seems to be of a somewhat different and broader character.	None
The second part seems to cover all steps which are enough to ensure that the Govt.	None
of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of Constitution.	None
Its sweep seems quite wide.	None
It is evident that it is this part of the duty of the union towards each State which.	None
is sought to be covered by a proclamation under article 356.	None
That proclamation is not of a grave emergency.	None
In fact the word emergency is not used there.	None
It is a proclamation intended either to safeguard against the failure of the constitutional machinery in a state or to repair the effects of a breakdown.	None
It may be either a preventive or a curative action.	None
It is enough if the President which, in view of the amended article 73(1) really means the union council of Ministers, concludes that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the, Constitution.	None
On the other hand, action under article 352 is, more properly, only defensive and protective action to be taken to avert or meet a grave and imminent danger.	None
16.	None
What is the Constitutional machinery whose failure or imminent failure the President can deal with under article 356 ?	None
Is it enough if a situation has arisen in which one or more provisions of the Constitution cannot be observed ?	None
Now what provisions of the Constitution, which are not being observed in a State, or to what extent they cannot be observed are matters on which great differences of opinion are possible.	None
If a broad purpose, such as that of a democratic Government, contained in the Preamble to our Constitution which was used by this Court, as was done in H. H. Kesavananda Bhartis case (supra), to infer what has been called the basic structure, was meant also to be served by article 356, the scope of a situation in which proclamation under it can be made would seem wide.	None
If the basic structure embraces basic democratic norms, the Constitutional Machinery of article 356 could conceivably be used by the Union Government for securing compliance with its view of such norms, when, in its opinion the State Government has failed to observe them.	None
The Union Government could say If, what we think is basic to, a democratic system is not done by you, we will conclude that the Government of your State cannot be carried on by you in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
In that case we will take over your power, under article 356, and do that for the people of your State, which you should yourself have done.	None
Article 356 (1) of the Constitution, at any rate, does not seem to us to stand in the way of such a view.	None
Again, if the directive principles of State, Policy, which embrace a vast field of legislation for the welfare of the masses of.	None
our people, are also parts of the basic structure, which has to be ensured or maintained by the use of the constitutional machinery, the failure of, a State Government or its legislature to carry out any of the Constitutions mandates or directives, by appropriate legislation, may, according to a possible view, be construed as a failure of its duties to carry , out what the Constitution requires.	None
Our difficulty is that the language, of article 3 56 is so wide and loose that to crib and confine it within a straight jacket will not be just interpreting or construing it but will be , constitution making legislation which, again, does not, strictly speaking, lie in our domain .	None
17.	None
The above mentioned possibilities seem to follow, quite conceivably from the fairly broad language used in article 356(1) and the rather loose meaning of the basic structure of the Constitution which this Court seems to have adopted in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra).	None
This view of the basic structure seems, so to speak, to annex doctrines to provisions.	None
If that be so, it becomes impossible for us to say that the Union Government, even if it resorts to article 356 of the Constitution to enforce a political doctrine or theory, acts unconstitutionally, so long as that doctrine or theory is covered by the underlying purposes of the Constitution found in the Preamble which has been held to be a part of the Constitution.	None
18.	None
We have not sat here to determine whether the concept of a basic structure, found in Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra), requires any clarification or a more precise definition.	None
I may mention here that I gave the following exposition of what I understood to be the basic structure of our Constitution of which, according to Kesavananda Bharatis case (supra), the doctrine of the supremacy of the Constitution was apartNeither of the three constitutionally separate organs of State can, according to the basic scheme, of our Constitution today, leap outside the boundaries of its own constitutionally assigned sphere or orbit of authority into that of the other.	None
This is the logical and natural meaning of the Principle of Supremacy of the Constitution.	None
(gee Smt.	None
Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Rai Narain) (1976 2 S.C.R. 347 at 539.).	None
19.	None
Even if we were to narrow down the concept of a basic structure to bring it in accordance with the concept found in the passage cited above, we could only strike down that executive policy which could fairly appear to be a clear deviation from w hat the basic structure requires.	Reasoning
What would be, as the report of the speech of the Law Minister shows, fairly and reasonably viewed as a policy intended to strengthen or secure what is included in that basic structure could not be struck down or con trolled at all by this Court as that would be an attempt to control executive policy within a sphere which is its own and where its supremacy must be and has been consistently upheld by this Court.	Reasoning
20.	None
The basic assumption underlying the views expressed above, is that each of the three organs of the StateThe Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary has its own orbit of authority and operation.	Reasoning
It must be left free by the other organs.	Reasoning
to operate within that sphere even if it commits error s there.	Reasoning
It is not for one of the three organs of State either to correct or to point an accusing finger at the other merely because it thinks that some error has been committed by the other when acting within the limits of its own powers.	Reasoning
But, if either the Executive or the Legislature exceeds the scope of its powers, it places itself in the region where the effects of that excess should be capable of removal by the Judiciary which ought to redress the wrong done when properly brought up before it.	Reasoning
A scrupulous adherence to this scheme is necessary for the smooth operations of our Constitutional mechanisms of checks and balances.	Reasoning
It implies due respect for and confidence in each organ of our Republic by the other two.	None
In Har Sharan Varma v. Chandra Bhan Gupta Ors., (A.I.R. 1962 All.	None
301	None
at 307.)	None
Allahabad High Court, quite rightly observed It is not possible for the Court to assess the political forces and compulsions which necessitated any political party to act The Executive and the Judiciary are, independent of each other within their respective spheres.	None
Each is conversant with the peculiar circumstances within its own sphere and has special knowledge of complicated questions which is denied to the other.	None
Each must have the fullest discretion in the discharge of its duties.	None
The acts of the Executive are not open to review by the Judiciary as long as there is no violation of the law or the Constitution.	None
it follows that the Court could not ordinarily comment on any act of the Executive unless the act is such that it is likely to promote disrespect for the law.	None
This Court must extend the same courtesy to the other branches of government, which it receives from them and refrain from making uncalled for comments on the wisdom of the acts of the ministers of government.	None
21.	None
It has, however, been vehemently contended before us that just as it is a part of the Constitutional scheme that neither the executive nor the legislature should attempt to interfere with the functions of the judiciary, operating within its own sphere, and, just as the judiciary does not interfere With executive or legislative function so long.	Arguments of Petitioner
as there is no excess of power, which may be questioned before Courts, similarly, the Union Government cannot interfere with the normal functions of the Government in a State on the plea that there is a lack of conformity between the legal rights of the State Government and the opinions of the electorate which could affect only the moral rights of a State Government to continue in power.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that such an allegedly moral ground does not give the Union Government the legal right of action under article 256 of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, it is urged by Mr. Niren De, raises a constitutional issue of grave import.	Arguments of Petitioner
In some of the plaints, it is asserted that the moral plea sought to be given the colour of a legal right of action under article 356(1), on behalf of the people of the State, is an attempt to give a legal and constitutional garb to what is only a matter of political strategy.	Arguments of Petitioner
it is suggested, that the Union Government wants to take an undue advantage of the temporary gust of feeling which is believed to be sweeping the country as a result of the recent overwhelming victory of the Janata party and its political allies.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, both the question of the, extent of State autonomy in a federal structure, and an alleged misuse of constitutional power under article 356 of the Constitutional, on grounds said to be extraneous to it, have been raised on behalf of the States.	Arguments of Petitioner
These considerations are placed before us as aids to a proper construction of article 356(1) as well as matters which deserve careful scrutiny and adjudication after ascertainment of correct facts.	None
22.	None
We are reluctant to embark on a discussion of the abstract principles of federalism in the face of express provisions of our Constitution.	None
Nevertheless, as the principles have been mentioned as aids to the construction of the Constitution whose basic structure may, no doubt, have to be explored even w hen interpreting the language of a particular provision of the document which governs the destiny of the nation, we cannot avoid saying something on this aspect too.	None
A conspectus of the provisions of our Constitution will indicate that, whatever appearances of a federal structure our constitution may have, its operations are certainly, judged both by the contents of power which a number of its provisions carry with them and the use that has been made of them, more unitary than federal.	None
I mention the use that has been made of the constitutional provisions because constitutional practice and convention become so interlinked with or attached to constitutional provisions and are often so important and vital for grasping the real purpose and function of Constitutional provisions that the two cannot often be viewed apart.	None
And where the content , of powers appears so vague and loose from the language of a provision, as it seems to us to be in article 356(1), for the reasons given above, practice and convention may so crystallise as to become more significant than the letter of the law.	None
At any rate, they cannot be divorced from constitutional law.	None
They seem to us to be relevant even in understanding the purpose, the import, and the meaning of the words used in article 356(1).	None
This will be apparent also from a perusal of the judgment of this Court in Shamher Singh v. State of Punjab(1975 1 S.C.R. p.	None
814.).The	None
two conditions Dicey postulated for the existence of federalism were firstly, a body of countries such as the Cantons of Switzerland, the Colonies of America, or the Provinces of Canada, so closely connected by locality, by history, by race, or the like, as be capable of bearing, in the eyes of their inhabitants an impress of common nationality and, secondly, absolutely essential to the founding of a federal system is the existence of a very peculiar state of sentiment among the inhabitants of the countries.	None
He pointed out that, without the desire to unite there could be no basis for federalism.	None
But, if the desire to unite goes to the extent of forming an integrated whole in all substantial matters of Government, it produces a unitary rather than a federal constitution.	None
Hence, he said, a federal State Is a political contrivance intended to reconcile national unity with the maintenance of State rights.	None
The degree to which the State rights are separately preserved and safeguarded gives the extent to which expression is given to one of the two contradictory urges so that there is a union without a unity in matters of government.	None
In a sense, therefore, the Indian union is federal.	None
But, the extent of federalism in it is largely watered down by the needs of progress and development of a country which has to be nationally integrated, politically and economically coordinated, and socially, intellectually and spiritually uplifted.	None
In such a system, the States cannot stand in the way of legitimate and comprehensively planned development of the country in the manner directed by the Central Government.	None
The question of legitimacy of particular actions of the Central Government taking us in particular directions can often be tested and determined only by the verdicts of the people at appropriate times rater than by decisions of Courts.	None
For this reasons, they become, properly speaking, matters for political debates rather than for legal discussion.	None
If t he special needs of our country, to have political coherence, national integration, and planned economic development of all parts of the country, so as to build a welfare State where justice, social, economic and political are to prevail and rapid strides are to be taken towards fulfilling the of her noble aspirations, set out in the Preamble, strong central directions seems inevitable.	None
It is the countrys need.	None
That, at any rate, seems to be the basic assumption behind a number of our Constitutional provisions.	None
Mr. Granville Austin, in The Indian Constitution Cornerstone, of a Nation (see p. 186) in the course of an account of our Constitution making, points out that the members of our Constituent assembly believed that India had unique problems which bad not confronted other federations in history.	None
Terms such as quasifederal and statutory decentralization were not found by the learned author to be illuminating.	None
The concepts and aspirations of our Constitution makers were different from those in American or Australia.	None
Our Constitution could not certainly be said to embody Dr. K. C. Wheres notion of Federalism where The general and regional governments of a country shall b e independent each of the other within its sphere.	None
Mr. Austin thought that our system, it, it could be called federal, could be described as cooperative federalism.	None
This term was used by another author, Mr. A.H. Birch (see Federalism, Finance, and Social Legislation in Canada, Australia, and the United States p. 305), to describe a system in which . . . .	None
the practice of administrative cooperation between general and regional governments, the partial dependence of the regional governments upon payments from the general governments, and the fact that the general governments, by the use of conditional grants, frequently promote developments in matters which are constitutionally assigned to the regions.	None
23.	None
In our country national planning involves disbursements of vast amounts of money collected as taxes from citizens residing in all the States and placed at the disposal of the Central Government for the benefits of the States without even the conditional grants mentioned above.	None
Hence, the manner in which State Governments function and deal with sums placed at their disposal by the Union Government or how they carry on the general administration may also be matters of considerable concern to the Union Government.	None
Although Dr. Ambedkar thought that our Constitution is federal inasmuch as it establishes what may be called a Dual Polity, he also said, in the Constituent Assembly, that our Constitution makers bad avoided the tight mould of federalism in which the American Constitution was forged.	None
Dr. Ambedkar, one of the principal architects of our Constitution, considered our Constitution to be both unitary as well as federal according to the requirements of time and circumstances.	None
24.	None
If then our Constitution creates a Central Government which is amphibian, in the sense that it can move either on the federal or unitary plane, according to the needs of the situation and circumstances of a case, the question which we are driven back to consider is whether an assessment of the situation in which the Union Government should move either on the federal or unitary plane are matters for the Union Government itself or for this Court to consider and determine.	None
Each organ of the Republic, is expected to know the limits of its own powers.	None
The judiciary comes in generally only when any question of ultra vires action is involved, because questions relating to vires appertain to its domain.	None
25.	None
I may point out that there are various aspects of relations between the Union and the States governed by different provisions of the Constitution.	None
I may here refer to those which relate to giving of direction by the Union Government to the State Governments because article 365 provides 365.	None
Where any State has fail ed to comply with or to give effect to, any directions given in the exercise of the executive power of the union under any of the provisions of this constitution, it shall be lawful for t he President to hold that a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.	None
Articles 256 and 257 mention a wide range of subjects on which the Union Government may give executive directions to State Governments.	None
Article 73(1) (a) of the Constitution tells us that the Executive power of the Union extends to all matters on which parliament has power to make laws.	None
Article 248 of the Constitution vests exclusively in the Parliament residuary powers of making laws on any matter not enumerated in the Concurrent or State Lists.	None
Article 256 of the Constitution covers cases where the President may want to give directions in exercise of the executive power of the Union to a State Government in relation to a matter covered by an existing law made by Parliament which applies to that State.	None
But, article 257(1) imposes a wider obligation upon a St ate to exercise its powers in such a way as not to impede the exercise of executive power of the Union which, as would appear from Article 73 of the Constitution, read with article 248 may cover even a subject on which there is no existing law but on which some legislation by Parliament is possible.	None
It could, therefore, be argued that, although, the.	None
Constitution itself does not lay down specifically when the power of dissolution should be exercised by the Governor on th e advice of a Council of Ministers in the State, yet if a direction on that matter was properly given by the Union Government to a State Government, there is a duty to carry it out.	None
The time for the dissolution of a State Assembly is not covered by any specific provision of the Constitution or any law made on the subject.	None
It is possible, however, for the Union Government, in exercise of its residuary executive power to consider it a fit subject for the issue of an appropriate direction when it considers that the political situation in the country is such that a fresh election is necessary in the interest of political stability or to establish the confidence of the people in the Govt. of a State.	None
Undoubtedly, the subject is one on which appropriate and healthy conventions should develop so that the power under article 356(1) is neither exercised capriciously or arbitrarily nor fails to be exercised when a political situation really calls for it.	None
If the views of the Union Government and the State Government differ on the subject, there is no reason why the Union Government should not aid the development of what it considers to be a healthy practice or convention by appropriate advice or direction, and, even to exercise its powers under article 356(1) for this purpose when it considers the observance of such a directive to be so essential that the Constitutional machinery cannot function as it was meant to do unless it interferes.	None
This Court cannot, at any rate, interdict such use of powers under article 356(1) unless and until resort to the provision, in a particular situation, is shown to be so grossly perverse and unreasonable as to constitute patent misuse of this provision an excess of power on admitted facts.	None
On the allegations before us we cannot reach such a conclusion.	None
And, it is not for Courts to formulate, and, much less, to enforce a convention however, necessary or just and proper a convention to regulate the exercise of such an executive power may be.	None
That is a matter entirely within the Executive field, of operations, 26.It is futile to urge that article 172(1) of the Constitution, as amended, lays down an unalterable duration of six years for a legislative assembly from its first meeting because this article clearly contains the exception unless sooner dissolved.	Reasoning
As observed above, it is no where laid down either in the Constitution or any law dealing with holding of elections to a legislative assembly what circumstances will justify its dissolution sooner than the duration it would otherwise enjoy.	Reasoning
It was argued that the only authority empowered to dissolve a legislative assembly under Artic le 174 (2) (b) of the Constitution was the Governor of a State who had to act on the advice of the Council of Ministers in the State.	Reasoning
It was submitted that the Union Government could not either advise, or in the form of advice, direct the State Government to ask the Governor to dissolve the State Assembly under any circumstances.	Reasoning
Apparently, the principle of construction relied upon was a much used and easily misused principle expressio unius est exclusio alterius.	Reasoning
We do not think that such a principle could help the plaintiffs before us at all in as much as article 356 of the Constitution very clearly provides for the assumption by the President to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor.	Reasoning
Article 174(2) (b) of the Constitution expressly vests the power of dissolving the legislative assembly in the Governor even if that had to be on the advice of the Council of Ministers in the State, but the power to give such advice would automatically, be taken over by the Union Government for the purposes of dissolution of the State Assembly when the President assumes governmental powers by a proclamation under Article 356(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
A dissolution by the President after the proclamation would be as good as a dissolution by the Governor of a State whose powers are taken over.	Reasoning
27.	None
The position of the Governor as the Constitutional head of State as a unit of the Indian Union as well) as the formal channel of communication between the Union and the State Government, who is appointed under article 155 of the Constitution by the President by Warrant under his hand and seal, was also touched in the course of arguments before us.	Reasoning
On the one hand, as the Constitutional head of the State.	Reasoning
he is ordinarily bound, by reason of a constitutional convention, by the advice of his Council of Ministers conveyed to him th rough the Chief Minister barring very exceptional circumstances among which may be as pointed out by my learned brothers Bhagwati and Iyer, JJ., in Shamsher Singhs case, supra (p. 875) a situation in which an appeal to the electorate by a dissolution is called for.	Reasoning
On the other hand, as the defender of the Constitution and the law and the watchdog of the interests of the whole country and wellbeing of the people of his State in particular, the, Governor is vested with certain discretionary powers in the exercise of which he can act independently.	Reasoning
One of his independent functions is the making of the report to the Union Government on the strength of which Presidential power under Article 356(1) of the Constitution could be exercised.	Reasoning
In so far as he acts in the larger interests of the people, appointed by the President to defend the Constitution and the Law he acts as an observer on behalf of the Union and has to keep a watch on how the administrative machinery and each or gan of constitutional Government is working in the State.	Reasoning
Unless he keeps such a watch over all governmental activities and the State of public feelings about them he cannot satisfactorily discharge his function of making the report which may form the basis of the Presidential satisfaction under Article 356(1) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Indeed, the usual practice is that the President acts under Article 356(1) of the Constitution only on the Governors report.	Reasoning
But, the, use of the words or otherwise (in article 356) show that Presidential satisfaction could be based on other material as well.	Reasoning
This feature of our Constitution indicates most strikingly the extent to which inroads have been made by it on the federal principles of Government.	Reasoning
Mr. Setalvad in his Tagore Law Lectures, 1974, on UNION AND STATE RELATIONS has observed, while dealing with Governors role (at p. 164165)	None
The powers of the President under Article 356 have been frequently exercised since the commencement of the Constitution.	None
The occasions for its exercise emphasise not only the importance of the power in maintaining stable governments in the State, but also the vital role which the Governor has to play in enabling the Union Executive to exercise the powers vested in it under Article 356.	None
The Constitutional machinery in a State may fail to function in numerous ways.	None
There may be a political deadlock for example where a Ministry having resigned, the Governor finds it impossible to form an alternative government or, where for some reason, the party having a majority in the Assembly declines to form a Ministry and the Governors attempts to find a coalition Ministry able to command a majority have failed.	None
The Government of a State can also be regarded as not being carried on in accordance with the Constitution in cases where a Ministry, although properly constituted, acts contrary to the provisions of the Constitution or seeks to use its powers for purposes not authorised by the Constitution and the Governors attempts to call the Ministry to order have failed.	None
There could also be a failure of the constitutional machinery where the Ministry fails to carry out the directives issued to it validly by the Union Executive in the exercise of its powers under the Constitution.	None
The very statement of some of the situations, which may bring about the use of the machinery provided by Article 356 shows the pivotal position which the Governor occupies in respect of these situations and the grave responsibility of his duties in the matter of reporting to the President under Articles 355 and 356 of the Constitution.	None
The question was then mooted whether that was being done under article 356 of the Constitution did not amount to taking over by the President, acting on the advice of the Union Council of Ministers, of powers for dissolving the State Assemblies upon facts and circumstances which, in the judgment of the Union Council of Ministers, constituted sufficient grounds for a dissolution of the State Assembly, whereas the Constitution provides that this had to be done by the State Government on the advice of the Council of Ministers in a State.	Reasoning
Such an argument is really an argument in a circle.	Reasoning
It assumes that the taking over by the President, advised by the Union Council of Ministers, of th e functions of the Governor, advised by the State Council of Ministers, on this matter, was outside the purview of Article 356(1).	Reasoning
A situation in which, according to the view of the Union Government, the State Council of Ministers had wrongly failed to advise the State Governor to dissolve the State Legislative Assembly, so that action under Article 3 5 6 ( 1 ) has to be taken, would be exceptional in which articles governing the exercise of functions normally are suspended an d do not operate at all.	Reasoning
If article 356(1) of the Constitution or any other article contained any provision which amounted to a prohibition against assumption of powers of dissolution of State Assemblies by the President of India, it woul d be a different matter, but that, as we have repeatedly pointed out, is not the position here.	Reasoning
Indeed, such a provision, had it been there, would have completely nullified article 356(1).	Reasoning
Obviously, a proclamation under Article 356(1) to be effective must suspend the operation of article 174.	Reasoning
It is evident that one of the reasons, perhaps the main reason for bringing about this exceptional situation in the cases now before us, is the refusal of the State Chief Ministers to comply with t he advice sent to them which they equate with a direction given in exercise of the executive powers of the Union Government.	None
If constitutionally correct practises could also be pointed out and enforced by the Union Government so that provisions of o ur Constitution may operate in the manner in which they were intended to do and none of their objects is frustrated, it may be useful to glance at the convention which governs exercise of the Crowns prerogative power of dissolution of Parliament in England.	None
Dicey in his law of the Constitution 10th	None
Edn., (at p. 432) observed The prerogative, in short, of dissolution may constitutionally be so employed as to override the will of the representative body, or as it is popularly called.	None
The Peoples House of Parliament.	None
This looks at first sight like saying that in certain cases the prerogative can be so used as to set at nought the wil l of the nation.	None
But in reality it is far otherwise.	None
The discretionary power of the Crown occasionally may be, and according to constitutional precedents sometimes ought to be, used to strip an existing House of Commons of its authority.	None
But the reason why the House can in accordance with the Constitution be deprived of power and of existence is that an occasion has arisen on which there is fair reason to suppose that the opinion of the House is not the opinion of the electors.	None
A dissolution is in its essence an appeal from the legal to t he political sovereign.	None
A dissolution is allowable, or necessary, whenever the wishes of the legislature are, or may fairly be presumed to be different from the wishes of the nation.	None
28.	None
It was pointed out by Diecy that the conventional use of the Prerogative of the Crown to dissolve Parliament in an exceptional situation, even when the Government in power had the support of a majority behind it, was established.	None
He gave two instances one of a dissolution of Parliament in 1784 and another in 1834.resumably, two instances, with a gap of fifty years between them, were considered enough by Dicey to establish a convention governing exceptional situations.	None
A perusal of other authorities, such as Anson on The Law Custom of the Constitution or Erskine Mays Parliamentary Practice, leads us to no different result.	None
Diceys statement reveals firstly, there is, according to British convention, a right of a Government, which no longer commands the support of a majority in the House of Commons, to demand a dissolution or to force an appeal to the electorate or the Political sovereign and, secondly, there is an overriding discretion in the Crown even to disregard the advice of the Prime Minister, the spokesman of the whole body of Ministers, with a majority in the Lower House behind him, and to force a dissolution in an exceptional situation.	None
29.	None
A recent study of The Theory and Practice of Dissolution of Parliament, with particular reference to the experiences of United Kingdom and Greece, by Dr. B. S. Markesinis, in the Cambridge International and Comparative Law series (1972), contains a detailed discussion of views of various authors and accounts of political situations which had arisen in more recent times with regard to dissolutions.	None
This study brings out the grave responsibility of the Crown when assessing what Prof. Laski called the Critical circumstances in which the Crown may exercise its discretion to force a general election which may result in a direct confrontation between the monarch and his people if the King acts contrary to the adv ice of the Government supported by a majority in the House of Commons.	None
After an illuminating discussion of the views of Constitutional lawyers and experts, such as Keith, Jennings, Laski, Hubert, and Morgan, Dr. Markesinis refers to an impressive letter of the British Prime Minister Mr. Asquith to the King written on 31st July, 1914.	None
That letter contained the following passageSovereign undoubtedly has the power of changing his advisers but it is relevant to point out that there has been during the last 130 years, one occasion only on which the King has dismissed the Ministry which still possessed the confidence of the House of Commons, (be continues)	None
Nothing can be more important, in the best interest of the Crown and the Country, than that a practice, so long established and so well justified by experience, should remain unimpaired.	None
it frees the occupant of the throne from all personal responsibility for the acts of the executive and the legislature.	None
The King expressed his gratitude to the Prime Minister for advising him against being dragged into arena of party politics whether the King wished it or not and acted on the Prime Ministers advice.	None
30.	None
In so far as growth of healthy conventions on such a subject are essential for the satisfactory operations of the machinery of democratic Government, this is a matter on which there could and should be a broad agreement or consensus between all parties interested in a satisfactory working of the democratic system in this country.	None
It i s not a matter on which the Court can give its opinion as to what the proper precedent or view to follow or course of action to pursue in a particular situation is.	None
All that this Court can do is to consider whether an action proposed on such a matter on certain grounds, would fall under article 356(1) of the Constitution if the Union Government and the State Governments differ on the question whether, in a particular situation, the dissolution of the State Assembly should take place or not.	None
T he most that one could say is that a dissolution against the wishes of the majority in a State Assembly is a grave and serious matter.	None
Perhaps it could be observed by us that it should be resorted to under Article 356(1) of the Constitution only when a critical situation has arisen.	None
As the study of Dr. Aarkesinis shows it is not always necessary that, under a multiple party system, the mere defeat of a State Government in a State Assembly must necessarily create a situation in which a dissolution of the State Assembly is obligatory.	None
If an alternate Government is capable of being formed which commands the support of a majority in the State Assembly, it may not be ordered even when a Government in power is defeated in the State Assembly.	None
The position may, however, be very different when a State Government has a majority in the State Assembly behind it but the question is whether the State Assembly and the State Government for the time being have been so totally and emphatically rejected by he people that a critical situation has arisen or is bound to arise unless the political sovereign is given an opportunity of giving a fresh verdict.	None
A decision on such a question undoubtedly lies in the Executive realm.	None
It may be that, if the need to an appeal to the electorate is put forward only as a thin disguise for punishing a State Government by repeated dissolutions within short periods, the use of article 356(1) for such a purpose may appear to b e plainly outrageous and extraneous.	None
In such hypothetical and very exceptional circumstances the action of the Union Government may appear to be mala fide and in excess of the power under article 356(1) of the Constitution.	None
But, nothing, like that is alleged in any of the plaints or petitions.	None
On the other band, it seems that the advice given to the Chief Ministers of different States is based on a matter of a uniform general policy resulting from an estimate of what, in the opinion of the Union Government, is a critical juncture in the history of the whole nation so that the people in the States must be given an opportunity of showing whether the party in power in the States should or should not pursue policies which m ay be at variance with those of the Union Government.	None
No fact is alleged showing any personal animus of any member of the Union Government against a State Government or a State Assembly.	None
As the question of the proper time for a dissolution of the State Assembly is riot a matter extraneous to article 356(1) of the Constitution, the most , .hat can be said is that questions raised do not go beyond sufficiency of grounds for resorting to article 356(1) of the Constitution.	None
31.	None
In our country, the power of dissolving the State Legislature has been exercised by the Union Government or by the Governor carrying out the directions of the Union Government after a proclamation under article 356(1) of the Constitution on more than two dozen occasions since the commencement of the Constitution.	None
On several of these occasions, Presidential Proclamations under article 356(1) were assailed on various grounds before High Courts.	None
On each occasion the attack failed.	None
The case s cited before us were K. K. Aboo v. Union of India Ors.(A.I.R. 1965	None
Ker. 229 .)	None
Rao Birinder Singh v. The Union of India Ors.	None
(A.I.R. 1968 Punj.	None
441.), In Re A. Sreeamulu(A.I.R. 1974 AP 106.)	None
and Bijayananda Patnaik Ors.	None
v. President of India Ors.(A.I.R. 1974	None
Orissa 52.).In	None
no case brought to our notice was the power of the President to dissolve a State Assembly, either by means of a Proclamation under article 356(1) itself or after it, challenged on the ground that it falls outside article 356(1).	None
It was urged before us that the sole purpose of the intended Proclamations being procurement of dissolutions of the State Legislatures with the object of gaining political victories was both extraneous and mala fide.	None
It seems to us that the assertions that the exercise of power was mala fide in fact and in law were made on the assumption that the whole object of the exercise of the power is only to gain a political victory.	None
32.	None
As we have tried to indicate above, attempts to secure political victories, by appeals to the electorate, are parts of the recognised rules of a democratic system of government permitting contests between rival parties so as to achieve certain other objectives.	Reasoning
If such a contest with the desire for achieving a political victory in order to enforce certain programmes, believed by the members of a party to be beneficial for the people in a State, as a method of achieving the objects set out in the Preamble, are not only legal and permissible under the Constitution, but, obviously, constitute the only possible legitimate and legal means of attaining the power to enforce policies believed to be correct by various parties, according to their own lights, it could not possibly be asserted that procuring the dissolution of a State Legislative Assembly, with the object of gaining a political victory, is, in itself, an extraneous object which could not fall at ail under article 356 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
In order to apply the doctrine that something cannot be done indirectly because it could not be done directly, it must first be established either that the object or the means are legally prohibited.	Reasoning
In the cases before us, it does not appear to us that the object of gaining a political victory , set out in the plaints is, by itself, legally prohibited.	Reasoning
Nor is there anything in law to prohibit a recourse to the means adopted.	Reasoning
There is no assertion in the plaints or the petitions that anything is being done or attempted by legally prohibited means for a legally prohibited purpose.	Reasoning
All that is suggested is that it is morally represensible to try to obtain an electoral victory in the States by dissolving the Assemblies so as to get rid of the Congress Governments in power there.	Reasoning
On such a question of moral worth of either the ends or the means adopted, this Court cannot possibly sit in judgment.	Reasoning
It is enough for our purposes that the plaints and the petitions do not disclose anything extraneous to the purpose of Article 356 (1) of the Constitution in the eyes of law.	Reasoning
The sufficiency or adequacy of the grounds for action under article 356(1) of the Constitution is quite another matter.	Reasoning
We do not think that we can go into that at all here.	Reasoning
We find that in the plaint of the State of Himachal Pradesh the term prerogative has been used for the power of the State Governor to dissolve a Legislative Assembly, under Article 174, as though there was a violation of that prerogative by some paramount prerogative asserted by the Union Government.	Reasoning
I do not think that the term prerogative can be correctly used, in its technical sense, with reference to any power exercised under our Constitution.	Reasoning
In English law the term prerogative is used for the residue of discretionary power left at any moment in the hands of the Crown whether such power be in fact exercised by the King himself or by his Ministers.	None
(See Keir Lawsons cases in Constitution Law, 5th Edn. p. 151).	None
Dicey said Every act which the executive Government can lawfully do without the authority of the Act of Parliament is done in virtue of ibis prerogative.	None
(Dicey Law of the Constitution, 10th Edn., p. 425).	None
It is, however, an established principle of British Constitutional law that no claim to prerogative could survive the passing of a statute covering that very subject because the socalled prerogative merges in the statute (Attorney General v. Dr. Keysers Royal Hotel(1920 A.C. 508.).	None
It cannot conflict with statute.	None
Under our Constitution there is no prerogative in that technical sense.	None
All constitutional powers are regulated by our written Constitution.	Reasoning
There may be room for the development of conventions on a matter not fully covered as to the mode of exercise of a discretion or power.	Reasoning
But, that is a matter distinct from prerogative.	Reasoning
Under our Constitution, the residue of that power, which is neither legislative nor judicial, is covered by the caption Executive.	Reasoning
Thus, the equivalent of most prerogative powers would fall, under our law, under the heading of executive powers.	Reasoning
Inasmuch as the term prerogative is sometimes used in a wider nontechnical sense, as something which gives preeminence or an overriding attribute to a power, it may be said that such a power is lodged in the Union Government under Article 356(1) of the Constitution on all matters covered by that provision.	Reasoning
The only question in such cases is whether the matter in relation to which the Union Government is proceeding or has acted is or is not within the purview of Article 356(t) of The Constitution.	Reasoning
If it lies within that sphere, the Courts cannot interfere on the ground, at any rate, , that it is extraneous.	Reasoning
Whenever the exercise of power to issue a proclamation under Article 356(1) of the Constitution has been challenged in a High Court it has been held that sufficiency of grounds on which the order, is based could not be questioned.	Reasoning
Some of the dicta found there seem to lay down that the exercise of power to issue proclamations is not justiciable at all under any circumstances.	Reasoning
This Court has not gone so far us that.	Reasoning
If it is actually stated on behalf of the Union Government that an action was taken on a particular ground which really falls completely outside the purview of Article 356(1), the proclamation will be vitiated, not because the satisfaction was challenged or called in question on any ground but because it was admitted to be on matters outside Article 356(1).	Reasoning
33.	None
A challenge to the exercise of power to issue a proclamation under, Article 352 of the Constitution would be even more difficult to entertain than to one under Article 356(1) as all these considerations would then arise which Courts take into account when the Executive , which alone can have all the necessary information and means to judge such an issue, tells Courts that the nation is faced with a grave national Emergency during which its very existence or stability may be at stake.	None
That was the principle which governed the decision of the House of Lords in Liversidge v. Anderson(1942 AC 206.).	None
The principle is summed up in the salutary maxim Salus Populi Supreme Lex.	None
And, it was that principle which this Court, deprived of the power to examine or question any materials on which such declarations may be based, acted in Additional District Magistrate, Jabalpur v. Shivakant, Shukla(1976 Suppl.	None
S.C.R. 172.).	Reasoning
We need not go so far as that when we have before us only a proclamation under Article 356(1).A reference was made by both sides to Bhagat Singh and Ors.	None
v. The KingEmperor, (50 I.A. 169, ), where the Privy Council interpreted the provisions of section 72 of the Government of India Act, which authorised the GovernorGeneral in cases of Emergency to promulgate ordinances for the peace and good Government of British India or any put thereof which was not to last beyond six months.	None
In that case, an, attempt was made to question the existence of a State of Emergency., Viscount Dunedin, observed (at p. 172)	None
A state of emergency is something that does not permit of any exact definition It cannotes a state of matters calling for drastic action, which is to be judged as such by some one.	None
It is more than obvious that someone must be the GovernorGeneral, and he alone.	Arguments of Respondent
Any other view would render utterly inapt the whole provision.	None
Emergency demands immediate action, and that action is prescribed to be taken by the Governor General.	Arguments of Respondent
34.	None
The power of the GovernorGeneral was described as an absolute power in Bhagat Singhs case (supra), but learned counsel for the plaintiffs relied on the observation there that it is only to be used in extreme cases of necessity where the good Government of India demands it.	Reasoning
We do not think that much assistance can be derived from a provision of the Government of India Act, 1935, which was really the precurser of Article 123 of our Constitution and meant for use in a different context in an Imperialistic era.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, it shows t hat.	Reasoning
even without a provision ousting the jurisdiction of the Courts, the subjective satisfaction of the GovernorGeneral was held.	Reasoning
to be unquestionable.	None
Considerations which have arisen before us while considering the use and the ambit of article 356(1) of our Constitution were not before the Privy Council at all in that case.	None
King Emperor v. Benorilal Sarnia Ors.(72 I.A. 57.), also relating to the, ordinance making powers of the GovernorGeneral under section 72 of the Government of India Act, 1 935, was cited.	None
In that case, Bhagat Singhs case (supra) was commented upon.	None
It was observed (at p. 62)	None
The definition of emergency in Bhagat Singhs case does not purport to be exhaustive, but it does say that it connotes a state of matters calling for drastic action, and that it demands immediate action.	None
Emergency does not mean emergency at large.	None
Under s. 72 of the Government of India A ct the emergency with which the GovernorGeneral is dealing should be an existing emergency and should call for the particular kind of immediate action which be proposes to take.	None
If the particular kind of emergency which a the GovernorGenerals opinion justifies a particular kind of action. is in itself wholly in prospect and not present, then although there may be present an emergency of some other kind, that would not justify, under S. 72, the ordinance being made.	None
The existence of the emergency requiring immediate action is, under that section, the basis to a condition precedent which must be fulfilled by himself alone.	None
This shows that the Court could inquire into the existence of a condition precedent to the use of emergency powers.	None
A reference was also made to the following passage from Padfield Ors.	None
v. Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries Food and Ors.(1968 A.C. 997 p. 1006.)	None
at p. 1006)	None
It is said that the decision of the Minister is administrative and not judicial.	None
But that does no t mean that he can do as, he likes, regardless of right or wrong.	None
Nor does it mean that the courts are powerless to correct him.	None
Good administration requires that complaints should be investigated and that grievances should be remedied.	None
When Parliament has set up machinery for that very purpose, it is not for the Minister to brush it on one side.	None
He should not refuse to have a complaint investigated without good reason.	None
Cases before us are not those of a grave national emergency of the kind. covered by article 352 of the Constitution.	None
Nevertheless, 46 analogous principles seem to govern the exercise of extraordinary powers conferred by Article 356(1) on the highest executive authorities of the Indian Union who are expected to act with the utmost sense of responsibility.	None
Such a consideration, combined with the existence of Parliamentary control on the exercise of such powers by ministers responsible directly to Parliament, was taken into account, in Liversidges case (supra), to abstain from judicial interference.	None
35.	None
Courts have consistently held issues raising questions of mere sufficiency of grounds of executive action, such as the one under Article 356(1) no doubt is to be nonjusticiable.	None
The amended article 356(5) of the Constitution indicates that t he Constitution makers did not wan such an issue raising a mere question of sufficiency of grounds to be justiciable.	None
To the same effect are the provisions contained in Article 352(5), 360(5).	None
Similarly, Articles 123(4), 213(4), 23 9B(4) bar the jurisdiction of Courts to examine matters which lie within the executive discretion.	None
Such discretion is governed by a large element of policy which is not amenable to the jurisdiction of courts except in cases of patent or indubitable mala fides or excess of power.	None
Its exercise rests on materials which are not examinable by Courts.	None
Indeed, it is difficult to imagine how the grounds of action under article 356(1) could be examined when article 74(2) lays down that the question whether any, and if so, what advice was tendered by the Ministers to the President, shall not be inquired into in any Court.	None
36.	None
It is true that, as indicated above, the advice tendered by the Ministers to the President cannot be inquired into.	Reasoning
It is also clear beyond doubt that the amended article 74(1) of the Constitution, whose validity has not been challenged before us by any party, makes it obligatory on the President to act in accordance with the advice tendered by the Union Council of Ministers, to him through the Prime Minister.	Reasoning
Nevertheless, if all the grounds of action taken under article 356(1) of the Constitution are disclosed to the public by the Union Government and its own disclosure of ground s reveals that a constitutionally or legally prohibited or extraneous or collateral purpose is sought to be achieved by a proclamation under article 356 of the Constitution, this Court will not shirk its duty to act in the manner in which the law may then oblige it to act.	Reasoning
But, when we find that allegations made in the plaints and in the petitions before us relate, in substance, only to the sufficiency of the grounds of action under article 356(1) of the Constitution, and go no further, we cannot proceed further with the consideration of the plaints under Article 131 or the petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
I would not like to leave certain other matters also argued before us untouched in this fairly comprehensive expression of our views.	Reasoning
It was urged that the power of dissolution of a State Legislative Assembly, even if it could be assumed by the President under Article 356(1) of the Constitution, after a failure of the State Government to carry out a direction of the Union Government on the subject, could no be exercised unless and until the matter bad been placed before both the Houses of Parliament so that it bad been subjected to such control as either of the two Houses of Parliament may chose to exercise over it.	Reasoning
Proclamations under article 356(1) are bound to be placed under article 356(3) of the Constitution before each house of Parliament.	Reasoning
Unfortunately, however, for this line of argument, there is not only nothing in article 356 to make a consideration by either House of Parliament a condition precedent to the exercise of the power of dissolution of a State Legislative Assembly by the President under article 356(1), but, on the other hand, article 356(3).	Reasoning
makes it clear that the only effect of even a failure or refusal by either House of Parliament to approve the proclamation is that it ceases to operate after two months.	Reasoning
Obviously, this means that it operates for at least two months.	Reasoning
Hence, whatever is done in these two months cannot be held to be illegal for hat reason alone.	Reasoning
The interpretation placed before us for acceptance is directly opposed to the language of the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It has, therefore, to be rejected by us outright as quite unreasonable and unacceptable.	Reasoning
It is true that the exercise of power under article 356 of the Constitution is subject to Parliamentary control.	Reasoning
This means that it is subject to such control as the two Houses, out of which the Council of States really represents the State Assemblies, may be able to exercise during the period for which the proclamation lasts.	Reasoning
But, the existence of such Parliamentary control, as a safeguard, cannot possibly nullify the legality of what is done in the period during which the Proclamation lasts.	Reasoning
It was also contended by Mr. R. K. Garg that, unless the Parliament acts legislatively for the State Legislature, the incurring of any expenditure, by the Governor or anybody else after a Presidential Proclamation under article 356, would not be permissible in view of Article 357(1) (c) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
After making such an assumption, we were asked to import an implied prohibition against a dissolution of a State Legislative Assembly unless and until both Houses of Parliament bad discussed and approved of it.	Reasoning
37.	None
Article 357 is beaded Exercise of legislative powers under Proclamation issued under Article 356.	None
It lays down 357( 1).	None
Whereby a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article 356, it has been declared that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament, it shall be competent (a) for Parliament to confer on the President the power of the Legislature of the State to make laws, and to authorise the President to delegate, subject to such conditions as he may think fit to impose, the power so conferred to any other authority to be specified by him in that behalf (b) for Parliament, or for the President or other authority in whom such power to make laws is vested under subclause (a), to make laws conferring powers and imposing duties, or authorising the conferring of powers and the imposition of duties, upon the Union or officers and authorities thereof (c)for the President to authorise when the House of the People is not in session expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State pending the sanction of such expenditure by Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2)Any law made in exercise of the power of the Legislature of the Slate by Parliament or the President or other authority referred to in subclause (a) of clause (1) which Parliament or the President or such other authority would not but for the issued of a Proclamation under article 356, have been competent to make shall, to the extent of The incompetency, cease to have effect on the expiration of a period of one year after the Proclamation has ceased to operate except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the expiration of the said period, unless the provisions which shall so cease to have effect are sooner repealed or reenacted with or without modification by Act of the appropriate Legislature.	None
I think that article 357 has very little to do with the incurring of any expenditure by the President after powers of Governments of States have been assumed by the President under Article 356(1) (a) of the Constitution.	None
It really governs the position when the legislative , powers of a State legislature have been transferred to Parliament by a Presidential Proclamation under Article 356(1) of the Constitution.	None
, By means of such a Proclamation the President may assume to himself under Article 356(1) (a) all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers of any authority or body in the State other than the State Legislature.	None
The Proclamation may or may not contain also a declaration contemplated by Article 356(1) (b) of the Constitution enabling the exercise of the powers of the State Legislature by or under the authority of Parliament.	None
It is only when the Proclamation contains a declaration under Article 356(1) (b) also that the question of incurring expenditure under the authority of the President from the Consolidated Fund of the State pending sanction of such expenditure by Parliament can arise.	None
The power of the President to authorise expenditure from the Consolidated Found awaiting a sanction by Parliament is provided for only for those cases where the State Legislatures power has been transferred by the Presidential proclamation to Parliament under Article 356(1) (b) of the Constitution and the Parliament is not in session.	None
That is a contingency which could only arise when there is a prolonged presidential rule requiring the vesting of the functions of the State legislature in Parliament so that the President may be able to authorise expense in anticipation of Parliamentary sanction when the House of the People is not i n session.	None
When the Presidential proclamation does not contain any declaration under Art.	None
356(1) (b) of the Constitution.	Facts
at all because the Presidential rule is of short duration and for a specific purpose, there is nothing which will disable the President from incurring expenditure under some law already made by the Legislature of the State.	None
Incurring of expenditure in accordance with that law will be covered by the provisions of Art.	None
356(1) (a) of the Constitution.	Facts
I n other words, although Art 356(1) (a) of the Constitution imposes a bar against the assumption, by the President of the, legislative powers of the State Legislature, which could only be transferred to Parliament, yet, its provisions, read with Art. 357 of the Constitution, , do not operate as an absolute bar on any expenditure which could be legally incurred by the President or under the Presidential authority in accordance with preexisting State laws authorising expenditure b y other authorities or bodies whose powers can be taken over by the President under Art.	None
356(1) (a).	None
In any case, the provisions of Art. 357 could not possibly be, used as a bar against a dissolution of the State Assembly by a Presidential Proclamation.	None
Nor can they be used to import and read, as a condition precedent to the Presidential proclamation under Art.	None
356(1) (a) involving, as it usually does, the dissolution of the State Assembly, an approval of both or either of the two, Houses of Parliament.	None
To spell out some conditions precedent or bars from the provisions of Art 357 of the Constitution against the exercise of powers of the President to, issue Proclamations under Art.	None
356(1) of the Constitution would be utterly unsound.	None
Constitutional provisions meant for different purposes cannot be mingled and confused with each other when each is meant to regulate different sets of , powers meant to be exercised by different authorities or bodies under different circumstances.	None
38.	None
Objections were also put forward to the maintainability of the suits before us under Article 131 of the Constitution on the ground that this provision covers only disputes between the Government of India and one or more States or between two or more States.	None
This provision which may be set out in full here reads as follows 131.	None
Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Supreme Court shall, to the exclusion of any other court, have original jurisdiction in any dispute (a)between the Government of India and one or more States or (b)between the Government of India and any State or States o n one side and one or more other States on the other or (c) between two or more States if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends Provided that the said jurisdiction shall not extend to a dispute arising out of any treaty, agreement, convenant, engagement sanad or other similar instrument which, having been entered into or executed before the commencement of this Constitution, continues in operation after such commencement, or which provides that the said jurisdiction shall not extend to such, a dispute.	Arguments of Respondent
39.	None
It was argued that there is a distinction between a State and a State Government.	None
It was urged that the jurisdiction under Article 131 is a peculiar one meant for special kinds of disputes in which States, as such, ought to be interested and not merely Governments of States which may come and go.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that, if the Union Government sought to deprive a State of any constitutional right it would be a different matter which could be taken up by a State Government on behalf of the State or its people.	Arguments of Petitioner
But, it was submitted, there is no right given to any State by the Constitution that its Government or Legislative Assembly would continue undissolved for any period.	None
The dispute before us relates to the time at which and the authority by which the power of dissolution could be exercised in the situation which confronted the people in the nine States concerned.	None
40.	None
Reference was made to passages from State of Bihar v. Union of India Anr.(1970 2 S.C.R. 522.) and the United Provinces v. The GovernorGeneral in Council.	Reasoning
(1939 F.C.R. 124.)	Reasoning
It seems to me that the decision of this Court in State of Bihar and Union of India and Anr.	Reasoning
(supra) was largely based upon the assumption t hat Article 131 was meant to cover the same area as s. 204 of the Government of India Act.	Reasoning
Moreover, the learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing on behalf of the Union, did not press the argument that article 131 is confined to declaratory decrees in view of the fact that (as Mr. Seervai pointed out in the Constitutional Law of India, 2nd Edn.	Reasoning
Vol. 11 at p. 1385) article 142 (1) of the Constitution provides for enforcement of decrees of this Court.	Reasoning
The view expressed in the Bihar case (supra) seemed to have been affected considerably by the fact that there was no provision in the Government of India Act of 1935 for the enforcement of the decrees of the Federal Court, but Article 142(1) seems to have be en overlooked in that case.	Reasoning
Article 300 of the Constitution provides, inter alia, that the Government of a State may sue or be sued by the name of the State.	Reasoning
From this, Mr. Niren De wanted us to infer that there was no distinction between a State and the State Government as juristic entities.	Reasoning
Even if there be some grounds for making a distinction between a States interests and rights and those of its Government or its members, I do not think that we need take a too restrictive or a hypertechnical view of the States rights to sue for any rights, actual or fancied, which the State Government chooses to take up on behalf of the State concerned in a suit under Article 131.	Reasoning
Moreover as we have decided not to grant any reliefs after having heard detailed arguments and fully considered the merits of contentions advanced by both sides, I do not think that we need determine, on this occasion, the precise scope of a suit under Article 131.	Reasoning
I prefer to base my judgment on other grounds.	Reasoning
41.	None
Having considered the cases set out in the plaints and the petition before us, from every conceivable angle, I am unable to find a cause of action for the grant of any injunction or a writ or order in the nature of a Mandamus against any of the Defendants Opposite parties.	None
42.	None
In my opinion perhaps the technically more correct order, in the situation before us would have been, on the findings reached by me, one rejecting the plaint s under Order XXIII, Rule 6 of the Rules of this Court, and rejecting the Writ Petitions in limine.	Decision
After all, we had not proceeded beyond the stage of hearing certain preliminary objections put forward by Mr. Soli Sorabji, Additional Solicitor General to the maintainability of the suits and petitions before us.	Decision
Although, we heard very full arguments on these preliminary objections, we did not even frame any issues which is done, under the provisions of Part III of the Rules of this Court, applicable to the exercise of the Original Jurisdiction of this Court, before we generally formally dismiss a suit.	Decision
However, as the form in which we have already passed our orders, dismissing the suit and petitions, which was approved by u s on 29th April, 1977, has substantially the same effect as the rejection of plaints for failure to disclose a triable cause of action, I concur in the orders already recorded.	Decision
The parties will bear their own costs.	Decision
CHANDRACHUD, J.The Lok Sabha in which the Congress (R) had an overwhelming majority was dissolved on January 18, 1977 though under the Constitution (42nd Amendment) Act, it had another year to run out its extended term.	Facts
Fresh elections were held to the Lok Sabha in March 1977 in which the ruling party lost its majority and went out of power which it had exercised since Independence.	Facts
On March 24, 1977 the Janata party which secured the verdict of the electorate formed the new government at the Centre.	Facts
This is an unprecedented event since, for the first time in the history of this country, the ruling party at the Centre is not in power in any of the federating States.	Facts
On the date that the Janata party took office, the Congress (R) was in power in various States including Bihar.	Facts
Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Punjab.	Facts
Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.	Facts
43.	None
On April 18, 1977 Shri Charan Singh, Union Home Minister, addressed a letter to the Chief Ministers of these States earnestly commending for their consideration that they may advise the Governors of their respective States to dissolve the State Assembly in exercise of the power under Article 174(2)(b) and seek a fresh mandate from the electorate.	Facts
This alone, according to the Home Ministers letter, would be consistent with constitutional precedents and democratic practices.	None
44	None
In an interview on April 22nd in the Spotlight programme of All India Radio, Shri Shanti Bhushan, Minister for Law, Justice, and Company Affairs said that a clear case had been made out for the dissolution of the Assemblies in the nine Congressruled States and holding of fresh elections, since a serious doubt had been cast on their enjoying the peoples confidence, their party having been rejected in the recent Lok Sabha elections.	Facts
A report of this interview appeared in various newspapers including the Statesman of the 23rd.	Facts
The correctness of the report is not disputed.	Facts
On the 25th/26th April, six out of nine States filed suits in.	Facts
this Court under Art.	Facts
131 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
On the 25th, three. members of the Punjab Legislative Assembly filed Writ Petitions in this Court under Art. 32.	Facts
By a unanimous order dated April 29, we dismissed the suits and writ petitions as also motions for interim relief.	Facts
Reasons for the order remained to be given.	Facts
45.	None
With respect, I agree with the conclusion of my Lord the Chief Justice but considering that the matter is of a singular nature, I would like to express my view on some of the issues debated before, us.	None
46.	None
In substance, the suits and writ petitions have been filed to obtain a declaration that the directive contained in the Home Ministers letter to the Chief Ministers is unconstitutional, that the, State Governments are not legally or, constitutionally obliged to comply with it, that the refusal of the Chief Ministers to give effect to the directive cannot be made a, basis for the issuance of a proclamation under art.	Issue
3 56 and that the said article cannot be invoked for the sole purpose of.	Issue
dissolving the State Assemblies and holding fresh elections.	Issue
The Writ Petitioners complain of the deprivation of their right of propertysince, if the Legislative Assemblies are dissolved, they will be denied the right to receive salary as members of these Assemblies.	Issue
An injunction is sought by the plaintiffs and the petitioners to restrain the Union of India, amongst others, from giving effect to the Home Ministers directive.	Issue
47.	None
The learned Additional SolicitorGeneral has raised a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the suits which may first be disposed of.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 131(a) of the Constitution confers on the Supreme Court, subject to the other provisions of the Constitution, exclusive original jurisdiction in any dispute between the Government of India and one or more States, if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	Arguments of Respondent
It is urged by the Additional Solicitor General that the dispute involved in the suits filed by the State, Governments is outside the scope of art.	Arguments of Respondent
131 since the dispute is not between the Government of India and State as such, but the dispute is between the Government of India on the one hand and each of the nine State Governments on the other.	Arguments of Respondent
The dispute relates to the question whether the State Assemblies should be dissolved, and that, according to the counsel, does not involve any question, on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	Arguments of Respondent
Whether the.	Arguments of Respondent
State Assemblies should be dissolved or not is a matter of political expediency and though the Government for the time being in power in a State may be interested in the continuance of the Legislative Assembly for the full term, the State has no legal right to ensure such continuance.	Arguments of Respondent
Indeed, it is urged, the State, apart from the State Government, is not even interested in the question whether a particular Legislative Assembly should or should not be dissolved because the State as a constitutional entity is never interested in the complexion of the Government.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument, in other words, is that Legislative Assemblies may come and go but the State lives for ever and therefore the dispute is outside the purview of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
131.The preliminary objection is based on an unpragmatic view of the functioning of theConstitution and has therefore to be rejected.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 367 of the Constitution applies the General Clauses Act, 1897 for the interpretation of the Constitution but nothing contained in.	None
section 3(58) of that Act, which defines Stat e or in section 3(60) which, defines State Government helps determine the question whether suits of the present nature are, foreign to the scope of art.	None
131.	Reasoning
The workaday definitions of State and State Government contained in the General Clauses Act neither touch upon the problem of alleged dichotomy between a State and its government nor do they, even if applied literally, throw any useful light on.	None
the question whether a dispute regarding the dissolution of a State Assembly can legitimately be propounded or defended by the State as a perpetual political entity.	None
Truly, the definitions say no, more than this State means a State specified in the 1st Schedule of the Constitution and State Government means T he Governor.	None
All of the six States who have filed the suits in this Court are included in the 1st Schedule.	None
And though there is a point that turns on the nonuse of the expression State Government in art.	None
131, a point which I will consider presently, the fact remains that there is no occasion for applying the dictionary of the, General Clauses Act, section 3(60), to the interpretation of art.	None
131.	Reasoning
48.	None
The absence of the expression State Government and the use in its place of the expression State in art.	None
131, is said to furnish intrinsic evidence that for a suit to fall under that Article, the dispute must arise between the Government of India and a State, not between the Government of India and the Government of a State.	Arguments of Respondent
The intrinsic evidence, it is argued, assumes greater credibility in the context that the article does employ the expression Government of India when what was meant was the government, as contradistinguisbed from the State.	None
The presence of the particular expressions in art.	None
131 does not, in my opinion, support the inference, suggested on behalf of the Union of India.	None
The use of the phrase Government of India in art.	None
131	Reasoning
(a) and (b) does not mean that one party to the dispute has to , be the Government of the day at the Centre.	None
Government of India means Union of India because if there be merit in the logic that art.	None
131 does not comprehend disputes in which the Government of a. State as contrasted with t he State itself is interested, it must follow that correspondingly, the Government of India too cannot mean the Government for the time being in power at the centre.	None
The true construction of art.	None
131(a), true in substance and true pragmatically, is that dispute must arise between the Union of India and a State.	None
This may sound paradoxical because if the preliminary objection is unsustainable, it would be easier to.	None
say that the expression Government of India means Government in off ice and the expression State means the State as a polity and not the Government in Office.	None
But convenient interpretations are apt to blur the significance of issues involved for interpretations.	None
Therefore, the effort has to be to accept what the words truly mean and to, work out the Constitutional scheme as it may reasonably be assumed to have been conceived.	None
49.	None
The dispute between the Union of India and a State cannot but be a dispute which arises out of the differences between the Government in office at the Centre and the Government in office in the State.	None
In office means in power but the use of the latter expression may prudently be avoided with the realization of what goes with power.	None
But there is a further prerequisite which narrows down the ambit of the class of disputes which fall within Art.	None
131.	Reasoning
That requirement is that the dispute must involve a question, whether of law or fact, on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	None
It is this qualification which affords the true guide for determining whether a particular dispute is comprehended within art.	None
131.	Reasoning
Mere wrangles between governments have no place in the scheme of that article.	None
They have to be resolved elsewhere and by means less solemn and sacrosanct than a court proceeding.	None
The purpose of art.	None
131 is to afford a forum for the resolution of disputes which depend for their decision on the existence or extent of a legal right.	None
It is only when a legal, not a mere political, issue arises touching upon the existence or extent of a legal right that art.	None
131 is attracted.	None
50.	None
It seems to me impossible to hold that the suits filed by the six States do not raise a dispute involving a question depending upon the existence or extent of a legal right.	None
The plaintiffs, by their suits, directly and specifically question the constitutional right and authority of the Union Government to issue a directive to the State Governments commending that the Chief Ministers should tender a certain advice to their Governors.	Reasoning
The plaintiffs also question the constitutional right of the Union Government to dissolve the State Assemblies on the grounds mentioned in the Home Ministers letter to the Chief Ministers.	Reasoning
Thus a legal, not a political, issue arising out of the existence and extent of a legal right squarely arises and the suits cannot be thrown out as falling outside the purview of art.	Reasoning
131.The error of the preliminary objection lies i n the assumption that it is necessary for attracting art.	Reasoning
131 that the plaintiff must assert a legal right in itself.	Reasoning
That article contains no such restriction and it is sufficient in order that its provisions may apply that the plaintiff questions the legal or constitutional right asserted by the defendant, be it the Government of India or any other State.	Reasoning
Such a challenge brings the suit within the terms of art.	Reasoning
131 for, the question for the decision of the Court is not whether this o r that particular legislative Assembly is entitled to continue in office but whether the Government of India, which asserts the constitutional right to dissolve the Assembly on the grounds alleged, possesses any such right.	Reasoning
51.	None
I find it difficult	None
t	Reasoning
o accept that the State as a polity is not entitled to raise a dispute of this nature.	Reasoning
In a federation, whether classical or quasiclassical, the States are vitally interested in the definition of the powers of the Federal Government on one hand and their own on the other.	Reasoning
A dispute bearing upon the delineation of those powers is precisely the one in which the federating States, no less than the Federal Government itself, are interested.	Reasoning
The States, therefore, have the locus and the interest to contest and seek an adjudication of the claim set up by the Union Government.	Reasoning
The bond of constitutional obligation between the Government of India and the States sustains that locus.	None
52.	None
The expression legal right which occurs in art.	None
131 has to be understood in its proper perspective.	None
In a strict sense, legal rights are correlative of legal duties and are defined as interests which the law protects by imposing corresponding duties on others.	None
But in a generic sense, the word right is used to mean an immunity from the legal power of another immunity is exemption from the power of another in the same way as liberty is exemption from the right of another.	None
Immunity, in shirt, is nosubjection.	None
(Salamonds jurisprudence 11th Ed.	None
PP.	None
2767.)	None
R.W. M. Dias says in his Jurisprudence (1976 Ed. pp.334) that the word right has undergone successive shifts in meaning and connotes four different ideas concerning the activity, or potential activity, of one person with reference to another.	None
One of these four jural relationships, according to the learned author, is the you cannot relationship, which is the same thing as the right of immunity which denotes freedom from the power of another (p. 58).	None
Patons book on Jurisprudence (3rd Ed.	None
p. 256) contains a similar exposition of legal rights.	None
The legal right of the States consists in their immunity, in the sense of freedom from the power of the Union Government.	None
They are entitled, under art.	None
131, to assert that right either by contending in the absolute that the Centre has no power to dissolve the Legislative Assemblies or with the qualification that such a power cannot be exercised on the ground stated.	None
It is true that the State, like the British Monarch, never dies.	None
A Legislative Assembly may be dissolved, a Council of Ministers may go out of power, the Presidents rule may be introduced or imposed, or an emergency may be declared which can conceivably affect the States power in matters legislative and executive.	None
The State survives these upheavals.	None
But it is constitutionally unsound to say that the State, as a political entity, has no legal interest in such cataclysmic events and no legal rights to assert in relation thereto.	None
Were it so, which then are, the legal rights which the State, as distinguished from its Government, can agitate under Art.	None
131 ?	Reasoning
Whatever be the nature of the claim, the argument can always be put forward that the Government, not the State, is interested in making that claim.	None
Such a rigid interpretation of the scope of art.	None
131 will virtually reduce it to a deadletter and destroy a precious safeguard against the use of arbitrary power.	None
The interpretation canvassed by the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral must therefore, be avoided, in so far as the language of the article permits it, which in my opinion it does.	None
53.	None
The debates of the Constituent Assembly (Vol. 8, pp. 588590) do not thro w any fight on the question in issue.	None
54.	None
The judgment of this Court in State of Bihar v. Union of India(1970 2 S.C.R. 522.)	None
affords no real assistance on the question arising before us.	None
In that case, the Court raised three issues in the suits filed under art.	None
131.	Reasoning
The first issue which related to the question whether the suits were within the scope of art.	None
131 was not answered by the Court because it held on the second issue that the suits were not maintainable, since, a private party was impleaded thereto, The only assistance which may be derived from the judgment in that case is that it said that the disputes under art.	None
131 should be in respect of legal rights and not disputes of a political character and that though it was unnecessary to define the scope of art.	None
131, this much is certain that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the Constitution and the Federalism it sets up (p. 529).	None
These observations do not affect the constitution which I have placed on art.	None
131. 1 have endeavoured to show that it is competent to the State Governments to bring suits of the present nature under that article and that by these suits, the State Governments are raising a legal, not a political issue.	None
Their assertion is that the Government of India does not possess the constitutional power claimed by it and therefore, this Court should declare that they are immune from the exercise of that power.	None
The States assert their legal right, of immunity which, as explained above, denotes freedom from the power of another.	None
The preliminary objection raised by the learned Additional Solicitor General to the maintain ability of the suits must therefore be rejected.	None
55.	None
The writ petitions have, however, no cause of action such as can sustain their petitions for the enforcement of fundamental rights under art.	None
32 of the Constitution.	None
They contend that the threatened dissolution of the, Legislative Assembly of which they are members will inevitably deprive them of their right to draw the salary to which they are entitled as such members.	None
That, according to them, is an infringement of art.	Arguments of Petitioner
19(1) (f) of the Constitution which guarantees to all citizens the right to acquire, hold and dispose of property.56.	Arguments of Petitioner
The grievance made by the petitioners is contingent on the issuance of a proclamation dissolving the Assembly, which was not issued till the conclusion of arguments in these matters.	None
Petitions complaining of the invasion of fundamental rights on hypothetical considerations are to entertained by this Court under art.	None
32.	None
But the proclamation having since been is sued, it would be hyper technical to dismiss the writ petitions on the ground that there was no invasion of the petitioners rights on the date when the petitions were filed in this Court.	None
57.	None
But the violation of the fundamental right to property complained of by the petitioners is indirect and remote, not direct or proximate.	None
By the proclamation issued by the President under art.	None
356(1) of the Constitution, the Legislative Assemblies of nine States were dissolved and what is commonly known as the Presidents rule was imposed on those States.	None
As a result, the writ petitioners ceased to, be members of the.	None
Legislative Assembles.	None
And as a result of their ceasing to be such members, their right to draw salary, which they could only draw if they were members of the Assemblies, came to an end.	None
Though the petitioner cannot be denied relief on the ground that it was not intended by issuing the proclamation to deprive them of their salary, Yet the writ Petitions are liable to be dismissed on the ground that the injury to the alleged fundamental right of the petitioners is too indirect and remote.	None
Nevertheless, I would like to deal with lie contention raised by Mr. R. K. Garg on behalf of the writ petitioners that the proclamation issued by the President under Art. 356(1) of the Constitution cannot have any force and cannot be acted upon without the approval of both Houses of the Parliament.	None
This contention is wholly miscon ceived.	None
Article 356(1) empowers the President to issue a proclamation if, on receipt of a report from the, Governor of a State or otherwise, he is, satisfied that a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carr ied on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
Article 356(3) enjoins that every such proclamation shall be laid before each House of Parliament and shall, except where, it is a proclamation revoking a previous proclamation, cease to operate at the expiration of two months unless before the expiration of that period it has been approved by resolutions of both Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
It, is impossible to hold in view of this express provision that the proclamation can have neither force nor validity until it is approved by the Parliament.	None
The scheme of art.	None
356 is that the proclamation issued under it will remain in operation for a period of two months in any event.	None
If it is approved by resolutions of both the Houses of Parliament before the expiration of two months, its operation is extended for the period mentioned in clause (4) of art.	None
356.	None
But whether or not it is so approved, the proclamation has an assured life for a period of two months and its validity during that period cannot be, whittled down by reading into art.	None
356 a condition precedent in the nature of parliamentary approval which, plainly, is not to be found therein.	None
The proviso to clause (3) of art 356 makes this pos ition clearer still.	None
If the proclamation is issued at a time when the Lok Sabha is dissolved or its dissolution takes place during the period of two months, and the Rajya Sabha, but not the Lok Sabha, approves of the proclamation within two mont hs, it ceases to operate at the expiration of thirty days from the date on which the reconstituted Lok Sabha first sits.	None
If before the expiry of the aforesaid period of thirty days, the Lok Sabha too approves it, its life will be extended for the period mentioned in clause (4).	None
In other words, the prior approval of the Parliament or ally of its two Houses is not necessary to give validity to the proclamation.	None
What would happen if the proclamation is disapproved by either or both Houses of Parliament within two months does not arise for decision in these proceedings, and though, it would appear as a matter of constitutionality that the proclamation can nevertheless remain in operation for a period of two months, it is reasonable to sup pose that faced with such disapproval, a mature political judgment would lean in favour of the revocation of the proclamation.	None
Such constitutional crises cannot furnish a safe clue to the interpretation of the Constitution.	None
The contrast between the provisions of arts.	None
356 and 123 is illuminating.	None
Article 123 which empowers the President to promulgate ordinances provides by clause (2) that every such ordinance shall cease to operate at the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament if, however, before the expiry of the six weeks period, resolutions disapproving the proclamation are passed by both Houses, it ceases to operate upon the passing of the second of those resolutions.	Reasoning
Thus, whereas a proclamation issued by the President under Art. 356 continues in operation for a period of two months in any event, an. ordinance issued by the same dignitary ceases to operate no sooner than the second of the two resolutions disapproving is passed by a House of Parliament.	None
58.	None
The reason for this distinction is evident from the language and context of the respective provisions.	None
Article 356 which occurs in the Chapter called Emergency Provisions is intended to be resorted to in that exceptional class o f situations, which though have been occurring too often, where the government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The breakdown of the Constitution in the affairs and administration of the State is the occasion for the exercise of the emergency provision contained in art.	None
356.	None
The framers of the Constitution perhaps intended that such a serious situation can be dealt with effectively, only if the President is empower ed to issue a proclamation and that proclamation is given a minimum life of two months, whether the Parliament approves it or not.	None
On the other hand, the power to issue an ordinance is limited to occasions when neither of the two Houses of Pa rliament is in session.	None
Since that power is corelated partly to both Houses of Par liament being in recess, if was provided that the ordinance shall lapse on the expiry of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament, and if it is disapproved by bo th the Houses within that period, upon the passing of the second of the two resolutions.	None
Mr. Garg expressed a grave concern for the future of democracy, if this be the true interpretation of art.	None
356.	None
That argument does not appeal to me because the same Constitution under which the people of this country resolved to constitute India into a Sovereign Democratic Republic, gave to it a law of laws containing empowerment to detain its citizens, to pass ordinances and to declare emergencies.	None
A declaration of emergency brings in its trail a host of consequences calculated to impair both the democratic foundation and the federal structure of our Constitution.	None
The executive power of the Union then extends to giving of directions to any State as to the manner in which the executive power thereof is to be exercised the power of Parliament to make laws extends to matters not enumerated in the Union List the restraints of Art. 19 on the power of the State to make any law or to take any executive action are removed and it is a wellknown fact of recent history that the right to move tiny Court for the enforcement of fundamental rights can be suspended.	None
If the power to apply such drastic remedies and to pass such draconian laws is a part of the democratic functioning of the Constitution, it is small wonder that not only does the Presidential proclamation under art.	None
356 not require the prior approval of the Parliament but it has full force and effect for a minimum period of two months, approvals or no approval.	None
The reason of this rule is that there may be situations in which it is imperative to act expeditiously and recourse to the parliamentary process may, by reason of the delay involved, impair rather than strengthen the functioning of democracy The Constitution ha, therefore provided safetyvalves to meet extra ordinary situations.	None
They have an imperious garb and a repressive content but they are designed to save, not destroy, democracy.	None
The fault, if any, is not in the making of the Constitution but in the working of it.	None
It is undoubtedly true that within this impregnable duration of two months the President, acting of course on the advice of the Council of Minister s, may take various steps under clauses (a) to (c) of art.	None
356(1) which, though taken without the approval of the Parliament, may be irrevocable and cannot be retraced.	None
One such step can be the dissolution of a State Assembly and t he holding of fresh elections thereto.	None
But here too, as on the last point which I have just discussed, the answer is that the Constitution expressly confers vast and varied powers on the President if he arrives at a certain satisfaction.	None
The declaration of a financial emergency under art.	None
360(1) carries with it the power to issue directions for reducing the salaries of persons serving in connection with the affairs of the Union, includingthe Judges of the Supreme Court and the High Co urt.	None
Clause (2) of art.	None
360 makes clause (2) of art.	None
352 applicable to proclamations of financial emergencies with the result, that anything done or any action taken during the period of two months after the issuance of the proclamation, remains inviolable for that period.	None
That in fact, is the common thread which runs through arts.	None
352, 356 and 360.	None
The suspension of the right to move any Court for the enforcement of fundamental rights, the lifting of the prohibition of art.	None
19 a s against the making of laws and taking executive action, the assumption of powers under clauses (a), (b) and (c) of art.	None
356 have full effect while the proclamations are in operation during the minimum period of two months.	None
Action taken during those two months, if irrevocable, remains unremedied.	None
59.	None
There is also no substance in the contention that by issuing a proclamation under art.	None
356	None
, the President cannot assume the power to dissolve a State Assembly.	None
By clause (a) of art.	None
356(1), th e President may by Proclamation assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor.	None
Article 174(2) (b) empowers the Governor to dissolve the Legislative Assembly from time to time.	Facts
It seems to me incapable of any serious controversy that by reason of the provisions contained in art.	None
356(1) (a), the President can exercise the power vested in and exercisable by the Governor under art.	None
174(2) (b) to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State.	None
That leaves for consideration an argument advanced on behalf of the State Governments by Shri Niren De, Shri Gokhale and the learned Advocate of Himachal Pradesh.	None
Shri Ram Panjwani , supporting Shri Gokhale, cited texts to support that argument.	None
The core of the argument is that the Constitutional power to dissolve a legislative assembly is being utilised by the President for an indirect and oblique purpose, that there is no justification whatsoever for dissolving the nine State Assemblies and that the reasons contained in the Home Ministers letter to the Chief Ministers are wholly inadequate and irrelevant for taking the proposed action.	Arguments of Petitioner
Several other alternatives, it is urged, are open to the Government of India to adopt for meeting the situation complained of by the Home Minister but instead of doing so, they have decided to act drastically by threatening the dissolution of , the nine Legislative Assemblies in which the Congress (R) has a majority.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such naked abuse of power, which is being exercised for liquidating the Congress (R) governments which are in power in the nine states must, it is stressed, be struck down as unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Gokhale even argued that clause (5) of Article 356 which was introduced by the 38th Amendment, giving finality to the satisfaction of the President and putting it beyond the reach of Courts, is no bar to striking down a mala fide exercise of power.	Arguments of Petitioner
An order which lacks bona fides has no existence in the eye of law, says the counsel, and courts ought not to perpetuate injustice by refusing to interfere with such orders.	Arguments of Petitioner
These arguments have a familiar, though strange, echo but that is beside the point.	None
There is no gain saying that the various points of view presented by the learned counsel require a close attention.	None
60.	None
I would like to begin with the assumption, though that is controverted b y the Additional SolicitorGeneral, that the proposed proclamation is likely to be founded solely on the reasons contained in the Home Ministers letter.	None
Even then, I find it hard to conclude that those reasons are wholly extraneous to or irrelevant for the exercise of the power to issue a proclamation under art.	None
356 of the Constitution.	Facts
The sine qua non of the exercise of that power is the satisfaction of the President that a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
The reasons contained in the Home Ministers letter may not be such as to necessarily lead to the conclusion that there is a breakdown of constitutional machinery in the nin e States.	None
But the test of proof by preponderance of probabilities, leave alone the test of circumstances being consistent with a sole hypothesis, is entirely out of place in considering the constitutional validity of a Presidential proclamation.	None
It is for the President to judge whether a situation of the particular description has arisen necessitating the issuance of a proclamation for assumption of all or any of the powers mentioned in clause (a), (b) and (e) of art.	None
356(1).	None
He is expected and ought to judge fairly but we cannot sit in judgment over his satisfaction for determining whether any other view of the situation is not reasonably possible.	None
So long as the reasons, if any are disclosed, given for the action proposed or taken, bear a reasonable nexus with the exercise of the particular power, the satisfaction of the President must be treated as conclusive.	None
It will then not be open to judicial scrutiny.	None
It, however, the reasons given are wholly extraneous to th e formation of the satisfaction, the proclamation would be open to the attack that it is vitiated by legal mala fides.	None
Such is not the case here.	None
The Home Ministers letter shows that (i) an unprecedented political situation had arisen by the virtual rejection, in the recent Lok Sabha elections, of candidates belonging to the ruling party in various states (ii) the resultant climate of uncertainty was such as to cause grave concern (iii) the situation had created a sense of diffidence at different levels of administration (iv) people at large did not appreciate the propriety of continuance in power of a party which was unmistakably rejected by the electorate and (v) the climate of uncertainty, diffidence and disrespect had given rise to serious threats to law and order.	None
It is on the basis of these reasons that the Home Minister concluded that a fresh appeal to the political sovereign was not only permissible but had become obligatory.	None
These grounds, cannot with any show of reason, be dismissed as bearing no rational nexus with the necessity for issuing a proclamation with a view to dissolving the Legislative Assemblies of the nine States.	None
61.	None
Probing at any greater depth into the reasons given by the Home Minister is to enter a field from which Judges must scrupulously keep away.	None
That field is reserved for the Politician and the courts must avoid trespassing into it.	None
That is not always an easy task because the line of demarcation t hat separates he functions of this Court from those of the Government tend to become blurred, when constitutional problems raise issues concerning the high policies of the executive.	None
In the United States, De Toqueville noted as earl y as in 1832 that sooner or later every political question becomes a judicial question.	None
Leo Preffer therefore thought that though when the Supreme Court decided Constitutional questions it had the trappings of a Court of Law, it is supreme, but it is not really a Court(This Honourable Court by Leo Pfeffer, Indian Reprint 1967, P.7.).	None
This is a wanting well worth remembering but it must not deter the courts from discharging their functions if they find that a constitutional power meant to be exercised for preserving democracy is being used for destroying it.	None
The Home Ministers letter is clearly and indubitably on the safe side of the line and I see no justification either for questioning the , bona fides of the case made out by him in the letter or for doubting the authenticity of the facts stated therein.	None
As said by Justice Harlan F. Stone in his oftquoted dissenting opinion Courts are not the only agency of Government that must be assumed to have capacity to govern (United States v. Butler297 U.S. 1, 87.).I need not therefore enter into the question whether the Government of India has reasons apart from those stated in the Home Ministers letter for advising the President to issue the proclamation.	None
It they have, so far so good.	None
They may not choose to disclose them but it they do, as they have done now, they cannot prevent a judicial scrutiny thereof for the limited purpose of seeing whether the reasons bear any rational nexus with the action proposed.	None
I am inclined to the opinion that the Government cannot claim the credit at the peoples bar for fairness in disclosing the reasons for the proposed action and at the same time deny to this Court the limited power of finding whether the reasons bear the necessary nexus or are wholly extraneous to the proposed action.	None
The argument that if the Minister need not give reasons, what does it matter if he gives bad ones overlooks that bad reasons can destroy a possible nexus and may vitiate the order on the ground of mala fides.	None
The argument, be it stated, was not made by the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral but it is interesting to know how it was repelled by Lord Denning M.R. in Padfield v. Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food(L.R. 1968 A.C. 997, 1006.).	None
62.	None
It is also unnecessary to consider the implications of clause (5) of art.	None
356 which was introduced by the 38th Amendment, making the satisfaction of the President final and conclusive, not open to be questioned in any court, on any ground.	None
I have upheld the validity of the proclamation on the view that the reasons that are cited in its support bear a nexus with it.	None
63.	None
A large number of decisions were cited on either side on the question whether the Presidents satisfaction on such issues is justiciable.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General relied upon the decisions of this Court, the Federal Court, the Privy Council and of various High Courts to show that a part from clause (5) of art.	None
356, the Presidents satisfaction is conclusive and the Courts have no power to go behind it.	None
These decisions have been discussed fully in his judgment by my Lord the Chief Justice.	None
In the view I have taken, I prefer to express no opinion on this question except to state that though the question is treated as wellsettled, the Privy Council in Stephen Kalong Ninskan v. Government of Malaysia(L.R. 1970 A.C. 379, 392.) said Whether a proclamation under, statutory powers by the Supreme Head of the Federation can be challenged before the courts on some or any grounds is a constitutional question of farreaching importance which, on the present state of the authorities, remains unsettled and debatable.	None
64.	None
It would appear that in this branch of constitutional law, which cannot be entirely divorced from considerations of political policies, only one proposition may be said to be.	None
wellsettled No question in this branch of law is wellsettled.	None
The political question is an open sesame expression that can become a password for gaining or preventing admission into forbidden fields.	None
And it is an accepted fact of constitutional interpretation that the content of justiciability changes according to how the judges value preferences respond to the multidimensional problems of the day.	None
An awareness of history is an integral par t of those preferences.	None
In the last analysis, the people for whom the Constitution is meant, should not turn their faces away from it in disillusionment for fear that justice is a willothewisp.	None
These then are my reasons in support of the unanimous order which the Court passed on April, 29, 1977.	None
BHAGWATI, J. 65.	None
Two main questions arise for consideration in these suits and writ petitions.	Issue
One is whether the suits are maintainable under Article 131 and the Writ petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution, and the other is as to what is the scope and ambit of the power of the President under Article 356, clause (1) and whether and if so, in what circumstances, can the Court interfere with the exercise of this power by the President.	Issue
T he facts giving rise to these suits and writ petitions have been set out in detail in the judgment prepared by the learned Chief Justice and it would be futile exercise on our part to re iterate them.	None
Hence we proceed straight to consider the questions that arise for determination.	None
These questions are of great constitutional significance.	None
We will first examine the question of maintainability of the suits and the writ petitions.	None
The writ petitions have been filed by three legislators from the State of Punjab seeking enforcement of the fundamental right to property guaranteed to them under Articles 19(1) (f) and 31.	None
They complain that if the Legislative Assembly of the State of Punjab is dissolved by the President acting under Article 356, clause (1), as threatened by the Government of India, they would be deprived of their right to receive salary as members of the Legislative Assembly and the fight to receive sa lary being property, there would be unconstitutional infraction of their right to property under Articles 19 (1) (f) and 31 and hence they are entitled to move this Court under Article 32 for preventing such threatened infraction.	Arguments of Petitioner
This contention is clearly unsustainable.	None
Of course, there can be no doubt, and indeed it must be said in fairness to the learned Additional Solicitor General who argued the case with great ability, that he did not contend to the contrary, that if there is a t hreatened violation of a fundamental right, the person concerned is entitled to approach this Court under Article 32 and claim relief by way of injunction as in a quia timet action.	None
But the difficulty here in the way of the petitioners is that it is not possible to say that by the threatened dissolution of the Legislative Assembly, any fundamental right of the petitioners would be infringed.	None
It is only where there is direct invasion of a fundamental right or imminent danger of such inv asion that a petitioner can seek relief under Article 32.	None
The impact on the fundamental right must be direct and immediate and not indirect or remote.	None
Merely because, by the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly, the petitioners would cease to be members and that would incidentally result in their losing their salary, it cannot be said that the dissolution would infringe their right to property.	None
That would be the indirect effect of the dissolution but that is not sufficient to constitute infraction of the fundamental right to property.	None
If the argument of the petitioners were correct, even a civil servant dismissed in violation of a legal or constitutional provision by the Government of India or a State Government or even an authority falling within the definition of State in Article 12 would be entitled to complain that by reason of the dismissal, be has been deprived of his right to salary and hence it is competent to him to approach this Court under Article 32 challenging his dismissal as invalid on ground of violation of Articles 19 (1) (f) and 3 1.	None
This surely could never have been intended by the constitutionmakers.	None
The direct impact of the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly would be, that the petitioners would cease to be members and obviously no one has a fundamental right to continue as a member of a legislative assembly.	None
It is true that if the petitioners cease to be the members of the Legislative Assembly, they would lose their right to receive salary, but that would be the result of their ceasing to be the members of the Legislative Assembly and not the direct consequences of the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly.	None
We are.	None
therefore .	None
of the view that the threatened dissolution of the Legislative Assembly does not involve any infraction of the fundamental right guaranteed to the petitioners under Articles 19 (1) (f) and 31 and since no other fundamental right has been relied upon by the petitioners, it must be held that they are not entitled to maintain the writ petitions under Article 32.That takes us to the question of maintainability of the suits.	None
There are six suits before us filed by the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa.	None
Each of these suits has been filed under Article 131 of the Constitution.	None
This Article confers original jurisdiction on the Supreme Court, to the exclusion of all other courts, in respect of certain categories of suits and is in the following terms 131.	None
Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Supreme Court shall, to the exclusion of any other court, have original jurisdiction in any dispute (a) between the Government of India and or more States or (b) between the Government of India and any State or States on one side an d one or more other States on the other, or (c) between two or more States, if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	Arguments of Respondent
Provided that the said jurisdiction shall not extend to a dispute arising out of any treaty, agreement, covenant, engagement, sanad or other similar instrument which, having been entered into or executed before the commencement of the Constitution, continues in operation after such commencement, or which provides that the said jurisdiction s hall not extend to such a dispute.	None
66.	None
There are two limitations in regard to the nature of the suit which can be entertained by the Supreme Court under this Article.	None
One is in regard to parties and the other is in regard to the subject matter.	None
The Article provides in so many terms in clauses (a), (b) and (c) that the dispute must be between the Government of India and one or more States, or between the Government of India and any other State or States on one side and one or m ore other States on the other, or between two or more States.	None
It does not contemplate any private, , party being arrayed as a disputant on one side or the other.	None
The par, ties to the dispute must fall within one or the other category specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c).	None
That was established by a decision of this Court in State of Bihar v. Union of India Anr.(19702 S.C.R. 522) where this Court pointed out a dispute which falls within the ambit of Article 131 can only be determin ed in the forum mentioned therein, namely, the Supreme Court of India, provided there has not been impleaded in any said dispute any private party, be it a citizen or a firm or a corporation along with a State either jointly or in the alternative.	None
A dispute in which such a private party is involved must be brought before a court, other than this court, having jurisdiction over the matter.	None
This is the limitation as to parties.	None
The other limitation as to subject matter flows from the words if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	None
These words clearly indicate that the dispute must be one relating to a legal right and not a dispute on the political plans not based on a legal right, for instance, to take an example given by Mr. Seervai in his well known work on Constitutional Law of India at page 1385 a claim that a State project should be included in the FiveYear Plan.	None
The dispute must, therefore, involve assertion or vindication of a legal right of the Government of India or a State.	Reasoning
It is not necessary that the right must be a constitutional right.	None
All that is necessary is that it must be a legal right.	None
It is true that in the State of Bihar v. Union of India Anr.	None
(supra) this Court, while discussing the scope of the dispute which may be determined by the Supreme Court under Article 131, happened to make an observation that this much is certain that the legal right which is the subject of dispute must arise in the context of the Constitution and the federalism it sets up.	None
But this observation, in so far as it suggests that the legal right must be one which arise s under the Constitution, goes much further than what the language of Article 131 warrants.	None
The Article speaks only of legal right and does not qualify it by any other words.	None
It may be noted that the provision in the corresponding section 204 of t he Government of India Act, 1935 was significantly different.	None
It contained a proviso that the dispute must inter alia concern the interpretation of the Government of India Act, 1935 or of an Order in Council made thereunder or the extent of the legislative or executive authority vested in the Federation by virtue of the Instrument of Accession of that State.	None
This provision has been deliberately and designedly omitted in Article 131 and now any legal right can be enforced by a suit in the Supreme Court provided the parties fill the character specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c).	None
The question which therefore requires to be considered in determining the maintainability of the suits is whether any legal right of the States is sought to be vindicated in the suits.	None
We shall presently consider this question, but before we do so, we must point out one other error in which, with the greatest respect, the learned Judges who decided the case of State of Bi har v. Union of India Anr.	None
(supra) seem to have fallen.	None
They held that in a suit under Article 131 one only order which the Supreme Court.	None
could make was a declaration adjudicating on the legal right claimed in the suit and once such a declaration was given.	None
, the function of the Supreme Court under Article 131 was at an end.	None
If this conclusion were correct, then obviously the present suits seeking permanent injunction restraining the Government of India from issuing a proclamation under Article 356, clause (1) could not lie and equally no interim injunction could be granted by this Court but the learned Additional Solicitor General, with his usual candour, and fairness, conceded that he was not in a position to support this view.	None
This vie w seems to be erroneous and for two very good reasons.	None
In the first place, it overlooks the fact that whereas sub section (2) of section 204 of the Government of India Act, 1935 provided that the Federal Court, in exercise of its original jurisdiction, shall not pronounce any judgment, other than a declaratory judgment, no such provision limiting the power of the Supreme Court in regard to the relief to be granted is to be found in Article 131.	None
The power of the Supreme Court t o grant relief in a suit under Article 131 is not restricted only to declaratory judgment.	None
Secondly, as pointed out by Mr. Seervai in his book at page 1385, when a court is given exclusive jurisdiction in respect of a dispute between the parties, it is reasonable to hold that the court has power to resolve the whole dispute, unless its power is limited by express words or by necessary implication.	None
There is no such limitation in Article 131 and hence it is not correct to say that the Supreme Court can only give a declaratory judgment in a suit under Article 131.	None
The Supreme Court would have power to give whatever reliefs are necessary for enforcement of the legal right claimed in the suit if such legal right is established.	None
67.	None
Turning now to the question whether the present suits seek to enforce any legal right of the State, it.	Issue
is necessary to have a look at a few provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Save for the purpose of Part III State is not defined in the Constitution, but by reason of Article 367, clause (1), it must be given the same meaning which it has under the General Clauses Act, 1897.	Reasoning
Section 3, clause (56) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 defines State, inter alia, to mean a St ate specified in the first Schedule to the Constitution.	Reasoning
The States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa are States specified in the First Schedule and hence they are States within the meaning of t	Reasoning
he Constitution.	Reasoning
Article 1, clause (1) declares that India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States and a State is consequently a constituent part of the Union of India.	Reasoning
Part VI of the Constitution contains provisions regarding the States.	Reasoning
Article 153 says that there shall be a Governor for each State and under Article 154 the executive power of the State is vested in the Governor and has to be, exercised by him either directly or through officers subordinate to him in accordance with the Constitution.	Reasoning
Article 163 provides for a Council of Ministers with a Chief Minister at the head to aid and advise the Governor in the exercise of his functions except in respect of.	Reasoning
a limited area where he is by or under the Constitution required to exercise his functions or any of them in his discretion.	Reasoning
There is no express provision in the Constitution requiring the Governor to act in accordance with the advice of the Council of Ministers as there is in the newly amended Article 74, clause (1) in regard to the President, but it is now well settled as a result of the decision of this Court in Shamsher Singh Anr.	Reasoning
v. State of Punjab(1975 S.C.R. 814.)	Reasoning
that except in the narrow minimal area covered by Articles 163 (2), 371A (1) (b) and (d), 371A(2) (b) and (f) and sixth Schedule, Para 9(2), the Governor also is bound to act according to the advice of the Council of Ministers.	Reasoning
This is broadly the scheme of the provisions in regard to the exercise of the executive power of the States.	Reasoning
The legislative power of the State is exercisable by the Legislature under Article 168 and according to that Article, the Legislature of the State is to consist of the Governor and the Legislative Assembly, together with the Legislative Council in some of the States.	Reasoning
Article 172 provides that every Legislative Assembly of a State, unless sooner dissolved, shall continue for six years from the date appointed for its first meeting.	Reasoning
Originally the term was five years, but it was extended to six years by the Forty Second Constitution Amendment Act.	Reasoning
Article 213 deals with a situation where the Legislature is not in session and provides that in such a case the Governor may legislate by promulgating ordinances when he is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action.	Reasoning
It will thus be seen that under the provisions of the Constitution the executive power of th e State is exercisable by the Governor aided and advised by a Council of Ministers and the Legislative power, by the Legislature of the State and in an emergent situation when the Legislature is not in session, by the Governor.	Reasoning
Now, in order to determine whose legal right would be violated by the threatened action under Article 356, clause (1), we must proceed on the assumption that such action, when taken, would be constitutionally invalid, because if it were valid, there would be no cause for complaint.	Reasoning
The question is who would have cause of action if unconstitutional action were taken under Article 356, clause (1) ?	Reasoning
If the executive power of the State vested in the Governor were taken away by the President or the legislative power of the State were exercisable not by the Legislature of the State or the Governor, but by or under the authority of Parliament or the Legislature of the State were olved all these being actions which can be taken under Article 356, clause (1)who would be aggrieved ?	Reasoning
Can the State say that its legal right is infringed ?	Reasoning
We believe it can.	Reasoning
Is it not the right of the State under the Constitution that its executive power shall be exercisable by the Governor except when any functions of the State Government or any powers of the Governor are assumed by the President by valid exercise of power under Article 356, clause (1) ?	Reasoning
Is it not competent to the State to insist that it shall continue to have its legislature for making its laws, until its term expires or it is validly dissolved?	Reasoning
Is it not a constitutional right of the State that its laws shall be made by its legislature, unless the President declares, in exercise of the power under Article 356, clause (1), that the powers of the legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament ?	Reasoning
These rights of the State under the Constitution.	Reasoning
would certainly be affected by invalid exercise of power under Article 356, clause (1).	Reasoning
68.	None
The learned Additional Solicitor General or behalf of the Government of India contended that the expression State in Article 131 is not synonymous with State Government and there is intrinsic evidence in the Article that the two are distinct.	Arguments of Respondent
When the functions of the State Government are unconstitutionally assumed by the President, it is the State Government which would be aggrieved and not the State.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no legal right in a State to be governed by a particular Council of Ministers.	Arguments of Respondent
So also when a Legislative Assembly is dissolved, it is the individual right of the members which may be affected and not the right of the State.	Arguments of Respondent
Discussion of a Legislative Assembly is not tanta mount to dissolution of the State, so as to give rise to a cause of action in the State.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Additional Solicitor General fairly conceded that if the office of the Governor or the Legislative Assembly of the State were to be abolished altogether, it might affect a legal right of the State, because the State is entitled to have a Governor and a Legislative Assembly under the Constitution, but his argument was that mere assumption of the powers of the State Government or taking away t he power to make laws for the State from the Legislature and making it exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament or dissolution of the Legislative Assembly would not affect any legal right of the State.	None
This contention is not well founded and cannot be sustained.	None
It is true that there is a distinction between State and State Government and this distinction is also evident from the language of Article 131 and, therefore, what has to be seen for the purpose of determining the applicability of that Article is whether any legal right of the State, as distinct from the State Government, is infringed.	Reasoning
Now, undoubtedly, a State has no legal right to insist that it shall have a particular Council of Ministers or particular persons as members of the Legislative Assembly.	Reasoning
But a State has certainly a right under the Constitution to say that its executive and legislative powers shall be exercisable in the manner provided in the Constitution.	Reasoning
If a legal right of a State can be said to have been infringed when its Legislative Assembly is abolished, it is difficult to see how any other conclusion can follow when the Legislative Assembly is not abolished but suspended or dissolved.	Reasoning
In the former case, the State is unconstitutionally deprived of its legislative organ and its legislative power is given over to another authority in the letter, the constitutionally appointed organ remains but it is made ineffectual for a period during which t he legislative power is unconstitutionally vested in another authority.	Reasoning
We fail to see any difference in the two situations so far as the State is concerned.	Reasoning
The position is the same whether the constitutionally appointed organ for exercise of legislative power is amputated or paralysed.	Reasoning
If one affects the legal right of the State, equally the other does.	Reasoning
It may be that if a Legislative Assembly is suspended or dissolved and the legislative power of the State become, , , exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament by reason of Presidential action under Article 356, clause (1), the individual rights (A the members of the Legislative Assembly may be affected, but that does not mean that the legal right of the State would also not thereby be infringed.	Reasoning
Unconstitutional exercise of power by the President under Article 356, clause (1) may injuriously affect rights of several persons.	Reasoning
It may infringe not only the individual rights of the members of the Legislative Assembly, but also the constitutional right of the State to insist that the federal basis of the political structure set up by the constitution shall not be violated by an unconstitutional assault under Article 356, clause (1), we are, therefore, of the view, that the present suits seek to enforce a legal right of the States arising under the Constitution and the suits cannot be thrown out in limine as being outside the scope and ambit of Article 131.	Reasoning
We must proceed, to consider the suits on merits.	None
The important and serious question which arises for consideration on merits is as to what is the scope and ambit of the power under Article 356, clause (1).	Issue
Can the President in exercise of this power dissolve a State Legislature, and if so, are there any limitations on this power ?, To answer this question, it is necessary to examine the scheme and language of different clauses of Article 3, 56 and the object and purpose for which it has been enacted.	Reasoning
Article 3 56 occurs in Part XVIII which contains a fasciculus of articles from Article 352 to 360 dealing with emergency provisions.	Reasoning
One of us (Bhagwati, J.) has occasion to point out in Additional District Magistrate, Jabalpur v. S. S. Shukla(1976 Supp.	Reasoning
S.C.R. 172.)	Reasoning
that there are three types of emergency which may cause crisis in the life of a nation.	Reasoning
The first is where the security of the country is threatened by war or external aggression the second arises on account of threat or presence of internal disturbance calculated to disrupt the life of the country and jeopardize the existence of constitutional Government and the third is occasioned when there is break down or potential break down of the economy threatening the financial stability or credit of the country.	Reasoning
The first two types of emergency are dealt with in Article 352, while the third type is dealt with in Article 360.	Reasoning
Article 352, clause (1) provides that if the President is satisfied that a grave emergency exists whereby the security of India or of any part of its territory is threatened, whether by war or external aggression or internal disturbance, be may, by proclamation, make a declaration to that effect and clause (2) of that Article requires that such Proclamation shall be laid before each House of Parliament and it shall cease to operate at the expiration of two months unless before the expiration of that period it has been approved by resolutions of both Houses of Parliament .	Reasoning
The constitutional implications of a declaration of emergency under Article 352, clause (1) are vast and they are provided in Articles 250, 353, 354, 358 and 359.	Reasoning
The emergency being an exceptional situation, arising out of a, national crisis, certain wide and sweeping power, have been conferred on the Central Government and Parliament with a view to combat the situation and restore normal conditions.	Reasoning
One such power is that given by Article 250 which provides that while a Proclamation o f Emergency is in operation, Parliament shall have the power to make laws for the whole or any part of the territory of India with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the State List.	Reasoning
The effect of this provision is that the federal structure based on separation of powers is put out of action for the time being.	Reasoning
Another power of a similar kind is that conferred by Article 353 which says that during the time that Proclamation of Emergency is in force.	Reasoning
the executive power of the Union shall extend to the giving of direction to any State as to the manner in which the executive power thereof is to be exercised.	Reasoning
This provision also derogates from the federal principle which forms the basis of the Constitution.	Reasoning
This departure from the constitutional principle of federalism is permitted by the Constitution because of the extraordinary situation arising out of threat to the continued existence of constitutional democratic Government.	Reasoning
Then we come to Article, 355 which enjoins a duty on the Union to protect every State against external aggression and internal disturbance and to ensure that the government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provision s of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Article 356 contains provisions for dealing with another kind of emergent situation arising from failure of constitutional machinery in the States and, so far as material, reads as follows356.	Reasoning
(1) If the President on receipt of a report from the Governor of a State or otherwise, is satisfied that a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution, the President way by Proclamation (a) assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor or any body or authority in the State other than the Legislature of the State (b) declare that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament, (c) make such incidental and consequential provisions as appear to the President to be necessary or desirable for giving effect to the objects of the Proclamation, including provisions for suspending in whole or in part the operation of any provisions of this Constitution relating to any body or authority in the State Provided that nothing in this clause shall authorise the President to assume to himself any of the powers vested in or exercisable by a High Court, or to suspend in whole or in part the operation of any provision of this Constitution relating to High Courts.	None
(2)Any such Proclamation may be revoked or varied by a subsequent Proclamation.	None
(3)Every Proclamation under this article shall be laid before each House of Parliament and shall, except where it is a Proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation, cease to operate at the expiration of two month s unless before the expiration of that period it has been approved by resolutions of both Houses of Parliament (5)Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the satisfaction of the President mentioned in clause (1) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be questioned in any court on any ground.	None
Since some reliance was placed on behalf of the petitioners in the writ petitions on Article 357, clause (1), we shall reproduce the relevant part of that clause in these terms 357.	None
(1) Where by a Proclamation issued under clause (1) of article 356, it has been declared that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament, it shall be competent (c) for the President to authorise the House of the People is not in session expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State pending the sanction of such expenditure by Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
69.	None
Now it is obvious on a plain natural construction of the language.	None
of Article 356, clause (1) that the President can take action under this clause only if, on receipt of a report made by the Governor of a State or otherwise he is satisfied that a situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
The satisfaction of the President that a situation has arisen in which the government of a State. cannot be carried on in accordance with the provision of the Constitution is a condition precedent which must be fulfilled before the President can take action under Article 356, clause (1).	Reasoning
When this condition precedent is satisfied, the President may take action under Artic le 356, clause (1) and exercise all or any of the powers specified in sub clauses (a), (b) and (c) of that clause.	None
The exercise of these powers plainly and unmistakably strikes at the root of the federal principle because it vests the executive power of the state which, in the federal structure set up by the Constitution, is exercisable by the Governor with the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers, in the President and takes away the powers of the Legislature of the State and they become exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament.	None
The administration of the State is for all purposes taken over by the President which means in effect and substance the Central Government since by reason of Article 74, clause (1) and even otherwise, the President is bound by the advice of his Council of Ministers and the legislative power of the State is also transferred to the Parliament.	None
The President can also dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State, because when he assumes to himself all the powers of the Governor under Article 356, clause (1) subclause (a) one of the powers assumed by him would be the power to dissolve the Legislative Assembly under Article 174 (2) (b).	Reasoning
It will thus be seen that Article 356, clause (1) authorises serious inroad into the principle of federalism enacted in the Constitution and that is permitted because, in the subjective satisfaction of the President, a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
It is the duty of the Union under Article 355 to ensure that the government of the State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, and, therefore, when the President finds that a situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried on, he can act under Art.	None
356 Cl.	Reasoning
(1) indeed it would be his constitutional obligation to do so and put the federal mechanism out of action so far as that State is concerned.	None
This is indeed a very drastic power which, if misused or abused, can destroy the Constitutional equilibrium between the Union and the States and its potential for harm was recognised even by the constitution makers.	None
Dr. Ambedkar pointed out in his speech while winding up the debate on this Article I may say that I do not altogether deny that there is a possibility of these articles being abused or employed for political purposes.	None
But the objection applies to every part of the Constitution which gives power to the Centre to override the Provinces.	None
In fact I share the sentiments expressed by my honourable friend Mr. Gupta yesterday that the proper thing we ought to expect is that such articles will never be called into operation and that they would remain a dead letter.	None
If at all they are brought into operation, I hope the President, who is endowed with these powers, will take proper precautions before actually suspending the administration of the provinces.	None
70.	None
But despite the lurking danger in article, the constitution makers thought that there was no alternative in case of break down of constitutional machinery in the States and hence they adopted this article, even though it was analogous to the hated section 93 which disfigured the Government of India Act, 1935 symbolising British dominance over nationalist aspirations.	None
The constitutionmakers, conscious as they were of the serious consequences flowing from the exercise of this power, limited it by hedging its exercise with the condition that the President should be satisfied that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution Now, when On the satisfaction of the condition limiting the exercise of the power, a proclamation is issued by the President under Article 356, clause (1), it can be revoked or varied at any time by a Subsequent proclamation under clause (2) of Article 356.	None
Clause (3) of Article 356, Eke clause (2) of Article 352, requirethat every Proclamation issued under Article 356, clause (1) shall be laid before each House of Parliament and it shall cease to operate at t he expiration of two months unless before the expiration of that period, it has been approved by resolution of both Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners in the writ petitions contended that it is clear from the provision enacted in Article 356, clause (3) that the exercise of power by the President under cause (1) is subject to the control of both Houses of Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Proclamation issued by the President under Article 356, clause (1) would cease to be in force at the expiration of two months unless it is approved by both Houses of Parliament, and, therefore, no irretrievable action such as dissolution of the legislative Assembly of the State can be taken by the President before the approval of both the Houses of Parliament is given to the Proclamation.	Arguments of Petitioner
Otherwise the parliamentary control would be defeated and it would be possible for the Central Government to present a fait accompli to the two Houses of Parliament and neither House would be able to remedy the mischief done, even if it disapproved the Proclamation Moreover, either House of Parliament may disapprove the Proclamation even before the expiry of two months and where that happens, the President would be bound to revoke the Proclamation immediately, because the proclamation cannot continue in defiance of, the will of either House of Parliament without destroying the collective responsibility of the Council of Ministers to t he House. .	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also urged that during the period of two months, no power can be exercised in virtue of the Proclamation which wouldbring about a final and irrevocable consequence, if the President has reason to believe that either House of Parliament may not approve it, or also the control of both Houses of Parliament would be completely set at naught and the executive would be able to take irreversible action like dissolution of the Legislative Assembly by passing both Houses of Parliament and ignoring their wishes altogether.	Arguments of Petitioner
That would be plainly contrary to the basic principles of democratic Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance was also placed on Article 357, Clause (1), subclause (c) and it was pointed out that whereby a Proclamation issued under clause (1) it has been declared that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament, no expenditure out of the Consolidated Fund of the State can be incurred without appropriation made by Parliament, but when the House of the People is not in session, the President can incur such expenditure pending sanction by Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
This means that if the House of the People is in session at the time of issue of the Proclamation or as soon as it assembles after the issue of the Proclamation, the President would immediately have to go to Parliament for sanction of expenditure and if Parliament does not sanction, the expenditure would be unauthorised and the President would not be able to exercise his functions.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is thus effective Parliamentary control over the President, that is, the Central Government, through the purse and hence during the period of two months, the President cannot take any action involving expenditure out of the Consolidated Fund of the State unless he is assured that such expenditure would be sanctioned by Parliament.	Arguments of Petitioner
The suggestion was chat since the ruling party at the Centre h as no majority in the Rajya Sabha, the President cannot issue a Proclamation authorising him to discharge functions involving expenditure out of the Consolidated Fund of the State.	None
These arguments urged on behalf of the petitioners raise a question of construction of clause (1) to (3) of Article 356.Now, if we look at the language of clauses (1) to (3) of Article 356 it is clear that once a Proclamation is validly issued by the President under clause (1), it has immediate force and effect an d its efficiency is not made dependent on the approval of both Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
There is no provision in any clause of Article 356 or in any other Article of the Constitution that the President shall have no power to issue a Proclamation under clause (1) when either or both Houses of Parliament arein session.	None
, The only limitation on the exercise of the power of the President to issue a proclamation is that he should be satisfied that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
Where the President is so satisfied, and, as pointed out above, the President means the Central Government, he can issue a proclamation even when either or both Houses of Parliament are in session.	None
The President is given this power because immediate action may have to be taken when an exceptional situation has arisen on account of break down of constitutional machinery in the State.	None
It is an emergency power and it has necessarily to be vested in the Central Government because quick and immediate action may be necessary to avert or combat constitutional break down in the State and moreover a constitutional obligation is laid on the Union to ensure, that the, Government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
Any delay in taking action may in conceiveable cases frustrate the very object and purpose of conferment of this power on the President.	Reasoning
Promptness may be the essence of effectiveness in such cases and public interest may suffer on account of tardiness in action.	Reasoning
Hence the power conferred on the President under Article 356, clause (1) is not limited by the condition that it cannot be exercised when either or both houses of Parliament are in session.	Reasoning
Then again, clause (3) of Article 356 provides that a proclamation issued under clause (1) shall cease to operate at the expiration of two months, unless be fore the expiration of that period it has been approved by resolutions of both Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
This means that it shall continue to operate for a period of two months, unless sooner revoked.	Reasoning
It is only for the purpose of its extension beyond two months that the approval of both Houses of Parliament is required by clause (3) of Article 356.	Reasoning
If no such approval is forthcoming the proclamation cannot continue after the expiration of two months, but until then it certainly continue s and has full force and effect.	Reasoning
It may be noted that clause (3) of Article 356 does not say that the proclamation shall be operative only on approval by both Houses of Parliament, nor does it provide that it shall cease to operate even before the expiry of two months, if disapproved by either House of Parliament, it is interesting to compare the language of Clause (3) of Article 356 with that of Article, 123.	Reasoning
clause (2) in this connection, Article 123, clause (1) confers power on t he President to promulgate an ordinance during recess of Parliament when be is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action and clause (2) of that Article provides that such ordinance shall cease to operate at the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament, or if before the expiration of that period resolutions disapproving it are passed by both Houses, upon the passing of the second of those resolutions.	Reasoning
The ordinance would continue to operate until the expiration of six weeks from the reassembly of Parliament unless before that date is disapproved by both Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
But when we come to clause (3) of Article 356, we find that a different scheme in regard to the life of a proclamation issued under clause (1) is adopted in that clause.	Reasoning
Clause (3) of Article 356 does not confer power, on the two Houses of Parliament to put an end to the proclamation by disapproval before the expiration of the Period of two months and it is only if the life of the proclamation is to he extended beyond the period of two months that is required to be approved by both Houses of Parliament, it is, therefore, clear that disapproval by the either House of the Parliament before the expiration of two months has no constitutional relevance to the life of the Proclamation and the proclamation would continue in force for a period of two months , despite such disapproval.	Reasoning
It would be clear from this discussion that when a proclamation is validly issued by the President under Article 356, clause (1), it has immediate force and effect, the moment it is issued and where, by the proclamation, the President has assumed to himself the powers of the Governor under subclause (a), he is entitled to exercise those powers as fully and effectually as the Governor, during the period of two months when the Proclamation is in operation.	Reasoning
There is no limitation imposed by any Article of the Constitution that these powers , of the Governor can be exercised by the President only when they have no irreversible consequence and where they have such consequence, they cannot be exercised until the proclamation is approved by both Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
Whilst the proclamation is in force during the period of two months, the, President can exercise all the powers of the Governor assumed by him and the Court cannot read any limitation which would have the effect of cutting down the width and amplitude of such powers by confining their exercise only to those cases where no irretrievable consequence would ensure which would be beyond repair.	Reasoning
When any power of the Governor is assumed by the President under the Proclamation, the President can, during the two months when the proclamation is in force, do, whatever the Governor could in exercise of such power, and it would be immaterial whether the consequence o f exercise of such power is final and irrevocable or not.	Reasoning
To hold otherwise would be, to refuse to give full effect to the proclamation which as pointed out above, continues to operate with full force and vigour during the period of two months.	Reasoning
It would be rewriting Article 356 and making approval of both Houses of Parliament a condition precedent to the coming into force of the proclamation so far as the particular power is concerned.	Reasoning
Now one of the powers of the Governor which can be assumed by the President under the proclamation is the power to dissolve the Legislative Assembly , of the State under Art.	Reasoning
174(2) (b) and, therefore, the President also can dissolve the Legislative Assembly during the time that the proclamation is in force.	Reasoning
It is difficult to see bow the exercise of this power by the President can be made conditional on the approval of the proclamation by the two Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
If the proclamation has full force and effect during the period of two months even without approval by the two Houses of Parliament, the President certainly can exercise the power of the Governor to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State without waiting for the approval of the proclamation by both Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
It is true that once the Legislative Assembly is dissolved by the President in exercise of the power assumed by him under the proclamation, it would be impossible to restore the status quo ante if the proclamation is not approved by both Houses of Parliament, but that is the inevitable consequence flowing from the exercise, of the power which the President undoubtedly Possesses during the time that the Proclamation is in force.	Reasoning
This is clearly a necessary power because there may conceivably be cases where the exercise of the power of dissolution of the Legislative Assembly may become imperative in order to remedy the situation arising on account of break down of the constitutional machinery in the State and failure to exercise this power promptly may frustrate the basic object and purpose of a proclamation under Article 356, clause (1).	Reasoning
It is, therefore, not possible to accede to the argument of the petitioners, in the writ petitions that during the period of two months before approval of the proclamation by the two Houses of Parliament, no irreversible action, such as dissolution of the Legislative assembly of the State, can be taken by the President.	Reasoning
The power to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State cannot also be denied to the President on the ground that the proclamation may not be approved by one or the other House of Parliament.	Reasoning
In the first place, the existence of a constitutional power or the validity of its exercise cannot be determined by reference to a possible contingency.	Reasoning
The Court cannot enter the realm of conjecture and surmise and speculate as to what would be the position at the expiration of two months whether the proclamation will be approved by both Houses of Parliament or not.	Reasoning
Secondly, it is entirely immaterial whether or not the proclamation is approved by both Houses of Parliament, because even if it is not so approved, it would continue to be in full force, and effect for a period of two months, unless sooner revoked.	Reasoning
It is also difficult to appreciate how Article 357, clause (1), sub clause (c) can possibly assist the argument of the petitioners.	Reasoning
That subclause provides that when the House of the People is not in session, the President can authorise expenditure out of the Consolidated Fund of the State pending receipt of sanction of such expenditure by the Parliament and consequently, it is possible that if Parliament does not sanction such expenditure, serious difficulty might arise.	Reasoning
But that is merely a theoretical possibility which in practical reality of politics would hardly arise and it need not deflect us from placing on the language of Article 356 the only correct interpretation which its language bears.	Reasoning
When the President issues a proclamation on the advice of the Central Government, it stands t o reason that the House of the People in which the Central Government enjoys majority would sanction expenditure out of the Consolidated Fund of the State.	Reasoning
We are, therefore, of the view that even during the period of two months, without the approval of the proclamation by, both Houses of Parliament, the President can dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State in exercise of the power of the Governor under Article 174(2) (b) assumed by him under the proclamation.	Reasoning
This is t he correct constitutional interpretation of clause (1) and (3) of Article 356 guided by the language of these clauses and the context and setting in which they occur.	Reasoning
It might appear at first blush that this constitutional interpretation would completely eliminate the Parliamentary central over the issue of proclamation and exercise of powers under it and the Central Government would be free to take over the administration of the State and paralyse or even dissolve the Legislative Assembly, even if it should appear that one or the other House of Parliament might not approve it.	Reasoning
But this apprehension need not cause any undue anxiety, for it is based primarily on the possibility of abuse of the Power conferred under Article 356, clause (1).	Reasoning
It must be remembered that merely because power may sometime be abused, it is no ground for denying the existence of the power.	Reasoning
The wisdom of man has not yet been able to conceive of a government with power sufficient to answer all its legitimate needs and at the same time incapable of mischief.	Reasoning
In the last analysis, a great deal must depend on the wisdom and honesty, integrity and character of those who are in charge of administration and the existence of enlighten ed and alert public opinion.	Reasoning
Moreover, it is apparent that a piquant situation of considerable complexity and extraordinary consequences may arise if either House of Parliament disapproves of the proclamation and, therefore, political and pragmatic wisdom of the highest order and circumspection of utmost anxiety would necessarily inform the Central Government before exercising the weighty power conferred by Article 356, clause (1).	Reasoning
Further more, it must be remembered that the principle of cabinet responsibility to Parliament lies at the core of our democratic structure of Government and the Central Government is accountable for all its actions to Parliament which consists of elected representatives of the people and if any action is taken by the Central Government which is improper or unjustified by moral, ethical or political norms, Parliament would certainly be there to bring them to book.	Reasoning
The Political control exercised by Parliament would always be a salutary check against improper exercise of power or its misuse or abuse by the executive.	Reasoning
And lastly the powers conferred on the President, that is, the Central Government, being a limited power, its exercise would, within the narrow minimal area, which we shall indicate later, be subject to judicial review ability.	Reasoning
These are the safeguards which must alley the apprehension that the Central Government may act want only or capriciously in issuing a proclamation under Article 356, clause (1) by passing and ignoring the two Houses of Parliament.	Reasoning
That takes us to the next question whether any injunction can be granted against the Union of India restraining it from issuing a proclamation and dissolving the Legislative Assemblies of the States under Art. 356, cl.	Issue
(1), for that is the primary relief claimed by the States in the suits.	Reasoning
This question has been argued on a demurrer as if the averments made in the plaints were correct.	None
We shall presently consider this question, but before that, we may dispose of a short point in regard to what has been described as a directive by Shri Charan Singh Home Minister to the Central Government, to the Chief Ministers of th e States concerned in the, suits (hereinafter referred to as the Plaintiff States).	Reasoning
Each of the plaintiff states has sought a declaration that the directive of Shri Charan Singh is Unconstitutional, illegal and ultra vires the Constitution an d an injunction restraining the Union of India from giving effect to this directive.	Reasoning
We fail to see how such declaration or injunction can be granted by the Court.	Reasoning
The directive of Shri Charan Singh is nothing but an advice or suggestion to the Chief Minister of each plaintiff State to recommend to the Governor dissolution of the Legislative Assembly of the concerned State.	Reasoning
It has been wrongly described as a directive.	Reasoning
It has no constitutional authority behind it.	Reasoning
It is always open to the Home Minister of the Central Government to give advice or suggestion to the Chief Minister of a State and the Chief Minister may accept or reject such advice or suggestion according as he thinks fit.	Reasoning
The advice o r suggestion has no binding effect on the Chief Minister and no legal consequence flow from it.	Reasoning
Hence it is not possible to say that the directive issued by Shri Charan Singh was unconstitutional, illegal or ultra vires.	Reasoning
There is a lso no, question of giving effect to the directive and no injunction can, therefore, be granted restraining its implementation.	Reasoning
The directive, if not accepted and carried but would certainly be a precursor to action under Art. 356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) and, therefore, may be regarded as indicative of a threat, but standing by itself, it does not give rise to any cause of action in the State for declaration or injunction.	Reasoning
Turning to the relief sought against the threatened exercise of power under Art. 356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) we find that what is prayed for in this relief is permanent injunction restraining the defendant from taking recourse under Art.	Reasoning
356 of the Constitution of India to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State and from taking any steps from holding fresh elections to the State Assembly before March, 1978.	Reasoning
It is indeed difficult to appreciate, how such a wide and sweeping injunction can be granted by this Court restraining the Union of India from exercising altogether its powers under Art. 356, cl.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
How can the Union of India be prevented by this Court from discharging its constitutional obligations to the State.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that there is a constitutional duty enjoined on the Union of India to ensure that the Government of every State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and there is equally a constitutional obligation on the President that is, the Central Government, to, take action under Art.	Reasoning
356, Cl.	Reasoning
(1), if he finds that a situation has arisen where the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Can this Court issue a blanket order against the Union of India that whatever be the situation which may develop in the State and howsoever necessary it may become to exercise the power under Art.	Reasoning
356 cl.	Reasoning
(1), the Union of India shall not take recourse, to that power to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State and hold fresh elections, to the State Legislative Assembly before March, 1978.	Reasoning
That would clearly obstruct its discharge of the constitutional obligations by the Central Government and no such injunction can be issued by this Court.	Reasoning
Realising this difficulty in their way, the plaintiffStates sought to limit the relief of injunction by confining it only to the ground set out in the directive of Shri Charan Singh and in the statement made by Shri Shanti Bhushan, Law Minister, at a talk on the All India Radio given by him.	Reasoning
That ground, according to the plaintiffStates, was that since the Congress which was the ruling party in these States suffered a mass ive defeat at the General Elections to the Lok Sabha held in March 1977, the Legislative Assemblies of these States no longer reflected the wishes or views of the electorate and hence a fresh appeal to the political sovereign had become necessary and obligatory and the Legislative Assemblies of these States should, therefore, be dissolved with a view to obtaining a fresh mandate from the electorate.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was contended on behalf of the Plaintiff States that this was the only ground on which Central Government proposed to take action under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) and since this ground was wholly extraneous and irrelevant to the basic condition for taking action under Art.	Reasoning
356, cl.	Reasoning
(1), the Central Government was constitutionally not entitled to take.	Reasoning
action under this clause and if any such action were taken by the Central Government, it would be outside the limits of its constitutional authority.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Additional Solicitor Gene ral combated this contention by giving a twofold answer.	None
First, he contended that it was not correct to say that the points of view expressed by Shri Charan Singh and Shri Shanti Bhushan constituted the only material or ground for the possible action under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
356, cl.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
He urged that the points of view of these two ministers could not be equated with the advice which the Council of Ministers might give to the President under Art. 74, cl.	Reasoning
(1) in regard to the dissolution of the Legislative Assemblies of the PlaintiffStates.	Reasoning
The exercise of power under Art. 356, cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(1), it was said, depends on a wide range, of situations depending upon varied and diverse considerations and it is not possible to say what grounds might ultimately weigh with the Council of Ministers in giving their advice to the President under Art. 74, cl.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
Secondly he urged that in any event the ground that the, Legislative Assemblies of the PlaintiffStates had ceased to reflect the will of the electorate and, therefore, in order to ascertain the will of the people, and give effect to it, it was appropriate that the Legislative Assemblies should be dissolved and election should be held, was a ground which had reasonable nexus with the basic condition for invoking the exercise of power under Art. 356, cl.	Arguments of Respondent
(1) and it was a legitimate and relevant ground which could be taken into account in arriving at the satisfaction that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
These were the rival contentions of the parties which we must now proceed to consider.	None
But before we do so, we must at the threshold refer to one other argument of the learned Additional Solicitor General which sought to exclude the jurisdiction of the Court in relation to a question of this kind.	Reasoning
He contended that the question whether in.	Reasoning
a particular State a situation has arisen where the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and, therefore.	Reasoning
action should be taken under Art.	Reasoning
356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) is essentially a political question entrusted by the Constitution to the Union executive and on that account it is not justiciable before the Court.	Reasoning
He urged that having regard to the political nature of the problem, it is not amenable to judicial determination and hence the Court must abstain from inquiring into, it.	Reasoning
We do not think we can accept this argument.	Reasoning
Of course, it is true that if a question brought before the Court is purely a political question not involving determination of any legal or constitutional right or obligation, the Court would not entertain it, since the Court is concerned only with adjudication of legal rights and liabilities.	Reasoning
But merely because a question has a political complexion, that by itself is no ground why the Court should shrink from performing its duty under the Constitution if it raises an issue of constitutional determination.	Reasoning
Every constitutional question concerns the allocation and exercise of governmental power and no constitutional question can, therefore, fail to be political.	Reasoning
A constitution is a matter of purest politics, a structure of power and as pointed out by Charles Black in Perspectives in Constitutional law constitutional law symbolizes an intersection of law and politics, wherein issues of political power are acted on by persons trained in the legal tradition, working in judicial institutions, following the procedures of law, thinking as lawyers think.	Reasoning
It was pointed out by Mr. Justice Brennan in the Opinion of the Court delivered by him in Baker v. Carr, (369 U.S. 186.)	Reasoning
an apoch making decision in American constitutional history, that the mere fact that the suit seeks protection, of a political right does not mean that it presents a political question.	Reasoning
This was put in more emphatic terms in Nixon v. Herndon(273 U.S. 536.)	Reasoning
by saying that such an objection is little more than a play upon words.	Reasoning
The, decision in Baker v. Carr, (Supra) was indeed a striking advance in the field of constitutional law in the United States.	Reasoning
Even before Baker v. Carr., the courts in t he United States were dealing with a host of questions political in ordinary comprehension.	Reasoning
Even the desegregation decision of the Supreme Court in Brown v. Board of Education(347 U.S. 483.) had a clearly political complexion.	Reasoning
The Supreme Court also entertained questions in regard to the political right of voting and felt no hesitation about relieving against racial discrimination in voting and in Gomillion v. Lightfoot(364 U.S. 339.)	Reasoning
, it did this even when the racial discrimination was covert, being achieved by so redrawing a municipal boundary as to exclude virtually all Negroes, and no whites, from the city franchise.	Reasoning
It is true that in Colegrove v. Green(328 U.S. 549.)	Reasoning
the Supreme Court refused relief against Congressional districting inequities in illinois, but only three out of seven Justices who sat in that case based their decision on the ground that the question presented before them was political and nonjusticiable and this view was in effect and substance reversed by the Supreme Court in Baker v. Carr.	Reasoning
The Supreme Court in Baker v. Carr, held that it was within the competence of the federal Courts to entertain an action challenging a statute apportioning legislative districts as contrary to the equal protection clause.	Reasoning
This case clearly decided a controversy which was political in character, namely, apportioning of legislative districts but it did so because a constitutional questionof violation of the equal protection clause was directly involved and that question was plainly and indubitably within the jurisdiction of the Court to decide.	Reasoning
It will, therefore, be seen that merely because a question has a political colour, the Court cannot fold its hands in despair and declare as a question arise s whether an authority under the constitution has acted within the limits of its power or exceeded it, it can certainly be decided by the Court.	Reasoning
Indeed it would be its constitutional obligation to do so.	Reasoning
It is necessary to assert in the clearest terms, particularly in the context of recent history, that the Constitution is Suprema lex, the paramount law of the land, and there is no department or branch of government above or beyond it.	Reasoning
Every organ of government, be it the executive or the legislature or the judiciary, derives its authority from the Constitution and it has to act within the limits of its authority.	Reasoning
No one howsoever highly placed and no authority howsoever lofty can claim that it shall be the sole judge of the extent of its power under the Constitution or whether its action is within the confines of such power laid down the Constitution.	Reasoning
This Court is the ultimate interpret er of the Constitution and to this Court is assigned the delicate task of determining what is the power conferred on each branch of government, whether it is limited, and if so, what are the limits and whether any action of that branch transgresses such limits.	Reasoning
It is for this Court to uphold the , constitutional values and to enforce the constitutional limitations.	Reasoning
That is the essence of the rule of law.	Reasoning
To quote the words of Mr. Justice Brennan in Baker v. Carr, Deciding whether a matter has in any measure been committed by the Constitution to another branch of government or whether the action of that branch exceeds whatever authority has been committed, is itself a delicate exercise in constitutional interpretation and i s a responsibility of this Court as ultimate interpreter of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Where there is manifestly unauthorised exercise of power under the Constitution, it is the duty of the Court to intervene.	Reasoning
Let it not be forgotten, that to this Cou rt as much as to other branches of government, is committed the conservation and furtherance of democratic values.	Reasoning
The Courts task is to identify those values in the constitutional plan and to work them into life in the cases that reach the Cour t. Tact and wise restraint ought to tamper any power but courage and the acceptance of responsibility have their place too.	Reasoning
The Court cannot and should not shirk this responsibility, because it has sworn the oath of alligance to the Constitution and is also accountable to the people of this Country.	Reasoning
There are indeed numerous decisions of this Court where constitutional issues have been adjudicated upon though enmeshed in questions of religious tenets, social practices, economic doctrines or educational policies.	Reasoning
The Court has in these cases adjudicated not upon the social, religious, economic , or other issues, but solely on the constitutional questions brought before it and in doing so, the Court has not be en deterred by the fact that these constitutional questions may have such other overtones or facets.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, decline to examine whether there is any constitutional violation involved in the President doing what he threatens to do, merely on the facile ground that the question is political in tone, colour or complexion.	Reasoning
But when we say this, we must make it clear that the constitutional jurisdiction of this Court is confined only to saying whether the limits on the power conferred by the Constitution have been observed or there is transgression of such limits.	Reasoning
Here the only limit on the Power of the President under Art. 356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) is that the President should be satisfied that a situation has arisen whe re the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The satisfaction of the President is a subjective one and , cannot be tested by reference to any objective tests.	Reasoning
It is deliberately and advisedly subjective because the matter in respect to which he is to be satisfied is of such a nature that its decision must necessarily be left to the executive branch of Government.	Reasoning
There may be a wide range of situations which may arise and the ir political implications and consequences may have to be evaluated in order to decide whether the situation is such that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is not a decision which can be based on what the Supreme Court of United States has described as judicially discoverable and manageable standards.	Reasoning
It would largely be a political judgment based on assessment of diverse and varied factors, fast changing situations, potential consequences, public reaction, motivations and responses of different classes of people and their anticipated future behaviour and a host of other considerations, in the light of experience of public affairs and pragmatic management of complex and often curious adjustments that go to make up the highly sophisticated mechanism of a modern democratic government.	Reasoning
It cannot, therefore, by its very nature be a fit subject matter for judicial determination and hence it is left to the subjective satisfaction of the Central Government which is best in a position to decide it.	Reasoning
The Court cannot in the circumstances, go into the question of correctness or adequacy of the fact s and circumstances on which the satisfaction of the Central Government is based.	Reasoning
That would be a dangerous exercise for the Court, both because it is not a fit instrument for determining a question of this kind and also because the Court would thereby usurp the function of the Central Government and in doing so, enter the Political thicket, which it must avoid if it is to retain its legitimacy with the people.	Reasoning
In fact it would not be possible for the Court to undertake this exercise, apart from total lack of jurisdiction to do so, since by reason of Art.	Reasoning
74 cl.	Reasoning
(2), the question whether any and if so what advice was tendered by the Ministers to the President cannot be enquired into by the Court, and moreover, the step s taken by the responsible Government may be founded on information and apprehensions which are not known to and cannot always be made, known to, those who seek to impugn what has been done., (Vide Ningkan v. Government of Malaysia (1970 A.C. 379.).	Reasoning
But one thing is certain that if the satisfaction is mala fide or is based on wholly extraneous and irrelevant grounds, the Court would have jurisdiction to examine it, because in that case there would be no satisfaction of the President in regard to the matter which he is required to be satisfied.	Reasoning
The satisfaction of the President is a condition precedent to the exercise of power under Art. 356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) and if it can be shown that there is no satisfaction of the President at all, the exercise of the power would be constitutionally invalid.	Reasoning
Of course by reason of cl.	Reasoning
(5) of Art.	Reasoning
356, the satisfaction of the President is final and conclusive and cannot be assailed on any ground but this immunity from attack cannot apply where the challenge is not that the satisfaction is improper or unjustified, but that there is, no satisfaction at all.	Reasoning
In such a case it is not the satisfaction arrived at by the President which is challenged, but the existence of the satisfaction itself.	Reasoning
Take, for example, a case where the President gives the reason for taking action under Art. 356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) and says that he is doing so, because the Chief Minister of the State is below five feet in height and, therefore, in his opinion a situation has arisen where the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Can the so called satisfaction of the President in such a case not be challenged on the ground that it is absurd or perverse or mala fide or based on a wholly extraneous and irrelevant ground and is, therefore, no satisfaction at all.	Reasoning
It must of course be concerned that in most cases it would be difficult, if not impossible, to challenge the exercise of power under Art.	Reasoning
356, cl.	Reasoning
(1 ) even on this limited ground, because the facts and circumstances on which the satisfaction is based would not be known, but where it is possible, the existence of the satisfaction can always be challenged on the ground that it is mala fide or based on wholly extraneous and irrelevant grounds.	Reasoning
This proposition derives support from the decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in King Emperor v. Banwari Lal Sarma(72 I.A. 57.) where Viscount Simon, L.C. agreed that the Governor General in declaring that emergency exists must act bona fide and in accordance with his statutory powers.	Reasoning
This is the narrow minimal area in which the exercise of power under Art.	Reasoning
356, cl.	Reasoning
(1) is subject to judicial review and apart from it, it cannot rest with the Court to challenge the satisfaction of the President that the situation contemplated in that clause exists.	Reasoning
Let us now turn to the facts and examine them in the light of the principle discussed.	Reasoning
It would seem from the above discussion that if it can be established affirmatively (1) that the proposed action of the President under Art. 356, Cl.	Reasoning
(1) would be based only on the (, round that the Legislative Assemblies of the PlaintiffStates have ceased to reflect the will of the electorate and they should, therefore, be dissolved with a view to giving an opportunity to the people to elect their true representatives and (2) that this ground is wholly extraneous and irrelevant to the question which the President has to consider for the purpose of arriving at the requisite satisfaction, the Plaintiff States might have a case for injunction against the Union of India.	Reasoning
But we are afraid that neither of these two propositions can be said to be established in the present suits.	None
Re Proposition 1 It is not possible to accede to the argument of the PlaintiffStates that the ground that the Legislative Assemblies of the PlaintiffStates have lost the mandate of the people and no longer reflect the will of the electorate is the only ground on which the President would act, in case he decides to exercise the power under Art.	None
356, Cl.	Reasoning
(1), which, subsequent to, the making of our order on 29th April, 1977, he has in fact done.	None
It is true that this ground is mentioned in the directive of Shri Charan Singh and the statement of Shri Shanti Bhushan, but it would be hazardous in the extreme to proceed on the assumption that this would be the only ground before the Council of Ministers when it considers whether or not to take action under Art.	None
356, Cl.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
There may be other grounds before the Council of Ministers which may not have been articulated by Shri Charan Singh and Shri Shanti Bhushan.	None
It is also possible that in a rapidly changing situation, new grounds may emerge by the time the Council of Ministers considers the question and these grounds may persuade the Council of Ministers to decide to take action under Art.	None
356, Cl.	Reasoning
(1).	Reasoning
The Court cannot equate the points of view expressed by Shri Charan Singh and Shri Shanti Bhushan with the advice of the Council of Ministers nor can the Court speculate as to what would be 84 the grounds which would ultimately weigh with the Council of Ministers.	None
Moreover, it may be noted that this is not the only ground referred to in the directive of Shri Charan Singh.	None
He has also after referring to the virtual rejection in the Lok Sabha elections, of the candidates belonging to the ruling party in the PlaintiffStates, pointed outThe resultant climate of uncertainty is causing grave concern to us.	None
We have reasons to believe that this has created a sense of diffidence at different levels of Administration.	Facts
People at large do not any longer appreciate the propriety of continuance in power of a party which has been unmistakably rejected by the electorate.	Facts
The climate of uncertainty, diffidence and disrespect has already given rise to serious threats to law and order.	Facts
71.The premise on which the entire superstructure of the argument of the PlaintiffStates is based is thus wanting.	None
Re Proposition 2 It is not necessary to consider the question arising under this proposition on the view taken by us in regard to the first proposition, but since the quest ion was argued before us in some detail, we think it proper to express our opinion upon it.	None
The question is can the ground that the Legislative Assembly of a State has ceased to reflect the will of the electorate and that the Legislative Assembly and the electorate are at variance with each other be said to be wholly extraneous and irrelevant for the purpose of Art. 356.	None
Cl.	None
(1) ?	None
Has it any nexus with the matter in regard to which the President is required to be satisfied under Art. 3 56, Cl.	None
(1) ?	None
Does it bear at all on the carrying of the Government of the State in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution ?	None
Now, we have no doubt at all that merely because the ruling party in a State suffers defeat in the elections	None
t o the Lok Sabha or for the matter of that, in the panchayat elections, that by itself can be no ground for saying that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
The Federal structure under our constitution clearly postulates that there may be one party in power in the State and another at the Centre.	None
It is also not an unusual phenomenon that the same electorate may elect a majority of members of one party to the Legislative Assembly, while at the same time electing a majority of members of another party to the Lok Sabha.	None
Moreover, the Legislative Assembly, once elected, is to continue for a specific term and mere defeat at the elections to the Lok Sabha prior to the expiration of the term without anything more would be no ground for its dissolution.	None
The defeat would not necessarily in all cases indicate that the electorate is no longer supporting the ruling party because the issues may be different.	None
But even if it were indicative of a definite shift in the opinion of the electorate, that by itself would be no ground for dissolution, because the Constitution contemplates that ordinarily the will of the electorate sh all be expressed at the end of the term of the Legislative Assembly and a change in the electorates will in between would not be relevant.	None
It may be noted that the Constitution does not provide for a right of recall, individual or collective.	None
If such a provision were there it might have perhaps justified the argument that the ruling party in the State having lost in the elections to the Lok Sabha, the continuance of the Legislative Assembly would not be in accordance With the provisions of the Constitution.	None
To dissolve the Legislative a provision, the defeat of the ruling party in a State at the Lok Sabha elections cannot by itself, without anything more, support the inference that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
To dissolve the Legislative Assembly solely on such ground would be an indirect exercise of the right of recall of all the members by the President without there being any provision in the Constitution for recall even by the electorate.	None
The situation here is, however, wholly different.	None
This is not a case where just an ordinary defeat has been suffered by the ruling party in a State at the elections to the Lok Sabha.	None
There has been a total rout of candidates belonging to the ruling party.	None
In some of the Plaintiff States, the ruling party has not been able to secure a single seat.	None
Never in the history of this country has such a clear and unequivocal verdict being given by the people, never a more massive vote of noconfidence in the ruling party.	None
When there is such crushing defeat suffered by the ruling party and the people have expressed themselves categorically against its policies, it is symptomatic of complete alienation between the Government and the people.	None
It is axiomatic that no Government can function efficiently and effectively in accordance with the Constitution in a democratic set up unless it enjoys the goodwill and support of the people.	None
Where the re is a wall of estrangement which divides the Government from the people, and there is resentment and antipathy in the hearts of the people against the Government, it is not at all unlikely that it may lead to instability and even the administration may be paralysed.	None
The consent of the people is the basis of democratic form of Government and when that is withdrawn so entirely and unequivocally as to leave no room for doubt about the intensity of public feeling against the ruling party, the moral authority of the Government would be seriously undermined and a situation may arise where the people may cease to give respect and obedience to governmental authority and even conflict and confrontation may develop between the Government and the people leading to collapse of administration.	None
These are all consequences which cannot be said to be unlikely to arise from such an unusual state of affairs and they may make it impossible for the Government of the Sta te to be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, Whether the situation is fraught with such consequences or not is entirely a matter of political judgment for the executive branch of Government.	None
But it can not be said that , such consequences can never ensue and that the ground that on account of total and massive defeat of the ruling party in the Lok Sabha elections, the Legislative Assembly of the State has ceased to reflect the will of the people and there is complete alienation between the Legislative Assembly and the people is wholly extraneous or irrelevant to the purpose of Art. 356, Cl.	None
(1).	Reasoning
We hold that on the facts and circumstances of the present case this ground is clearly a relevant ground having reasonable nexus with the matter in regard to which the President is required to be satisfied before taking action under Art.	None
356.	None
Cl.	None
(1).These are the reasons which have prevailed with us in making our order dated 29th April, 1977 dismissing the Suits and Writ Petitions and rejecting the prayer for interim injunction.	Decision
GOSWAMI, J. 72.	None
We already dismissed the suits and the writ petitions on April 29, 1977, and accordingly rejected the prayers for interim injunctions.	None
We promised to give our reasons later and the same may now be stated.	None
The facts of all these matters appear in the judgment of the learned Chief Justice and need not be repeated.	None
The fundamental questions involved in these suits are these, (1) Do the suits lie under Article 131 of the Constitution of India ?	Issue
(2) What is the scope of Article 356 visavis the Courts jurisdiction ?	Issue
(3) If the suits lie, is there a case, for permanent injunction and, .	Issue
as an intermediate step, for an interim temporary injunction ?	None
(4) Have the writ petitioners any fundamental rights to maintain their applications under Article 32 of the Constitution?	None
In these suits as well as in the Writ Petitions the central issue that is involved is the constitutional right of a Council of Ministers to function as the Government of a State and of a Legislative Assembly to continue until expiry of its term provided for in the Constitution.	None
The suits are filed under Article 131 of the, Constitution.	None
Article 131 gives this Court exclusive original jurisdiction in any dispute (a) between the Government of India and one or more States or (b) between the Government of India and any State or States, on one side and one or more other State s on the other or (c) between two or more States.	Arguments of Respondent
73.	None
Although the expression used in Article 131 is any dispute, the width of the expression is limited by the words that follow in respect of the nature of dispute that can be entertained by this Court in its original jurisdiction.	None
It is only a dispute which involves any question of law or fact on which the, existence or extent of a legal right of the contending party depends that can be the subject matter of a suit under Article 131.	None
The dispute should be in respect of legal rights and not disputes of political character.	None
The Article, thus, refers to the parties that may be arrayed in the litigation as well as to the subject matter of the dispute.	None
(See State of Bihar v. Union of India Anr.).	None
(1970 2 S.C.R. 522.)The suits are, in form, being filed by the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa.	None
But is the dispute sought for adjudication within the scope or ambit of Article 131 ?	Issue
That is the first question.	None
74.	None
In a parliamentary form of Government when one Government is replaced by another, the States continuity is not snapped.	None
There may come a moment in the life of a Government when it may cease to be truly representative of the people and, therefore, the. interest of the State as a polity or legal entity and that of the Government established on party system may cease to be identical.	None
In such a situation, factual or imminent, a sui t by a State Government in the name of the State against the Union Governments action in defence, of the formers legitimate existence and right of continuance will not relate to the legal right of the State.	None
The judgment, whether in truth and reality a particular situation exists or is portentously imminent, may be correct or incorrect, but it is a political issue.	None
The Courts jurisdiction is not political but entirely judicial.	None
75.	None
The right of a particular State to sue is not always equivalent to the right of the Council of Ministers in all matters.	None
Even if a Government goes the State lives.	Reasoning
Whether a particular Council of Ministers can survive threats to their existence depends no doubt immediately on its ability to enjoy the confidence of the majority in the Legislature, but also, in the last resort, in its ability to enjoy the confidence of the political sovereign, the electorate.	Reasoning
The questions affecting the latter domain are.	Reasoning
of highly political complexion and appertain to political rights of the Government and not to legal rights of the State.	Reasoning
The rights agitated by the plaintiffs are principally of the Governments concerned who are interested in continuing the legislatures whose confidence they enjoy.	Reasoning
On the other hand, it is claimed by the Home Minister in his letter that these Legislatures have lost the mandate of the people and that there is clear evidence , of their having lost the confidence of the people as a result o f the verdict in the recent general election to the Parliament.	Reasoning
The Court is not concerned whether this is a (correct assessment or not.	Reasoning
The Union Government is entitled to take political decisions.	Reasoning
However, even if a political decision of the Government of India affects legal rights of the State as a legal entity, the existence and extent of that right will be triable under Article 131.	Reasoning
The question is, are legal rights of the State involved in the dispute ?	Issue
Article 131 speaks of a legal right.	Issue
That legal right must he that , of the State.	None
The dispute about a legal right, its existence or extent, must be capable of agitation between the Government of India and the States.	Reasoning
The character of the dispute within the scope of Artic le 131 that emerges is with regard to, a legal right which the States may be able to claim against the Government.	Reasoning
For example, the State as a party must affirm a legal right of its own which the Government of India has denied or is interested in denying giving rise to a cause of action.	Reasoning
For the purpose of deciding whether Article 131 is attracted the subject matter of the dispute, therefore, assumes great importance.	Reasoning
75.	None
Part VI deals with the States.	None
The word State is not defined for the purpose of Article 131 in Part V.	None
The State is, however, defined under Article 12 for the purpose Part III (Fundamental Rights).	None
This is the definition also for Part IV (Directive principles of State, Policy).	None
Under Article 367(1), the provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897, are a applicable for interpretation of the constitution.	None
Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act defines State, after the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment), Act, 1956, to mean a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union Territory.	Reasoning
The First Schedule to the Constitution describes 22 States and 9 Union Territories.	None
The State Government is separately defined under section 3(60) of the General Clauses Actthus keeping the distinction.	None
Article 131 of the Constitution relates to legal rights of the State or of the Government of India.	None
Any violation of the provisions of the Constitution impinging on the rights of the States or of the Government of India will be justiciable under Article 131.	None
Similarly, boundary disputes or disputes relating to rival claims to receipts from taxes and other duties between two States are cognizable by this Court, to refer only to a few instances.	None
Now in these above mentioned cases the rights of the State as a legal entity distinguished from the Government, being the executive agent, will be involved.	None
Even if one Government is re placed by another Government, such a dispute will not abate or disappear since the State endures and the cause of action survives.	None
Keeping in view the, above concept, we will undertake to examine the nature of the dispute which is involved in these su its.	None
Shortly stated the States apprehend a grave threat to the assumption of the executive functions of, the State by the President on non compliance with the advice or direction contained in the letter of the Home Minister.	None
It is true that th e threat to an illegal action also furnishes a cause of action for a suit or proceeding.	None
76.	None
Under Article 172(1) all the State Assemblies, except Orissa, will continue, if not dissolved earlier, for a period of six years from the date appointed for its first meeting and in that view in the normal course will continue for some more months.	None
The Legislative Assembly of the State of Orissa, on the other hand, having held its election in 1974, will in the normal course continue till 1980 unless earlier dissolved.	None
The States apprehend that this normal life of the Legislatures is going to be snapped resulting in the, annihilation of their legal and constitutional rights under Article 172(1).	None
That furnishes a cause of action for the suits for permanent injunction according to the plaintiffs.	None
77.	None
The dispute is this The Home, Minister, Government of India, is asking the Chief Ministers of the Governments of the States to advise the Governors to dissolve the Legislative Assemblies.	Issue
The Chief Ministers declined to accept the advice and filed the suits.	Issue
What is the, nature of this dispute ?	Issue
On the one hand there is the claim of a right to continue the present Government of the State and necessarily to continue the Legislative Assembly and on the other the right to take action under Article 356 by the President to assume functions of the State Government.	None
This dispute involves a major issue of great constitutional importance and the aggrieved p arty may have other appropriate.	None
forum to complain against any substantial injury Even so, it is not a dispute between the State on the one hand and the Government of India on the other.	None
It is a real dispute between the Government of the State and the Government of India.	None
It is, no doubt a question of life and death for the State Government but not so for the State as a legal entity.	None
Even after the dissolution of the Assembly the State will continue to have a Government for the time being as provided for in the Constitution in such a (contingency.	None
A Legislature of the State under Article 168 consists of the Governor and the Legislative Assembly or where there is a Legislative Council both the, Houses.	None
This also has its significance in comprehending the nature of the dispute.	None
The members constituting the State Legislature of which the Council of Ministers is the executive body, alone, do not even constitute the State Legislature.	None
The Governor is an integral part of the State Legislature under the Constitution.	None
The rights of the Council of Ministers or of the members of the State Legislature cannot, therefore, be equated with the rights of the State even though those rights may be those of the State Government, pro tempore.	None
The distinction between the, State and the Government is brought out with conspicuous clarity in the following passages The distinction between the State and its Government is analogous to that between a given human individual, as a moral and intellectual person, and his material physical body By the term State is understood the political person or entity which possesses the law making right.	None
By the term Government is understood the agency through which the will of the State is formulated, expressed and executed.	None
The Government thus acts as the machinery of the State, and those who operate this machinery act as the agents of the State.(The Fundamental Concepts of Public Law by Westel W. Willoughly, page 49.)	None
In all constitutionally organised States the State is permitted to sue in the courts not only with reference to its own proprietary or contractual interests, but also in behalf of the general interests of its citizen body.	None
When appearing as plaintiff in the latter capacity it is known as Parens Patriae.	None
This jurisprudential doctrine is stated in the Cyclopedia of Law and Procedure as follows A State, like any other party, cannot maintain a suit unless it appears that it has such an interest in the subjectmatter thereof as to authorise the bringing of the suit by it.	None
In this connection, however, a distinction, should be noted between actions by the people or by the State in a sovereign capacity, and suits founded on some pecuniary interest for proprietary right.	None
(The Fundamental Concepts of Public Law by Westel W. Willoughly pp. 487488.)	None
The value of the distinction between State and government is the possibility it offers of creating institutional mechanisms for changing the agents of the state, that is, the government, when the latter shows itself inadequate to its responsibilities.	None
(The State in Theory and practice by Harold J. Laski, page 25.)	None
78.	None
I am clearly of opinion that the, subject matter of the dispute in these suits does not appertain to legal rights of the States concerned to satisfy the requirement of Article 131 of the Constitution.	None
These suits are, therefore, not maintainable in law and on this ground they are liable to be dismissed.	None
79.	Arguments of Petitioner
With regard to the Writ Petitions I had the opportunity to go through the judgments of my brothers Bhagwati and Gupta and I entirely agree with their reasoning and conclusion.	None
I am clearly of opinion that there is no violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed to the petitioners under Articles 19(1)(f) and 31 of the Constitution as a consequence of the threatened dissolution of the Legislative Assembly.	None
the Writ Petitions are, therefore, not maintainable and are liable for rejection.	None
80.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since, however, the question of mala fides of the proposed action of the Home Minister was argued at length with a pointed focus on the ensuing Presidential, election, I should touch on the point.	None
81.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that these grounds, ex facie, are completely irrelevant and extraneous and even mala fide.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Niren De referred to the decision of the Privy Council in King Emperor v. Benoari Lal Sarma and Others(72 I.A. 57, 64.) and read to us the following passageIt is to be observed that the section (72 of Government of India Act, 1935) does not require the GovernorGeneral to state that there is an emergency, or what the emergency is either in the text of the ordinance o r at all, and assuming that he acts bona fide and in accordance with his statutory powers, it cannot rest with the courts to challenge his review that the emergency exists.	Arguments of Petitioner
82.	Arguments of Petitioner
Relying on the above passage, Mr. De submits that this Court is entitled to examine whether the direction is mala fide or not.	Arguments of Petitioner
83.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Additional Solicitor General has drawn our attention to Bhagat Singh and Others v. The KingEmperor(58 I.A. 169, 172.) which is a decision of the Privy Council followed in Benoari Lai Sarmas case (supra)	Arguments of Respondent
He read to us the following passage A state of emergency is something that does not permit of any exact definition.	Arguments of Respondent
If connotes a state of matters calling for drastic action, which is to be judged as such by some one.	Arguments of Respondent
It is more than obvious that some one must be the GovernorGeneral, and he alone.	Arguments of Respondent
Any other view would render utterly inept the whole provision.	Arguments of Respondent
Emergency demands immediate action, and that action is prescribed to be taken by the Governor General.	Arguments of Respondent
It is he alone who can promulgate the Ordnance.	None
84.	Arguments of Petitioner
The President in our Constitution is a constitution al head and is bound to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers (Article 74).	None
This was the position even before the amendment of Article 74(1) of the Constitution by the 42nd Amendment (See Shamsher Singh Anr.	None
v. State of Pun jab (1975 1 S.C.R. 814.).	None
The position has been made absolutely explicit by the amendment of Article 74(1) by the Constitution 42nd Amendment which says there shall be a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head to aid and advise the President who shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in accordance with such advise.	None
What was judicially interpreted even under the unamended Article 74(1) has now been given parliamentary recognition by the Constitution Amendment.	None
There can, therefore, be no doubt that the decision under Article 356 of the Constitution which is made by the President is a decision of the Council of Ministers.	None
Because certain reasons ate given in the letter of the Home Minister, it cannot be said that those will, be the only grounds which will weigh with the Council of Ministers when they finally take a decision when the advise has been rejected by the Chief Ministers.	Reasoning
There are so many imponderables that may intervene between the time of the letter and the actual advice of the Council of Ministers to the President.	None
There may be further developments or apprehension of developments which the Government may have to take not of and finally when the Council of Ministers decides and advises the President to issue a proclamation under Article 356, the Court will be barred from enquiring into the advice that was tendered by the Cabinet to the President (Article 74(2).	None
Then again under Article 356(5), the satisfaction of the President in issuing the proclamation under Article 356(1) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be questioned in any court on, any ground.	None
In the view I have taken, I am not required to consider in the matters be fore us whether Article 356(5) of the Constitution is ultra vires the Constitution or not.	None
Even the Additional Solicitor General based his arguments on the very terms of Article 356(1) de hors Article 356(5) relying upon Bhagat Singhs case (supra) that the subjective satisfaction of the President is not justiciable.	None
It is inview of this stand of the Union that Mr. De drew our attention to Benoari Lai Sarmas case (supra ) where the Privy Council seems to have indicated that the question of mala fides could be gone in to by the court.	None
Mr. De submits that a mala fide order under Article 356 will be no order in the eye of law.	None
85.	Arguments of Petitioner
I am not prepared to say that this Court, which is the last recourse for the oppressed and the bewildered, will, for good, refuse to consider when there may be sufficient materials to establish that a proclamation under Article 356(1) is tainted with mala fides.	None
I would, however, hasten to add that the grounds given in the Home Ministers letter cannot be any strength of imagination be held to be mala fide or extraneous or irrelevant.	None
These ground will have reasonable nexus with the subject of a proclamation under Articl e 356(1) of the Constitution.	None
The matter would have been entirely different if there were no proposal, pari passu, for an appeal to the electorate by holding elections to these Assemblies.	None
86.	None
In view of my conclusion that the suits and Writ Petitions are not maintainable I do not feel called upon to deal with the question whether there is a case for permanent injunction or other appropriate writ in these matters.	None
The suits and the Writ Petitions were, therefore, already dismissed .	None
87.	None
I part with the records with a cold shudder.	Decision
The Chief Justice was good enough to tell us that the acting President saw him during the time we were considering judgment after having already announced the order and there was mention of this pending matter during the conversation.	Decision
I have given this revelation the most anxious thought and even the strongest judicial restraint which a Judge would prefer to exercise, leaves me no option but to place this on record hoping that the majesty of the High Office of the President, who should be beyond the highwatermark of any controversy, suffers not in future.	Decision
UNTWALIA, J. The unanimous order of the Bench in these cases was delivered on April 29, 1977.	None
The judgments in support of the order are now being delivered.	None
While generally agreeing with the reasons given in the leading judgment of the learned Chief Justice, on some of the points I would like to add a few words and make some observations of my own.	None
88.	None
As to the maintain ability of the writ applications filed by some of the members of the Punjab Legislature under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, I would, as at present advised, not like to express any opinion one way or the other.	None
I will assume in their favour that at the threshold the applications are maintainable.	None
Yet they do not make out a case for issuance of any kind of writ, direction, or order.	None
89.	None
But as to the maintainability of the suits filed under Article 131 by the various States I would like to say that, although the point is highly debatable and not free from difficulty, the dispute of the kind raised in the suits does not involve any question whether of law or fact on which the existence or extent of any legal right of the States concerned depends.	None
To my mind the dispute raised is between the Government of India and the Government or the Legislative Assembly of the States concerned.	None
One or more limbs, namely, and the Government, the Legislature or the Judiciary of a State cannot be equated with the State.	None
Although the expression legal right occurring in Article 131 embraces within its ambit not only the constitutional rights of the States but also other kinds of legal rights, the dispute must relate to the territory, property or some other kind of legal right of the State.	None
Broadly speaking, the nature of the dispute in these cases is that the President on the advice of the Council of Ministers, in other words, the Government of India proposes to exercise his powers under Article 356 for making a proclamation in order to dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State concerned and to dislodge the Council of Ministers, the particular Government in power in that State.	None
Such a dispute, in my opinion, is not a dispute visavis the legal right of the State a unit of the Union of India.	None
It falls short of that.	None
What is alleged is that pursuant to the impugned proclamation the President will assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor including the power to dissolve the Assembly under Article 174(2) (b).	None
Such a proposed or threatened action does affect the legal right of the Government in power and the Legislative Assembly a part of the State Legislature, but not of the State itself.	None
The State undoubtedly is entitled to have a Governor a Government in one form or the other and the Legislature.	None
No part of it can be abolished.	None
Abolition would affect the legal right of the State.	None
But it is not quite correct to say that a State has legal right to have a particular Governor or a particular Government or a particular Legislative Assembly.	None
In contrast to the word dissolved used in Article 174 I would point , out the provision of abolition of the Legislative Council of a State mentioned in Article 169.	None
Similarly, to illustrate my view point, I may refer to Article 153 which provides there shall be a Governor for each State, and Article 156 which provides for a particular Governor holding office during the pleasure of the President.	None
if a dispute arises in relation to an action or threat of the Government o f India under Article 153 it will affect the legal right of the State as the State cannot exist without a Governor.	None
But if the dispute concerns merely the removal of a particular Governor by the President, it only affects the legal right of the person holding the office or the Government of the State but not of the State itself.	None
That the distinction, though subtle, is significant and appreciable, is clear from the language of the various clauses of Article 131 itself as also from the definitions of State Governments given in section 3 (5 8) and 3 (60) of the General Clauses Act.	None
In my considered judgment, therefore, the suits as instituted under Article 131 are not maintainable.	None
But I would not rest content to maintain the dismissal of the suits only on this technical ground.	None
90.	None
Putting the matter briefly in some words of my own as to the merits of the suits I would like to emphasize, in the first instance, that it is difficult to presume, assume or conclude that the only basis of the proposed action by the President is the facts mentioned in the letter of the Home Minister to the Chief Ministers of the States concerned or the speech of the Law Minister of the Government of India.	None
There is no warrant nor any adequate material disclosed in any of the plaints in support of any assertion to the contrary.	None
Secondly, even if one were to assume such a fact in favour of the plaintiffs or the petitioners the facts disclosed, undoubtedly, lie in the field or an area purely of a political nature, which are essentially non justiciable.	None
It would be legitimate to characterise such a field as prohibited area in which it is neither permissible for the Courts to enter nor should they ever take upon themselves the hazardous task of entering into such an area.	None
In the very nature of things the President must be left to be the sole Judge, of course, on the advice of his Council of Ministers, for his satisfaction as to whether there exists or not a situation in which the Government of a State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
Such a satisfaction may be based on receipt of a report from the Governor of a State or otherwise.	None
Neither can the President be compelled to disclose all the facts and materials leading to his satisfaction for an action under Article 356 nor is his conclusion as to the arising of a situation of the kind envisaged in Article 356( 1), generally speaking, open to challenge even on the disclosed facts.	None
91.	None
I, however, must hasten to add that I cannot persuade myself to subscribe to the view that under no circumstances an order of proclamation made by the President under Article 356 can be challenged in a Court of Law.	None
And, I am saying so notwithstanding the provision contained in clause (5) of the said Article introduced by the Constitution (38th Amendment) Act, 1975.	None
In support of the divergent views canvassed before us either in relation to the proclamation of emergency under Article 352 or a proclamation under Article 356, extreme hypothetical examples were cited on one side or the other.	None
From a practical point of view most of such examples remain only in hypothesis and in an imaginary world.	None
It is difficult to find them in realty but yet not impossible in a given case or cases.	None
Then, where lies the difference?	None
Even before the introduction of clause (5) in Article 356 or a similar clause in some other Articles, such as Articles 352 and 123, the doors were closed for the Courts to enter the prohibited area which is popularly and generally called the political field.	None
If the validity of the action taken by the President in exercise of his power, say, under any of the three Articles referred to above is challenged attracting the necessity of entering the prohibited field to peep into the reality of the situation by examination of the facts for themselves, either on the ground of legality or mala fides the Courts have always resisted and shall continue to resist the inducement to enter the Prohibited field for example, Bhagat Singh and others v. The KingEmperor, (58, Indian Appeals, 169.)	None
KingEmperor v. Benoari Lal Sarma and others (72 Indian Appeals, 57.)	None
Lakhi Naryana	None
Das v. The Province of Bihar etc. etc.(1949 F.C.R.693.)	None
and M s S.K. G. Sugar Ltd. v. State of Bihar and Ors.	None
(1975 1 S.C.R., 312.).	None
To put it graphically clause (5)has merely put a seal on such closed doors to check more emphatically the temptation or the urge to make the Courts enter the prohibited field.	None
Attempts have always been made by the party who is out of the field of power, if I can equate it with the prohibited field aforesaid, to induce the Court to enter that field in order to give relief against the taking of the extraordinary steps by the President on the advice of the Government in power.	None
On the other hand, the party in power has always resisted such move.	None
In a democracy the current of public opinion and franchise may push a particular ship on one side of the shore or the other.	None
But this Court, like the Pole Star, has to guide and has guided the path of all mariners in an even manner remaining alo of from the current and irrespective of the fact whether a particular ship is on this shore or that.	None
But then, what did I mean by saying that a situation may arise in a given case where the jurisdiction of the Court is not completely ousted ?	None
I mean this.	None
If, without entering into the prohibited area, remaining on the fence, almost on the face of the impugned order or the threatened action of the President it is reasonably possible to say that in the eye of law it is no order or action as it is in flagrant violation of the very words of a particular Article, justifying the conclusion that the order is ultra vires, wholly illegal or passed mala fide, in such a situation it will be tantamount in law to be, no order at all.	None
Then this Court is not powerless to interfere with such an order and may, rather, must strike it down.	None
But it is incompetent and hazardous for the Court to draw such conclusions by investigation of facts by entering into the prohibited area It would be equally untenable to say that the Court would be powerless to strike down the order, if on its face, or, if I may put it, by going round the circumference of the prohibited area, the Court finds the order as a mere pretense or a colourable exercise of the extraordinary powers given under certain Articles of the Constitution.	None
In a given case it may be possible to conclude that it is a fraud on the exercise of the power.	None
But as I have said above in all such types of cases from a practical point of view are likely to seldom occur and even if they occur may be few and far between, the Courts have to arrive at such conclusions by checking their temptation to enter the prohibited area of facts which are essentially of a political nature.	None
It is in this context Lord Mac Dermott seems to have observed in the case of Stephen Kalong Ningkan and Government of Malaysia(1970 Appeal Cases, 379.) at pages 39192	None
The issue of justiciability raised by the Government of Malaysia led to a difference of opinion in the Federal Court, the Lord President of Malaysia and the Chief Justice of Malaya holding that the validity of the proclamation was not justiciable and Ong J. holding that it was.	None
Whether a proclamation under statutory powers by the Supreme Head of the Federation can be challenged before the courts on, some or any grounds is a constitutional question 6( farreaching importance which, on the present state of the authorities, remains unsettled and debatable.	None
In the application of the principle enunciated by me, and.	None
in the demarcation of the prohibited area, opinions may sometimes differ, mistakes may sometimes be committed either by unduly enlarging the area of the prohibited field or by unduly limiting.	None
But such differences are inherent in the very nature of administration of justice through human agency.	None
No way out has yet been involved nor can one conceive of a better methodology.	None
Nonetheless the Courts and the Judges manning them are the best arbiters of judging, their own limits of jurisdiction as the custodian of the functions to watch and see every Limb of the State acting under the constitution in accordance with it.	None
It is intrinsic and not uncommon to find that a party in control of the field which I have described as a prohibited area would be trying to view and make that area as large as possible and the party outside that field will endeavour to narrow it down as far as feasible.	None
But the Courts do keep and have got to keep that area the same as far as it is humanly and legally possible to do so either for the one or the other party.	None
It is neither possible nor advisable or useful to make an attempt to define such area by taking examples one way or the other to illustrate as to when the Court would be able to say that I am striking out a particular order of the President without entering the prohibited area or vice versa.	None
In these cases I would rest content by saying that, as I view the facts placed before us, they are exclusively within the prohibited area.	None
92.	None
The main theme of contention has been that the President cannot make the proclamation because when laid before each House of the Parliament in accordance with clause (3) of Article 356 it is sure Or very likely that it will not be approved by the Rajya Sabha where the party in power in the concerned States is in clear majority in any event, the President cannot and should not be permitted to take any action pursuant to the proclamation of dissolving the Assembly without the approval of both the Houses of Parliament, as the act of dissolution will be irretrievable and in flagrant violation of the federal structure of the constitution.	None
I find no words of such limitation on the power of the President either in the original Article as framed and passed by the Constituent Assembly or in any of the amendments brought t herein from time to time.	None
The proclamation made and an action taken pursuant thereto, if otherwise valid and not open to challenge in the manner and within the limitation I have indicated above, arc valid till the proclamation lasts, the maximum period of which is two months even without the approval of the Houses of Parliament.	None
On the revocation of the proclamation by the President or its disapproval or nonapproval by either House of the Parliament the proclamation merely ceases to operate without in any way affecting or invalidating the action taken pursuant to the proclamation before its cesser of operation.	None
No body has yet suggested, nor could any one do so, with any semblance of justification that such a wide power conferred on the President even by the original constitution as passed and adopted by the people of India could have any relevancy to the so called destruction of the basic federal structure of the constitution.	None
In this respect I, for myself, do not see any appreciable or relevant difference between the action of dissolution of an Assembly by the Governor of a State in exercise of his power under Article 1740)	None
(b), or such an action taken pursuant to the proclamation under Article 356(1) (a).	None
There may be justifiable and genuine differences of opinion between the politicians, political thinkers, jurists and others whether the grounds of the proposed action disclosed so far in the letter of the Home Minister or the speech of the Law Minister of the Government of India can necessarily lead to the conclusion whether a situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the constitut ion.	None
Firstly, the possibility of other grounds being there for the proposed action under Article 356 cannot be ruled out.	None
Even if ruled out, the conclusion drawn on the facts disclosed cannot be said to be so perverse, erroneous and palpably u nsustainable so as to enable this Court to say that standing on the, fence the Court can, declare that the proposed action of proclamation on these facts falls in the category of the cases where the Court will be justified to prevent the threatened action by injuncting the President either to issue the proclamation or to dissolve the Assembly of a particular State.	None
1, for one, would meticulously guard myself against expressing any opinion one way or the other except saying that the facts disclosed so far, in my considered judgment, are definitely and exclusively within the prohibited area and the conclusions drawn therefrom are reasonably possible, especially in the background of Article 355.	None
On the facts, as they are, it is difficult, rather, impossible to say that the proposed proclamation is going to be made mala fide with an ulterior motive.	None
Apart from the other technical and insurmountable difficulties which are therein the way of the plaintiffs o r the petitioners in getting any of the reliefs sought I have thought it advisable to pinpoint in my own humble way the main grounds in support of the order we have already declared.	None
FAZAL ALI, J.	None
In a big democracy like ours the popularly electe d executive Government has sometimes to face a difficult and delicate situation and in.	None
the exercise of its functions it has to perform onerous duties and discharge heavy responsibilities which are none too easy or pleasant a task.	None
Circumstances may arise where problems facing the Government are political, moral, legal or ethical calling for a careful and cautious exercise of discretion of powers conferred on the Government by the Constitution of the country.	None
Even though the Government may have acted with the best of intentions, its actions may displease some and please others, as a result of which serious controversies and problems arise calling for an immediate and satisfactory solution.	None
The present suits filed by some of the States and the writ petitions filed by three members of the Legislative Assembly of Punjab are ridden with legal and constitutional problems due to , an action taken by the Central Government to meet, what in its opinion was, an unprecedented political situation.	Issue
My Lord the Chief Justice has succinctly detailed the facts of the present suits and the petitions and it is not necessary for me to repeat the same, except in so far as they may be relevant for the decision of the conclusions to which I arrive.	None
I might also mention that I fully agree with the judgment proposed by my Lord the Chief Justice giving complete reasons for the order which the Court had unanimously passed on April 29, 1977, dismissing the suits as also th e writ petitions and rejecting the injunctions sought for and other interim orders.	None
I would, however, like to give my own reasons highlighting some of the important aspects that arise in the case.	None
93.	None
By virtue of the Presidents order dated the 18t h January 1977 published in the Gazette of IndiaExtraordinary, Part 1section 1by a notification dated the 19th January 1977 the President in exercise of the powers conferred upon him by subclause (b) of clause (2) of Art. 85 of the Constitution dissolved the Lok Sabha.	Facts
Thus notification was soon followed by another notification dated the 10th February 1977 issued by the Ministry of Law, Justice and Company Affairs calling upon all the parliamentary constituencies to elect members in accordance with S. 14(2) of the Representation of the, People Act, 1951.	Facts
In pursuance of this Notification the Election Commission on the same day appointed the dates when elections were to be held in various constituencies.	Facts
This order was passed under s. 30 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.	Facts
Further details are not necessary for the purpose of deciding the issues arising in this case.	Facts
Suffice it to mention that in consequence of the elections which were held in March 1977, the Congress Party was almost routed in Bihar, U.P., Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal, and particularly in some of the States not a single candidate set up by the Congress Party was returned.	Facts
The Congress also lost its majority in the Lok Sabha as a result of.	Facts
which the Government at the centre was formed by the Janata Party in coalition with the Congress for Democracy.	Facts
Mr. Morarji Desai the present Prime Minister was sworn in after being elected as the party leader on March 24, 1977 and he selected his Council of Ministers on March 25, 1977.	Facts
Soon thereafter the Union Home Minister addressed a letter to the aforesaid nine states, namely, Bihar, U.P., Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan and West Bengal, asking them to advise their respective Governors to dissolve the Assemblies and seek a fresh mandate from the people.	None
The six plaintiffs, namely, the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Orissa have filed suits in this Court praying for a declaration that the matter of the Home Minister was illegal and ultra vires of the Constitution and not binding on the plaintiffs and prayed for an interim injunction restraining the Central Government from resorting to Art.	None
356 of the Constitution.	Facts
A permanent injunction was also sought for by the plaintiffs in order to restrain the Central Government permanently from taking any steps to dissolve the Assemblies until their normal period of six years was over.	Facts
The writ petitioners who are some members of the Legislative Assembly of Punjab have filed writ petition complaining of violation of their fundamental rights and have also prayed for similar injunctions.	Facts
The prayer of the plaintiffs as also that of the petitioners has been seriously contested by the defendant responden t Union of India on whose behalf the Additional SolicitorGeneral raised several preliminary objections and also contested the claim on merits.	None
94.	None
Having discussed the nature of the claim by the plaintiffs, if may now be germane to examine the preliminary objections taken by the defendant to the maintainability of the suits by the plaintiffs as also of the petitions.	None
The first preliminary objection raised by the Additional Solicitor General was that the suits were not maintainable under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
131 of the Constitution because one of the essential requirements of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
131 was that there must be a dispute between the Government of India and one or more States, and the present dispute is, on the very face of the allegations made by the plaintiffs, not between the Government of India and one or more States, but it is between the Government of India and the States Governments which is not contemplated by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
131 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
Mr. Niren De, appearing for some of the plaintiffs, however, submitted that the language of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
131 is wide enough to include not only the States but also the State Governments which alone can represent the states and context any legal right on behalf of the States.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was next contended by the Additional SolicitorGeneral that even if the first condition of Art. 131 is satisfied, there was no dispute, as contemplated by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
131.	Reasoning
Mr. Niren De rebutted this argument by contending that the letter of the Home Minister disclosing the grounds on which the Central Government proposed to take action (or dissolution of the Assemblies was a sufficient dispute which entitled the plaintiffs to approach this Court under Art. 131.95.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, it was submitted by the Additional SolicitorGeneral that while the plaintiffs have prayed for the relief of both temporary and permanent injunctions, this Court, hearing a suit under Art.	None
131 of the Constitution, cannot grant the relief for injunction and the only relief which this Court can give would be purely of a declaratory character.	None
This point, however, was later on given up by the Additional SolicitorGeneral, and in our opinion rightly, because s. 204 of the Government of India Act, 1935, which preceded the Constitution contained an express provision, viz. subs.	None
(2) which expressly barred the right of the Court to grant any relief excepting a declaratory one, whereas in Art.	None
131 of the Constitution that particular clause has been deliberately omitted and the restriction imposed under that clause by the Government of India Act has been removed, as a result of which this Court can grant any relief which it thinks suitable and which is justified by the necessities of a particular case.	None
96.	None
In order to examine the validity of the contentions put forward by counsel for the parties, it may be necessary to extract the provisions of Art.	None
131 of the Constitution, the relevant part of which runs thus 131.	Reasoning
Original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.	None
Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Supreme Court shall, to the exclusion of any other Court, have original jurisdiction in any dispute(a) between the Government of India and one or more States or (b) between the Government of India and any State or States on one side and one or more other States on the other, or (c) between two or more States, if and in so far as the dispute involves any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	Arguments of Respondent
An analysis of this provision would indicate that before a suit can be entertained by this Court under this provision, the following conditions must be satisfied (i) that there must be a dispute (ii) that the dispute must be between the Government of India and one or more States or between Government of India and any State or States on one side and one or more other States on the other, or between two or more States, , (iii) that the dispute must involve any question (whether of law or fact) on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends and (iv) that there is no other provision in the Constitution which can be resorted to solve such a dispute.	None
Before we apply these conditions to the facts of the present case, it may be necessary to run through the contents of the letter of the Home Minister as also the Press interviews given by him and by the, Law Minister which according to the plaintiffs form an integral part of the communication received by them from the Home Minister.	None
My Lord the Chief Justice has extract ed in extenso the press statements as also the contents of the letter of the Home Minister written to the various Chief Ministers of the States and I would like, however, to indicate the main points contained therein for the purpose of deciding whether or not a real dispute arose in the case.	None
The statement of.	None
the Home Minister to the Press is extracted at p. 25 in Original Suit No. 2 of 1977 and the relevant part of the same runs thus We have given our most earnest consideration to the unprecedented political situation arising out of the virtual rejection, in the recent Lok Sabha Elections of the Congress candidates in several States.	Facts
I have in mind Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal propriety of the Congress Governments in these States , continuing in power without seeking a fresh mandate from the electorate.	None
97.	None
Similarly the relevant partof the contents of the Home Ministers letter to the Chief Ministers may be extracted Thus We have given our earnest and serious consideration to the most unprecedented political situation arising out of the virtual rejection, in the recent Lok Sabha elections, of candidates belonging to the ruling party in various States.	Facts
We have reasons to believe that this has created a sense of diffidence at different levels of administration.	Facts
People at large do not any longer appreciate the propriety of continuance in power of a party which has been unmistakably rejected by the electorate.	Facts
(Emphasis supplied) Relevant portions of the extracts from the interview given by Mr. Shanti Bhushan in a spotlight programme of the All India Radiomay also be quoted from Annexure B of the Paper Book in Original Suit No. 1 of 1977 filed by the State of Rajasthan which run thus In an interview in the spotlight programme of All India Radio he said that the most important basic feature of the Constitution was democracy, which meant that a Government should function with the broad consent of the people and only so long as it enjoyed their confidence.	Facts
If State Governments chose to govern the people after having lost the confidence of the people, they would be undemocratic Governments he said.	Facts
(Emphasis supplied)Constitution was democracy which meant that a Government should function with the broad consent of the people and only so long as it enjoyed the confidence of the people.	Facts
Mr. Shanti Bhushan said that the mere fact that at one time the Government in the States enjoyed the confidence of the people did not give them the right to govern unless they continued to enjoy that confidence.	Facts
If a situation arose in which a serious doubt was cast upon the Government enjoying the continued confidence of the people, then the provision for premature dissolution of the Assembly immediately came into operation.	Facts
The provision not merely gives the power but it casts a duty because this power is coupled with duty, namely, the Assembly must be dissolved immediately and the Government must go to the people to see whether it has the continued confidence of the people to govern.	None
98.	None
Thus analysing the stands taken by the Home Minister and the Law Minister, the following grounds appear to have been relied on by them for the purpose of maintaining that the Assemblies should be dissolved and the Chief Ministers themselves should advise the Governors accordingly (1) that an unprecedented political situation had arisen by the virtual rejection, in the recent Lok Sabha elections, of the Congress candidates in the States concerned, namely the plaintiffs in the six suits including Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and West Bengal)	Facts
(2) that the people at large did not consider it expedient for the Congress Governments to continue without seeking a fresh mandate, when the Congress party was completely routed in the Lok Sabha elections from the States concerned (3) that the constitutional experts have also advised the Home Minister that the State Governments have impliedly forfeited the confidence of the people(4) that there is a climate of uncertainty which has created a sense of diffidence at different levels of administration (5) that such a climate of uncertainty has given rise to serious threats to law and order (6) that the most important basic feature of the Constitution being democracy, a Government had to function with the broad consent of the people so long as it enjoyed its confidence.	Facts
If the State Government lost the confidence of the people, then it would be undemocratic for them to continue (7) that if a situation arises in which a serious doubt was cast upon the Government enjoying the continued confidence of the people, then the provision for premature dissolution of the Assembly would at once be attracted.	Facts
Where such a situation arises, the power contained in the Constitution is coupled with a duty to dissolve the Assembly and direct the Government to go to the people in order t o see whether it has the continued confidence of the people to govern them.	Facts
99.	None
The correctness of the extracts quoted above from the documents filed by the plaintiffs has not been disputed by the Additional SolicitorGeneral.	None
Mr. Niren De contends that in view of the stand taken by the Law Minister and the Home Minister there arose a clear dispute between the Government of India and the State Governments so as to call for an adjudication by this Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In my opinion, the crucial question to be considered is whether or not there is a dispute.	Arguments of Petitioner
Statements by Ministers or even by the Government or made by one party and denied by the other may not amount to a dispute, unless such a dispute is based on a legal right.	Arguments of Petitioner
A dispute? has been defined in the Websters Third New International Dictionary as follows verbal controversy strife by opposing argument or expression of opposing views or claims controversial discussion.	None
A dispute, therefore, clearly postulates that there must be opposing claims which are sought to be put forward by one party and resisted by the others.	None
One of the essential ingredients of Art.	None
131 is that the dispute must involve a legal right based on law or fact.	None
The question which one would ask is what is the legal right which is involved in the statements given by the Home Minister or the Law Minister or the letter addressed by the Home Minister to the Chief Ministers	None
The governmental authorities have merely expounded the consequences of the interpretation of the constitutional provisions relating to the dissolution of the Assemblies.	None
There can be no doubt that under Art.	None
356 it is the Central Government alone which, through its Council of Ministers, can advise the President to issue a proclamation dissolving the Assemblies.	None
The word otherwise clearly includes a contingency where the President acts not on the report of the Governor but through other modes, one of which may be the advice tendered by the Council of Ministers.	None
Under Art.	None
74 as amended by the Constitution (Fortysecond Amendment) Act, 1976, the relevant part of which may be extracted below There shall be a Council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head to aid and advise the President who shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in accordance with such advice.	None
100.	None
The Council of Ministers has to aid and advise the President and once the advice is given, the President has got to accept it, there being no discretion left in him.	None
Thus if the Central Government chooses to advise the President to issue a proclamation dissolving an Assembly, the President has got no option but to issue the proclamation.	None
This manifestly shows that the Central Government has a legal right to approach the President to issue a Proclamation for dissolution of an Assembly as a part of the essential duties which the Council of Ministers have to perform while aiding and advising the President.	None
The State Governments, however, do not possess any such right at all.	None
There is no provision in the Constitution which enjoins that the State Government should be consulted or their concurrence, should be obtained before the Council of Ministers submit their advice to the President regarding a matter pertaining to the State so far as the dissolution of an Assembly is concerned.	None
Article 356 also which confers a power on the President to issue a Proclamation dissolving all Assembly does not contain any provision which requires either prior or subsequent consultation or concurrence of the State Government before the President exercises this power.	None
In these circumstances, can it be said that the State Governments have a right to assert that an order under Art.	None
356 shall not be passed by the President or to file a suit for a declaration that the President may be injuncted from passing such an order ?	None
The right of the State Governments to exist depends on the provisions of the Constitution which is subject to Art.	None
356.	None
If the President decides to accept the advice of the Council o f Ministers of the Central Government and issues a proclamation dissolving the Assemblies, the State Governments have no right to object to the constitutional mandate contained in Art. 356.	None
It is conceded by Mr. Niren De that if the President, on the advice of the Council of Ministers, would have passed a notification dissolving the State Assemblies under Art.	None
356	None
, the plaintiffs were completely out of court and the suits would not have been maintainable.	None
It is not understandable how the position would be any different or worse, if the Central Government chose to be fair to the State Governments concerned by informing them of the grounds on the basis of Which they were asked to advise their Governors to dissolve the Assemblies.	None
The mere fact that such letters were sent to the State Government containing gratuitous advice would not create any dispute, if one did not exist before, nor would such a course of conduct clothe the State Government with a legal right to call for a determination under Art.	None
131.	Reasoning
If the State Governments do not possess such a legal right, or for that matter any right at all, then they cannot put forward any claim before a Court for a declaration or injunction.	None
Mr. Niren De, however, submitted that the very fact that the Home Minister was compelled to address a communication to the Chief Ministers of the State Governments for advising the Governors to dissolve the respective Assemblies and the Chief Ministers refused to accept the advice of the Home Minister shows that a dispute arose.	None
In my opinion, however, the contention does not appear to be well founded.	None
Assuming that the Home Ministers letter to the Chief Ministers raised some sort of a dispute, the moment the Chief Ministers answered that letter and spurned the advice given by the Home Minister, the dispute came to an end and ceased to exist.	None
Unless there is on existing dispute involving a legal right between the parties, the forum provided by Art. 131 cannot be availed of by any party.	None
I am fortified in my view by a decision of the Federal Court in The United Provinces v. The GovernorGeneral in Council, (1939 F.C.R. 124, 136.) where Gwyer, C.J., speaking for the Court observed thus The Federal Court has by s. 204(1) of the Constitution Act an exclusive original jurisdiction in any dispute between the GovernorGeneral in Council (or, after federation, the Federation) and any Province, if and in so far as the dispute involves any question, whether of law or fact, on which the existence or extent of a legal right depends.	None
It is admitted that the legal right of the Province to have the fines now under discussion credited to Provincial revenues and not to the Cantonment Funds depends upon the validity or otherwise of s. 106 of the Act of 1924.	None
The plaintiffs deny the validity of the section, the defendant asserts it and it seems to me that this is clearly a dispute involving a question on which the existence of a legal right depends.	None
101.	None
This case affords a clear illustration of a real dispute involving a legal right.	None
In that case the main dispute was regarding the question whether the fines credited to Provincial revenues and not to the Cantonment Funds belonged to the Province or the Central Government through the Cantonment.	Reasoning
It will be noticed that the Federal Court clearly held that such a dispute clearly fell within the purview of S. 204(1) of the Government of India Act which was in pari materia to Art.	Reasoning
131 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
That case is purely illustrative and decides that it is only such type of disputes as are contemplated by Art.	Reasoning
131.	Reasoning
For these reasons, therefore, I am clearly of the view that having regard to the facts and circumstances of the present case, it has not been established that there was any dispute involving a legal right between the Government of India and the State Governments, and therefore one of the essential ingredients of Art.	Reasoning
131 not having been fulfilled the suits are not maintainable on this ground alone.	None
102.	None
The next preliminary objection taken by the Additional Solicitor General was that there is no dispute between t he Government of India and the States because what Art. 131 postulates is that the dispute must be between the Government of India and the States as understood in the proper sense, namely, the territories comprising the State or the permanent institutions comprised in it, e.g., the Governor, the Legislature, the High Court, the Public Service Commission and the like.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, where the Central Government wants to oblish the Legislature completely or to abolish the institution of the Governor or the High Court, this will be a matter which will concern the State and the State Government as such.	None
I am inclined to agree with the contention put forward by the Additional SolicitorGeneral.	None
What Art. 13 1 takes within its fold is not the State Government comprising of a particular set of Ministers, but the Government itself, which exists for ever, even though the personnel running the Government may change, from time to time.	None
Article 12 of the Constitution, the scope of which is restricted only to the fundamental rights, does provide that the State includes the Government and Parliament of India and the Government and the Legislature of each of the States.	None
Here the term State has been given a very broad spectrum because the definition is dealing with the exposition of fundamental rights and its various incidents which have to be interpreted in the broadest possible sense so as to protect the citizen from any institution included in the term State which even includes not only the Government of the State but also Government of India.	None
Article 12, however, does not apply to Chapter IV where Art. 131 occurs and which deals with the Union Judiciary.	None
In fact the word State as mentioned in Art. 131 has not been defined anywhere in the Constitution.	None
Under Art.	None
367 if any term is not defined in the Constitution recourse can be had to the General Causes Act, 1897, for the purpose of understanding the meaning of such a term.	None
Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act defines State thus State(a)as respects any period before the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, shall mean a Part A State, a Part B State or a Part C State and (b)as respects any period after such commencement, shall mean a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union territory 103.	None
On the other hand S. 3(23) defines the word Government or the Government as including both the Central Government and any State Government.	None
Thus it will be clear from the definition of State given in s. 3(58) of the General Clauses Act that the State does not include the State Government.	None
104.	None
The relevant parts of Arts. 1 and 3 of the Constitution run thus 1.	None
Name and territory of the Union (1) India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States.	None
(2) The States and the territories thereof shall be as specified in the first schedule.	None
(3) The territory of India shall comprise (a) the territories of the States (b) the Union territories specified in the First Schedule and (c) such other territories as may be acquired.	None
3. Formation of new States and alteration of areas, boundaries or names of existing States Parliament may by law (a) form a new State by separation of territory from any State or by uniting two or more States or parts of States or by uniting any territory to a part of any State (b) increase the area of any State (c) diminish the area of any State (d) alter the boundaries of any State (e) alter the name of any State 105.	None
A perusal of these Articles would reveal in unequivocal terms that wherever the Constitution has used the word State without any qualification it means State in the ordinary sense of its term, namely, the State along with its territory or institution s. Article 3 expressly empowers the Parliament to increase or diminish the area or territory of any State.	Reasoning
It has no reference to the State Government at all or for that matter to a particular State Government run by a particular party.	Reasoning
In my opinion, therefore, the word State in Art.	Reasoning
131 has also been used in this ordinary sense so as to include only the territory of the State and the permanent institutions contained therein.	Reasoning
A dispute arising between the personnel running the institutions is beyond the ambit of Art.	Reasoning
131.	Reasoning
Further more, it would appear that cls.	Reasoning
(a) (b) of Art.	Reasoning
131 deliberately and advisedly use the word Government of India and one or more States.	Reasoning
If the intention was to bring even, a Stale Government as run by the Council of Ministers within the purview of this provision, then the words one or more State Governments should have been used instead of using the word State.	Reasoning
This is, therefore, an intrinsic circumstance which shows that the founding fathers of the Constitution intended that the dispute should be contained only to the Government of India and the States as a polity or a constituent unit of the republic instead of bringing in dispute raised by the Government run by a particular Council of Ministers which does not pertain to the State as such.	Reasoning
Thus, summarising my conclusions on this point, the position is that the import purport of Art.	None
131 is to decide disputes between one State and another o r between the Government of India and one or more States.	None
The founding fathers of the Constitution have used the word State in Art.	None
131 both deliberately and advisedly so as to contemplate the State as a constituent unit of the Un ion along with its territory and permanent institutions.	None
The question as to the personnel who run these institutions is wholly unrelatable to the existence of a dispute between a State and the Government of India.	None
It is only when there is a complete abolition of any of the permanent institutions of a State that a real dispute may arise.	None
A mere temporary dissolution of an Assembly under Art.	None
356 does not amount to an abolition of a State Assembly, because after such dissolution under the provisions of the Constitution elections are bound to follow and a new Legislature would evidently come into existence after the voters have elected the candidates.	None
Unfortunately, there is no clear decision of this Court directly on this point, but on a true and proper construction of Art.	None
131, 1 am of the view that a dispute like the present is totally outside the scope of Art.	None
131 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
For these reasons, therefore.	None
I hold that the State Governments who have raised the dispute in this case are not covered by the word State appearing in Art.	None
131	Reasoning
and therefore the suits are not maintainable on this ground also.	None
1, therefore, record my respectful dissent from the view taken by my lord the Chief Justice and brother Judges on this particular point.	None
106.	None
Similarly in the case of writ petitions, the Additional SolicitorGeneral raised a preliminary objection as to the maintainability of the petitions.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended that the right of the petitioners as members of the Legislative Assembly of Punjab was not a fundamental right as envisaged by part III of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
At the most, the right to receive allowances as members of the Assembly was merely a legal right consequent upon their election as members of the Assembly.	Arguments of Respondent
It was not a right which flowed from the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus argued the Additional SolicitorGeneral that there being no infraction of any fundamental right, the petitioners cannot be allowed to take recourse to Art.	Arguments of Respondent
32 of the Constitution of India.	Arguments of Respondent
This argument was sought to be repelled by Mr. Garg, Counsel for the petitioners, on the ground that in view of the decision of this Court in H. H. Maharajadhiraja Madhav Rao Jiwaji Rao Scindia Bahadur Ors. v. Union of India(1971 3 S.C.R. 9.) commonly known as Privy Purses Case the right to receive allowances by the petitioners was undoubtedly a right to property and by the threatened dissolution of the Assembly there was a direct threat to the fundamental right to property which the petitioners had both under Art. 19 (1 ) (f) and Art.	None
31 of the Constitution.	None
Very attractive though they are, we are, however, unable to accept the arguments put forward	None
b y	None
Mr. Garg.	None
This Court in the Privy Purses Case was considering a legal right in quite a different context, namely, Art. 291 of the Constitution which has since been repealed by the Constitution (Twentysixth Amendment) Act, 1971.	None
Article 291 a s it stood then may be extracted thus291.	None
Privy purse sums of Rulers Where under any covenant or agreement entered into by the Ruler of any Indian State before the commencement of this Constitution, the payment of any sums, free of tax, has been guaranteed or assured by the Government of the Dominion of India to any Ruler or such State as privy purse (a) such sums shall be charged on, and paid out of, the Consolidated Fund of India, and (b) the sums so paid to any Ruler shall be exempt from all taxes on income.	None
107.	None
A perusal of this provision would clearly indicate that the founding fathers of the Constitution sought to guarantee certain legal rights conferred on the Rulers by making the sums paid to them a charge on the Consolidated Fund of India.	None
The payments made to the Rulers were guaranteed by the Constitution itself and it was in view of this peculiar and special provision that this Court held that the right of the Rulers to receive payments free of tax was not only a legal right flowing from the Constitution but also a right to property, because a charge was created on the Consolidated Fund of India for the payments to be received by the Rulers.	None
In other words, the right to property arose directly from the status occupied by the Rulers under the Constitutional provision itself and it was not consequent upon the Rulers obtaining a particular status as members of the Assembly or otherwise which may be consequential to the acquisition of their subsequent status.	None
In the instant case, the right of the petitioners is only a limited right inasmuch as it subsists only so long as the Assembly runs its usual course of six years.	None
The right may also cease to exist if the Assembly is dissolved by the President by issuing a proclamation under Art.	None
356.	None
The right, therefore, subsists only so long as these two contingencies do not occur.	None
Further more, the Constitution does not guarantee any right or allowances to the Members of the Assembly which are given to them by local Acts or Rules.	None
In these circumstances , therefore, the ratio decidendi of the Privy Purses Case cannot apply to the petitioners.	None
Hedge, J., while dealing with the nature of the legal right possessed by the Rulers in the Privy Purses case observed as follows As I am satisfied that the rights under Arts.	None
31 and 19(1)(f) have been contravened it is not necessary to examine the alleged contravention of other rights.	None
I have earlier come to the conclusion that the right to get the privy purse under Art.	None
291 is a legal right.	None
from that it follows that it is a right enforceable through the courts of law.	None
That right is undoubtedly a property.	None
A right to receive cash grants annually has been considered by this Court to be a propertysee State of M.P. v. Ranojirao Shinde and Anr (1968) 3	None
SCR 489.	None
Even if it is considered as a pension as the same is payable under law namely Art. 291, the same is propertysee Madhaorao Phalke v. State of Madhya Bharat (1961) 1	None
SCR 957 .	None
108.	None
It is obvious that the observations of this Court cannot apply to the petitioners who cannot be said to have any fundamental right contained in Part III of the Constitution.	None
For these reasons, therefore, I am of the opinion that the preliminary objection raised by the Additional SolicitorGeneral is well founded and must prevail.	None
109.	None
Since we have heard the suits and the petitions on merits at great length also, even if we assume that the writ petitions are maintainable, we shall deal with the merits of both the suits and the writ petitions.	None
We now proceed to deal with the merits of the suits and the writ petitions, although we think that the suits of the plaintiffs as also the petitions are liable to be rejected on the preliminary objections raised by the Additional SolicitorGeneral.	None
110.	None
Coming to the merits, three contentions were put forward before us by counsel for the plaintiffs and the petitioners (1) that the letter sent by the Home Minister to the Chief Ministers amounted to a directive by the Central Government to the Chief Ministers to advice the respective Governors for dissolving the Assemblies resulting in interference in the federal set up of the States contemplated by the Constitution (2) that even if the letter of the Home Minister was not a directive, it clearly amounted to a threat to the right o	Arguments of Petitioner
f the present Government to continue in office and to be dissolved if the directions given to the Chief Ministers were not carried out (3) that the circumstances mentioned in the letter did not constitute sufficient reason for dissolution of the Assemblies under Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
356 and the action of the Central Government in writing the letter to the Chief Ministers and giving interviews at the Press and the All India Radio amounted to a mala fide and colourable action which was sufficient to vitiate the advice which the Council of Ministers might give t o the President for resorting to Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
356 of the Constitution.	Facts
111.	None
Lastly, Mr. Niren De as also Mr. Garg submitted that Art.	None
356 would have no application to the facts of the present case.112.	Arguments of Petitioner
We shall now deal separately with the contention s raised by counsel for the parties.	None
As, regards the first contention that the letter of the Home Minister to the Chief Ministers of the plaintiff States amounted to a directive issued by the Central Government, it was clarified by counsel for the plaintiffs that the Central Government had no authority under any provision of the Constitution to give a directive to the Chief Ministers in the matter concerning purely the States.	None
In the first place, a careful perusal and an adro	None
it analysis of the contents of the letter does not at all show that it amounts to a directive given by the Central Government to the Chief Ministers.	None
Although the Home Minister has expressed his views in the matter, but in the concluding portion of the letter he has merely advised the Chief Ministers without interfering with their absolute discretion.	None
The concluding portion of the letter extracted thus 113.	None
I would, therefore earnestly command for your consideration that you may advise your Governor to dissolve the State Assembly in exercise of powers under Article 174(2) (b) and seek a fresh mandate from the electorate.	Facts
This alone would in our considered view, be consistent with constitutional precedents and democratic practices.	Facts
Clearly shows that no compulsion was brought to bear on the Chief Ministers by the Home Minister and he sought to state certain facts with great stress for the consideration of the Chief Ministers.	None
The words earnestly commend for your consideration that you may advise clearly show that the Home Minister sought to give a friend advice to the Chief Ministers as to what they should do in the facts an circumstances of the situation.	None
The words may advise further indicate that the Home Minister did not intend to give any mandator)directions to the Chief Ministers in the matter.	None
In of t he words, the aforesaid letter if properly construed is no more than an act of political courtesy containing a suggestion or an advice or a fervent appeal to the Chief Ministers lo consider the desirability of advising the Governors to dissolve t he Assemblies in view of the facts and circumstances disclosed in the said document.	None
It is in no measure binding on the Chief Ministers and it is open to them to refuse to act on the gratuitous advice tendered by the Home Minister which the Chief Ministers have already done.	None
Reading the letter as a whole, as I do, I am unable to regard the letter as a directive issued by the Central Government and as contemplated by Arts.	None
256 and 257 of the Constitution of India.	None
In fact Art. 256 which runs thus Obligation of States and the Union The executive power of every State shall be so exercised as to ensure compliance with the laws made by Parliament and any existing laws which apply in that Stale, and the executive power of the Union shall extend to the giving of such directions to a State as may appear to the Government of India to be necessary for that purpose.	None
114.	Reasoning
clearly defines the limits within which the executive power of Parliament may exist and the directions contemplated by Art.	None
256 can be given to the States only within the limited sphere as prescribed by Art.	None
256 i.e., in relation to existing laws mad e by Parliament and those laws which apply in the States.	None
Article 257 contains a note of warning and caution to both the Union and the States against functioning in such a way so as to impede or prejudice exercise of the executive power of the Union.	None
Article 257 contains a further restriction on the Government of India in that the power has to be exercised only for the purposes mentioned in Arts.	None
256 and 257.With due respects of my Lord the Chief Justice, I am unable to subscribe t o his view that the directive contained in the letter must be carried out, as I am clearly of the opinion that the letter does not amount to a directive as contemplated by Arts.	None
256 and 257 of the Constitution and cannot be binding on the Chief Ministers as it pertains purely to the States concerned, namely, giving of the advice to the Governors for dissolution of the Assemblies.	None
Our Constitution contains a well distributed system of checks and balances on the various constituents, namely, the Union, the States, the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary.	None
An analysis of the provisions of the Constitution would show that a separate sphere for each of the constituent units has been carved out and the y have to function within the limits of their sphere, or within the limits of the orbit, as my lord the Chief Justice has put it.	None
In order to ensure a smooth and efficient, pragmatic and purposeful working of the Constitution, it is necessary t hat the Union and the States should work n close cooperation and absolute coordination with each other.	None
Any confrontation may lead to a constitutional breakdown which may be avoided in all circumstances.	None
Under Art.	None
174(2) clauses (a) and (b) the Governor has the power to prorogue the House or to dissolve the Legislative Assembly.	None
It is obvious that this power has to be exercised by the Governor generally on the advice of the Council of Ministers.	None
The Chief Minister, as the head of the Council of Ministers in the State, has the undoubted discretion to advise the Governor to dissolve the Assembly if a particular situation demands such a step.	None
The Chief Minister is the best judge to assess the circumstances under which such an advice should be given to the Governor.	None
The Central Government cannot interfere with this executive power of the State Government by giving directions under Art.	None
256 or Art.	None
257 of the Constitution, because the dissolution of t he Assembly by the Governor is purely a matter concerning the State and does not fall within the four comers of either Art. 256 or Art.	None
257 of the Constitution.	Facts
It was also contended that the direction contained in the letter of the Home Minister amounts to a serious interference with the federal setup contemplated by the Constitution and is likely to bring the autonomy enjoyed by the States into jeopardy.	None
My Lord the Chief Justice has dealt with the federal aspect of the Constitution in great length and has pointed out that while our Constitution is based on a federal pattern it is, to quote Dr. Ambedkar a tight mold of Federalism so that it can move from a federal to unitary plane, according as the situation requires.	None
The federal nature of our Constitution has been clearly explained by my Lord the Chief Justice and I fully agree with his views and have nothing useful to add.	None
It is, however, not necessary for me to dilate on this point, because in my view the letter of the Home Minister does not amount to a directive at all and therefore the question of interference with the autonomous rights of the State Government does not arise.	None
As to what would have happened if a directive was given by the Central Government in a matter like this is a purely hypothetical question which does not call for any answer in the facts and circumstances of the present case as the same does not arise.	None
In this view of the matter it is obvious that the plaintiffs cannot get a relief for a declaration that the letter amounted to a directive and being against the authority of law was ultra vires and hence not binding on the plaintiffs.	None
In fact it seems to me that the plaintiffs themselves did not take the letter as a directive at all and had, therefore, written back to the Home Minister refusing to accept the advice given to them.	None
115.	None
The next question that arises for consideration is whether the letter of the Home Minister amount s to a threat to dissolve the Assembly.	Issue
Although there are no clear words in the letter or in the interviews to show that any kind of threat or force was used against the Chief Ministers concerned, but even assuming that the letter contained a veiled threat, I fail to see what kind of relief the plaintiffs could get, even if this is so.	None
The Chief Ministers of the States had the right to advise the Governors to dissolve the Assemblies or not to do so.	None
Even if t here was a threat given by the Home Minister they could have ignored the threat because the right to advise the Governors to dissolve the Assemblies belonged to the Chief Ministers of the States themselves, and as indicated by me the Central Government had no right to interfere with this discretion of the Chief Ministers.	None
Mr. Garg appearing for the petitioners, however, submitted that the action of the Central Government amounted to a threat of the fundamental right of the petitioners and be was entitled to ask for an injunction restraining the Central Government from resorting to Art. 356.	None
In the first place, I have already held that the petitioners had no fundamental right at all so as to approach this Court under Art.	None
32 of the Constitution.	None
Assuming that they had the right the threat was not so imminent and the prayer made by the petitioners was premature as no action appears to have been taken by the Central Government at the time when the petitions were filed.	None
Finally, if the Central Government had a constitutional power to advise the President to dissolve the Assemblies under Art.	None
356, the Courts could not interfere with the exercise of that power, because the fundamental right of the Petitioners itself existed so long as the Assembly was not dissolved.	None
Article 172 of the Constitution itself provides that the Assembly of every State shall continue for six years, unless dissolved earlier.	Reasoning
The petitioners therefore could not have a better right than what was conferred by Art. 172.	None
If the Assembly was dissolved earlier than six years, i.e. before its full duration expired, under the provisions of the Constitution itself no complaint could be made by the petitioner s that there had been an infringement of their fundamental right.	None
It was not a case where the petitioners had indefeasible right to property which itself was threatened.	None
The right of the petitioners, if any, was merely a temporary and inchoate right.	None
For these reasons, therefore, even if the letter of the Home Minister be treated to be a veiled threat, the petitioners cannot get any relief from this Court.	None
116.	Reasoning
Coming to the third contention that the circumstances mentioned in the letter did not constitute sufficient reason for dissolution of the Assemblies under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
356, the same was repelled by the Additional SolicitorGeneral mainly on the ground that the Courts could not go into the sufficiency or adequacy of the materials on the basis of which the Council of Ministers of the Central Government could give any advice to the President.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also argued that this matter was not a justiciable issue.	None
In order to answer this contention we have to consider two different facets.	None
Firstly, whether or not the issue was justiciable.	None
Apart from Cl.	None
(5) of Art.	Reasoning
356 which gives the order passed by the President under this Article complete immunity from judicial scrutiny it was pointed out by the Additional SolicitorGeneral that even before Cl.	None
(5) which was added by the Constitution (Forty second Amendment) Act, 1976 the law laid down by this Court, Privy Council and the High Courts was the same.	None
Reliance was placed on a decision of the Privy Council in Bhagat Singh and others v. The KingEmperor, (L.R. 58 I.A. 169, 172.) where the Privy Council, dwelling on the question whether the existence of an emergency was justiciable or not observed thus A state of emergency is something that does not permit of any exact definition It connotes a state of matters calling for drastic action, which is to be judged as such by some one.	None
It is more than obvious that that some one must be the Governor General, and he alone.	Arguments of Respondent
Any other view would render utterly inept the whole provision.	Arguments of Respondent
x	None
x x x x x	None
Yet, if the view urged by the petitioners is right, the judgment of the GovernorGeneral could he upset either (a) by this Board declaring that once the Ordinance was challenged in proceedings by way of habeas corpus the crown ought to prove affirmatively before a Court that a state of emergency existed, or (b) by a finding of this Board after a contentious and protracted inquiry that no state of emergency existed, and that the Ordinance with all that followed on it was illegal.	None
In fact, the contention is so completely without foundation on the face of it that it would be idle to allow an appellant to argue about it.	None
117.	Reasoning
A similar view was taken by the federal Court in Lakhi	None
Naravan Das v. Province of Bihar(1949	None
F.C.R.	None
693.	None
699.), where describing the nature and incidents of art Ordinance, the Court observed as follows The language of the section shows clearly that it is the Governor and the Governor alone who has got to satisfy himself as to the existence of circumstances necessitating the promulgation of an Ordinance.	None
The existence of such necessity is not a justiciable matter which the Courts could be called upon to determine by applying an objective test.	None
The same view was taken by this Court in M s S. K. G. Sugar Ltd. v. state of Bihar and others(1975 1 S.C.R. 312, 317.) where it was observed thus It is however wellsettled that the necessity of immediate action and of Promulgating an Ordinance is a matter purely for the subjective satisfaction of the Governor.	None
He is the sole Judge as to the existence of the circumstances necessitating the making of an Ordinance.	None
His satisfaction is not a justiciable matter.	None
It cannot be questioned on ground of error of judgment or otherwise in courtsee State of Punjab v. Sat Pal Dang (1969) 1	None
S.C.R. 633.The Andhra Pradesh High Court has also expressed the same view in In re. A. S. Sreeramulu(A.I.R. 1974 A.P. 106.) where it was observed thus We have see n that there is a wide range of situations when the President may act under Article 356.	None
The important thing to notice is that the Constitution does not enumerate the situations and there is no satisfactory criteria for a judicial determination of what are relevant considerations.	None
The very absence of satisfactory criteria makes the question one which is intrinsically political and beyond the reach of the Courts.	None
The considerations which are relevant for action under Article 356 and t he weighing of those considerations appear to be clearly matters of political wisdom, not for judicial scrutiny.	None
118.	None
I find myself in complete agreement with the observations made by the learned Judge.	None
119.	Reasoning
The same view was taken by another Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in S. R. K. Hanumantha Rao v. State of Andhra Pradesh.	None
((1975) 2 A.W.R. 277.)	None
120.	None
It is obvious that exercise of discretion under Art.	None
356 by the President is purely a political matter and depends on the advice that the President gets from the Council of Ministers.	None
The Council of Ministers are the best judge to assess the needs of the situation, the surrounding circumstances, the feelings and aspirations of the people and the temper of the times.	None
If on an overall assessment of these factors the Council of Ministers in their political wisdom or administrative expediency decide to tender a particular advice to the President.	None
The Courts cannot enter into this arena which is completely beyond judicial scrutiny.	None
Even if the Chief Ministers did not think it advisable to dissolve the Assemblies, their views are not binding on the Central Government which can form its own opinion.	None
The exercise of the power under Art.	None
356 by the President is a matter which falls directly within the exercise of the powers of the Union and the Council of Ministers need not be guided by the views of the Chief Minister s in the exercise of this power.	None
In colegrove v. Green(1945 328 U.S. 549, )	None
Justice Frankfurter very aptly observed thus We are of opinion that the petitioners ask of this Court what is beyond its competence to grant.	None
This is one of those demands on judicial power which cannot be met by verbal fencing about jurisdiction.	None
It must be resolved by considerations on the basis of which this Court, from time to time, has refused to intervene in controversies.	None
It is hostile to a democratic system to involve the judiciary in the politics of the people.	None
And it is not less pernicious if such judicial intervention in an essentially political contest be dressed up in the abstract phrases of the law.	None
121.	Reasoning
It is manifestly clear that the Court does not possess the resources which are in the hands of the Government to find out the political needs that they seek to subserve and the feelings or the aspirations of the nation that require a particular action to be taken at a particular time.	None
It is difficult for the Court to embark on an inquiry of that type.	None
Thus what the Constitution (Fortysecond Amendment) Act, 1976 has done by adding clause (5) to Art.	None
356 is to give statutory recognition to the law laid down by the Courts long before.	None
122.	Reasoning
Mr. Niren De submitted in reply to the argument of the learned Additional SolicitorGeneral that in two cases the Privy Council had taken a contrary view.	None
Reliance was placed on a decision of the, Privy Council in King Emperor v. Benoari Lal Sarma (L.R. 72 I.A. 57, 64.) where Viscount Simon, L. C. observed thus Their Lordships entirely agree with Rowland Js view that such circumstances might, if necessary, properly be considered in determining whether an emergency had arisen but, as that learned judge goes on to point out, and, as had already been emphasized in the High Court, the question whether an emergency existed at the time when an ordinance is made and promulgated is a matter of which the GovernorGeneral is the sole judge.	None
This proposition was laid down by the Board in Bhagat Singh v. The King EmperorL.R. 58 I.A. 169.	None
Although the first part of the observations of their Lordships supports the argument of Mr. Niren De to some extent, the second part of the observations clearly shows that their Lordships had fully endorsed the proposition laid down by the Court in Bhagat Singhs case (supra).	None
In these circumstances, therefore, this authority does not appear to be of any assistance to Mr. Niren De. Reliance was also placed on Pa dfield v. Minister of Agricultural, Fisheries and Food(L.R. 1968 A.C. 997, 1007.)	None
where Lord Denning, M. R., observed as follows If it appears to the court that the Minister has been, or must have been, influenced by extraneous considerations which ought not to have influenced himor, conversely, has failed, or must have failed, to take into account considerations which ought to have influenced himthe court has power to interfere.	None
123.	None
These observations, however, do not support the argument of Mr. Niren De at all.	None
Even if an issue is not justiciable, if the circumstances relied upon by the executive authority are absolutely extraneous and irrelevant, the Courts have the undoubted power to scrutinise such an exercise of the executive power.	Reasoning
Such a judicial scrutiny is one which comes into operation when the exercise of the executive power is colourable or mala fide and based on extraneous or irrelevant considerations.	Reasoning
I shall deal with this aspect of the matter a little later.	Reasoning
It is, however, sufficient to indicate here that an order passed under Art.	Reasoning
356 is immune from judicial scrutiny and unless it is shown that the President has been guided by extraneous considerations it cannot be examined by the Courts.	None
124.	Reasoning
This brings us to the second facet of this argument, namely, whether the facts stated in the letter of the Home Minister or in the press or t he radio interviews are sufficient to enable the Central Government to take a decision to advise the President to dissolve the State Assemblies.	Issue
We have already extracted the important portions of the statements made in the letter of the Home Minister and in the radio interview of the Law Minister and the Press interview of the Home Minister.	None
These assertions made by the Ministers of the Central Government have, however, to be read and understood in the light of the prevailing circumstances which are established from the notifications issued by the Government of India from time to time which we shall deal with hereafter.	Reasoning
By virtue of Ministry of Home Affairs, Notification No. G.S.R. 353 (E) dated June 26, 1975 the P resident of India issued a proclamation declaring that a grave emergency exists whereby the, security of India was threatened by internal disturbance.	Reasoning
This notification was followed by another Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. G.S .R. 361 (E) dated June 27, 1975 issued by the President under clause (1) of Art. 359 of the Constitution by which the right of any person to move any Court for the enforcement of the rights conferred by article 14, article 21 and article 22 of the Constitution were suspended for the period during which the proclamation of emergency was in force.	Reasoning
Then followed the Maintenance of Internal Security (Amendment) Ordinance, 1975 (No. 4 of 1975) which was promulgated an June 29, 1975 and published in the Government of India Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 11, Section I dated June, 1975.	Reasoning
pp. 21315.	Reasoning
Section 5 of the Ordinance added s. 16A and subs.(6) of s. 16A provided that it shall not be necessary to disclose to any person detained under a detention order the grounds on which the order had been made during the period the declaration made in respect of such a person was in force.	Reasoning
This was followed by the Maintenance of Internal Security (Amendment) Act, 1976 passed on January 25, 1976 which added subs.	Reasoning
(9) to s. 16A of the principal Act which provided that the grounds on which an order of detention was made or purported to be made under s. 3 against any person in respect of whom a declaration was made under subs.	Reasoning
(2) or subs.	Reasoning
(3) and any information or materials on which such grounds or a declaration under subs.	Reasoning
(2) or a declaration or confirmation under subs.	Reasoning
(3) etc. was made was to be treated as confidential and shall be deemed to refer to matters of State and it would be against the public interest to disclose the same.	Reasoning
Thus the effect of this provision was that no Court could call for the materials on the basis of which the order of detention was passed.	Reasoning
In other words, any detention made during this period was put beyond judicial scrutiny.	Reasoning
While this state of affairs existed, the President by order dated January 18, 1977 dissolved the Lok Sabha under Art. 85 of the Constitution as would appear the Lok Sabha Secretariat Notification dated January 19, 1977 published in the Government of India Gazette Extraordinary, Part I, Section 1, dated January 19, 1977.	Reasoning
This was followed by notification dated February 10, 1977 by the Ministry of Law.	Reasoning
Justice and Company Affairs passed under subs.	Reasoning
(2) of s. 14 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 by which the President called upon the parliamentary constituencies to elect members in accordance with the provisions of the said Ac t and of the rules and orders made thereunder.	Reasoning
In pursuance of this notification the Election Commission of India issued a notification on the same day appointing the dates of elections to be held in various constituencies which varied from 16t h to 20th March, 1977.	Reasoning
According to this Notification there were 54 constituencies in Bihar, 10 constituencies in Haryana, 4 in Himachal Pradesh, 40 in Madhya Pradesh, 25 in Rajasthan, 85 in Uttar Pradesh, 42 in West Bengal, 21 in Orissa and 13 in Punjab.	Reasoning
All these constituencies elected their representatives and from the results of the Lok Sabha as published in the Indian Express of March 25, 1977 it would appear that out of 85 constituencies in Uttar Pradesh not a single candidate belonging to the Congress party was returned.	Reasoning
Similarly in Bihar out of 54 constituencies not a single candidate of the Congress party was elected.	Reasoning
Similarly out of 13 constituencies in Punjab and 10 constituencies in Haryana not a single candidate of the Congress party was returned.	Reasoning
The same position obtained in Himachal Pradesh where out of 4 constituencies not a Single Congress candidate was elected.	Reasoning
In the States of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal and Orissa, the Congress party appears to have fared very badly also.	Reasoning
In Madhya Pradesh out of 40 seats, the Congress party could bag only one seat, whereas in Rajasthan also the Congress met with a similar fate where it got only I seat out of 25 seats.	Reasoning
In Orissa, also the Congress got only 4 seats out of 21 and in West Bengal it got only 3 seats out of 42.	Reasoning
It would thus appear that in the nine states referred to above, the Congress party was practically routed.	Reasoning
It is also clear that the voters who voted for the candidates standing for the Lok Sabha in the States were more or less the same who had voted the Congress party in the State Assemblies during the previous elections.	Reasoning
Thus, summarising the position in short, it is clear (1) that a grave emergency was clamped in the whole country (2) that civil liberties were withdrawn to a great extent (3) that important fundamental rights of the people were suspended (4) that strict censorship on the press was placed and (5) that the judicial powers were crippled to a large extent.	Reasoning
125.	None
In the new elections the Congress party suffered a major reverse in the nine states and the people displayed complete lack of confidence in the Congress party.	None
The cumulative effect of the circumstances mentioned above may lead to a reasonable inference that the people had given a massive verdict not only against the Congress candidates who fought the elections to the Lok Sabha but also to the policies and ideologies followed by the Congress Governments as a whole whether at the Centre or in the States during the twenty months preceding the elections .	Reasoning
In these circumstances it cannot be said that the inference drawn by the Home Minister that the State Governments may have forfeited the confidence of the people is not a reasonable one or had no nexus with the action proposed to be taken under Art .	Reasoning
356 for dissolution of the Assemblies.	None
126.	Reasoning
It was in the background of these admitted facts that the Central Government formed the opinion that the State Governments should seek a fresh mandate from the people because they ceased to enjoy the confidence of the people of the States concerned.	None
In other words.	None
the Central Government thought that from the nature of the concerned, results of the elections a reasonable inference could be drawn that the State Governments concerned had forfeited the confidence of the people.	None
It was, however, vehemently argued by the plaintiffs and the petitioners that the mere fact that the Congress party lost its majority in the Lok Sabha was not sufficient to lead to the irresistible inference that the Congress Governments in the States also forfeited the confidence of the people in the States where they were in overwhelming majority so as to call for dissolution of the Assemblies and fresh elections.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. H. R. Gokhale, appearing for the State of Punjab, argued that even in the past it had often happened that the people had voted candidates of one party for the Lok Sabha and another party for the States and a similar distinction seems to have been made by t he voters this time also.	Arguments of Petitioner
The instance cited by Mr. Gokhale was of 1967 elections.	None
This solitary circumstance in my opinion does not appear to be of much avail, because having regard to the circumstances prevailing before the last elections what inference should be drawn is a matter to be considered by the Central Government and not by the Courts.	None
The Central Government, on a complete and overall assessment of the election results and the circumstances prevailing during the emergency as detailed above, in that the fundamental rights of the people were suspended, the right of the detenus to move the Courts was almost crippled, strict censorship was placed on the press, and this state of affairs having prevailed for about 20 months when elections were held after which the people gave their clear verdict against the Congress so far as the Lok Sabha election were concerned may have had some justification for coming to the conclusion that the State Governments had forfeited the confidence of the people.	None
It is true that if the opinion of the Central Government was based on extraneous or irrelevant materials or it was guided by purely personal considerations or ulterior motives, the Court could have held such an action to be mala fide and struck it down.	None
In Dr. Akshabar Lal Ors. v. Vice Chancellor, Banaras Hindu University (1961 3 S.C.R. 386.)	None
this Court explained as to what was the true nature and character of a mala fide action, and quoted the following observations of Warrington, L. J., where it observed thusThe appellants characterised the whole action as lacking in bona fide.	None
The action can only be questioned if it is ultra vires, and proof of alien or irrelevant motive is only an example of the ultra vires character of the action, as observed by Warrington, L. J., in the following passage My view then is that only case in which the Court can interfere with an act of a public body which is, on the face of it, regular and within its powers, is when it is proved to be in fact ultra vires, and that the references in the judgments in the several cases cited in argument to bad faith, corruption, alien and irrelevant motives, collateral and indirect objects, and so forth, are merely intended when properly understood as examples of matters which if proved to exist might establish the ultra vires character of the action in question.	None
127.	None
I find myself in complete agreement with the observations made by Warrington, L. J., extracted above.	None
128.	None
But the serious question to be considered here is as to whether the action of the Central Government in trying to persuade the Chief Ministers to advise the Governors to dissolve the Assemblies can be mid to be mala fide or tainted by personal motives or extraneous considerations.	Issue
It was suggested that the present ruling party wanted to have a President of its own choice and, therefore, it wanted to dissolve all the Assemblies and order fresh elections so that they are able to get candidates of their own choice elected to the various Assemblies.	Reasoning
In the first place, there is no reliable material to prove this fact or to show that the Central Government was in any way swayed by those considerations.	Reasoning
Secondly, if the Congress Governments in the States Concerned Were so sure of their position, I do not see any reason why they should not be able to face the challenge and after taking fresh mandate from the people vindicate their stand.	Reasoning
Furthermore, we have to look at the circumstances catalogued above in order to find out whether an inference drawn by the Central Government from those circumstances can be said to be a reasonable one.	Reasoning
Even assuming that from the circumstances mentioned above, the other inference that the electorate might choose different candidates for the States and the Lok Sabha is equally possible that by itself does not make t he action of the Central Government mala fide or ultra vires.	Reasoning
If two inferences are reasonably possible, the very foundation of mala fide disappears.	Reasoning
On the other hand, the important question to ask oneself is, could under the circum stances mentioned above and the manner in which the people have acted and reacted to the emergency and the post emergency era by returning a massive verdict against the Congress, it be said that the Central Government was guided by purely irrelevant or inept considerations or external or extraneous motives in wanting to have fresh elections to the Assemblies?	Reasoning
The answer must be in the negative.	Reasoning
I am convinced that having regard to the circumstances detailed above, the vie w taken by the Home Minister and the Law Minister cannot be said to be either extraneous or irrelevant or mala fide.	Reasoning
The contention of the counsel for the plaintiffs and the petitioners on this score is, therefore, overruled.	Reasoning
There is yet another facet of this problem.	Reasoning
Assuming that the reasons and the grounds disclosed by the Home Minister in his letter are extraneous or irrelevant this is only the first stage of the matter.	Reasoning
The second stagewhich is the most vital stagei s the one which comes into existence when the Council of Ministers deliberate and finally decide to advise the President.	Reasoning
As to what further grounds may be considered by them at that time is anybodys guess.	Reasoning
It is quite possible that the Council of Ministers may base the advice on grounds other than those mentioned in the letter of the Home Minister.	None
Article 74(2) which runs thus (2) The question whether any, and if so what advice was tendered by Ministers to the President shall not be inquired into in any court.	None
completely bars any inquiry by any Court into the matters which form the subjectmatter of the advice given by the Council of Ministers to the President.	None
This Court, therefore, cannot probe into that matter.	None
In these circumstances, the argument of counsel for the plaintiffs and the petitioners cannot be accepted at this stage.	None
It is true that while an order passed by the President under Art.	None
356 is put beyond judicial scrutiny by cl.	None
(5) of Art. 356, but this does not mean that the Court possesses no jurisdiction in the matter at all.	None
Even in respect of cl.	None
(5) of Art.	Reasoning
356	None
, the Courts have a limited sphere of operation in that on the reasons given by the President in his order if the Courts find that they are absolutely extraneous and irrelevant and based on personal and illegal considerations the Courts are not powerless to strike down the order on the ground of mala fide if proved.	None
We must, however, hasten to add that this does not mean that the Central Government has a free licence to pass any arbitrary or despotic order or to clothe it with a blanket power to do any thing it Ekes against the well established legal norms or principles of political ethics.	None
Such an arbitrary or naked action in a suitable case may amount to a fraud on the Constitution and destroy the very roots of the power exercised.	None
In fact the Additional SolicitorGeneral candidly conceded that if the action under Art.	None
356 is absolutely and demonstrably absurd or perverse or selfevidently mala fide and there is total absence of any nexus whatsoever between the action taken and the scope and object of Art. 356, judicial intervention may be available in such a case.	None
For the reasons that I have already given, this is, in my opinion, not the position here.	None
We, however, think that this is the least expected of such a high and mature authority as the Council of Ministers of the Central Government.	None
We might also like to stress the fact that as the reasons given by the Council of Ministers in tendering their advice to the President cannot be inquired into by the Courts, we expect the Central Government in taking momentous decisions having far reaching consequences on the working of the.	None
Constitution, to act with great care and circumspection and with some amount of objectivity so as to consider the pros and cons and the various shades and features of the problems before them in a cool and collected manner.	None
The guiding principles in such cases should be the welfare of the people at large and the intention to strengthen and preserve the Constitution, and we do hope that this matter will receive the serious attention of the Government.	None
The stamp of finality given by Cl.	None
(5) of Art.	Reasoning
356 of the Constitution does not imply a free licence to the Central Government to give any advice to the President and get an order passed on reasons which are wholly irrelevant or extraneous or which have absolutely no nexus with the passing of the Order.	None
To this extent the judicial review remains.	None
In the instant case, however, considering the circumstances indicated above, I feel that the grounds taken by the Home Minister have got a clear nexus with the issue in question, namely, the passing of an order by the President under Art.	None
356 in order to dissolve the State Assemblies.	None
The argument of mala fide put forward by the plaintiffs and the petitioners is, therefore, rejected.	None
I now come to the last contention raised by counsel for the plaintiffs and the petitioners.	None
Mr. Garg, appearing for the petitioners vehemently contended that Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
356 has absolutely no application to the facts of the present case, as it does not give any power to the President to dissolve the Assembly.	Arguments of Petitioner
In order to examine this argument closely, it may be, necessary to extract the relevant part of Art.	None
356 thus 356.	None
(1) If the President on receipt of report from the the Governor of a State or otherwise, is satisfied that a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution, the President may by Proclamation (a) assume to himself all or any of the function s of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor or any body or authority in the State other than the Legislature of the State xx	None
x x x x (3) Every proclamation under this article shall be laid before each House of Parliament and shall, except where it is a proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation, cease to operate at the expiration of two months unless before the expiration of that period it has been approved by resolution of both Houses of Parliament x	None
x x x x x (5) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the satisfaction of the President mentioned in Clause (1) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be questioned in any court on any ground.	None
129.	Reasoning
The first part of Art. 356(1) gives power to the President to issue a proclamation if he is satisfied on a report of the Governor of the State or otherwise to make a proclamation.	None
In the instant case as there is no report of the Governor of any of the States, the President can act on other methods which includes the advice given to him by the Council of Ministers.	None
Another condition that is necessary for the application of Art.	None
356 is that the President must be satisfied that the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
Great stress was laid on this part of the ingredient of Art.	None
356(1) by counsel for the plaintiffs and the Petitioners who contended that there is not an iota of material to show that there was any apprehension that the Government of the State could not be carried on in accordance With the provisions of the Constitution or there was any breakdown of the Constitutional machinery.	None
This is, however, a matter which depends on the subjective satisfaction of the President based on the advice of the Council of Ministers.	None
It is not for the Court to make an objective assessment of this question as if it were sitting in appeal over the advice given by the Council of Ministers or the order passed by t he President, Even so, there can be no doubt that having regard to the circumstances in which the Congress was completely routed in the nine States during the Lok Sabha Elections, the possibility of the State Governments having lost the confidence of the people cannot be ruled out.	None
If so, to continue in office even after this would be purely undemocratic in character.	None
As our Constitution is wedded to a democratic pattern of Government, if a particular State Government ceases to be democratic or acts in an undemocratic fashion, it cannot be said that the Government of the State is carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.	None
Such a course of action is opposed to the very tenor and spirit of the Constitution.	None
In these circumstances, therefore, on the facts and materials placed before us, the second part mentioned in Art.	None
356 appears to have been prima facie satisfied and the argument of the learned counsel for the plaintiffs and the petitioners on this ground is not tenable.	None
It was then contended by Mr. Garg that a perusal of clause (3) of Art.	None
356 and the proviso thereof clearly shows that the proclamation can operate only for the period of two months and automatically expires at the expiration of this period.	None
It is argued that if the Assembly is dissolved and this action is not capable of being confirmed by the Parliament within two months, then it is incapable of ratification by the Parliament, and therefore, the reasonable inference should be that Art.	None
356 clearly excludes any power to do anything which cannot be ratified including dissolution of the Assemblies in the States.	None
The argument is undoubtedly attractive and interesting, but on closer scrutiny it does not impress me.	None
In the first place, under Art.	None
356(1) (a) the President is empowered to assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor.	None
The power to dissolve the Assembly is contained in Art.	None
174(2) of the Constitution which empowers the Governor to prorogue or dissolve the Legislative Assembly.	None
This very power by force of Art. 356( 1) (a) is conferred on the President implicitly, and once this power is conferred by the application of Art.	None
356(1) (a) the President has the undoubted jurisdiction to dissolve the Legislative Assembly by assuming the same power which the Govern or has under Art.	None
174(2).	None
A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court in K. K. Aboo v. Union of India and others, (A.I.R. 1965 Ker. 229, 231 .)	None
while interpreting this particular aspect of Art. 356 observed as follows Art.	None
356(1) (b) empowers the President, whenever he is satisfied of a Constitutional breakdown in the State, to issue a Proclamation declaring inter alia, that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament.	None
That necessarily implies a power to dissolve the State Legislature.	None
No resort therefore need be had by the President to the provisions of Art.	None
356 (1) (a) read with Art. 172 or Art.	None
174 to dissolve the State Legislative Assembly.	None
The power to dissolve the State Legislature is implicit in Cl.	None
(1) (b) of Art.	Reasoning
356 itself .I full endorse the aforesaid observations which lay down the correct law on the subject on this particular aspect of the matter.	None
130.	Reasoning
As Art.	None
356 occurs in Part XVIII of the Constitution which relates to emergency provisions, it is obvious that when the Assembly is dissolved no Council of Ministers is in existence and, therefore there is no occasion for either the Governor or the President to take the advise of the Council of Ministers of the State.	None
In these circumstances, therefore, I a m clearly of the opinion that Art.	None
356(1) (a) confers the powers of the Governor under Art.	Reasoning
174(2) on the President in clear and categorical terms	None
and I cannot infer exclusion of the power merely from the fact that the proclamation is to expire after two months.	None
Even if the order dissolving the Assembly cannot be ratified by the Parliament under Cl.	None
(3) of Art.	Reasoning
356 that makes no difference, because Cl.	None
(3) does not touch actions taken, proceedings completed, consequences ensued and orders executed.	None
At the time when Parliament exercises the control, all these actions have already taken place and it is not possible to put the clock back or to reverse actions which have already been taken and completed, nor w as such a contingency contemplated by the founding fathers of the Constitution.	None
I am, therefore, unable to accent the argument of Mr. Garg on this point.	None
131.	Reasoning
It was further argued by Mr. Garg as also by Mr. Bhatia appearing for the State of Himachal Pradesh that even assuming that Art.	None
356() (a) confers the power given to the Governor by Art.	Reasoning
174(2) it would be a proper exercise of the discretion of the President to prorogue the Assembly instead of taking the extreme course of dissolving it.	Reasoning
This, however, is purely a matter which lies within the domain of politics.	Reasoning
The Court cannot substitute its discretion for that of the President nor is it for the Court to play the role of an Advisor as to what the President or the Council of Ministers should do in a particular event.	Reasoning
The Central Government which advises the President is the best Judge of facts to decide as to what course should be adopted in a particular case, namely, whether the Legislative Assembly should be prorogued or should be dissolved and it is open to the President to take any of these two actions and if he prefers one to the other, this matter is beyond judicial review.	Reasoning
For these reasons, therefore, I am clearly of the opinion that Art.	Reasoning
356 does not contain any express or implied limitations on the nature or functions of the Governor which are to be exercised by the President under Art.	Reasoning
356(1) (a)I generally agree with my Lord the Chief Justice on the other points lucidly discussed by him, except with regard to his observations regarding the theory of the basic structure of the Constitution on which I would refrain from expressing any opinion, because the question does not actually arise for decision in this Case.	Reasoning
132.	Reasoning
These are my reasons insupport of the unanimous order passed by this Court on April 29, 1977 dismissing the suits and writ petitions and rejecting the prayers for injunctions and interim reliefs.	Decision
133.	Reasoning
There will be no order as to costs.	None
(Suits Petitions dismissed).	None
