 K. Thakker	None
, J. These appeals are directed against a common judgment and order dated December 19, 2000 passed by the Customs, Excise and Gold (Control) Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as CEGAT).	None
By the said order, CEGAT disposed of five appeals filed by M s. Pearl Engineering Polymers Limited (Company for short) and by its Directors as also by the Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi.	None
CEGAT, by the order impugned in the present appeals, allowed three appeals filed by the Company and its two Directors and dismissed two appeals filed by the Commissioner of Customs.	None
CEGAT set aside the order in Original passed by the Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi on December 30, 1997.	None
To appreciate the controversy raised in the present appeals, relevant facts as noted in the Order in Original by the Commissioner of Customs may be stated in brief.3.	Facts
According to the Commissioner of Customs  appellant herein, M s. Pearl Engineering Polymers Limited (Company) was registered under the Companies Act, 1956.	Facts
Mr. Chand Seth was the ChairmancumManaging Director of the Company and Mr. Arun Gupta was whole time Director.	Facts
The Company was engaged in the manufacture of Polyester Chips (High Pressure and Molding Grades) and other Polyethelene Terephthlate (PET) Bottle Grade and Film Grade since 1995.	Facts
For the purpose of the said products, the Company set up a plant at Kurkumbh, District Pune in the State of Maharashtra.	Facts
The plant had been set up on the basis of the technical know how.	Facts
For that the Company entered into a Know how and Basic Engineering Agreement with M s. Zimmer AG of Germany (Zimmer for short) on May 4, 1993.	Facts
The agreement was negotiated and signed by Mr. Chand Seth and Mr. Arun Gupta.	Facts
Both of them thus were aware of the terms and conditions and contents of the agreement.	Facts
The agreement was approved by the Ministry of Industry and also by the Reserve Bank of India.	Facts
The primary object of the agreement was to acquire requisite know how for the products of the Company.4.	Facts
According to the Revenue, Intelligence was gathered by the Officers of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Mumbai that the Company had imported actual goods under the Export Promotional Capital Goods (EPCG) Scheme at the concessional rate of duty and thereafter diverted some of the goods in the local market.	Facts
It thus appeared that the Company violated conditions of import of capital goods under para 14 of the Export and Import Policy, 199297 as the import of goods was subject to actual user condition till the export obligation was completed.	Facts
In view of the Intelligence Report, details of the import by Company under EPCG Scheme were collected.	Facts
As per the details, the Company was issued licence Nos., (a) P CG/2133135 dated 2.6.94, (b) P CG/2133262 dated 9.7.94 and (c) P CG/2133763 dated 30.12.94.	Facts
After scrutiny of import documents, licences were issued.	Facts
The goods appeared to be imported in conformity with the items permitted under the licences.	Facts
The Company also submitted copies of Letter of Credit (L C), Equipments Supply Agreement between Zimmer and the Company and copy of Proforma Invoice No. 1863 dated 4th May, 1993.	Facts
Physical inspection of imported goods was also made by visiting the plant site.	Facts
The plant was in working condition and the capital goods indicated that there was no divergence of capital goods under EPCG Scheme.	Facts
On verification of EPCG Scheme between Zimmer and the Company, it was noticed that the Company had collected from Zimmer Know how, Basic Engineering Agreement and Technical Assistance Agreement.	Facts
The Company had imported designs, drawings and plans under the Know how and Basic Engineering Agreement on which appropriate amount of customs duty had not been paid.5.	Facts
A show cause notice was, therefore, issued on November 16, 1996 to the Company, Mr. Chand Seth, ChairmancumManaging Director and Mr. Arun Gupta, whole time Director asking them to show cause as to why custom duty amounting to Rs.	Facts
4,18,12,425/ should not be demanded under Section 28(1) of the Customs Act, 1962 an amount of Rs.	Facts
20,00,000/ deposited by the Company voluntarily should not be adjusted against the duty demanded the goods i.e. drawings, designs, plans etc. imported in three consignments having a total assessable value of Rs.	Facts
7,98,33,370/ should not be held liable to confiscation under Section 111(m) of the Act and penalty should not be imposed on each of them under Section 112 of the Act.6.	Facts
Mr. Chand Seth, ChairmancumManaging Director of the Company replied to the show cause notice stating therein that he being the ChairmancumManaging Director of the Company was not involved in daytoday functioning of the Company which was taken care by Executives and other employees of the Company.	Facts
As the ChairmancumManaging Director, overall policy decisions were taken by him.	Facts
He was, hence, not liable to penal action under Section 112 of the Act as he was not involved in the actual import of drawings, designs, plans, etc.7.	Facts
Mr. Arun Gupta, Director of the Company, in his reply, contended that Know how and FEEP were procured through courier after declaration to Customs Authorities and one of the consignments was sought to be cleared vide Bill of Entry dated December 28, 1993.	Facts
While the classification in the Bill of Entry was claimed under Chapter Heading 49.06 and exemption under Notification No. 36/93, the Customs Authorities were of the view that Heading No. 49.06 was not applicable.	Facts
According to him, the books were exempted from customs duty.	Facts
He, therefore, refuted the customs claim for reassessment under Chapter Heading 49.11.	Facts
According to him, at any rate, the entire value for the consignment which came under Air Way Bill was of Rs. 63.11 lacs (approx) as per Invoice Nos. 183602A and 183692B dated December 22, 1993 which could not be taken as value of drawings for the reason that the consideration was to be appropriated against several other obligations of Zimmer under the agreement.	Facts
The consignment came after full declaration to the Customs Authorities and there was bona fide belief on the part of the Company that the drawings were fully exempted under Chapter Heading 49.06.	Facts
At any rate, books were exempted under various notifications.	Facts
There was thus no intention to evade payment of customs duty.	Facts
The plea taken on valuation of drawings at DM 1,30,000/ in the letter dated September 30, 1997 was without prejudice to the basic contention that the entire consignment was exempted as books and not liable to payment of duty.	Facts
No penalty, therefore, could be imposed either on the Company or on the officers.8.	Facts
Personal hearing was afforded to the Company on October 1, 1997.	Facts
Advocates of the Company appeared.	Facts
Mr. Chand Seth, ChairmancumManaging Director, Mr. Arun Gupta, Director and K. Srinivas, Consultant contested the matter.	Facts
Time was sought for filing written arguments which was granted and written submissions were filed on 10th October, 1997 raising several contentions on the basis of various clauses in the agreement and on the merits of the matter.	Facts
Reliance was also placed on certain decisions of this Court as well as of CEGAT.	Facts
The main argument on behalf of the Company was that the supply was of printed books which was covered by Chapter Heading 49.01.	Facts
Since they were exempted under Notification No. 107/93Cus dated March 30, 1993 and Notification No. 38/94Cus dated March 1994, the Company was not at all liable to pay custom duty.	Facts
The Company also contended that the notifications were omnibus notifications and even if goods were covered by Chapter Heading 49.06 or 49.11, full exemption was granted.	Facts
Thus, notwithstanding the fact that FEEP could be classified under Chapter Heading 49.11, in view of they being Book were covered by Exemption Notifications and there was no liability of the Company to pay customs duty.	Facts
Reference was also made to HSN notes and it was submitted that Drawings, Designs and Plans could be classified as Printed Books by virtue of Interpretation Rules of 1988.	Facts
The entire FEEP, therefore, could be exempted and there was no substance in the allegation of the department that the Company was liable to pay customs duty.	Facts
Objections were also raised as to limitation and on valuation.9.	Facts
The case of the department, on the other hand, was that FEEP and Drawings, Designs and Plans ought to be classified under Chapter Heading 49.11.	Facts
As they could neither be covered by 4911.10 (Trade Advertising Material, Commercial Catalogues and the like) nor by 4911.11 (Pictures, Designs and Photographs), the relevant entry was Subheading 4911.99 (Others) and was liable to pay customs duty at 25.10.	Facts
The Commissioner of Customs considered the averments of the department and the reply submitted by the Company and by Mr. Gupta.	Facts
According to the Commissioner, an agreement was entered into between Zimmer and the Company and the said fact was admitted by the Company.	Facts
In consideration of supply of FEEP, an amount of BM 34,00,000/ equivalent to Rs.	Facts
7,98,33,370/ was to be paid by the Company to Zimmer.	Facts
Out of the said amount, DM 26,00,000/ was to be paid for FEEP and DM 8,00,000/ was for Know how.	Facts
Considering the decisions cited before him, the Commissioner held that the goods imported under Know how pertained to processes and were in the shape of manuals, brochures or leaflets.	Facts
According to him, printed books and manuals both were classified under Subheading 4901.99 but were distinguishable.	Facts
Exemption Notifications referred by the Company applied to Printed Books under Chapter Heading 49 but did not apply to the goods in question.	Facts
He, therefore, held that the technical documents imported by the Company as part of Know how were not Books but were manuals brochures classifiable under Chapter Subheading 4901.99 and were not exempted under the Exemption Notifications.	Facts
The Company was, therefore, liable to pay duty thereon.11.	Facts
Accordingly, the following order was passed Order In view of the findings hereinabove(a) I confirm duty demand of Rs. 4,18,12,425/.(b)	Facts
I order adjustment of the amount of Rs. 30 lakhs deposited by M s. Pearl Engineering Polymer Ltd., voluntarily, towards the above confirmed demand of duty and direct that the remaining amount be paid forthwith.(c)	Facts
I hold that the goods are liable to confiscation under Section 111(m) of the Customs Act, 1962.	Facts
However, since the goods are not available, I refrain from ordering confiscation.(d)	Facts
I impose under Section 112 of the Customs Act, 1962 a penalty of Rs. 1 crore (Rupee one crore) on M s. Pearl Engineering Polymer Ltd.(e)	Facts
I impose penalty of Rs. 50 lakhs (Rupees fifty lakhs) on Shri Chand Seth, ChairmancumManaging Director of M s. Pearl Engineering Polymer Ltd., under Section 112 of the Customs Act.(f)	Facts
I also impose a penalty of Rs. 25 lakhs (Rupees twentyfive lakhs) on Mr. Arun Gupta, Director of M s. Pearl Engineering Polymers Ltd., under Section 112 of the Customs Act, 1962.55.	Facts
The penalties shall be paid forthwith.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the Order in Original passed by the Commissioner of Customs, five appeals came to be registered before CEGAT.	Facts
One appeal was preferred by the Company against the decision of the Commissioner holding that the goods were liable to payment of custom duty and not covered by Chapter Heading 4901.	Facts
Two appeals were filed by Mr. Chand Seth, ChairmancumManaging Director and Mr. Arun Gupta, Director against payment of penalty of Rs.	Facts
50,00,000/ and Rs.	Facts
25,00,000/ respectively.	Facts
Two crossappeals were filed by the Department against quantum of penalty imposed on Mr. Chand Seth and Mr. Arun Gupta contending that the penalty imposed by the Commissioner of Customs was inadequate and was required to be enhanced.13.	Facts
CEGAT took up for consideration all the appeals.	Facts
It observed that an identical question came for consideration before a Larger Bench of CEGAT in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi, (2000) 119 ELT 211(2000) 38 RLT 846 (LB).	Facts
It noted that the Larger Bench was faced with the issue as to whether the law laid down by a twomember Bench in Tractors and Farm Equipment Ltd. v. Collector of Customs, (1993) 68 ELT 234, was correct or decisions of Coordinate Benches in Mitutronics v. Collector of Customs, (1990) 46 ELT 500 Roto Inks (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Customs, (1990) 47 ELT 398 Tata Consultacy Service v. Collector of Customs, (1991) 53 ELT 454 Collector of Customs, Madras v. Tata Elxsi India Ltd., (1995) 78 ELT 370 Laakshmi Cement v. Collector of Customs, New Delhi, (1996) 84 ELT 271, were correct.	Facts
CEGAT proceeded to state that after a survey on the entire case law, the Larger Bench in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. took the view that the law laid down by twomember Bench in Tractors and Farm Equipment Ltd. did not lay down correct law and accordingly overruled it.	Facts
The decisions in other cases were correct and the said view was affirmed.	Facts
In those decisions, it was held that printed materials could be said to be Books covered under Chapter Heading 49.01 and were entitled to full exemption and consequently no duty was leviable on the goods imported.	Facts
CEGAT noted that the decision of the Larger Bench was binding on it.	Facts
Accordingly, the appeals filed by the Company as well as by the ChairmancumManaging Director and the Director were allowed by setting aside the order passed by the Commissioner imposing duty and penalty.	Facts
Resultantly, two appeals filed by the Department for enhancement of penalty on ChairmancumManaging Director and Director were dismissed.14.	Facts
Against the order passed by CEGAT, the department has filed these appeals.	Facts
One of the appeals came up for preliminary hearing before a threeJudge Bench on December 14, 2001.	Facts
Delay was condoned and appeal was admitted.	Facts
Notice was also issued for interim relief.	Facts
In the meantime, stay was granted against refund of amount if not already refunded.	Facts
The interim order was thereafter continued and hearing was expedited.	Facts
On May 1, 2003, the appeals were placed for hearing before a twoJudge Bench and the following order was passed Heard the learned Counsel for the parties.	Facts
Learned Counsel for the appellant submits that the question involved in these appeals is covered by the decision rendered by this Court in Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi v. Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd., VI (2001)	Facts
SLT 378(2001) 9 SCC 74 , which reveals that the Tribunals judgment on which the reliance was placed was set aside.	None
As against this, Dr. A.M. Singhvi, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent relied upon the decision rendered by this Court in A.C.C. v. Commercial Tax Officer, (2001) 4 SCC 593.	Facts
Considering the aforesaid two decisions, there appears some conflict in the ratio laid down in both the cases.	Facts
Hence, these appeals are referred to a Larger Bench.	Facts
Registry to place the papers before Honble the Chief Justice of India for appropriate direction in this regard to place it before an appropriate Bench.	Facts
That is how the matters were placed before us for final hearing.	None
We have heard learned Counsel for the parties.	None
At the time of hearing of appeals, the learned Counsel for the appellant stated that three questions arise for consideration of this Court Whether the goods imported by the Company in the form FEEP (Front End Engineering Package) comprising of technical documentation, designs and drawings are classifiable under Chapter Subheading 4911.99 of the Customs Tariff?(ii) Whether the goods imported by the appellant in the form of knowhow containing latest uptodate technical data and information including secret technical knowledge relating to the processes and their employment to the design, operation and maintenance of the plant, are classifiable under Chapter Subheading 4901.99 of the Customs Tariff?(iii) Whether goods, as described in (a) and (b) above, can be considered as Printed Book classifiable under Chapter 49 of the Customs Tariff in order to avail the benefit of Notification Nos. 107/93Cus and 38/94Cus?	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that CEGAT had allowed appeals filed by the Company, ChairmancumManaging Director and Director and dismissed the appeals filed by the Department solely on the ground that the point was covered by a Larger Bench decision of CEGAT in	Arguments of Petitioner
Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that the decision of the Larger Bench of CEGAT in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. was challenged by the Department in this Court and this Court in Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi v. Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd., VI (2001)	Arguments of Petitioner
SLT 378(2001) 9 SCC 74 , set it aside allowing the appeal filed by the Department.	Arguments of Petitioner
Since the decision of the Larger Bench of CEGAT cannot be said to be a good law in view of the decision of this Court referred to above, all the appeals deserve to be allowed by setting aside the order passed by CEGAT.	None
The learned Counsel for the respondentCompany, on the other hand, submitted that the view taken by Larger Bench of CEGAT in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. was correct and in accordance with law.	Arguments of Respondent
It, therefore, could not have been interfered with by this Court as has been done in an appeal against the decision and the decision of this Court in Commissioner of Customs, New Delhi v. Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. does not lay down correct law and deserves to be overruled.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that in that case, this Court did not consider in their proper perspective several decisions particularly decisions in Commissioner of Income Tax, Gujarat v. Elecon Engineering Company Ltd., (1974)	Arguments of Respondent
96 ITR 672 (Guj.) , and of this Court in Scientific Engineering House Ltd. v. CIT, (1986) 1 SCC 11.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that though the point was directly covered by an earlier decision of this Court, a twoJudge Bench attempted to distinguish the said case and came to incorrect conclusion.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that earlier when these appeals were placed for hearing, a twoJudge Bench was prima facie satisfied that Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. was not correctly decided and hence the matter was referred to a threeJudge Bench.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, submitted that the appeals deserve to be dismissed by confirming the order passed by CEGAT.18.	Arguments of Respondent
In the alternative, it was submitted that since CEGAT allowed the appeals filed by the Company, ChairmancumManaging Director and Director relying upon a Larger Bench decision in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. holding that the goods imported by it could be said to be Books and hence were exempted from payment of excise duty, other points though argued and pressed into service at the time of hearing were not considered.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, submitted that in case this Court holds that the contention raised by the Department is well founded and the order passed by CEGAT are liable to be set aside, the matters may be remitted to CEGAT directing it to consider all the points and to decide them in accordance with law.	Arguments of Respondent
The question for consideration before us is whether the goods and materials imported by the Company in the form of FEEP comprising of Equipments, Drawings, Designs and Plans are classifiable under Chapter Heading 49.01 or 49.06 of Schedule I of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 and the Company is entitled to the benefit under Notification Nos. 107/93Cus and 38/94Cus or they are classifiable under Chapter Heading 4911.99 as contended by the department.	Issue
Before we deal with the actual question, it may be appropriate to refer to the relevant provisions of law.	None
Section 2 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 declares the rates at which the custom duty is levied under the Customs Act, 1962 as specified in the First and the Second Schedules to the Act.	None
Chapter 49 of Schedule I deals with Printed books, newspapers, pictures and other products of the printing industry, manuscripts, typescripts and plans and reads as under Chapter 49 Printed books, newspapers, pictures and other products of the printing industry manuscripts, typescripts and plans Notes 1.	None
2. 3.	None
Heading No. 49.01 also covers A collection of printed reproductions of, for example, works of art or drawings, with a relative text, put up with numbered pages in a form suitable for binding into one or more volumes A pictorial supplement accompanying, and subsidiary to, a bound volume and Printed parts of books or booklets, in the form of assembled or separate sheets or signatures, constituting the whole or part of a complete work and designed for binding.	None
5. 6.	None
The relevant headings and subheadings read thus 49.01 Printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar printed matter, whether or not in single sheets 4901.10In single sheets, whether or not folded 25 4901.91Dictionaries and encyclopedias, and serial instamentsthereof 25 4901.99Other 25 49.064906.00Plans and drawings for architectural, engineering, industrial, commercial, topographical or similar purposes, being originals drawn by hand handwritten texts photographic reproductions on sensitized paper and carbon copies of theforegoing 25 49.11Other printed matters, including printed pictures and photographs 49.11.10 Trade advertising material, commercial catalogues and the like 25 49.11.91 Pictures, designs and Photographs 25 4911.99 Other 25	None
The relevant notifications are Notification Nos. 107/93Cus., dated March 30, 1993 and 38/94Cus dated March 1, 1994.	None
The relevant part of Notification No. 107/93Cus reads as follows Exemption to specified goods of Chapters 49 and 97	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by Subsection (1) of Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962) and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue)	None
No. 36/93  Customs, dated the 28th February, 1993, the Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts goods specified in Column (3) of the Table hereto annexed and falling within the Chapter or under the Heading No. of the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975), as specified in the corresponding entry in Column (2) of the said Table, when imported into India, from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon which is specified in the said First Schedule.	None
Table Chapter ofDescription of No.Heading No.Goods 1.49Printed books (including covers for printed books) 2.49.02Periodicals (including newspapers).	None
3.49.04Music manuscripts.	None
4.49.05Maps.	None
5.49.05Charts 6.49.06Plans, drawings and designs 7.97.04Postage stamps, used or if unused not of current or new issue in the country to which they are destined.	None
8.97.05Metals Notification No. 107/93Cus., dated 30.3.1993	None
The other notification is Notification No. 38/94Cus., 1st March, 1994.	None
It is General Exemption No.	None
193B. The relevant part thereof reads as under Effective rates for specified goods falling within Chapters 40, 41, 43, 44, 47, 48, 49 and 97 In exercise of the powers conferred by Subsection (1) of Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts goods of the description specified in Column (3) of the Table hereto annexed, and falling within Chapters, Heading Nos. or Subheading Nos. of the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975) as are specified in the corresponding entry in Column (2) of the said Table, when imported into India, from so much of the duty of customs leviable thereon which is specified in the said First Schedule, as is in excess of the amount calculated at the rate specified in the corresponding entry in Column (4) of the said Table, subject to the conditions, if any, laid down in the corresponding entry in Column (5) of the said Table.	None
Chapter Description ofCondition No.	None
HeadingRate goods	None
No.	None
Sub heading No. 111 12.49Printed books (including covers for printed books)Nil 1319 Notification No. 38/94Cus., dated 1.3.1994 Notification No. 25/95Cus.	None
dated 16th March, 1995 is also important.	None
The relevant part of which reads thus Effective Rates of Duty for Goods of Various Chapters Headings General Exemption No. 121	None
Effective rates of duty for specified goods of Chapters 40, 41, 44, 47, 48 and 49.	None
In exercise of the powers conferred by Subsection (1) of Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts goods specified in Column (3) of the Table hereto annexed, and falling within Chapter, Heading No. or Subheading No. of the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (51 of 1975) as are specified in the corresponding entry in Column (2) of the said Table, when imported into India, from so much of the duty of customs leviable thereon which is specified in the said First Schedule, as is in excess of the amount calculated at the rate specified in the corresponding entry in Column (4) of the said Table, subject to the conditions, if any laid down in the corresponding entry in Column (5) of the said Table.	None
Chapter orDescription of Conditions No.	None
HeadingRate goods	None
No. of Sub heading No. 10.49Printed books (including coversNIL for printed books) and printed manuals includ ing those in looseleaf form with binder) 1116	None
It is also appropriate at this stage to refer to Harmonized System of Nomenclature (HSN).	None
The relevant part reads thus 49.01Printed Books, Brochures, Leaflets and Similar Printed Matter, whether or not in Single Sheets.	None
4901.10In single sheets, whether or not folded Other 4901.91Dictionaries and encyclopae dias, and serial instalments	None
thereof 4901.99Other	None
This heading covers virtually all publications and printed reading matter, illustrated or not with the exception of publicity matter and products more specifically covered by other headings of the chapter (particularly) Headings 49.02, 49.03 or 49.95.	None
It includes Books and booklets consisting essentially of textual matter of any kind and printed in any language or characters, including Braille or shorthand.	None
They include literary works of all kinds, text books and technical publications books of reference such as dictionaries, encyclopaedias and directories catalogues for museums and public libraries (but not trade catalogues) liturgical books such as prayer books and hymn books (other than music hymn books of Heading 49.04) childrens books (other than childrens picture, drawing or colouring books of Heading 49.03).	None
Such books may be bound (in paper or with soft or stiff covers) in one or more volumes, or may be in the form of printed sheets comprising the whole or a part of the complete work and designed for binding.	None
Dust covers, clasps, bookmarks and other minor accessories supplied with the books are regarded as forming part of the book.	None
Brochures, pamphlets and leaflest, whether consisting of several sheets of reading matter fastened together (e.g., stapled), or of unfastened sheets, or even of single sheets.	None
These include publications such as shorter scientific theses and monographs, instruction notices, etc., issued by Government Departments or other bodies, tracts, hymn sheets.	None
etc.	None
Textual matter in the form of sheets for binding in looseleaf binders.	None
The heading also covers Newspapers, journals and periodicals bound otherwise than in paper, and sets of newspapers, journals or periodicals comprising more than one number under a single cover, whether or not containing advertising material.	None
Bound picture books (other than childrens picture books of Heading 49.03).	None
A collection of printed reproductions of works of art, drawings, etc. with a relative text (for example, a biography of the artist), put up with numbered pages and forming a whole suitable for binding.	None
A pictorial supplement accompanying and subsidiary to a bound volume containing the relative text.	None
A question similar to one with which we are concerned came up for consideration before the authorities in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd.	None
The Central Excise Authorities held that Drawings, Designs and Plans imported by the Company could not be said to be Books within the meaning of Chapter Heading 49.01 but would be covered under Subheading 4911.99 and hence were liable to customs duty.	None
The demand made by the authority, therefore, came to be confirmed by the Commissioner of Customs.	None
Being aggrieved by the order passed by Commissioner, the Company approached CEGAT.	None
A twomember Bench felt that there were conflicting decisions on the point which could appropriately be resolved by a Larger Bench and accordingly by an order dated March 14, 2000, the matter was ordered to be placed before the President for constituting a Larger Bench.	None
As already observed earlier, the Larger Bench in (2000) 119 ELT 211 decided the question in favour of assessee and against the department.	None
Resultantly, the appeals were allowed by holding that printed materials imported by the Company could be said to be Books falling within Tariff Heading 49.01 and were entitled to exemption as Printed books.	None
It was conceded by the department before us is that no doubt in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd., the Larger Bench of CEGAT decided the question of law in favour of assessee and against the department, but the department had taken the mater further and this Court reversed the decision of the Larger Bench in (2001) 9 SCC 74.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, submitted that the decision of CEGAT impugned in these appeals deserves to be quashed and set aside by allowing the appeals of the department.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was submitted that two appeals have been filed by the department for enhancement of penalty imposed by the Commissioner of Customs since the penalty was inadequate and required to be enhanced.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the fact, however, that CEGAT allowed the appeals of the assessee and quashed the Order in Original passed by the Commissioner of Customs, the appeals filed by the department were dismissed.	None
In the light of the decision of this Court in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. the decision of CEGAT deserves to be reversed.	None
In that case, both the appeals filed by the department for enhancement of penalty should be allowed.	None
In the alternative, they may be remitted to CEGAT for fresh consideration on merits for passing an appropriate order in accordance with law.27.	None
The submission on behalf of the Company and ChairmancumManaging Director and Director was that the decision of this Court in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. does not lay down correct law.	Arguments of Respondent
It was submitted that Designs, Drawings and Plans imported by the Company are covered under Chapter Heading 49.01 as they could be said to be Books and could not fall under Subheading 4911.99.	Arguments of Respondent
CEGAT in several cases had taken a similar view.	Arguments of Respondent
The Larger Bench also upheld the reasoning in and conclusion arrived at in those cases.	Arguments of Respondent
It was also submitted that a similar point came for consideration before this Court in Scientific Engineering House Ltd. and this Court in the light of the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, held that drawings and designs would come within the term book and hence, would be said to be plant.	None
It was also submitted that the High Court of Gujarat in Elecon Engineering Ltd. considered the question and decided in favour of the assessee.	None
The observations of the High Court of Gujarat had been approved by this Court in	Arguments of Respondent
Scientific Engineering House Ltd.	Arguments of Respondent
The Division Bench of this Court in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. misinterpreted and misapplied the ratio laid down in that case and erroneously held that the decision in Scientific Engineering House Ltd. does not support the Company.	Arguments of Respondent
On the contrary, the observations in that case supported the case of the department.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged by the learned Counsel for the assessee that the decision of the Division Bench in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. is also not in conformity with the decision of threeJudge Bench in Associated Cement Companies Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, I (2001)	Arguments of Respondent
SLT 763(2001) 4 SCC 593.	Arguments of Respondent
It was, therefore, submitted that the appeals deserve to be dismissed.	Arguments of Respondent
So far as CEGAT is concerned, in our opinion, the learned Counsel for the assessee is right in submitting that the point is finally concluded in favour of assessee and against the department in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd.	Reasoning
The Larger Bench observed that in several cases, Drawings, Designs and Plans were held to be covered under Chapter 49 and would fall under Heading 49.01 (printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar printed matter whether or not in single sheets) 49.06 (Plans and drawing etc. for architecture, engineering, industrial, commercial, topographical or similar purposes, being originals drawn by hand hadwritten texts photographic reproductions on sensitized paper and carbon copies of the foregoing) and 49.11 (other printed matter, including printed pictures and photographs) and not under 4911.99 (other).	Reasoning
The Larger Bench also noted that in some cases, a contrary view was taken.	Reasoning
But relying on the majority of the decisions, it was held that the relevant heading was 49.01 of Schedule I of the Act.	Reasoning
No doubt this Court in an appeal against the order passed by the Larger Bench reversed the decision of CEGAT.	None
The question, however, is whether the order passed by a twoJudge Bench in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. lays down correct law on the point.	None
Now, let us consider some decisions on this aspect.	None
In Elecon Engineer Co. Ltd., the High Court of Gujarat was called upon to consider the question whether drawings and patterns acquired by the assessee from foreign company relating to knowhow which formed basis of business of the assessee could be said to be books within the meaning of Subsection (3) of Section 43 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and hence, plant as defined in the said subsection and whether the assessee could claim depreciation on the said purchase?	None
The High Court noted that Subsection (3) of Section 43 expressly declared that book used for the purpose of business or profession of the assessee was covered by the inclusive definition of the word plant.	None
The question, however, was whether drawings and patterns could be said to be book?	None
The Court observed that the word book had not been defined in the Act.	None
It was not a term of art.	None
It was an ordinary English word of every day use and must, therefore, be assigned its natural meaning as understood in the common parlance, subject of course, to the context in which it was used.	None
The Court stated We will first consider the question whether drawings and patterns acquired by the assessee are books, for the inclusive definition of the word plant in Section 43(3) of the Act expressly declares that books used for the purposes of the business or profession of the assessee, that is, used for the purpose of enabling the assessee to carry on his business or profession and earn income therefrom, are plant within the meaning of Section 32.	None
Now, the word book has not been defined in the Act and it is not a term of art.	None
It is an ordinary English word of every day use and it must, therefore, be assigned its natural meaning as understood in common parlance subject, of course, to the context in which it is used here.	None
In popular sense, book means a collection of a number of leaves or sheets of paper or of other substance, blank, written or printed, of any size, shape and value, held together along one of the edges so as to form a material whole and protected on the front and back with a cover of more or less durable material.	None
The Court also referred to dictionary meaning.	None
It was observed that one must refer not only to the physical, but also functional characteristic of book.	None
It must be functionally useful for the purpose of assessees business or profession.	None
To put it differently, it must be a tool of his trade an article which must be part of the apparatus with which its business or profession was carried on.	None
It must have utility value enabling its owner to pursue his business or profession with greater advantage.	None
It must, thus, satisfy a dual test.	None
It must bear both physical and functional characteristics of a book.	None
It must be a collection of a number of sheets of paper or of other substance, having suitable size, shape and value, bound together at one edge so as to form a material whole and protected on the front and back with covers of some kind and functionally useful to the assessee for carrying on his business or profession.	None
The Court also referred to English decisions on the point.	None
A reference may be made in this connection to a decision of this Court of Chancery in Pretyman v. Pretyman, (1931) 1	None
Ch.D 521.	None
The testator in that case had by his Will inter alia bequeathed all the pictures, prints, statues, sculptures, articles of vertu books, furniture and plate to his trustees.	None
The estate of the testator included 155 original manuscripts of the series of letters and papers known as Paston letters.	None
Those letters and papers were not in the form of loose sheets included in portfolios or kept in a safe.	None
They were mounted, or inlaid in sheets of paper and bound up in three volumes.	None
The question before the Court was whether those three volumes could be said to be articles of vertu or book within the meaning of the relevant statute.	None
Replying the question in affirmative, Maugham, J. stated to my mind it is plain that a book is not necessarily a printed book But in addition, according to the ordinary meaning of the English word book.	None
There are many books which are not necessarily the sort of books which one finds in a library at all, and which yet are books.	None
I might mention as an example the book which I have before me, a Judges notebook.	None
I do not know how that could be described otherwise than as a book.	None
Referring to earlier decisions, the Court concluded In the present case I have come to the conclusion that these three volumes are books.	None
The factors leading me to that conclusion are these The volumes are in book form to the outward eye they look like books, and in the ordinary course they can be, and are, handled like books.	None
Next, I observe that they can be used like books, in the sense that, as one turns over the sheets, one can, if able to decipher the handwriting, read the various letters as a collection of letters bound up in the books.	None
I observe further that they are not detachable letters in the ordinary sense, but have been so inserted in the sheets that they are in substance permanent parts of the volumes, unless, indeed, they should be cut out or removed by some forcible effect.	None
A similar question came up for consideration before this Court in Scientific Engineering House Ltd. referred to above.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case, the assessee entered into collaboration agreement for manufacture of scientific instruments.	None
The collaborator was to supply technical knowhow by drawings, designs, charts, plants, etc.	None
The question was whether those documents in the form of documentation service under the agreement could be said to be book and plant within the meaning of the Income Tax Act and whether the assessee was entitled to claim depreciation?	None
The Court considered two questions viz.	None
(i) whether the documentation service agreed to be and actually rendered by the foreign collaborator to the assessee was incidental to other services as a result whereof the assessee acquired technical knowhow requisite for the purpose of manufacturing its products and (ii) whether the expenditure could be said to be of a capital nature brought into existence a depreciable asset?	None
Considering the provisions of Sections 32 and 43 of the Act, the Court held that the word plant would include any article or object fixed or movable, live or dead, used by a businessman for carrying on his business and it is not necessarily confined to an apparatus which is used for mechanical operations or processes or is employed in mechanical or industrial business.	None
The Court quoted with approval the following passage of Lindley, L.J. in Yarmouth v. France, (1887) 19	None
QB 647 There is no definition of plant in the Act but, in its ordinary sense, it includes whatever apparatus is used by a businessman for carrying on his business, not his stockintrade which he buys or makes for sale but all goods and chattels, fixed or movable, live or dead, which he keeps for permanent employment in his business.	None
The Court also referred to functional test formulated by Lord Guest in Inland Revenue Commissioners v. Barclay Curle and Co. Ltd., (1970) 76 ITR 62 (HL)	None
In order to decide whether a particular subject is an apparatus it seems obvious that an inquiry has to be made as to what operation it performs.	None
The functional test is, therefore, essential at any rate as a preliminary.	None
The Court then formulated the test thus Does the article fulfil the function of a plant in the assessees trading activity?	None
It is a tool of his trade with which he carries on his business?	None
If the answer is in the affirmative it will be a plant.	None
The Court proceeded to observe that applying the said test, the drawings, designs, charts, plans, processing data and other literature comprised in the documentation service specified in the agreement would constitute book and hence plant within the meaning of the Act.	None
The Court, therefore, held that it was clearly of the opinion that the capital asset acquired by the assessee, namely, the technical knowhow in the shape of drawings, designs, charts, plans, processing data and other literature fell within the connotation plant and, therefore, a depreciable asset.	None
The Court referred to Elecon Engineering Co. Ltd. and said Counsel invited our attention to the decision in CIT v. Elecon Engg.	None
Co. Ltd., where the Gujarat High Court has, after exhaustively reviewing the case law on the topic, held that drawings and patterns which constitute knowhow and are fundamental to the assessees manufacturing business are plant.	None
we agree and approve the said view.	None
(Emphasis supplied)	None
It is, no doubt, true that in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd., a twoJudge Bench of this Court reversed the decision of CEGAT and held that Drawings, Designs and Plans imported by the assessee from Zimmer under an agreement for transfer of technology for setting up a plant to manufacture specified goods could not be said to be book and hence was not covered by Chapter Heading 49.01 nor exempted under notification of 1975.	None
It is also true that the Court considered both the decisions, viz., Scientific Engineering House Ltd. decided by this Court and Elecon Engineering Co. Ltd. decided by the High Court of Gujarat.	None
Regarding Scientific Engineering House Ltd., a twoJudge Bench said While there is some factual divergence as noticed above but the factum of the drawings etc. not forming part of a book within the exemption notification stands accepted in Scientific Engg.	None
as would be evident from the emphasized portion in para 13 noticed above.	None
In this view of the matter, the aforesaid decision of this Court in Scientific Engg.	None
does not lend any assistance to the assessee, rather runs counter to the respondents contentions.	None
As can be seen from one of the volumes produced before us, it contains documents in loose sheets merely put up in a folder.	None
It has none of the characteristics of a book known in the common trade parlance.	None
At any rate, the principal interest in the goods is related to transfer of technology to the assessee in the form of drawings, designs and plans for setting up a plant to manufacture polyster, polyster filament yarn and polyester staple fibre.	None
Thus viewed from any angle, the goods imported by the assessee are not covered by Sl.	None
No. 10 but are covered by Sl.	None
No. 15 of the said exemption notification.	None
The Court proceeded to observe The question thus arises as to whether articles imported satisfy the requirement of Serial No. 10 of the notification.	None
Incidentally, this Court in Scientific Engg.	None
categorically posed a question as to whether apart from the physical form, the documents satisfy the functional test The basic issue thus would be the nature of articles imported.	None
Now what these documents are admittedly in terms of the agreement between the parties, these documents cannot be attributed to be technical knowhow in the shape of drawings, designs, plans and other literature It is a literature or specification for a particular plant to manufacture polyester, polyester filament yarn and polyester staple fibre even without adverting to the general trade parlance of the word book and its known features a plain look at the book itself denotes it to be an installation and planning manual.	None
The documents though loosely kept in a binder is known as Zimmer Documentation as regards the FisherFosemount Systems.	None
It is a technology transfer agreement which stands documented in a folder.	None
The heading itself records Installing CHIP Products and Application Software.	None
The heading itself thus indicative of not being a work of art by an author it is a record of scientific progress achieved and this particular achievement is being transferred by way of transfer of technology agreement between the two parties and thus cannot but be termed to be a technical knowhow in the shape of drawings, designs, charts, plans and other literature these items have been ascribed to be a part of the plant for the purposes of depreciation allowance in terms of Sections 32 and 43(3) of the Income Tax Act.	None
Merely by reason of the factum of certain writings on various sheets of paper, one cannot ascribe the documentation to be a book.	None
The word book has not been defined in the Act but the book in common acceptation is a literary composition from which one may extend or advance his or her knowledge and learning.	None
As to Elecon Engineering Co. Ltd., it was stated Incidentally, the decision of the High Court of Gujarat in the case of CIT v. Elecon Engg.	None
Co. Ltd. has been strongly relied upon by the Tribunal and it has also been recorded in the order impugned that the decision was subsequently approved by this Court.	None
While it is true that Elecon Engg.	None
stands approved by this Court but para 14 in the decision in Scientific Engg.	None
would make the situation clear enough to indicate that the same does not convey what the learned Tribunal wanted to convey.	None
The learned Counsel for the assessee, however, is right in submitting that a Bench of two Judges proceeded on the basis of submission on behalf of the Revenue by the learned Attorney General wherein he contended that a book must have certain features.	None
This is clear if one reads paragraph 10 of the Report, which reads thus Turning attention on to Serial No. 10, be it noted that in Chapter 49 printed books and printed manuals including those in looseleaf form with binder, have been specifically referred to as nil duty article.	None
It is in this context that the learned AttorneyGeneral in support of the appeal contended that in general trade parlance a book is known by features like, (i) a book has an author, (ii) a book has a publisher, (iii) a book is a priced publication, (iv) the book is available to all and sundry who pay for it, (v) the book does not have a memorandum of understanding, (vi) there is no confidentiality about the book, (vii) a book has a subject to deal with, (viii) the pages are serially numbered and neatly bound, and (ix) last but not the least, it should have ISBN Code i.e. International Standard Book Number.	None
Our attention was also invited by the learned Counsel to dictionary meaning of the word Book.	None
In the Penguin English Dictionary, it is stated Book is a set of written, printed, or blank sheets bound together into a volume.	None
The Concise Oxford Dictionary, defines book as a written or printed work consisting of pages glued or sewn together along one side and bound in covers a main division of a literary work or of the Bible a set of records or accounts a book makers record of bets accepted and money paid out a set of tickets, stamps, matches, etc. bound together According to the New Websters Dictionary Book means A writing or document a written or printed work of some length, as a treatise or other literary composition, esp.	None
on sheets fastened or bound together a volume cap.	None
the Bible.	None
A libretto a division of a literary work, esp.	None
one of the larger divisions a record of bets, as on a horserace any collection of sheets fastened or bound together a number of sheets bound together and used for making entries, as of commercial transactions a pile or package of leaves, as of tobacco a trick at cards, or a number of cards forming a set bridge, six tricks taken by one side.	None
According to Words and Phrases (Permanent Edition), A book, in its popular sense, is understood to be a volume, bound or unbound, written or printed.	None
In our opinion, the Counsel is right in submitting that when the expression book is not defined in the Act, natural and ordinary meaning of the said expression must be kept in view.	None
According to him, nowhere it is provided that all the time characteristics or ingredients as highlighted by the learned Attorney General in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. and referred to by this Court in paragraph 10 must be considered essential or sine qua non.	Reasoning
He, therefore, submitted that a wrong test was applied by this Court in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. and Scientific Engineering House Ltd. was erroneously distinguished.	Reasoning
The proper way on the part of the Court was to consider the test laid down in Scientific Engineering House Ltd. and to come to a conclusion whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, Drawings, Designs and Plans in the case on hand could be said to be book.	None
By not doing so, a clear error of law had been committed and the decision deserves to be overruled.53.	None
It was also submitted that so far as factual aspect is concerned, CEGAT was right in holding that Drawings, Designs and Plans imported by the assessee were covered by Tariff Heading 49.01 and were also entitled to exemption under Notification No. 107/93Cus and 38/94Cus.	Reasoning
Alternatively, it was submitted that if this Court is of the view that CEGAT has not entered into the said question in view of the Larger Bench decision, the matter may be remitted to CEGAT directing it to consider the case afresh by applying correct test and to take an appropriate decision.54.	Arguments of Respondent
The learned Counsel for the Revenue submitted that Elecon Engineers Ltd. and Scientific Engineering Housing Ltd. were rendered in different context.	Arguments of Petitioner
The basic issue was whether books were covered by the entry plant under the Income Tax Act.	None
Those decisions, therefore, have no relevance to the issue in question since the entries are different.	Reasoning
It was also submitted that since the article in question was to be used by the assessee and was prepared according to his requirement, it had no utility to others.	Reasoning
Hence, it cannot be said to be a book in general sense.	None
It was argued that this Court has considered the factual position in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. and held that the article was not a book.	Reasoning
It would not, therefore, be appropriate to hold otherwise in the present case.55.	Reasoning
In our opinion, all these questions have to be considered and decided by the CEGAT in the factsituation of the case in hand.	Reasoning
As already noted by us, some of the tests applied in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. were not relevant and appropriate.	Reasoning
The CEGAT will now consider the ratio in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. in the light of the observations made by us in this judgment and decide the issue raised in the instant case.	Reasoning
The matter could be looked at from another angle also.	None
As noted earlier, HSN has dealt with the point and as per Explanatory Note, it would fall under Chapter Heading 49.01.	None
If it is so, it would not be covered by Subheading 4911.99.	None
In this connection, we may refer to a threeJudge Bench decision of this Court in Collector of Central Excise, Shillong v. Wood Craft Products Ltd., (1995) 3 SCC 454 (1995) 77 ELT 23 (SC).	Reasoning
The Court, in that case, considered the question whether plywood was classifiable under Subheading 4408.90 or Subheading 4410.90?	Reasoning
HSN Explanatory Notes was considered by this Court and it was observed We are of the view that the Tribunal as well as the High Court fell into the error of overlooking the fact that the structure of the Central Excise Tariff is based on the internationally accepted nomenclature found in the HSN and, therefore, any dispute relating to tariff classification must, as far as possible, be resolved with reference to the nomenclature indicated by the HSN unless there be an express different intention indicated by the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 itself.	Reasoning
The definition of a term in the ISI Glossary, which has a different purpose, cannot in case of a conflict, override the clear indication of the meaning of an identical expression in the same context in the HSN.	Reasoning
In the HSN, block board is included within the meaning of the expression similar laminated wood in the same context of classification of block board.	None
Since the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 is enacted on the basis and pattern of the HSN, the same expression used in the Act must, as far as practicable, be construed to have the meaning which is expressly given to it in the HSN when there is no indication in the Indian Tariff of a different intention.	Reasoning
The ratio laid down in Wood Craft Products Ltd. was followed and reiterated in Collector of Central Excise, Hyderabad v. Backelite Hylam Ltd., (1997) 10 SCC 350 (1997) 91 ELT 13 (SC), and in Collector of Customs, Bombay v.	None
Business Forms Ltd.	None
Thr. O.L., I (2002)	None
SLT 791(2002) 142 ELT 18 (SC) .	None
Hence, even that aspect has to be considered and kept in mind while deciding as to whether Drawings, Designs and Plans could or could not be said to be printed book covered by Chapter Headings 49.01, 49.06 or Subheading 4911.99?	None
There is still one more aspect which is relevant.	None
It cannot be disputed and is not disputed before us and is also concluded by a decision of a threeJudge Bench in Associated Cement Co. Ltd. that the basic heading is 49.01.	None
It deals with Printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar printed matter, whether or not in single sheets.	None
49.11 covers Other printed matter, including printed pictures and photographs.	None
Thus, specific or basic heading is 49.01 and residual entry is 49.11.	None
Priority, therefore, has to be given to the main entry and not the residual entry.	None
According to the Company, the case is covered by the main entry under 49.01, and in that view of the matter, one cannot consider the residual entry 49.11.	None
In Indian Metals and Ferro Alloys Ltd., Cuttack v. Collector of Central Excise, Bhubaneshwar, 1991 Suppl.	Reasoning
(1) SCC 125, this Court held that residuary item can be referred to and such item can be applied only when goods are shown to be not falling under any other specific item.	Reasoning
If they are covered by a specific item, residuary item has no application.	Reasoning
The Court stated One more aspect of the issue should be adverted to before we conclude.	Reasoning
The assessee is relying upon a specific entry in the tariff schedule while the department seeks to bring the goods to charge under the residuary Item 68.	Reasoning
It is a settled principle that unless the department can establish that the goods in question can, by no conceivable process of reasoning, be brought under any of the specific items mentioned in the tariff, resort cannot be had to the residuary item See also Bharat Forge and Press Industries v. Commissioner of Central Excise, (1990) 1 SCC 532 (1990) 45 ELT 525 (SC).61.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, all these contentions raised by the assessee have to be dealt with and decided in the light of relevant statutory provisions of the Act and the Rules as also on the basis of decided cases on the point.	Reasoning
As CEGAT has disposed of all the appeals merely on the basis of Larger Bench decision in Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd. and has not considered rival contentions on merits nor recorded findings thereon, it would be appropriate and in the fitness of things to remit the matters to CEGAT, now to Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) to decide them on all points in accordance with law in the light of observations made in this judgment.62.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, all the appeals are allowed.	Decision
The order passed by CEGAT is hereby set aside and the matter is remitted to CESTAT for reconsideration and for passing fresh order in accordance with law.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.	Decision
