 MOHAN	None
, J. Leave granted All these appeals can be dealt with under a common judgment since one and same issue requires to be decided.	Issue
The brief facts are as under The Department of Telecommunications, Government of India, invited tenders from Indian Companies with a view to license the operation of Cellular Mobile Telephone Service in four metroplitan cities of India, namely, Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras.	Facts
Cellular mobile telephone means a telecommunication system which allows twoways telecommunication between a mobile or stationary telephone to anther mobile or stationary unit at a location.	Facts
It may within or outside the city including subscribercumdialling and international subscribercumdialling calls.	None
The last date for submission of tender was 3131992.	None
The tender process was in two stages.	Facts
First stage involved technical evaluation and the second involved financial evaluation.	Facts
Those who were shortlisted at the first stage were invited for the second stage4.	Facts
Thirty bidders participated initially at the first stage.	Facts
The first Tender Evaluation Committee was constituted consisting of senior officers of the Department of Telecommunications5.	Facts
A Telecom Commission was constituted on 641989 comprising a Chairman and four fulltime Members1.	None
Member (Production)2.	Facts
Member (Services)3. Member (Technology)4.	Facts
Member (finance)It shortlisted 16 companies, 12 of which were eligible without any defect.	Facts
However, in the case of 4 the Committee recommended condonation of certain defects.	Facts
Those four were1.	Facts
BPL Systems and Proiects Limited2.	Facts
Mobile Teleeommunication Limited3.	Facts
Mobile Telecom Services4.	Facts
Indian Telecom LimitedBetween 1951992 the recommendations were submitted to the Telecom Commission.	Facts
The matter came up for discussion among the members of the commission.	Facts
On 2751992 the Telecom Commission accepted the recommendations of the Technical Evaluation Committee.	Facts
The chairman recommended that the shortlist of bidders, the recommendations of the Tender Evaluation committee and the proposal for financial bids be placed before the Selection committee at the earliest6.	Facts
It requires to be noted, at this stage, that a Selection Committee also described as Apex HighPowered Committee comprising the principal Secretary to the Prime Minister and three other Secretaries to the Government of India had been set up by the Minister for final evaluation of the bid7.	Facts
Mr. B. R. Nair, a Member (Budget) of Telecom Commission came to be appointed as Member (Services) on 2951992.	Facts
It appears the Selection Committee met a number of times and discussed the matter with the Minister.	None
He submitted an interim report on 1671992.	None
During this time the Committee not only de novo exercised but also modified the shorilist prepared by the Technical Evaluation Committee and approved 14 companies.	None
The Selection Committee, also met the representatives of equipment manufacturers for the selection of the licensees.	Facts
On 2071992, the revised financial bid and the shortlist approved by the Telecom Commission were put up before the Minister for approval.	Facts
On 2471992, further meetings of the Selection Committee were held and the financial bid document was revised.	Facts
On 2871992, the Selection Committee submitted its final report.	Facts
Two bidders, namely, M s. Ashok Leyland Ltd. and M s. Vam Organics Ltd. were dropped from the shortlist of 16 bidders.	Facts
On 2971992, Mr. Nair was appointed as Director General of Telecommunications.	None
He was authorised to exercise all powers of Telecom Authority under Section 3 of the Telegraph Act.	None
The Minister approved the issue of financial bids with modification to the shortlisted companies as recommended by the Selection Committee on 2971992.	Facts
The approval took place on 3371992 On 3071992, the financial tenders were issued.	None
It contained seven criteria which had been approved by the Selection Committee.	Facts
However no marks were earmarked for any of the criteria.	None
1781992 was the cutoff date for financial bid document.	None
On this date the bids received from 14 companies were opened and read out to the bidders, who were present.	Facts
As per the conditions, the quoted rental ceilings and the cities for which the bids were made, were read out9.	Facts
Another Departmental Tender Evaluation Committee consisting of senior officers examined the financial bids of the 14 shortlisted companies.	Facts
It adopted some parameter and devised the marking system which was not done by the Selection Committee.	Facts
On 291999, the second Tender Evaluation Committee submitted its recommendations.	Facts
However, the matter was referred back to it for a fresh gradation on the basis of 21.75 per cent interest rate in respect of 13 per cent rate which it had earlier adopted.	Facts
On 791992 the recommendations were resubmitted.	None
The Adviser (Operations) recommended only 4 operators based on the evaluation and financial bids, Bharati Cellular was recommended as a first choice for all the four cities, BPL as the second choice for both Delhi and Bombay, Tata Cellular and Skycell as second choice for Calcutta and Madras	Facts
This was done since in his view no other bidder qualified for licence.	Facts
On 1091992 the Chairman of the Tender Evaluation Committee directed that all the documents and recommendations be sent to the Selection Committee for its consideration and for making final recommendations to the Government.	Facts
When the file was put up to the Minister on 9101992 he made three important notings1.	Facts
In view of the time taken by the HighPowered Committee the selection probess be completed by DoT internally2.	None
Only one party may be granted licence for one city and3.	Facts
The actual selection of the licensee should be made primarily on the consideration of rentals and the marks obtained in respect of foreign exehange inflow and outflow criterion and expertence of the licensee10.	Facts
On 9101992, in accordance with this note, a list of 8 shortlisted companies was prepared.	None
The reasons for rejection of the 6 companies were recorded.	Facts
The Chairman, in his final recommendation, made on 9101992, noted that Bharati Cellular, Modi Telecom and Mobile Telecom did not fulfil the conditions provided in clause 2.4.7 of Chapter II of the financial bid which requires that foreign exchange requirement be met by foreign collaborator.	Facts
With regard to rejection of 6 bidders, Sterling Cellular was rejected because some investigation against them was pending before the CBI.	Facts
However, the Minister reversed that decision as to the exclusion of Sterling Cellular and Indian Telecom Limited from the list of finally approved bidders and directed that the same be considered11.	Facts
On 10101992, the list was recast.	None
Sterling Cellular was provisionally selected for the city of Madras.	Facts
On 12101992, the selected bidders were notified of their provisional selection subject to the acceptance of rentals and other terms as might be advised12.	Facts
It is under these circumstances, four writ petitions were preferred bearing CWP Nos. 4030, 4031, 4032 and 163 of 1992.	Facts
The petitioners were1.	Facts
India Telecomp (Petitioner in CWP No. 4030 of 1992)2.	Facts
Adino Telecom Limited (Petitioner in CWP No. 4031 of 1992)3.	Facts
Kanazia Digital System (Petitioner in CWP No. 4032 of 1992)4.	Facts
Hutchison Max Telecom Private Limited (Petitioner in CWP No. 163 of 1992)13.	Facts
It was urged before the High Court of Delhi that the decision of the Government in selecting 8 parties, two for each of the cities, was bad on the following grounds  bias(ii) invoking certain hidden criteria(iii) irrelevant considerations(iv) bypassing the Selection Committee(v) selecting otherwise underqualified parties(vi) marketing system which was evaluated by the second Technical Evaluation Committee for grading various bidders14.	Facts
So manipulated thereby a criterion was evolved which was tailormade to knock out the petitioners before the High Court or resulting in knocking out of the petitioner in the case of India Telecomp Limited and Adino Telecom Limited.	Facts
Hutchison Max Telecom Private Limited urged that it was the highest in the gradation.	Facts
Its bid was not considered for a technical and flimsy reason in that, the compliance statement required to be furnished with the bids was not complete.	Facts
Kanazia Digital System contended that its technical bid was left out on certain wrong premise15.	Facts
Lengthy arguments were advanced before the High Court.	Facts
On a consideration of those arguments the writ petitions of Adino Telecom and Kanazia Digital System were dismissed.	Facts
CWP No. 4030 of 1992 filed by India Telecomp was allowed.	Facts
A mandamus was issued to consider afresh the grant of licence to the petitioner therein, after evaluating marks for the rental on the basis the figures of deposits from subscribers given for Delhi and Bombay were accumulated.	Facts
Similarly, CWP No. 163 of 1992 in which the petitioner was M s. Hutchison Max Telecom Private Limited, was allowed.	Facts
A direction was issued to reconsider the case of the petitioner, on the basis the compliance filed by it, as it was in order.	Facts
To that extent the order granting licence to 8 parties(2 for each of the cities) was set aside.	Facts
This judgment was pronounced on 2621993 After the judgment of the Delhi High Court, the matter was reconsidered in the light of said judgment.	None
A revised list of provisionally selected bidders was prepared on 2781993.	None
That is as follows Position as on 12101992 Position as on 2781993	None
Bombay Bombay Bharati Cellular Hutchison Max BPL Projects Systems Bharati Cellular Delhi Delhi India Telecomp Ltd. BPL Projects System Tata Cellular Sterling Cellular Ltd Calcutta Culcutta Mobile Telecom Ltd.	None
India Telecom Ltd.	None
Usha Martin Telecom Usha Martin Telecom Madras Madras Skycell Mobile Telecom Ltd. Sterling Cellular Ltd.	None
Skycell It could be seen from the above that Tata Cellular which was originally selected for Delhi has been left out.	None
Therefore, it has preferred SLP (Civil) Nos. 1419194 of 1993.	None
M s. Hutchison Max Private Limited has apprehended that if the judgment of the Delhi High Court is not accepted it is likely to be displaced from the provisional selection list for Delhi.	None
Indian Telecom Private Limited preferred SLP (C) No. 17809 of 1993.	None
India Telecomp preferred SLP (C) No) 14266 of 1993 Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned counsel for the appellant, Tata Cellular, argues that this is a twostaged tender.	None
In the first stage, the evaluation had to the made on the basis of technical and commercial considerations.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bidders shortlisted at the first stage would then compete in the second stage, namely, the financial bid.	Arguments of Petitioner
Chapter II contains general conditioins framed into the bid.	Arguments of Petitioner
In paragraph 2.4.7 the financial projection of the proposed cellular mobile service was prescribed.	Arguments of Petitioner
The notes mentioned three criteria(i) Entire foreign exchange requirement shall be met by the foreign collaborator(ii) Minimum reliance on Indian public financial institutioins will be preferred(iii) Debt equity ratio should not be more than 21	Arguments of Petitioner
It is borne out by records that out of the seven criteria in evaluating the financial bid, six parameters alone were taken into consideration.	None
For rental parameter the evaluation committee took into account the equity rental ceiling, security deposits installation and other charges indicated in the bid which were the same in the case of all the bidders.	None
This was done in order to arrive at an equated or effective figure of monthly rental for each bidder.	None
It is not open to the Committee to totally ignore this criterion when the Charmans note dated 9101992 specifically states that the companies would be asked to comply with the conditions of financial bid in clause 2.47 of Chapter II while granting licences.	None
When this is the position, strangely, the appellant is informed as follows Ministry of Communication (Telecom Commission) New Delhi  110001 No./92TM	None
Dated 2781993	None
To (Kind attention  Subject Tender No. 4421/91MMC (FIN) for franchise for Cellular Mobile Telephone Service for Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras Sir Kindly refer letter of even No. dated 12101992 informing you that you have been provisionally selected for franchise for providing cellular mobile telephone service at on a nonexclusive basis The matter has been reconsidered in the light of the judgment delivered by the High Court of Delhi in this case.	None
M s. have now been provisionally selected for franchise for providing cellular mobile telephone service at in place of on a nonexclusive basis.	None
The other franchise selected for is M s. with M s. of as their foreign partner The details of the rental, deposits and other terms fixed for the franchise will be intimated to you shortly Kindly get necessary formalities completed by 3091993	None
Yours faithfully K. Garg) DDG (TM)	None
The second ground of attack is bias.	Reasoning
In that, Mr. B. R. Nair, Member of production in the Telecom Commission, who was appointed as Member (Service on 2951992, participated.	Reasoning
From the Adviser the file was to Member (Service).	Reasoning
The note of Mr. Nair is dated 2151992.	None
He agreed with the recommendation of TEC that four firms which had some deficiencies should be included in the shortlist.	None
They were BPL Systems and Projects, Mobile Telecom Mobile Communications and Indian Cellular.	None
Therefore, BPL was approved by Mr. Nair.	Reasoning
Admittedly, Mr. Nairs son is employed in BPL Systems and Projects The High Court in dealing with the allegations of bias made against Mr. Nair held Nexus of father and son in the chain of decisionmaking process is too remote to be of any consequence.	None
It is quite interesting to note that of the four companies which were having some deficiencies in their tender documents in the first stage and were recommended for consideration by the first TEC, three companies including BPL made it to the final list of eight.	None
Plea of bias is not alleged in the selection of other two companies.	None
In the circumstances it is not possible for us to hold any allegation of bias made against Nair.	None
The High Court concluded We do not think in a case like this the mere fact that Nair was part of the machinery to make selection was enough to show that there could be reasonable suspicion or real likelihood of bias in favour of BPL.	None
This finding is wrong.	None
Mr. Nairs participation from the beginning would constitute bias.	None
In support of this submission, the learned counsel relies on Manak Lal v. Prem Chand (and particularly the passage occurring at SCR p. 587), J. Mohapatra Co. v. State of Orissa (SCR at p. 334 SCC p. 112) and Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana (SCC paragraph 16 at p. 440 and 441).	None
The English decision on this aspect which will support the contention is Metropolitan Properties Co. (F.G.C.) Ltd. v. Lannon 1969 1 QB 577 1968 (3) WLR 694)	None
In law, there is no degree of bias.	None
Even otherwise in the implementation of the judgment of the High Court of Delhi, if this appellant is to be eliminated, it ought to have been afforded an opportunity.	Reasoning
Had that been done it would have pointed out several factors, namely, the omission to consider relevant material, namely, parameter seven, the prejudice caused by the award of marks after the bids were opened.	Reasoning
The DoT was obliged to disclose the maximum marks for each criterion at the threshold of the financial bid in the interest of transparency and to ensure a nonarbitrary selection In the case of most of the bidders the foreign exchange is not met by the foreign collaborator.	None
In the case of India Telecomp the debt equity.	None
This means Rs. 50.50 crores represent equity and the other Rs. 50.50 crores represent external commercial borrowing.	None
In this case, the entire foreign exchange is not met by the foreign collaborator.	None
Therefore, there is a breach of the fundamental condition of the bid.	None
This would constitute a disqualification which is a bar at the threshold.	None
Had this condition been strictly applied Bharati Cellular, Modi Telecom, Mobile Communications, Hutchison Max, Skycell Communication would have been eliminated.	None
Likewise, Sterling Cellular also did not fulfil this condition It was a mandatory condition that a foreign collaborator indicated at the first stage of tender, could not be changed there after.	None
Inter alia on the strength of credentials of foreign collaborators the bid is considered.	None
If a change is allowed it would amount to technical violation of the bid.	None
Yet in the case of BPL one of its foreign collaborators, namely, Mc Caw Cellular withdrew from the collaboration.	None
In spite of this, the breach was disregarded.	None
The bidder had to furnish proof that he had obtained the approval of foreign collaboration or filed application before the competent authority.	None
BPL had not even filed an application before the competent authority yet is tender was considered and approved.	None
On the very same ground, while Ashok Leyland had been disqualified, equally it should have been applied to BPL Sterling Cellular had been rejected at various stages of consideration on the ground that there was criminal complaint investigation pending against it.	None
The Minister had also agreed but reversed that decision on the last day and directed its consideration for inclusion in Madras on the purported ground that Madras was the least popular of the stations and that if any delay is caused due to complications on account of CBI investigation would have the least adverse effect for lack of competition.	None
The High Court noted that no material had been brought on record to show that there was any complaint against Sterling Cellular.	None
But, factually, to the knowledge of the DoT, a criminal case stood registered against Sterling Cellular in June 1993, before making the final selection.	None
The DoT, instead of rejecting Sterling Cellular on that ground, upgraded it from Madras to Delhi in disregard of the decision of the Minister Any foreign collaboration has to be approved by an interministerial committee called FIPB.	None
No proposal for foreign collaboration could be evaluated by the TEC without receiving the approval from the FIPB.	None
Even under the tender documents the bidders were required to show that they had applied for such approval Having regard to all these, the selection is vitiated by arbitrariness or unfairness Mr. Harish Salve, learned counsel, appearing for India Telecomp attacks the selection as arbitrary on the following three grounds1.	None
Bypassing the Apex Committee and entrusting to a Committee which did not follow the norms2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Certain hidden criteria which were not disclosed earlier, were applied not as parameters, but for elimination3.	Arguments of Petitioner
Three are five glaring errors in the selection.	Arguments of Petitioner
One such error is in the case of Sterling Cellular.	Arguments of Petitioner
It supports its bid on the strength of the foreign exchange that may be obtained from foreign tourists.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is something incomprehensibleElaborating these points it is urged that after shortlisting, the selection committee did not select at all.	Arguments of Petitioner
The counteraffidavit filed on behalf of the Government of India does not mention that there was a delay by Apex Committee, as held by the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the contrary, the facts disclose there was no delay whatever Two hidden criteria were postulated (i) Person having less than one lakh experience will not be considered.	None
(ii) If two bidders have the same collaborator in relation to foreign exchange that bid will not be considered.	None
There criteria were evolved after 1881992.	None
When one looks at the conditioins of tender, paragraph 2.2.1 talks of subscribers capacity.	None
That does not mention about the nature of experience.	None
Equally, paragraph 2.4.5 makes no mention about one foreign collaborator for each bidder.	None
In the case of Bharati Cellular it was having only eightyone thousand lines.	None
The criterion of 80 thousand GSM was prescribed only to favour Bharati Cellular	None
If no change of foreign collaborator is allowed at the stage of financial assessment after the technical committee has passed its bid, in the case to permit such a change to BPL, is clearly arbitrary Indian Telecom was excluded because it has the same foreign collaborator, namely, Telecom Malaysia.	None
However, in the case of Bharati Cellular, that test was not applied.	None
Its collaborator is Talkland Vodaphone.	None
The same Vodaphone has been the collaborator with Mobile Telecom.	None
This would amount to adopting double standards As against BPL the attack is as under BPL did not apply to SIA FIPB but to Reserve Bank of India (RBI)	None
The foreign collaborator was changed in the middle, as submitted above, inasmuch as Mc Caw Cellular withdrew.	None
The joint venture is gone when Mc Caw was given up Mr. Nair was biased in favour of BPL Total marks awarded are five.	None
The idea is indigenous equipment whereas what has been done by BPL is to quote higher customs duty Insofar as Sterling Cellular is preferred for Delhi that again is arbitrary.	None
There is a CBI inquiry pending against it.	Reasoning
Secondly, the foreign exchange is sought to be procured by international roaming and it is awarded 10 marks out of 10 Mr. Ashoke Sen, learned counsel, appearing for the Indian Telecom submets, firstly, the limits of judicial review in the matter of this kind will have to be examined.	None
Such limits could be gathered from Sterling Computers Ltd. v. M. N. Publications Ltd. and Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
which lay down the methods of reaching conclusion Generally speaking, in entering into contracts, the public authority is not like a private person.	None
The question to be asked is have the guidelines been laid down, if so laid down, have they been observed ?	None
In this case, Indian Telecom was originally allotted Delhi.	None
By reason of reconsideration pursuant to the judgment of the High Court of Delhi, it has now been allotted Calcutta.	None
This is wrong In clause 7 of the General conditions it is stipulated that there can be no change of foreign collaborater.	None
In clause 13, a certificate requires to be produced.	None
In a number of cases no such certificate has been produced.	None
Paragraph 2.4.5 of Chapter II of General Conditions lays down one of the parameters is the experience of foreign operating partner.	None
In the case of Bharati Cellular, SFR France Company has no experience.	None
Talklands sole function is service.	None
Therefore, its experience should not have been added.	None
In paragraph 1.4 the nature of services is listed.	None
These are not the services offered by Talkland.	None
Hutchison Max did not produce any certificate likewise Bharati Cellular	None
The argument on behalf of Ashok Leyland, petitioner in Transferred Case No. 49 of 1993 is that it was an eligible bidder but has never been communicated the reason as to why it came to be rejected.	Arguments of Petitioner
On 2991992, the Committee records that reasons must be given.	None
Yet no reasons are furnished to the petitioner.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even though the Tender Evaluation Committee held the petitioner to be qualified yet its bid had been rejected without communicating any reason whatever.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Mahabir Auto Stores v. Indian Oil Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
(SCC at p. 763, paragraph 18) this Court has held that there is an obligation to communicate the reasons37.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Koura, learned counsel appearing for Bharati Cellular, in opposing the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellants, submits that service operation should not be read in a narrow sense.	Arguments of Petitioner
In telephone industry there could be operation as well as service.	Arguments of Petitioner
While defining the service, relying on paragraph 2.1 is wrong because services are defined in paragraph 1.4 whereas paragraph 2.1 refers only to obligations of licensee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Besides, the services are also essential, they should be regarded as a part of operation38.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. G. Ramaswamy, learned counsel appearing for Skycell states that his client has been awarded Madras city.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is submitted that in the absence of mala fides the individual marking system should not have been interfered with as far as foreign exchange is concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the case of his client regarding the foreign exchange sourcing, inflow is more than the outflow39.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Anil B. Divan learned counsel appearing for Mobile Telecom Services submits that though this respondent supports the judgment of the High Court, insofar as it is allowed the writ petition filed by Hutchison Max, the same ought to be reconsidered.	Arguments of Petitioner
The bid of Hutchison Max was rejected since it had filed an incomplete compliance report.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court has chosen to accept the bid of Hutchison Max on four grounds1.	Arguments of Petitioner
The approach of the Department was hypertechnical Compliance statement is akin to verification in a pleading.	None
It cannot be placed on a higher pedestal than verification3.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Department ought to have allowed rectification since it was purely a mistake unintentioinally made4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Inasmuch as the Department had allowed a favourable treatment in the case of Indian Telecom Private Limited and Tata Cellular the same treatment ought to have been accorded to Hutchison Max as well These findings are attacked on the following grounds.	None
The tender documents both technical and commercial bid as well as the financial bid clearly lay down the manner of compliance.	None
Clause 3 of the technical bid states, in the event of the compliance report not being enclosed with the offer, the offer shall not be considered.	None
Equally, in relation to financial bid, Chapter I states that any offer received after the due date and time shall be rejected.	None
The various other clauses also postulate a strict compliance.	None
If, therefore, the bid is incomplete the offer ought to have been rejected.	None
Hence, there is no question of the Department of Telecommunication condoning the defect.	None
If the view of the High Court is to prevail it would amount to allowing a posttender modification on a select basis, that is, on the basis whether the mistake was intentional or unintentional.	None
Where the Department has chosen to reject, the High Court cannot sit in judgment.	None
To state it is like verification of pleading is to overlook that the pleadings are governed by the Code of Civil Procedure which permits amendments of pleadings as well as the verification.	None
That is not the case here.	None
The comparison with Indian Telecom and Tata Cellular is also incorrect.	None
In the case of Indian Telecom there is an unconditional compliance.	None
Only in the covering letter a view has been expressed about the economic viability of the services and the bidders preference.	None
Hence, it cannot be contended that the bid was conditional, in any manner.	None
Similarly, Tata Cellular was not accompanied in this regard The allegation against this respondent that the foreign exchange requirement has not been met is incorrect.	None
The documents filed by the respondent clearly show that there is a surplus of approximately three crore rupees, available from the foreign collaborator, in the first year.	Reasoning
The allegation of India Telecomp that the bidder was responding on the basis of one party per city and the proposal for licence for a period of 20 to 25 years is factually incorrect.	Reasoning
Equally, to state that this respondent quoted a lower customs duty and thereby got higher marks is incorrect.	Reasoning
The financial bid of the respondent shows that this had taken customs duty at 95 per cent for the first year when the backlog of the equipment is to be imported.	Reasoning
For the subsequent years, the projection was made on a reduced customs duty in view of the announced policy of the Government to reduce customs duty and to bring them in line with international levels41.	None
The argument that there is a common collaborator of Bharati Cellular and Mobile Telecom Services proceeds on the footing that Bharati Cellular is collaborating with Talkland.	None
That Talkland has a service privately in agreement with Vodaphone Group.	Reasoning
Thus, Vodaphone is the common foreign oollaborator of Bharati Cellular and Mobile Telecom.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is not correct.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mobile Telecom has its foreign partner for the purpose of setting up a leading cellular network cooperator of U.K., namely, Vodaphone.	None
Vodaphone as network operator is the owner of Vodaphone Cellular Network.	None
It is responsible for the setting up of the network in U.K. where cellular network operator can also be a service provider.	None
Vodaphone has been issued a licence as the cellular network operator under Section 7 of the U.K. Telecommunications Act of 1984.	None
It is known as a public telecommunication operator.	None
Vodaphone has about 30 service providers in U.K. including Talkland.	None
It has no equity in Talkland.	None
There are no common directors on the boards of two companies.	None
Vodaphone is the foreign collaborator of Mobile Telecom.	None
It has no collabration agreement with Bharati Cellular.	None
In regard to Bharati Cellular it has only a collaboration agreement with Talkland which is a mere service provider Arguing on behalf of Sterling Cellular Mr. K. Parasaran, learned counsel submits that the technical competency and capacity to execute the contract by this respondent with its joint venture partner is not in doubt.	None
Sterling Cellular was shortlisted by Technical Evaluation Committee itself.	None
It was amongst the, 12 tenderers shortlisted in the first list.	None
The joint venture collaborator of Sterling, namely, Cellular Communication is a reputed international company having largescale operation in U.S.A.	None
As regards the foreign exchange inflow and outflow it is submitted that Sterling Cellular has projected its stand that the foreign exchange inflow will be from foreign tourists and business travellers visiting the city Delhi.	None
The expression international roaming has been used in relation to such foreign tourists and business travellers.	None
Internationally, cellular phones are used by two categories of persons, (1) subscribers residing in the city who would use the phone on a permanent basis, (2) the tourists and business travellers visiting the city who would use the phone on a temporary basis.	None
Inasmuch as the foreign tourists and foreign business travellers make the payment in foreign currency it will be a source of foreign exchange.	None
What is required under the tender condition is the projection of foreign exchange inflow and outflow relating to the cellular phone contract.	None
This means inflow in foreign exchange as a result of the operation of cellular phone system.	None
Hence, the earning from tourists and business travellers is a very relevant consideration.	None
Like this respondent.	None
Hutchison max selected for the Bombay city also projected for the foreign exchange openings by the use of cellular phone by tourists and business travellers.	None
The argument that the foreign tourists and business travellers are not likely to use cellular telephone is not correct since the calls made through the cellular telephones are not only cheaper but also available as a 24 hours companion.	None
That, of course, is a greater facility.	None
In the note made by the Minister it has been mentioned that the respondent has undertaken to be bound by conditions contained in the tender documents to the effect that the entire foreign exchange requirement shall be met by the foreign collaborator.	None
In fact, the foreign collaborator has also confirmed this As regards the allegation of CBI inquiry, it is submitted that the learned Judges of the High Court perused the note of the Chairman, Telecom Commission.	None
It was only after this the Court held that there were no strictures against holding company of SCL by the name Sterling Computers Limited, in M N Publication Ltd. v. MTNL.	None
1992 (4) DLT 24)	None
It was further held that it appears to have been punished for no sin of it.	None
There was no CBI inquiry on the date of the above judgment.	None
It was after the judgment dated 1071993, the FIR was filed which has been allowed to be proceeded with by way of directions in petition under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code.	None
This Court in Erusian Equipment Chemicals Ltd. v. State of W.B. has laid down that pending investigation blacklisting cannot be permitted.	None
The said ratio will apply to this case Mr. K. K. Venugopal, learned counsel appearing for Hutchison Max submits that this respondent was rejected by the committee, That was questioned in the writ petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court directed reconsideration of its bid.	Arguments of Petitioner
With regard to compliance statement it was stated that the company agrees to fully comply with all paragraphs of Chapter II of the General Conditions and Chapter V Tariffs of Document No. 4421/91MMC (FIN) without any deviation and reservation.	Arguments of Petitioner
No doubt, there is a failure, in the first instance, to state about compliance with Chapters II and IV.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is an accidental omission.	Arguments of Petitioner
It amounts to a clerical error as laid down in Moffett, Hodgkins Clarke Co. v. City of Rochester (44 LED 373 178 US 1108 1899).	Arguments of Petitioner
If it is a mistake in relation to nonessential or collateral matter it could always be condoned.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Privy Council in Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ejaz Husain v. Mohd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Iftikhar Husain 1932 AIR(PC)	Arguments of Petitioner
76 59 IA 92 ILR 7 Luck 1 ) has held that it is always a matter of from and not of substance.	Arguments of Petitioner
Other argument is advanced that there is a defect in the compliance statement45.	Arguments of Petitioner
The alternate submission is, the question of error does not arise since the compliance statement was filed on 1191992 while the contract came to be awarded only on 12101992.	None
In such a case the question would be what is the scope of judicial review ?	None
The court could interfere in the following three categories of cases1.	Arguments of Petitioner
Quasijudicial Administrative, for example, price fixing3.	None
Award of contractsHere, the matter is technical in relation to award of contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
Judicial review does not mean the court should take over the contracting powers.	Arguments of Petitioner
The parameters for interference in such matters would be(i)	Arguments of Petitioner
Mala fide(ii) Bias(iii)	Arguments of Petitioner
Arbitrariness to the extent of perversityIf none of these is present, the court should not interfere.	Arguments of Petitioner
It must be left to the authorities.	Arguments of Petitioner
The contrary argument advanced on behalf of the appellants against this respondent are not tenable46.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. F. S. Nariman, learned counsel appearing for BPL in the foremost argues by way of preliminary submissions that three questions will arise at the threshold(a) The scope and ambit of judicial review with regard to decisions bona fide arrived at in tender cases (precontract)	Arguments of Petitioner
The applicability of judicial review in this cases(c) The interference under Article 136 of the Constitution where the power of judicial review has been exercised by the High Court under Article 22647.	None
It is submitted that the reasonableness in administrative law means to distinguish between proper use or improper use of power.	Arguments of Petitioner
The test is not the courts own standard of reasonableness.	Arguments of Petitioner
This Court has reiterated this proposition in G. B. Mahajan v. Jalgaon Municipal Council (para 4346)).	None
There is a possibility of fallibility inherent in all factfindings.	None
To insist upon a strict compliance with each and every tender document is not the law.	None
This Court upheld the waiver of technical, literal compliance of the tender conditions in Poddar Steel Corpn.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. Ganesh Engineering Works.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the present case, the shortlisting at the first stage, the allotment of cities at the second stage and the selection of franchisees qua cities at the third stage were after evaluating the financial bid by a collectivity of persons at different level.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, possibility of elimination of arbitrariness is conceived in the system itself.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the High Court has analysed properly and come to the proper conclusion.	Arguments of Petitioner
That being so, this Court will not interfere by exercising its powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.	Reasoning
The argument about hidden criteria would not affect or benefit this respondent directly or indirectly.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the hidden criteria cannot be impugned.	Reasoning
There is no mention of any particular criterion on the basis of which the selection was to be made.	Reasoning
At the second stage what was required to be kept in mind were the parameters mentioned in paragraph 2.4.	Reasoning
The criteria for selection to each of the four cities had to be provided inter alia because the tenderers did not tender for one city alone but for more than one.	Reasoning
The allegatiion of bias on the part of Mr. Nair is without substance.	None
It is submitted, whenever disqualification on the ground of personal involvement is alleged(i) the person involved (for example related) must be the decisionmaker there must be sufficient nexus between the decisionmaker and the party complaining in order to justify the real likelihood of bias After a decision is reached the standard of proof of bias is higher as laid down in Vassiliades v. Vassiliades 1945 AIR(PC) 38 221 IC 603 1945 All(LJ) 34.	None
This decision has been referred to by this Court in Ranjit Thakur v. Union of India.	None
The learned counsel after referring to the relevant case law submits that cases of bias and ostensible bias had to be regarded in the light of their own circumstances.	None
In this case Mr. Subhash Nair is only one of the officers in BPL, which has over 5500 employees and 89 officers of his rank in 27 offices all over India, Mr. Nair was not the decisionmaker at all.	None
He was one of the recommending authorities.	Reasoning
His involvement in the approval and selection of the tender was indispensable.	Reasoning
He was originally the Member (Services) on 2951992.	None
Thereafter he became Director General.	None
Telecommunications by a notification issued by 2871992 by the President of India.	None
As such, he was to exercise all powers of Telegraph Authority under Section 3(6) of the Act.	None
Therefore, the High Court was right in applying the doctrine of necessity.	None
This doctrine has come up for discussion in Charan Lal Sahu v. Union of India Whatever it may be, Indian Telecom cannot take the point of bias.	None
It took the chance and benefit of being shortlisted despite the knowledge of Mr. Nairs involvement.	None
Equally, Tata Cellular did not raise the allegation of bias in the High Court.	None
In fact, it opposed the plea of bias No doubt, this respondent dropped McCaw as a foreign collaborator.	None
That does not amount to change where one out of two or three collaborators is dropped.	Reasoning
This foreign collaborator was required as Condition No. 7 only in financial bid documents not in tender documents.	Reasoning
This respondent submitted financial bid on 1781992 showing only two of the collaborators.	Reasoning
McCaw was not shown as that was already dropped out.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court rightly held that McCaw was not taken into consideratiion in awarding marks for foreign partners experience.	Reasoning
The object of the first stage was not to allot the franchise but to shortlist the parties The learned Solicitor General produced the copies of the relevant documents in the file and took us through the same.	None
It is submitted, after outlining the process of evaluation in the second stage six parameters were adopted by the Committee consisting of Telecom experts who are none other than the senior officers of the Department of Telecommunications.	Arguments of Respondent
The parameters are as follows1.	Arguments of Respondent
Quoted rental ceiling2.	Arguments of Respondent
Project financing plan3.	Arguments of Respondent
Foreign Exchange inflow and outflow4.	Arguments of Respondent
Projects plan for cellular equipment within the country including the tieup with the proposed Indian manufacturers5.	Arguments of Respondent
Experience of foreign operating partner and6.	Arguments of Respondent
Financial strength of parameters partner companiesThese parameters were assigned marks.	Arguments of Respondent
The evaluation report including the ranking arrived at by the tender evaluation committee was then put up to the Telecom Commission for further consideration and selection.	Arguments of Respondent
Due to technical considerations not more than two bidders per city could be accommodated.	Arguments of Respondent
Paragraph 14 of the bid conditions provided that each bidder must furnish a declaration in a specified form to the bid documents.	Arguments of Respondent
The declaration given by Hutchison Max was complete.	Arguments of Respondent
However, its bid had to be rejected on merits in spite of securing high marks M s. India Telecomp secured the second place for Calcutta.	None
Inasmuch at they had the same foreign partner as Usha Martin which secured a higher place than India Telecomp, it was rejected and the choice went to the next bidder in the marking list.	None
After the above considerations were taken into account, the remaining companies were selected which led to the writ petition.	None
Pursuant to the High Court directions the matter was reconsidered and selections have been made as was done earlier The principal objection of the Union of India is that the High Court was not justified in scrutinising the tendering process in such detail.	None
The minute examination is unwarranted because the High Court cannot constitute itself the selecting authority.	Reasoning
However, no appeal is preferred, as otherwise, it would have further delayed the introduction of very valuable communication facility in this country.	Reasoning
Beyond that, it has no particular interest as to who is selected.	Reasoning
However, it becomes necessary to answer the allegations made about the actual selection and whether there was any bias on the part of the selection committee.	Reasoning
The selection process was dictated by the exigencies of the situation.	Reasoning
It is a question, as to what one could settle for, in the given circumstances.	Reasoning
The Government was embarking upon a totally new technology project, for the first time.	Reasoning
At that stage, it was impossible to predict what kind of response will there be.	Reasoning
Therefore it is impsible to predicate the cutoff limits which could be set or which conditions have to be relaxed or softrned.	Reasoning
The allegation of bias, it is held, must be a case of reasonable possibility or likelihood of bias.	Reasoning
In this case, there is no such reasonable likelihood.	Reasoning
Mr. B. R. Nair was not influenced directly, or, in any other manner, subtle or otherwise.	Reasoning
He did not, in fact, participate in any of the significant or crucial stages in the selection process.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, the relationship is not such as to give reasonable apprehension of bias.	None
In support of this argument reliance is placed on Manak Lall and Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana (SCC p. 441, para 16).	None
As regards the parameter in relation to project financing it was kept in view by taking into account the estimated number of subscribers, installation charges, monthly rental, any other charges etc.	Reasoning
they were included in the competition.	Reasoning
The other parameters of the bidders were treated on the same footing as regards this parameter is concerned.	Reasoning
Concerning rental, it was specifically averred in the counter before the High Court that the other charges has also been included while calculating quoted rental54.	Reasoning
It is not correct to contend that Talklands experience is not relevant.	Reasoning
In the United Kingdom the operation of Mobile Cellular System is handled by the network cooperator and a proper service provider, acting together.	Reasoning
The licensee is required to perform the combined functions of a network operator as well as service provider.	Reasoning
The duties and functions of a licensee are not limited to making available the services as defined.	Reasoning
In fact, the principal obligation of the licensee is expressed generally in paragraph 2.1.1.	Reasoning
A reading of the other clauses makes it clear that it is incumbent upon the licensee to provide services.	Reasoning
Therefore, the experiences of a network operator and the service provider are both important and relevant In the case of Bharati Cellular the attack is that the cutoff came to be reduced to 80, 000 subscribers to accommodate it.	None
Bharati Cellular mentioned its tender, as on 31121991, the name of SFR France which had 80, 000 subscribers.	None
By 31121991, it would have got increased to more than one lakh.	None
In August 1992 when the bids were submitted SFRs line of experience could reasonably be expected to be more than one lakh.	None
SFR France had a GSM licence.	Reasoning
Having regard to these facts, it would not be an unreasonable estimate, for the experts, to conclude that Bharati Cellular was having experience of over one lakh lines	None
It is alleged that the debt equity ratio of Skycell has not been properly taken.	None
Skycell ratio was 1.5 and was correctly assigned 3 marks Tata Cellular alleges that Bharati Cellular, Mobile Telecom, Steriing and Skycell have breached note (ii) under para 2.4 which provides that minimum reliance on Indian Public Financial Institutions will be preferred.	None
The bid pro forma made distinction between loans from Public Financial Institutions and Banks.	None
The criticism of Tata confuses this requirement with loan from Banks.	None
The criterion, it is submitted, was correctly applied In the evaluation of process open market purchase was left out of consideration Since Skycell bid for Madras showed that they had projected their operations in Madras for initial years, would be below profitable levels.	None
In such a case, no dividend would have to be paid to the foreign collaborators.	None
Accordingly, it was concluded that the foreign exchange inflow position was better International roaming is a relevant consideration.	None
From the tender document it will be clear that it provides for facility of roaming to visitors, Roaming facility for a tourist is available in the GSM system.	Reasoning
Even if this condition has been relaxed in favour of certain bidders, there is nothing wrong.	Reasoning
Reliance is placed on G. J. Fernandez v. State of Karnataka With regard to the foreign collaborator of BPL there was no change.	None
French Telecom is one of the foremost in the world in this technology.	None
It remained as foreign collaborator of BPL.	None
Dropping out of McCaw did not violate the bid conditions which were really aimed at preventing a new and, therefore, unknown collaborator being introduced at the financial bid stage.	None
The second Technical Evaluation Committee did not see this as a violation.	None
In any event, where the judgment of the High Court had been given effect to and a proper evaluation has been done, no interference is warranted Mr. Soli J. Ssorabjee, learned counsel, in his reply, would submit that as regards the scope of judicial review the American cases cited by Mr. K. K. Venugopal would no apply.	None
As laid down in State of U.P. v. Maharaja Dharmander Prasad Singh judicial review is confined to decisionmaking process.	None
This being an administrative action the scope of judicial review could be gathered from Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for Civil Service.	None
In Secy. of State for Education and Science v. Tameside Metropolitan Borough Council the law has been stated as to when subjective satisfaction could be interfered with under judicial review.	None
This Court also had occasion to deal with similar contracts and stated the law relating to judicial review in Sterling Computers Ltd. v. M N Publications Ltd. (SCC pp.	None
455 and 458, para 19) and then again, in Union of India v.	None
Hindustan Development Corpn	None
The point against Hutchison Max is, the defect in its tender, came to be pointed out, requiring it to comply with the same.	None
In view of the defect Hutchison Max came to be excluded Mr. Nairs participation from the beginning would constitute bias in law Mr. Ashoke Sen, in his reply, would state that in the case of Hutchison Max the mistake was committed in the offer with regard to compliance statement.	None
The principle of bias as laid down in R. v. Essex Justices (Sizer), ex p. Perkins 1927 (2) KB 475 1927 ALLER 393 96 LJKB 530) would apply.	None
Similar passage occurs in de Smiths Constitutiional and Administrative Law (4th Edn.)	None
p. 268	None
Mr. Harish Salve, in reply, would urge that the hidden criteria were evolved in relation to common foreign collaborator.	None
This shows that there was lack of candour on the part of the Union.	None
It is mentioned that Talkland was taken into consideration.	None
It is not so, as seen from the file.	None
The conditions were tailormade to suit Bharati Cellular and BPL Mr. K. K. Venugopal would urge that the rule relating to judicial review should not be applied here because it is one of selection by an administrative process Having regard to the above arguments we propose to deal with the matter from the following five aspects1.	None
The scope of judicial review in matters of this kind2.	Issue
Whether the selection is vitiated by arbitrariness ?  	Issue
(a) regarding financial projection and (b) regarding rental3.	Issue
Bias of Mr. Nair  Whether affected the selection ?	Issue
4.	Issue
Whether the Apex Committee has been by passed ?	Issue
5.	Issue
Evolving of hidden criteria  Whether valid ?	None
Scope of Judicial Review A tender is an offer.	None
It is something which invites and is communicated to notify acceptance.	None
Broadly stated, the following are the requisites of a valid tender1.	None
It must be unconditional Must be made at the proper place Must conform to the terms of obligation Must be made at the proper time Must be made in the proper form The person by whom the tender is made must be able and willing to perform his obligations There must be reasonable opportunity for inspection Tender must be made to the proper person It must be of full amount It cannot be denied that the principles of judicial review would apply to the exercise of contractual powers by Government bodies in order to prevent arbitrariness or favouritism.	None
However it must be clearly stated that there are inherent limitations in exercise of that power of judicial review.	None
Government is the guardian of the finances of the State.	None
It is expected to protect the financial interest of the State.	None
The right to refuse the lowest or any other tender is always available to the Government.	None
But the principles laid down in Article 14 of the Constitution have to be kept in view, while accepting or refusing a tender.	None
There can be no question of infringement of Article 14 if the Government tries to get the best person or the best quotation.	None
The right to choose cannot be considered to be an arbitrary power.	None
Of course, if the said power is exercised for any collateral purpose the exercise of that power will be struck down Judicial quest in administrative matters has been to find the right balance between the administrative discretion to decide matters whether contractual or political in nature or issues of social policy thus they are not essentially justiciable and the need to remedy any unfairness.	None
Such an unfairness is set right by judicial review Lord Scarman in Nottinghamshire County Council v. Secretary of State for the Environment proclaimed Judicial review is a great weapon in the hands of the judges but the Judges must observe the constitutiional limits set by our parl amentary system upon the exercise of this beneficial power.	None
Commenting upon this Michael Supperstone and James Goudie in their work Judicial Review (1992 Edn.) say If anyone were prompted to dismiss this sage warning as a mere obiter dictum from the most radical member of the higher judiciary of recent times, and therefore to be treated as an idiosyncratic aberration, it has received the endorsement of the Law Lords generally.	None
The words of Lord Scarman were echoed by Lord Bridge of Harwich, speaking on behalf of the Board when reversing an interventionist decision of the New Zealand Court of Appeal in Butcher v. Petrocorp Exploration Ltd. 1831991.	None
Observance of judicial restraint is currently the mood in England.	None
The judicial power of review is exercised to rein in any unbridled executive functioning.	None
The restraint has two contemporary manifestations.	None
One is the ambit of judicial intervention the other covers the scope of the courts ability to quash an administrative decision on its merits.	None
These restraints bear the hallmarks of judicial control over administrative action Judicial review is concerned with reviewing not the merits of the decision in support of which the application for judicial review is made but the decisionmaking process itself In Chief Constable of the North Wales Police v. Evans Lord Brightman said Judicial review, as the words imply, is not an appeal from a decision but a review of the manner in which the decision was made Judicial review is concerned, not with the decision, but with the decisionmaking process.	None
Unless that restriction on the power of the court is observed, the court will in my view, under the guise of preventing the abuse of power, be itself guilty of usurping power.	None
In the same case Lord Hailsham commented on the purpose of the remedy by way of judicial review under RSC, Ord. 53 in the following terms This remedy, vastly increased in extent, and rendered, over a long period in recent years, of infinitely more convenient access than that provided by the old prerogative writs and actions for a declaration, is intended to protect the individual against the abuse of power by a wide range of authorities, judicial, quasijudicial and, as would originally have been thought when I first practiced at the Bar, administrative.	None
It is not intended to take away from those authorities the powers and discretions properly vested in them by law and to substitute the courts as the bodies making the decisions.	None
It is intended to see that the relevant authorities use their powers in a proper manner.	None
In R. v. Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, ex p. Datafin plc, Sir John Donaldson, M.R. commented An application for judicial review is not an appeal.	None
In Lonrho plc v. Secretary of State for Trade and Industry Lord Keith said Judicial review is a protection and not a weapon.	None
It is thus different from an appeal.	None
When hearing an appeal the Court is concerned with the merits of the decision under appeal.	None
In Amin, Re (Amin v. Entry Clearance Officer, Lord Fraser observed that Judicial review is concerned not with the merits of a decision but with the manner in which the decision was made Judicial review is entirely different from an ordinary appeal.	None
It is made effective by the court quashing the administrative decision without substituting its own decision, and is to be contrasted with an appeal where the appellate tribunal substitutes its own decision on the merits for that of the administrative officer.	None
In R. v. Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, ex p. in Guinness plc (1990 1 QB 146 Lord Donaldson, M.R. referred to the judicial review jurisdiction as being supervisory of longstop jurisdiction.	None
Unless that restriction on the power of the court is observed, the court will, under the guise of preventing the abuse of power, be itself guilty of usurping power The duty of the court is to confine itself to the question of legality.	None
Its concern should be1.	Issue
Whether a decisionmaking authority exceeded its powers ?	None
2. Committed an error of law3.	Issue
Committed a breach of the rules of natural justice4.	Issue
Reached a decision which no reasonable tribunal would have reached or5.	Issue
Abused its powers Therefore, it is not for the court to determine whether a particular policy or particular decision taken in the fulfilment of that policy is fair.	None
It is only concerned with the manner in which those decisions have been taken.	None
The extent of the duty to act fairly will vary from case to case.	None
Shortly put the grounds upon which an administrative action is subject to control by judicial review can be classified as under Illegality	None
This means the decisionmaker must understand correctly the law that regulates his decisionmaking power and must give effect to it Irrationality, namely, Wednesbury unreasonableness Procedural impropriety The above are only the broad grounds but it does not rule out addition of further grounds in course of time.	None
As a matter of fact, in R. v. Secretary of State for the Home Department, ex Brind 1991 (1) AC 696), Lord Diplock refers specifically to one development, namely, the possible recognition of the principle of proportionality.	None
In all these cases the test to be adopted is that the court should, consider whether something has gone wrong of a nature and degree which requires its intervention What is this charming principle of Wednesbury unreasonableness ?	None
Is it a magical formula ?	None
In R. v. Askew (1768 4 Burr 2186 98 ER 139), Lord Mansfield considered the question whether mandamus should be granted against the College of Physicians.	None
He expressed the relevant principles in two eloquent sentences.	None
They gained great value two centuries later	None
It is true, that the judgment and discretion of determining upon this skill, ability, learning and sufficiency to exercise and practise this profession is trusted to the College of Physicians and this Court will not take it from them, nor interrupt them in the due and proper exercise of it.	None
But their conduct in the exercise of this trust thus committed to them ought to be fair, candid and unprejudiced not arbitrary, capricious, or biased much less, warped by resentment, or personal dislike.	None
To quote again, Michael Supperstone and James Goudie in their work Judicial Review (1992 Edn.)	None
it is observed as under The assertion of a claim to examine the reasonableness been done by a public authority inevitably led to differences of judicial opinion as to the circumstances in which the court should intervene.	None
These differences of opinion were resolved in two landmark cases which confined the circumstances for intervention to narrow limits.	None
In Kruse v. Johnson (1898 2 QB 91 (1895 9 ALLER 105 a specially constituted dividional court had to consider the validity of a byelaw made by a local authority.	None
In the leading judgment of Lord Russell of Killowen, C.J., the approach to be adopted by the court was set out Such byelaws ought to be benevolently interpreted, and credit ought to be given to those who have to administer them that they would be reasonably administered.	None
They could be held invalid if unreasonable Where for instance byelaws were found to be partial and unequal in their operation as between different classes, if they were manifestly unjust, if they disclosed bad faith, or if they involved such oppressive or gratuitous interference with the rights of citizens as could find no justification in the minds of reasonable men.	None
Lord Russell emphasised that a byelaw is not unreasonable just because particular judges might think it went further than was prudent or necessary or convenientIn 1947 the Court of Appeal confirmed a similar approach for the review of executive discretion generally in Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn.	None
This case was concerned with a complaint by the owners of a cinema in Wednesbury that it was unreasonable of the local authority to licence performances on Sunday only subject to a condition that no children under the age of 15 years shall be admitted to any entertainment whether accompanied by an adult or not.	None
In an extemport judgment, Lord Greene, M.R. drew attention to the fact that the word unreasonable had often been used in a sense which comprehended different grounds of review.	None
(At p. 229, where it was said that the dismissal of a teacher for having red hair (cited by Warrington, L.J. in Short v. Poole Corpn.	None
1926	None
(1) Ch 66, 91 1925 ALLER 74, as an example of a frivolous and foolish reason) was, in another sense, taking into consideration extraneous matters, and might be so unreasonable that it could almost be described as being done in bad faith see also R. v. Tower Hamlets London Borough Council, ex p. Chetnik Developments Ltd. (Chapter 4, p. 73, supra).	None
He summarised the principles as follows The Court is entitled to investigate the action of the local authority with a view to seeing whether or not they have taken into account matters which they ought not to have taken into account, or, conversely, have refused to taken into account or neglected to take into account matter which they ought to take into account.	None
Once that question is answered in favour of the local authority, it may still be possible to say that, although the local authority had kept within the four corners of the matters which they ought to consider, they have nevertheless come to a conclusion so unreasonable that no reasonable authority could ever have come to it.	None
In such a case, again, I think the court can interfere.	None
The power of the court to interfere in each case is not as an appellate authority to override a decision of the local authority, but as a judicial authority which is concerned, and concerned only, to see whether the local authority has contravened the law by acting in excess of the power which Parliament has confided in themThis summary by Lord Greene has been applied in countless subsequent cases The modern statement of the principle is found in a passage in the speech of Lord Diplock in Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister for Civil Service By irrationality I mean what can now be succinctlreferred to as Wednesbury unreasonableness.	None
(associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn.)	None
It applies to a decision which is so outrageous in its defiance of logic or of accepted moral standards that no sensible person who had applied his mind to the question to be decided could have arrived at At this stage, The Supreme Court Practice, 1993, Vol. 1, pp. 849850, may be quoted Wednesbury principle.  	None
A decision of a public authority will be liable to be quashed or otherwise dealt with by an appropriate order in judicial review proceedings where the court concludes that the decision is such that no authority properly directing itself on the relevant law and acting reasonably could have reached it.	None
(Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn.	None
31, per Lord Greene, M.R.)	None
Two other facts of irrationality may be mentioned It is open to the court to review the decisionmakers evaluation of the facts.	None
The court will intervene where the facts taken as a whole could not logically warrant the conclusion of the decisionmaker.	None
If the weight of facts pointing to one course of action is overwhelming, then a decision the other way, cannot be upheld.	None
Thus, in Emma Hotels Ltd. v. Secretary of State for Environment (1980 41 P CR 255), the Secretary of State referred to a number of factors which led him to the conclusion that a nonresidents bar in a hotel was operated in such a way that the bar was not an incident of the hotel use for planning purposes, but constituted a separate use.	None
The Divisional Court analysed the factors which led the Secretary of State to that conclusion and, having done so, set it aside.	None
Donaldson, L.J. said that he could not see on what basis the Secretary of State had reached his conclusion(2)	None
A decision would be regarded as unreasonable if it is impartial and unequal in its operation as between different classes.	None
On this basis in R. v. Barnet London Borough Council, ex p. Johnson (1989 88 LGR 73) the condition imposed by a local authority prohibiting participation by those affiliated with political parties at events to be held in the authoritys parks was struck down Bernard Schwartz in Administrative Law, 2nd Edn	None
., p. 584 has this to say If the scope of review is too broad, agencies are turned into little more than media for the transmission of cases to the courts.	None
That would destroy the values of agencies created to secure the benefit of special knowledge acquired through continuous administration in complicated fields.	None
At the same time, the scope of judicial inquiry must not be so restricted that it prevents full inquiry into the question of legality.	None
If that question cannot be properly explored by the judge, the right to review becomes meaningless.	None
It makes judicial review of administrative orders a hopeless formality for the litigant It reduces the judicial process in such cases to a mere feint Two overriding considerations have combined to narrow the scope of review.	None
The first is that of deference to the administrative expert.	None
In Chief Justice Neelys words I have very few illusions about my own limitations as a judge and from those limitations I generalise to the inherent limitations of all appellate courts reviewing rate cases.	None
It must be remembered that this Court sees approximately 1262 cases a year with five judges.	None
I am not an accountant, electrical engineer, financier, banker, stock broker, or systems management analyst.	None
It is the height of folly to expect judges intelligently to review a 5000 page record addressing the intricacies of public utility operationIt is not the function of a judge to act as a superboard, or with the zeal of a pedantic schoolmaster substituting its judgment for that of the administrator The result is a theory of review that limits the extent to which the discretion of the expert may be scrutinised by the nonexpert judge.	None
The alternative is for the court to overrule the agency on technical matters where all the advantages of expertise lie with the agencies.	None
If a court were to review fully the decision of a body such as state board of medical examiners it would find itself wandering amid the maze of therapeutics or boggling at the mysteries of the pharmacopoeia.	None
Such a situation as a state court expressed it many years ago is not a case of the blind leading the blind but of one who has always been deaf and blind insisting that he can see and hear better than one who has always had his eyesight and hearing and has always used them to the utmost advantage in ascertaining the truth in regard to the matter in question The second consideration leading to narrow review is that calendar pressure.	None
In practical terms it may be the more important consideration.	None
More than any theory of limited review it is the pressure of the judicial calendar combined with the elephantine bulk of the record in so many review proceedings which leads to perfunctory affirmance of the vast majority of agency decisions A modern comprehensive statement about judicial review by Lord Denning is very apposite it is perhaps worthwhile noting that he stresses the supervisory nature of the jurisdiction Parliament often entrusts the decision of a matter to a specified person or body, without providing for any appeal.	None
It may be a judicial decision, or a quasijudicial decision, or an administrative decision.	None
Sometimes parliament says its decision is to be final.	None
At other times it says nothing about it.	None
In all these cases the courts will not themselves take the place of the body to whom Parliament has entrusted the decision.	None
The courts will not themselves embark on a rehearing of the matter.	None
See Healey v. Minister of Health (1995 1 QB 221 .	None
But nevertheless, the courts will, if called upon, act in a supervisory capacity.	None
They will see that the decisionmaking body.	None
acts fairly.	None
See H.K. (an infant), Re (1967 2 QB 617 and R. v. Gaming Board for Great Britain, ex p. Benaim and Khaida (1970 2 QB 417	None
The cours will ensure that the body acts in accordance with the law.	None
If a question arises on the interpretation of words, the courts will decide it by declaring what is the correct interpretation.	None
See Punton v. Ministry of Pensions and National Insurance	None
And if the decisionmaking body has gone wrong in its interpretation they can set its order aside.	None
See Ashbridge Investments Ltd. v. Minister of Housing and Local Government.	None
(I know of some expressions to the contrary but they are not correct).	None
If the decisionmaking body is influenced by considerations which ought not to influence it or fails to take into account matters which it ought to take into account the court will interfere.	None
See Padfield v. Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.	None
if the decisionmaking body comes to its decision on no evidence or comes to an unreasonable finding  so unreasonable that a reasonable person would not have come to it  then again the courts will interfere.	None
See Associated provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corpn.	None
If the decisionmaking body goes outside its powers or misconstrues the extent of its powers, then, too the courts can interfere.	None
See Anisminic Ltd. v. Foreign Compensation Commission.	None
And, of course, if the body acts in bad faith or for an ulterior object, which is not authorised by law, its decision will be set aside.	None
See Sydney Municipal Council v. Campbell 1925 AC 338 1924 ALLER 930.	None
In exercising these powers, the courts will take into account any reasons which the body may give for its decisions.	None
If it gives no reasons  in a case when it may reasonably be expected to do so, the courts may infer that it has no good reason for reaching its conclusion, and act accordingly.	None
See Padfield case (as AC pp.	None
1007, 1061 (1968)	None
AC 997 1968 (8) All(ER) 694	None
We may usefully refer to Administrative Law	None
Rethinking Judicial Control of Bureaucracy by Christopher F. Edley, JR (1990 Edn.).	None
At p. 96 it is stated thus A great deal of administrative law boils down to the scope of review problem defining what degree of deference a court will accord to an agencys findings, conclusions, and choices, including choice of procedures.	None
It is misleading to speak of a doctrine, or the law, of scope of review.	None
It is instead just a big problem, that is addressed piecemeal by a large collection of doctrines.	None
Kenneth Culp Davis has offered a condensed summary of the subject Courts usually substitute (their own) judgment on the kind of questions of law that are within their special competence, but on other question they limit themselves to deciding reasonableness they do not clarify the meaning of reasonableness but retain full discretion in each case to stretch it in either direction In Universal Camera Corpn.	None
v. National Labor Relations Board 340 US 474, 48889 25 L Ed 456 1950)	None
Justice Frankfurter stated A formula for judicial review of administrative action may afford grounds for certitude but cannot assure certainty of application.	None
Some scope for judicial discretion in applying the formula can be avoided only by falsifying the actua process of judging or by using the formula as an instrument of futile casuistry.	None
It cannot be too often repeated that judges are not automata.	None
The ultimate reliance for the fair operation of any standard is a judiciary of high competence and character and the constant play of an informed professional critique upon its work.	None
Since the precise way in which courts interfere with agency findings cannot be imprisoned within any form of words, new formulas attempting to rephrase the old are not likely to be more helpful than the old.	None
There are no talismanic words that can avoid the process of judgment.	None
The difficulty is that we cannot escape, in relation to this problem, the use of undefined terms An innovative approach is made by Clive Lewis as to why the courts should be slow in quashing administrative decisions (in his Judicial Remedies in Public Law 1992	None
Edn.	None
at pp. 29495).	None
The illuminating passage reads as under The courts now recognise that the impact on the administration is relevant in the exercise of their remedial jurisdiction.	None
Quashing decisions may impose heavy administrative burdens on the administration, divert resources towards reopening decisions, and lead to increased and unbudgeted expenditure.	None
Earlier cases took the robust line that the law had to be observed, and the decision invalidated whatever the administrative inconvenience caused.	None
The courts nowadays recognise that such an approach is not always appropriate and may not be in the wider public interest.	None
The effect on the administrative process is relevant to the courts remedial discretion and may prove decisive.	None
This is particularly the case when the challenge is procedural rather than substantive, or if the courts can be certain that the administrator would not reach a different decision even if the original decisions were quashed.	None
Judges may differ in the importance they attach to the disruption that quashing a decision will cause.	None
They may also be influenced by the extent to which the illegality arises from the conduct of the administrative body itself, and their view of that conduct The current approach is best exemplified by R. v. Monopolies and Mergers Commission, ex p. Argyll Group plc Sir John Donaldson, M.R. in R. v. Monopolies and Mergers Commission, ex p. Argyll Group plc observed thus We are sitting as a public law court concerned to review an administrative decision, albeit one which has to be reached by the application of judicial or quasijudicial principles.	None
We have to approach our duties with a proper awareness of the needs of public administration.	None
I cannot catalogue them all but, in the present context, would draw attention to a few which are relevantGood public administration is concerned with substance rather than form Good public administration is concerned with the speed of decision, particularly in the financial field Good public administration requires a proper consideration of the public interest.	None
In this context, the Secretary of State is the guardian of the public interest Good public administration requires a proper consideration of the legitimate interests of individual citizens, however rich and powerful they may be and whether they are natural or juridical persons.	None
But in judging the relevance of an interest, however legitimate, regard has to be had to the purpose of the administrative process concerned Lastly good public administration requires decisiveness and finality, unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary.	None
We may now look at some of the pronouncements of the Court including the authorities cited by Mr. Ashoke Sen. Fasih Chaudhary v. Director General, Doordarshan was a case in which the Court was concerned with the award of a contract for show of sponsored TV serial.	None
At p. 92 in paragraphs 5 and 6 it was held thus It is well settled that there should be fair play in action in a situation like the present one, as was observed by this Court in Ram Shyam Co. v. State of Haryana.	None
It is also well settled that the authorities like Doordarshan should act fairly and their action should be legitimate and fair and transaction should be without any aversion, malice of affection, Nothing should be done which gives the impression of favouritism or nepotism.	None
See the observations of this Court in Haji T. M. Hassan Rawther v. Kerala Financial Corpn.	None
While, as mentioned hereinbefore, fair play in action in matters like the present one is an essential requirement, similarly, however, free play in the joints is also a necessary concomitant for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere or quasiadministrative sphere as the present one.	Reasoning
Judged from that standpoint of view, though all the proposals might not have been considered strictly in accordance with order of precedence, it appears that these were considered fairly, reasonably, objectively and without any malice or illwill.	None
In G. B. Mahajan v. Jalgaon Municipal Council the concept of reasonableness in administrative law came to be dealt with elaborately by one of us, Venkatachaliah, J. (as he then was).	None
In paragraphs 37 to 41 the Court observed thus It was urged that the basic concept of the manner of the development of the real estate and disposal of occupancy rights were vitiated by unreasonableness.	None
It is a truism, doctrinally, that powers must be exercised reasonably.	None
But as Prof. Wade points out The doctrine that powers must be exercised reasonably has to be reconciled with the no less important doctrine that the court must not usurp the discretion of the public authority which Parliament appointed to take the decision.	None
Within the bounds of legal reasonableness is the area in which the deciding authority has genuinely free discretion If it passes those bounds, it acts ultra vires.	None
The court must therefore resist the temptation to draw the bounds too tightly, merely according to its own opinion.	None
It must strive to apply an objective standard which leaves to the deciding authority the full range of choices which the legislature is presumed to have intended.	None
Decisions which are extravagant or capricious cannot be legitimate.	None
But if the decision is within the confines of reasonableness, it is no part of the courts function to look further into its merits.	None
With the question whether a particular policy is wise or foolish the court is not concerned it can only interfere if to pursue it is beyond the powers of the authority In the arguments there is some general misapprehension of the scope of the reasonableness test in administrative law.	None
By whose standards of reasonableness that a matter is to be decided ?	None
Some phrases which pass from one branch of law to another  as did the expressions void and voidable from private law areas to public law situations  carry over with them meanings that may be inapposite in the changed context.	None
Some such thing has happened to the words reasonable reasonableness etc.	None
In Tiller v. Atlantic Coast Line Rail Road Co.	None
318 US 54 87 L Ed 610 1942), Justice Frankfurter saidA phrase begins life as a literary expression its felicity leads to its lazy repetition and repetition soon establishes it as a legal formula, undiscriminatingly used to express different and sometimes contradictory ideas Different contexts in which the operation of reasonableness as test of validity operates must be kept distinguished.	None
For instance as the arguments in the present case invoke, the administrative law test of reasonableness as the touchstone of validity of the impugned resolutions is different from the test of the reasonable man familiar to the law of torts, whom English law figuratively identifies as the man on the Clapham omnibus.	None
In the latter case the standards of the reasonable man, to the extent such a reasonable man is courts creation, is in a manner of saying, a mere transferred epithet.	None
Lord Radcliffe observed (All ER p. 160)	None
By this time, it might seem that the parties themselves have become so far disembodied spirits that their actual persons should be allowed to rest in peace.	None
In their place there rises the figure of the fair and reasonable man.	None
And the spokesman of the fair and reasonable man, who represents after all no more than the anthropomorphic conception of justice, is and must be the court itself See Davis Contractors Ltd. v. Fareham U.D.C.	None
Yet another area of reasonableness which must be distinguished is the constitutional standards of reasonableness of the restrictions on the fundamental rights of which the court of judicial review is the arbiter The administrative law test of reasonableness is not by the standards of the reasonable man of the torts law.	None
Prof. Wade saysThis is not therefore the standard of the man on the Clapham omnibus.	None
It is the standard indicated by a true construction of the Act which distinguishes between what the statutory authority may or may not be authorised to do.	None
It distinguishes between proper use and improper abuse of power.	None
It is often expressed by saying that the decision is unlawful if it is one to which no reasonable authority could have come.	None
This is the essence of what is now commonly called Wednesbury unreasonableness.	None
after the now famous case in which Lord Greene, M.R. expounded it.	None
Referring to the doctrine of unreasonableness, Prof. Wade says in Administrative Law (supra)	None
The point to note is that a thing is not unreasonable in the legal sense merely because the court thinks it is unwise.	None
In Food Corpn.	None
of India v. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries it was observed thus In contractual sphere as in all other State actions, the State and all its instrumentalities have to conform to Article 14 of the Constitution of which nonarbitrariness is a significant facet.	None
There is no unfettered discretion in public law A public authority possesses powers only to use them for public good.	None
This imposes the duty to act fairly and to adopt a procedure which is fairplay in action.	None
In Sterling Computers Limited v. M. .	None
N. Publications Ltd.	None
this Court observed thus IN contracts having commercial element, some more discretion has to be conceded to the authorities so that they may enter into contracts with persons, keeping an eye on the augmentation of the revenue.	None
But even in such matters they have to follow the norms recognised by courts while dealing with public property.	None
It is not possible for courts to question and adjudicate every decision taken by an authority, because many of the Government Undertakings which in due course have acquired the monopolist position in matters of sale and purchase of products and with so many ventures in hand, they can come out with a plea that it is not always possible to act like a quasijudicial authority while awarding contracts.	None
Under some special circumstances a discretion has to be conceded to the authorities who have to enter into contract giving them liberty to assess the overall situation for purpose of taking a decision as to whom the contract be awarded and at what terms.	None
If the decisions have been taken in bona fide manner although not strictly following the norms laid down by the courts, such decisions are upheld on the principle laid down by Justice Holmes, that courts while judging the constitutional validity of executive decisions must grant certain measure of freedom of play in the joints to the executive.	None
In Union of India v. Hindustan Development Corpn.	None
this Court held thus The Government had the right to either accept or reject the lowest offer but that of course, if done on a policy, should be on some rational and reasonable grounds.	None
In Erusian Equipment Chemicals Ltd. v. State of W.B. this Court observed as under When the Government is trading with the public, the democratic form of Government demands equality and absence of arbitrariness and discrimination in such transactions .	None
The activities of the Government have a public element and, therefore, there should be fairness and equality.	None
The State need not enter into any contract with anyone, but if it does so, it must do so fairly without discrimination and without unfair procedure.	None
The principles deducible from the above are(1)	None
The modern trend points to judicial restraint in administrative action(2)	Reasoning
The court does not sit as a court of appeal but merely reviews the manner in which the decision was made(3)	Reasoning
The court does not have the expertise to correct the administrative decision.	Reasoning
If a review of the administrative decision is permitted it will be substituting its own decision, without the necessary expertise which itself may be fallible(4)	Reasoning
The terms of the invitation to tender cannot be open to judicial scrutiny because the invitation to tender is in the realm of contract.	Reasoning
Normally speaking, the decision to accept the tender or award the contract is reached by process of negotiations through several tiers.	Reasoning
More often than not, such decisions are made qualitatively by experts(5)	Reasoning
The Government must have freedom of contract.	Reasoning
In other words, a fair play in the joints is a necessary concomitant for an administrative body functioning in an administrative sphere or quasiadministrative sphere.	Reasoning
However, the decision must not only be tested by the application of Wednesbury principle of reasonableness (including its other facts pointed out above) but must be free from arbitrariness not affected by bias or actuated by mala fides(6)	Reasoning
Quashing decisions may impose heavy administrative burden on the administration and lead to increased and unbudgeted expenditureBased on these principles we will examine the facts of this case since they commend to us as the correct principles Whether the selection is vitiated by arbitrariness ?	None
Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, learned counsel appearing for Tata Cellular argued that there are clear instances of arbitrariness.	Arguments of Petitioner
Criterion No. 2.4.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
has been totally ignored and excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
This has been so admitted.	Arguments of Petitioner
No marks have been awarded on this score under this criterion.	Arguments of Petitioner
Note II of the same General Conditions 2.4.7.	Arguments of Petitioner
says minimum reliance on Indian Public Financial Institutions will be preferred.	Arguments of Petitioner
This requirement has been breached by Bharati Cellular, Mobile Telecom, Sterling Cellular and Skycell Communication.	Arguments of Petitioner
They have borrowed from commercial banks 4.87 per cent, 4.87 per cent, 43.48 per cent and 34.41 per cent respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
This criterion carries 8 marks.	Arguments of Petitioner
In spite of the borrowings they have been awarded 6, 8 (full marks), 5 and 7 respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
The company, Tata Cellular, which had not borrowed at all from the commercial banks, has been awarded only 4 marks.	Arguments of Petitioner
It requires to be noted that borrowing from commercial banks was prohibited by Reserve Bank of India Then again, one of the prescribed criterion is 2.4.6 which carries 12 marks, namely, the financial strength of the partner company.	None
The annual turnover from Tata Cellular, from Indian parameters was 12, 000 crores and annual turnover of their foreign parameters was 51, 000 crores	Reasoning
yet what has been awarded is only 9 marks.	Reasoning
As against this Hutchison Max has only an annual turnover of 75 crores and Rupees 6600 crores of foreign parameters yet it has been awarded 12 marks.	Reasoning
Equally, Sterling Cellular whose turnover according to its bid document was 77 crores the foreign parameter is unknown it has also been awarded 9 marks The cutoff date for financial bid document was fixed as 1781992.	None
To examine and evaluate the same a committee was set up.	None
The committee adopted some parameters and devised a marking system.	None
It is as under Parameter Total Marks Rental 50 Project Financing 8 Foreign Exchange inflow outflow 10 Purchase plan for Cellular equipment within the country including tieups with the proposed Indian manufacturers 5 Experience 15 Financial strength 12	None
Note No marks were allotted for the seventh criterion of financial projections of Cellular Mobile Service The report of the Tender Evaluation Committee on this aspect states as under One of the parameters is about the financial projection.	None
The Committee discussed about the reliability of financial projections made by the bidders and came to the conclusion that it is not possible for them to verify the reliability of the projections which are based on individual postulations about the number of subscribers, traffic, tariff, financial structure etc.	None
For this purpose we have to go by the data furnished by the bidders at its face value.	None
In any case the financial data, having relevance to evaluation of the tender have well been covered under various parameters.	None
Annexure I to the Report of the said Committee shows the manner in which parameters and their weightage were given to each criterion.	None
The debt equity ratio is 1.5 for city of Bombay.	None
It has been rightly assigned 3 marks The bid pro forma of Bharati Cellular, Mobile Telecom, Sterling Cellular and Skycell indicates minimum reliance on financial institutions.	None
It has also made distinction between loans from public financial institutions and banks.	None
Therefore, there is a confusion on the part of Tata Cellular about this requirement with loans from the banks Records reveal that in the case of India Telecomp while awarding marks care was taken to exclude the open market projects and foreign exchange from the evaluation process As regards Skycell they had projected their operation in Madras for initial years which would be below profitable levels.	None
Therefore, no dividend would have been paid to their foreign collaborators participating in the equity of company.	None
The foreign exchange inflow position in their case ws considered to be better.	None
The markings came to be awarded on the same basis as in the case of all the bidders.	None
The foreign collaborators of Skycell, BPL Systems and Projects, Usha Main, Bharati Cellular and Tata Cellular specifically undertook to cover the foreign exchange funding by equity and loans.	None
International roaming has been correctly taken into consideration.	None
As submitted by the learned Solicitor General roaming is defined in paragraph 1.3.1.2 of NIT as follows Roaming.	None
This feature shall enable a subscriber to communicate in a cellular system other than its home registered one.	None
Paragraph 1.3.1.18 talks of home location registered.	None
Paragraph 1.3.1.19 deals with Visitor Location Register (VLR) which says as follows Visitor Location Register (VLR).	None
VLR shall be able to store the following information.	None
Their functions shall also include date retrieval, data collection, update of data entry, once PLMNs are established  the IMSI  the Mobile Station International ISDN number  the Mobile Station Roaming number, if allocated at location updating  the temporary Mobile Station Identity, if applicable  the location area where the mobile station has been registered  supplementary service parameters  any other information needed for management of mobile station.	None
All these paragraphs will clearly establish that the system provides for facility of roaming to visitors.	None
International roaming in GSM is wellaccepted technique GSM is defined as a Global System for Mobile communications.	None
The GSM specifications are highly standardised.	None
this means that the systems that are designed as per GSM spcifications will be compatible with each other and, therefore, can be easily connected together from day one Roaming in GSM cellular mobile systems means that a subscriber belonging to one operator can use his telephone to receive and makes calls while he is in the area of another operator automatically.	None
When a subscriber goes into the area of another operator, who has a roaming agreement withh is another operator, the details of the subscriber available in the HLR (Home Location Register) of the home MSC (Mobile Switching Centre) are obtained by the visitor MSC and placed in the VLR (Visitor Location Register).	None
The subscriber can originate and receive calls without feeling any difference.	None
The roaming can be easily extended internationally and is already being done in parts of Europe.	None
Since the systems are compatible, all that is required is an agreement between the operators for revenue sharing etc	None
Thus, we find the argument that paragraph 2.4.7, namely, the financial projection of the proposed Cellular Mobile Cellular and the 7th criterion having been left out of consideration cannot be accepted Bias of Mr. Nair  Whether affects the selection ?	None
In Blacks Law Dictionary, 6th Edn.	None
at page 162, bias is defined, as under Inclination bent prepossession a preconceived opinion a predisposittion to decide a cause or an issue in a certain way, which dose not leave the mind perfectly open to conviction.	None
To incline to one side.	None
Condition of mind, which sways judgment and renders judge unable to exercise his functions impartially in particular case.	None
As used in law regarding disqualification of judge, refers to mental attitude or disposition of the judge toward a party to the litigation, and not to any views that he may enterain regarding the subjectmatter involved.	None
State ex rel Mitchell v. Sage Stores Co. (157 Kan 622, 143 P 2d 652, 655)	None
The rule of bias is found on the wellknown maxim nemo debet essej udex in propria causa no person can be a judge in his own cause 105.	None
de Smiths Constitutional and Administrative Law, New Edn., at p. 583, states as follows First, an adjudicator must not have any direct financial or proprietary interest in the outcome of the proceedings.	None
Secondly, he must not be reasonably suspected, or show a real likelihood, of bias.	None
In the instant case, the first aspect of the matter does not arise.	None
As regards the second, the law is as stated by be Smiths Constitutional and Administrative Law, New Edn., pp. 58485	None
If an adjudicator is likely to be biased he is also disqualified from acting.	None
Likelihood of bias may arise from a number of causes  membership of an organisation or authority that is a party to the proceedings partisanship expressed in extrajudicial pronouncements the fact of appearing as a witness for a party to the proceedings personal animosity or friendship towards a party family relationship with a party professional or commercial relationships with a party and so on.	None
The categories of situations potentially giving rise to a likelihood of bias are not closed How should the test of disqualification for likelihood of bias be formulated ?	None
A more common formulation of the test is Would a member of the public, looking at the situation as a whole, reasonable suspect that a member of the adjudicating body would be biased ?	None
Another common formulation is Is there in fact a real likelihood of bias ?	None
There is no need, on either formulation, to prove actual bias indeed, the courts may refuse to entertain submissions designed to establish the actual bias of a member of an independent tribunal, on the ground that such an inquiry would be unseemly.	None
In practice the test of reasonable suspicion and real likelihood of bias will generally lead to the same result.	None
Seldom indeed will one find a situation in which reasonable persons adequately apprised of the facts will reasonably suspect bias but a court reviewing the facts will hold that there was no real likelihood of bias.	None
Neither formulation is concerned wholly with appearances or wholly with objective reality.	None
In ninetynine cases out of a hundred it is enough for the court to ask itself whether a reasonable person viewing the facts would think that there was a substantial possibility of bias.	None
Geoffrey A. Flick in his work on Natural Justice  Principles and Practical Application, 1979 Edn., at pp. 118120, states Personal involvement	None
Whenever a decisionmaker becomes personally involved with one of the parties there arises the suspicion that a determination may not be reached exclusively on the merits of the case as discussed at the hearing.	None
Unlike allegations of bias by reason of the pecuniary interest of the decisionmaker however, allegations of bias founded upon a personal involvement will only result in disqualification where there is a real likelihood that a hearing will not be fair.	None
de Smith at pp.	None
23237	None
David 12.02 The most obvious group of cases calling for scrutiny are those in which one of the parties has close ties of kinship with the decisionmaker.	None
A chairman of county commissioners, therefore, cannot hear a petition to build a new road which was intended to pass over land belonging to his brotherinlaw, nor can a member of a zoning commission determine his wifes application for a change in zoning from residential to business.	None
Low v. Town of Madison (60A 2nd 774 (Coun 1984)).	None
In the last cited case the court was concerned with both the family sentiment that was present and with the opportunity for the wife to have what in reality a private hearing before the board with her husband acting as advocate.	None
See p. 778.	None
But not all family relationships will disqualify and, by way of contrast, on the circumstances of one particular case it was said that a board of adjustment could decide an application by a company for permission to develop a free parking area despite the fact that an employee of the company was the wife of one board member and the fact that a third or fourth cousin of another board member was the president of the company.	None
Moody v. City of University Park (278 SW 2d 912 (CT Civ App Tex 1995))Disqualification on the basis of personal involvement is not, of course, limited to the above two situations but may result whenever there is a sufficient nexus between the decisionmaker and a party to justify the appearance that this nexus may influence the decision reached of R. v. Altricham Justices,	None
ex p. Pennington (1975 1 QB 549 Street, C.J. has stated the law in this respect in yet another New South Wales decision.	None
Ex p. Burnett, Re Wurth (1955 72 WN (NSW) 457).	None
The last cited case involved a former officer of the Department of Education who later sat as a member of the Public Service Board inquiring into alleged false and scandalous allegations made by a teacher against various persons, including the officer in question, and during the course of his judgment Street, C.J. observed Where bias arises not from (pecuniary) interest, the officer must have so conducted himself that a high probability arises of a bias inconsistent with the fair performance of his duties, with the result that a substantial distrust of the result must exist in the minds of reasonable persons.	None
Put in other words, the issue is not merely whether justice has in fact been done, but whether it has manifestly and undoubtedly been seen to be done.	None
It may, therefore, be improper for the clerk of the court to act as a solicitor for a party.	None
Similarly, it may be unwise for a headmaster to sit in judgment upon a case involving a former pupil who had been adversely criticised in a detailed staff report signed by the headmaster some three months previously even where the existence of the report has been forgotten.	None
R. v. Abingdon Justices, ex p. Cousins.	None
(1964 108 Sol Jo 840	None
The leading cases on bias may now be seen.	None
In R. v. Camborne Justices, ex p. Pearce it was held (All ER p. 855)In R. v. Essex Justices ex p.	None
Perkins Avory, J., said We have here to determine, however, whether or not there might appear to be a reasonable likelihood of his being biased And Swift, J., said (ibid., 490)	None
It is essential that justice should be so administered as to satisfy reasonable persons that the tribunal is impartial and unbiased.	None
As Lord Hewart, C.J., said in R. v. Sussex JJ., ex p.	None
Mc Carthy 1924 (1) KB 256 1923 ALLER 233 Nothing is to be done which creates even a suspicion that there has been an improper interference with the course of justice.	None
Might a reasonable man suppose that there had here been such an interference with the course of justice ?	None
In R. v. Salford Assessment Committee, ex p. Ogden 1937 (2) All(ER) 98 1937 (2) KB 1, Slesser, L.J. and Luxmoore, J. (ibid., 108) applied the reasonable likelihood test, while Greene, L.J. (ibid., 107) dissented only on the inference to be drawn from the facts.	None
In Cottle v. Cottle 1939 (2) All(ER) 535 Sir Body Merriman, P. asked himself the question whether the party complaining might reasonably have formed the impression that Mr. Browning (the Chairman of the Bench) could not give this case an unbiased hearing.	None
Bucknill, J., said (ibid.)	None
The test which we have to apply is whether or not a reasonable man, in all the circumstances, might suppose that there was an improper interference with the course of justice In the judgment of this court the right test is that prescribed by Blackburn, J. in R. v. Rand, (1866 1 QB 230) namely, that to disqualify a person from acting in a judicial or quasijudicial capacity on the ground of interest (other than pecuniary or proprietary) in the subjectmatter of the proceeding, a real likelihood of bias must be shown.	None
This court is, further, of opinion that a real likelihood of bias must be made to appear not only from the materials in fact ascertained by the party complaining, but from such further facts as he might readily have ascertained and easily verified in the course of his inquiries.	None
In the present case, for example, the facts relied on in the applicants statement, under R.S.C., Ord. 59, R. 3(2), of the grounds of his application might create a more sinister impression than the full facts as found by this court, all or most of which would have been available to the applicant had he pursued his inquiries on learning that Mr. Thomas was a member of the Cornwall County Council, and none of these further facts was disputed at the hearing of this motion.	None
The frequency with allegations of bias have come before the courts in recent times seems to indicate that the reminder of Lord Hewart, C.J., in R. v. Sussex JJ., ex p. McCarthy 1924 (1) KB 256 1923 ALLER 233 that it is of fundamental importance that justice should not only be done, but should manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done is being urged as a warrant for quashing convictions or invalidating orders on quite unsubstantial grounds and, indeed in some cases, on the flimsiest pretexts of bias.	None
In Metropolitan Properties Co, (F.G.C.) Ltd. v. Lannon 4 it was held thus (All ER p. 310) in considering whether there was a real likelihood of bias, the court does not look at the mind of the justice himself or the mind of the chairman of the tribunal, or whoever it may be, who sits in a judicial capacity.	None
It does not look to see if there was a real likelihood that he would, or did, in fact favour one side at the expense of the other.	None
The court looks at the impression which would be given to other people.	None
Even if he was as impartial as could be, nevertheless, if rightminded persons would think that, in the circumstances, there was a real likelihood of bias on his part, then he should not sit.	None
And if he does sit, his decision cannot stand.	None
See R. v. Huggins ((	None
1895 99 ALLER 914 1895 1 QB 563) R. v. Sunderland Justices 1901 (2) KB 357), per Vaughan Williams,	None
L.J. Nevertheless, there must appear to be a real likelihood of bias.	None
Surmise or conjecture is not enough.	None
See R. v. Camborne Justice, ex p. Pearce R. v. Nailsworth Licensing Justices, ex p. Bird.	None
There must be circumstances from which a reasonable man would think it likely or probable that the justice, or chairman, as the case may be, would, or did, favour one side unfairly at the expense of the other.	None
The court will not enquire whether he did, in fact favour one side unfairly.	None
Suffice it that reasonable people might he did.	None
The reason is plain enough.	None
Justice must be rooted in confidence and confidence is destroyed when rightminded people go away thinking The judge was biased.	None
In R. v. Liverpool City Justices, ex p.	None
Topping it was observed (All ER p. 494)In	None
the past there has also been a conflict of view as to the way in which that test should be applied.	None
Must there appear to be a real likelihood of bias ?	None
Or is it enough if there appears to be a reasonable suspicion of bias ?	None
(For a discussion on the cases, see de Smiths Judicial Review of Administrative Action (4th Edn., 1980) pp.	None
262264 and H.W.R. Wade, Administrative Law (5th Edn., 1982)	None
pp.	None
430432	None
We accept the view of Cross, L.J., expressed in Hannam v. Bradford City Council that there is really little, if any, difference between the two tests If a reasonable person who has no knowledge of the matter beyond knowledge of the relationship which subsists between some members of the tribunal and one of the parties would think that there might well be bias, then there is in his opinion a real likelihood of bias.	None
Of course, someone else with inside knowledge of the character of the members in question might say Although things dont look very well, in fact there is no real likelihood of bias.	None
But that would be beside the point, because the question is not whether the tribunal will in fact be biased, but whether a reasonable man with no inside knowledge might well think that it might be biased.	None
We conclude that the test to be applied can conveniently be expressed by slightly adapting in words of Lord Widgery, C.J. in a test which he laid down in R. v. Uxbridge Justices,	None
ex p. Burbridge (1972 Times, 21 June) and referred to by him in R. v. McLean, ex p. Aikens (1974 139 JP 261, 266) would a reasonable and fairminded person sitting in court and knowing all the relevant facts have a reasonable suspicion that a fair for the applicant was not possible ?	None
In University College of Swansea v. Cornelius (1988 ICR 735, 739) holdsCases of bias and ostensible bias had to be regarded in the light of their own circumstances.	None
The circumstances of this case could have no relevance to other cases.	None
The Indian Law can be gathered from the following rulings.	None
In Manak Lal v. Dr. Prem Chand it was held thus But where pecuniary interest is not attributed but instead a bias is suggested, it often becomes necessary to consider whether there is a reasonable ground for assuming the possibility of bias and whether it is likely to produce in the minds of the litigant or the public at large a reasonable doubt about the fairness of the administration of justice.	None
It would always be a question of fact to be decided in each case.	None
The principle, says Halsbury, nemo debet esse judex in causa propria sua precludes a justice, who is interested in the subjectmatter of a dispute, from acting as a justice therein.	None
In our opinion, there is and can be no doubt about the validity of this principle and we are prepared to assume that this principle applies not only to the justices as mentioned by Halsbury but to all tribunals and bodies which are given jurisdiction to determine judicially the rights of parties.	None
In J. Mohapatra Co. v. State of Orissa it was observed thus (SCR p. 334 SCC p. 112, para 11)	None
It is no answer to say that an authormember is only one of the members of the Assessment SubCommittee and that the ultimate decision rests with the State Government which may reject any book out of the list of approved books.	None
A similar argument was rejected by this Court in Kraipak case (A. K. Kraipak v. Union of India.	None
The State Government would normally be guided by the list approved by the Assessment SubCommittee.	None
Further, to say that such authormember is only one of the members of the Assessment SubCommittee is to overlook the fact that the authormember can subtly influence the minds of the other members against selecting books by other authors in preference to his own, It can also be that books by some of the other members may also have been submitted for selection and there can be between them a quid pro quo or, in other words, you see that my book is selected and in return I will do the same for you.	None
In either case, when a book of an authormember comes up for consideration, the other members would feel themselves embarrassed in frankly discussing its merits.	None
Such authormember may also be a person holding a high official position whom the other members may not want to displease.	None
It can be that the other members may not be influenced by the fact that the book which they are considering for approval was written by one of their members.	None
Whether they were so influenced or not is, however, a matter impossible to determine.	None
It is not, therefore, the actual bias in favour of the authormember that is material but the possibility of such bias.	None
All these considerations require that an authormember should not be a member of any such committee or subcommittee.	None
In Ashok Kumar Yadav v. State of Haryana this Court emphasised the reasonable likelihood of bias thus (SCC p. 441, para 16)	None
This Court emphasised that it was not necessary to establish bias but it was sufficient to invalidate the selection process if it could be shown that there was reasonable likelihood of bias.	None
The likelihood of bias may arise on account of proprietary interest or on account of personal reasons, such as, hostility to one party or personal friendship or family relationship with the other.	None
Where reasonable likelihood of bias is alleged on the ground of relationship, the question would always be as to how close is the degree of relationship or in other words, is the nearness of relationship so great as to give rise to reasonable apprehension of bias on the part of the authority making the selection.	None
In Ranjit Thakur v. Union of Indian the law was stated by one of us, Venkatachaliah, J. (as he then was) as under (SCR p. 520 SCC p. 618, para 17) As to the test of the likelihood of bias what is relevant is the reasonableness of the apprehension in that regard in the mind of the party.	None
The proper approach for the judge is not to look at his own mind and ask himself, however, honestly, Am I biased ?	None
but to look at the mind of the party before him.	None
Reference was made therein to a dictum laid down by Justice Frankfurter in Public Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia v. Pollak 343 US 451, 466 96 L Ed 1068 1961) which is reproduced as under The judicial process demands that a judge move within the framework of relevant legal rules and the covenanted modes of thought for ascertaining them.	None
He must think dispassionately and submerge private feeling on every aspect of a case.	None
There is a good deal of shallow talk that the judicial robe does not change the man within it.	None
It does.	None
The fact is that on the whole judges do lay aside private views in dicharging their judicial functions.	None
This is achieved through training, professional habits, self discipline and that fortunate alchemy by which men are loyal to the obligation with which they are entrusted.	None
But it is also true that reason cannot control the subconscious influence of feelings of which it is unaware.	None
When there is ground for believing that such unconscious feelings may operate in the ultimate judgment, or may not unfairly lead others to believe they are operating, judges rescue themselves.	None
They do not sit in judgment.	None
In International Airports Authority of India v. K. D. Bali this Court observed thus (SCC p. 367, para 5)	None
Several points were taken in support of the application for revoaction.	None
It was sought to be urged that the petitioner had lost confidence in the sole arbitrator and was apprehensive that the arbitrator was biased against the petitioner.	None
It is necessary to reiterate before proceeding further what are the parameters by which an appointed arbitrator on the application of a party can be removed.	None
It is well settled that there must be purity in the administration of justice as well as in administration of quasijustice as are involved in the adjudicatory process before the arbitrators, It is well said that once the arbitrator enters in an arbitration, the arbitrator must not be guilty of any act which can possibly be construed as indicative of partiality or unfairness.	None
It is not a question of the effect which misconduct on his part had in fact upon the result of the proceeding, but of what effect it might possibly have produced.	None
It is not enough to show that, even if there was misconduct on his part, the award was unaffected by it, and was in reality just arbitrator must not do anything which is not in itself fair and impartial.	None
See Russel on Arbitration, 18th Edn., 378 and observations of Justice Boyd in Brien and Brien Re (1910 1 IR 84), Lord OBrien in King (De Vosci) v. Justice of Queens Country (1908 2 IR 285) observed as follows By bias I understand a real likelihood of an operative prejudice, whether conscious or unconscious.	None
There must in my opinion be reasonable evidence to satisfy us that there was a real likelihood of bias.	None
I do not think that their vague suspicions of whimsical, capricious and unreasonable people should be made a standard to regulate our action here.	None
It might be a different matter if suspicion rested on reasonable ground  was reasonably generated  but certainly mere flimsy, elusive, morbid suspicions should not be permitted to form a ground of decision.	None
In Union Carbide Corpn.	None
v. Union of India this Court observed thus (SCC p. 667, para 161)	None
But the effects and consequences of noncompliance may alter with situational variations and particularities, illustrating a flexible use of discretionary remedies to meet novel legal situations.	None
One motive says Prof. Wade for holding administrative acts to be voidable where according to principle they are void may be a desire to extend the discretionary powers of the Court.	None
As observed by Lord Reid in Wiseman v. Borneman natural justice should not degenerate into a set of hard and fast rules.	None
There should be a circumstantial flexibility.	None
In the light of this let us find out whether bias has been established ?	None
The Report of the Tender Evaluation Committee was made on 1651992.	None
In that Committee Mr. B. R. Nair was a party.	None
As seen above, the offer of the four companies did not fully satisfy the criteria.	None
Their cases were recommended to be considered for condonation.	None
The four companies are BPL Systems and Projects Mobile Communication India Private Limited Mobile Telecom Services Limited, and Indian Telecom Private Limited Mr. B. R. Nair, Member (Production) made the following note I agree with the recommendations of the Evaluation Committee that the four firms must be in paragraph 3 of page 1/N should be included in the shortlist.	None
Thus, there would be 14 companies in the shortlist instead of 16 recommended by Adviser (O).	None
On 891992, Mr. Nair, as Member of the Committee, agreed to a noting that only three companies, Bharati Cellular, BPL Systems and Projects and Skycell qualified for selection.	None
After further discussion 8 companies came to be selected and the note was accordingly put up on 9101992.	None
This recommendation is agreed to by Mr. Nair According to Mr. Harish Salve, the very presence of Mr. Nair itself will amount to bias In this case, as noted above, the crucial test is whether there was a real likelihood of bias.	None
As to how Mr. R. Satish Kumar, the son of Mr. B. R. Nair, came to be appointed in BPL Systems and Projects is explained in the additional affidavit filed on behalf of BPL Systems Projects Ltd., Respondent 10, by Mr. S. Sunder Rao, Corporate Personnel Manager of BPL Group of Companies, including Respondent 10Company.	None
The relevant portion is extracted as under With regard to the selection and appointment of Shri R. Satish Kumar, I state as follows That Respondent 10 Company desired to employ certain managers and executives as follows Sr. Manager, (Push Button Telephone) for New Delhi, Bangalore and Bombay Manager (Communications) for Madras, Calcutta and Bangalore Territory Manager (Sales) for Delhi, Hyderabad and Madras Sales Executives for Delhi, Madras, Kanpur, Chandigarh, Baroda, Kochi, Calcutta, Bhopal, Pune and Coimbatore These posts were advertised for in several newspapers as follows The Times of India, Delhi and Bombay Edns The Hindnstan Times, Delhi Edn Statesman,	None
Calcutta Edn The Hindu, All India Edn Deccan Herald, Bangalore These advertisements appeared between 2681991 and 2981991.	None
The eligibility conditions for the candidates was specified and with regard to the post of Territory Manager (Sales) it was mentioned that the candidate should be an Electronics Electrical Engineer with 5/6 years experience of office automation products, Computer, Telecom equipments, etc	None
In response to advertisement Shri R. Satish Kumar applied for the post of Territory Manager (Sales) vide his letter dated 2881991 enclosing thereby his biodataAs per practice of the RespondentCompany the biodata of all the applicants were scrutinised by the Personnel Department and thereafter by the Assistant General Manager of the Respondent Company.	None
Thereafter the shortlisted candidates were called for an interview on various dates.	None
Shri Satish Kumar was called for an interview on 691991.	None
Two other candidates were also interviewed for this post.	None
Shri Satish Kumar was interviewed by the Senior Officer of the company including myself.	None
At the conclusion of the interview as per practice, an internal assessment from was filled by the interviewers On the basis of the said interview Shri Satish Kumar was selected and a letter dated 21101991 was addressed to him offering him the said post.	None
Shri Satish Kumar was required to report for duty on or before 2121991 at Bangalore.	None
Shri Satish Kumar however requested for some time to enable him to handover the charge in his previous company and this was agreed to by the company.	None
Shri Satish Kumar accordingly joined Respondent 10 on 611992 I state and submit that Shri Satish Kumar was selected by Respondent 10Company in the normal course and the selection was purely on merit.	None
It is to be seen that Mr. Satish Nair is only one of the officers in BPL Systems and Projects, which has over 5500 employees in 27 offices all over India.	None
There are 89 officers of his rank Mr. B. R. Nair was not a decisionmaker at all.	None
He was one of the recommending authorities.	Reasoning
As Director General of Communication as well as Telecom Authority his involvement in the approval and selection of tender was indispensable.	None
He came to be appointed as Member (Services) on 2951992.	None
By virtue of the notification dated 2871992 Mr. B. R. Nair became the Direction General of Telecommunication.	None
As such, he could exercise all the powers under Section 3(6) of the Indian Telegraphs Act of 1885.	None
Such a Telecom Authority has the right to grant cellular operating licences to the successful party and also reject any bids without assigning any reason.	None
Registration fees, security deposit and other financial charges shall be fixed by the licenser in consultation with the Telecom Authority.	None
This is what is stated in the financial bid.	None
Therefore, Mr. B. R. Nair could not dissociate himself from the decisionmaking process.	None
It is under these circumstances the High Court rightly applied the doctrine of necessity.	None
This Court Lal Sahu v. Union of India dealt with this doctrine which is stated as follows (SCC p. 694, para 105)	None
The question whether there is scope for the Union of India being responsible or liable as joint tortfeasor is a difficult and different question.	None
But even assuming that it was possible that the Central Government might be liable in a case of this nature, the learned Attorney General was right in contending that it was only proper that the Central Government should be able and authorised to represent the victims.	None
In such a situation, there will be no scope of the violation of the principles of natural justice.	None
The doctrine of necessity would be applicable in a situation of this nature.	None
The doctrine has been elaborated, in Halsburys Laws of England, 4th Edn., p. 89, paragraph 73, where it was reiterated that even if all the members of the Tribunal competent to determine a matter were subject to disqualification, they might be authorised and obliged to hear that matter by virtue of the operation of the common law doctrine of necessity.	None
An adjudicator who is subject to disqualification on the ground of bias or interest in the matter which he has to decide may in certain circumstances be required to adjudicate if there is no other person who is competent or authorised to be adjudicator or if a quorum cannot be formed without him or if no other competent tribunal can be constituted.	None
Therefore, we are unable to accept the contentions of Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee and Mr. Harish Salve We hold Mr. B. R. Nairs involvement did not vitiate the selection on the ground of bias, Since we have reached this conclusion we are not going to the other questions argued by Mr. F. S. Nariman whether India Telecomp or Tata Cellular could urge this point relating to bias Whether the Apex Committee has been bypassed ?	Reasoning
After finding that only three companies qualified for selection on 891992 the following note was made by Mr. G. T. Narayanan, Adviser (Operations)The financial bid which was approved by the apex committee was given to the shortlisted bidders and these were received and opened on 1781992.	None
These were evaluated by the Tender Evaluation Committee (TEC).	None
The evaluation report is placed below.	Reasoning
The financial evaluation was done based upon the weightages of the various parameters namely, rental, financing, foreign exchange inflow outflow, financial strength, experience and purchase plans.	Reasoning
The rental was given the maximum weightage.	None
The various guidelines made for giving the marks are at Annexure I (page 11, Flag A) So far as the rental and other allied parameters are concerned, there are wide variations of rent, deposit, registration connection fee.	None
In some cases rent is zero.	Reasoning
It was considered by the TEC that these are to be equated to one parameter as equated rental and the method adopted was loading the basic rental and other charges like deposit, interest rate 13 per annum.	None
Based upon these assumptions, the gradation for various bidders for each city it at page 9 of the main report The Chairman and Members of the Telecom Commission were consulted in this regard.	None
It was felt that the rate of interest adopted by the TEC was low, and the maximum lending rate of the State Bank of India as on 181992 viz.	None
21.75 is more appropriate to adopt both for refundable and nonrefundable deposits and nonreturnable charges.	None
For the nonrefundable charges the monthly amortised value over 5 years at the lending rate, viz., 21.75 should be used for loading the rental, to get at the equivalent rental value which represents the actual monthly burden on the subscribers.	None
AS per this guideline, the TEC gave the fresh calculations on 791992 and a new gradation list was prepared which is placed at Flag BAfter examining the TEC report the following points have come to light  M s. Hutchison Max India Ltd. in their bid document (Annexure D) have not given proper and full compliance.	None
The TEC has observed Compliance to Chapter III (Operative Conditions) and Chapter IV (Financial Conditions) has not been indicated by the bidder.	None
Thus, it clearly shows that they have not complied with these important conditions which form the very basis of the financial bid.	None
It is evident that the bidder has serious reservations about financial conditions and operative conditions and if granted a licence, there is a possibility of litigation Since we require good operators with experience the minimum of 10 marks out of 15 for this parameter is considered a must and those bidders who have scored less than 10 for this parameter should be disqualified.	None
This represents an experience of handling of 1 lakh cellular phones or 80, 000 with a GSM licence In accordance with the policy of the Government for encouraging foreign exchange investment only those who do foresee the infllow of foreign exchange should be considered.	None
For this parameter the TEC had allocated 5 marks to those bids which were foreign exchange neutral.	None
Those getting more than 5 indicate a net foreign exchange inflow.	None
Thus, 5 marks or above for this parameter is considered essential and those getting below 5 marks deserve to be disqualified So with the points listed above taken into account, the following companies qualify citywise as per the gradation  Delhi Bombay Bharati Cellular 1.	None
Bharati Cellular BPL Systems Projects Ltd. 2. BPL Systems Projects Ltd Sterling Cellular 3.	None
Sterling Cellular Tata Cellular 4.	None
Tata CellularCalcutta Madras Bharati Cellular 1.	None
Bharati Cellular Sterling Cellular 2.	None
Sterling Cellular Tata Cellular (on an 4.	None
Tata Cellular (on an exclusive exclusive basis) basis) While making the final selection, it should be borne in mind that Sterling Cellular has got a problem which is explained in the notes of DDG (Vig.) placed below.	None
Sterling Computer which is mentioned in the notes of DDG (Vig.)	None
flag C has a tieup with Sterling Cellular from the list of approved operators Summarizing, the following operators are recommended for giving the cellular licence   Name of Equated FE Inflow Experience Overall Collaborator the Company rental  (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)  Bombay Bharati Cellular 37.3 7 15 78.3 SFR France BPL Systems 33.2	None
6 14 76.2 France Projects Ltd.	None
Telecom Delhi Bharati 41.0 8 15 83.0 SFR France Cellular BPL Systems 33.8 6 14 76.8 France Projects Ltd.	None
Telecom Madras Bharati Cellular 38.5 8 15 80.0 SFR France Skycell 24.6 10 15 71.6 Bell South Calcutta Bharati Cellular 27.1 8 15 69.1 SFR France  	None
There is no other bidder who qualifies for giving the licence.	None
Even though Tata Cellular fulfils all the conditions but in bid document they have based their calculations on single operator concept.	None
However, we may, if approved by Telecom Commission and HighPower Committee, make a counteroffer to operate on a nonexclusive basisAfter the operators are selected, tariff fixation and other licensing terms can be negotiated by the Telecom authorities A separate note is being prepared for sending to the HighPower Committee based upon the observations that are likely to be made on this note For approval, please Member (Services) Member (Production) Member (Finance) Chairman (T.C.)	None
Sd  T. Narayanan) Adviser (Operations) 891992	None
The proposal on prepage with all the relevant calculation sheets and TEC report, copy of the F.B. document, may please be sent to the HighPower Committee nominated by NOS (C) for its consideration and for making final recommendations to the Government Re selection of the licensees Sd  1091992 Adv.	None
(O)  out of stn.	None
DDG (TM) A brief note, copies of TEC report, financial tender document have been sent to the HighPower Committee.	None
The note was shown to Member (S) before dispatch Sd  1091992 Adv.	None
(O)	None
Sd  T. Narayanan 1491992	None
On 1091992 the Chairman (TC) made the following note In pursuance of the orders of the MOS (C), a Committee consisting of Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, in his capacity as Chairman, Foreign Investment Promotion Board, Secretary Electronics and Chairman Telecom Commission was appointed to make recommendations regarding selection of the franchisees to provide Cellular Mobile Telephone Service in the four metro cities.	None
This Committee examined the bids received against the tenders floated on the basis of Tender Evaluation Committee report and made recommendations to MOS (C) regarding shortlisting of the bidders and the financial bids document.	None
The financial bids from the shortlisted bidders have now been received and examined in the Department.	None
The recommendations of the Evaluation Committee are being forwarded to the members of the HighLevel Committee appointed by MOS (C) for examination and making recommendations to the Government regarding final selection of the franchiseesI spoke to Principal Secretary to the Honble Prime Minister with the request to expedite the process.	Reasoning
He indicated that the Committee earlier appointed by MOS (C) stands dissolved and a fresh Committee will have to be nominated for considering the financial bids etc.	Reasoning
He also indicated that he proposes to put up the case to the Honble Prime Minister for his clearance.	Reasoning
It is, therefore, proposed to issue a letter to the members of the HighLevel Committee as per draft placed below.	None
The same may please be seen by MOS (C) for approval before issue In the draft letter it has been indicated that the same Committee will also examine the bids received for provision of the Paging Service in 27 cities  first for shortlisting and finalising the financial bid and later for selection of the franchisees.	None
The documents relating to shortlisting of Paging Service bidders have also been sent separately to the Committee Sd  P. Wagle) Chairman (TC) 1091992 MOS (C) 1191992 O. to Principal Secretary with copies to F.S. Electronics Secretary may issue Sd  14/9 S.  D.O. issued pl Sd  14/9 DDG(TM)	None
However, the D.O. came to be issued in accordance with the note of 1091992 dissolving the apex committee.	None
Therefore, it is not correct to contend, as urged by Mr. Harish Salve, that the apex committee had been bypassed.	None
The learned Solicitor General is right in his submission Entry of Hidden Criteria  Whether valid ?	None
In the original tender document, paragraph 2.2.1 in relation to the Subscribers Capacity states as follows Subscriber Capacity 1000 with modular expansion up to minimum 40, 000 subscribers In Section II of General Condition, clause 1(d) statesCopy of the agreement between the Indian and the foreign partner, if any foreign partner is proposed Chapter II of General Conditions in paragraph 2.4.5 states Experience of the Foreign operating partner On 891992 Mr. G. T. Narayanan, Adviser (Operations) in his note in the file inter alia stated as follows Since we require good operators with experience the minimum of 10 marks out of 15 for this parameter is considered a must and those bidders who have scored less than 10 for this parameter should be disqualified.	None
This represents an experience of handling of 1 lakh cellular phone or 80, 000 with a GSM licence These hidden criteria came to be evolved in the following context.	None
The Apex Committee indicated the parameters in which it stated that the committee decided to consider foreign companies who have experience of operating a cellular system of at least five years and who have developed a reasonable sized network (25, 000 subscribers).	None
Inter alia it stated in the report of the Selection Committee for the Cellular Mobile Telephone Service Tender The Committee, therefore, drew up the following criteria The experience of the bidding company  Since none of the Indian companies have any experience of operating a cellular service, this would necessarily apply to the foreign collaborator.	None
Also since GSM technology is only now beginning to come into commercial operation, the Committee decided to consider foreign companies who have experience of operating a cellular system of at least 5 years and who have developed a reasonable sixed network (25, 000  25, 000 subscribers)	None
On 291992 the Tender Evaluation Committee made the recommendations.	None
Upon these recommendations Bharati Cellular got three cities, Delhi, Bombay and Madras.	None
Even then BPL Systems and Projects did not feature.	None
Therefore, it was directed that an additional output of gradation of different bidders for the four cities by adopting inter alia the highest lending rate of State Bank of India for 5 years for lending of monthly rental with simple interest on deposits.	None
As per this revised gradation Bharati Cellular got Delhi, Calcutta and Madras.	None
However, it was eliminated from Bombay On 891992, the criterion of one lakh lines was introduced.	None
It was suggested by Mr. G. T. Narayanan, Adviser (Operations) that those who have secured less than 10 marks for this parameter should be disqualified.	None
This is in relation to the experience of handling of one lakh cellular phones or 80, 000 with GSM line.	None
It is submitted that criterion of experience of one lakh lines helped elimination of Usha Martin in Bombay and created place for BPL Systems and Projects The criterion of experience was introduced as a ground of disqualification.	None
If the criterion of experience of one lakh lines as a principal condition to qualify for consideration for Bombay and Delhi was introduced uniformly then Bharati Cellular could be disqualified.	None
Thus, a relaxation of 80, 000 with the GSM line was introduced.	None
It is important to note the person who evolved this criterion did not consider Talkland as Bharati Cellulars collaborator As noted above the learned Solicitor General would submit that as on 31121991 Bharati Cellular had experience of 81, 085 lines of SFR France and 1982 lines EMTEL making a total of 83, 067 lines.	None
Added to this, Talkland had an experience of 1, 70, 000 subscribers.	None
The reference to the marks awarded for comparative evaluation in this context is irrelevant.	None
Besides, even assuming that in comparative evaluation the holding of the licence may be given some weight cannot be made the governing factor in determining the experience of a bidder for the purpose of its eligibility As a result 891992 recommendations, Bharati Cellular got all the four cities.	None
BPL Systems and Project got two out of four cities.	Reasoning
Only Skycell got Madras.	Reasoning
No fourth party got any city.	Reasoning
Having realised that this decision will patently be unacceptable a relaxation was made on 9101992 one day before the final decision whether those with less than one lakh lines experience could be considered for Calcutta and Madras.	Reasoning
Eve, on 9101992, Bharati Cellular was evaluated visavis SRF France and EMTEL Mauritius.	None
There was no mention of Talkland.	Reasoning
On 10101992, Bharati Cellular was again evaluated visavis its collaborators SFR France and EMTEL Mauritius.	None
In the affidavit filed in the High Court the Government urged that one lakh lines carrying 10 points was considered equivalent to 80, 000 lines with GSM licence.	None
This, however, had no impact on Bharati Cellular.	None
Bharati Cellulars collaborators included Talkland which is one of the highest service providers in United Kingdom The learned Solicitor General submits that the evaluation in the case of Bharati Cellular was correct and in any event, including Talkland Bharati Cellular was properly considered.	None
The parameter of experience had three components1.	Arguments of Respondent
The number of subscribers2.	Arguments of Respondent
The number of countries3.	Arguments of Respondent
GSM experience It is true that during evaluation it was noted that any bidder with less than 10 marks out of 15 for experience would stand disqualified.	None
The cut of one lakh lines was in the context of minimum experience of 10 marks.	Reasoning
Bharati Cellular had a collaborator other than Talkland, namely, SFR France.	Reasoning
It was mentioned in Bharati Cellulars bid in its tender 31121991 that the number of SFR France was over 80, 000.	Reasoning
By 31121992 it was estimated to be 1, 10, 000	Reasoning
In August 1992 when the bids were submitted SFR France line experience could reasonably be expected to be above one lakh lines.	Reasoning
In addition, SFR had a GSM licence.	Reasoning
In view of all, it would not be an unreasonable estimate on the part of experts to consider Bharati Cellular as having one lakh lines experience We are not in a position to accept the contentions of Mr. Harish Salve that these criteria were evolved as tailormade to suit some other bidders and knock off others.	None
In a technical matter like this where the Government of India is embarking upon new communication scheme with advance technology all the criteria cannot be postulated in the beginning itself.	Reasoning
Where the Committee of Experts thought certain criteria have to be evolved in order to subserve the interest of the scheme it is necessary to have all them set out in the beginning itself.	Reasoning
However, the important question remains after the evolution of the criteria whether they have been uniformly and properly applied, as urged by Mr. Ashoke Sen126.	Reasoning
A careful perusal of the files shows that the Adviser (Operations) selected Bharati Cellular for franchise, with its foreign collaborators SFR France, EMTEL Mauritius.	Reasoning
The same was approved by the Chairman in his final proposal which was ultimately approved on 10101992.	None
Thus, it is clear that at no point of time Talkland ever figured as Bharati Cellulars collaborator.	Reasoning
SFR France, the foreign collaborator of Bharati Cellular had GSM Paris area (sic) 2391992.	Reasoning
As on 31121991, it had 81, 085 subscribers with no GSM experience.	None
The number of subscribers was estimated to go up to 1, 10, 000 by 31121992.	None
On the date of submission of the bid it was expected to cross the one lakh mark.	None
The other collaborator EMTEL Mauritius had only an experience of 1982 lines.	Reasoning
In order to make Bharati Cellular qualify Talkland is also included as a foreign collaborator.	Reasoning
This factually wrong, as noted above, because at no point of time Talkland was thought of as foreign collaborator for Bharati Cellular.	Reasoning
Even the, as seen form the file, Talkland is providing marketing, sales, customer care, billing services to both Vodaphone and Cellnet under contracts with both of them.	Reasoning
This is evident from the material produced before us.	Reasoning
It states Talklands sole function is to distribute radiotelephone services.	None
Unlike SFR in France it neither sets up nor manages networks.	None
In the U.K. these two activities have been separated by the 1984 Telecommunications Act.	None
While two operators develop and manage the network some 20 marketing companies known as service providers deal with the enduser, undertaking marketing aftersales service and billing.	None
This original mode of organization has proved beneficial and has helped to promote the rapid development of radiotelephone in the U.K. At the beginning of 1992 there were already some 1.2 million subscribers.	None
This corresponds to a penetration rate of more than 2 of the population, against around 0.7 in France.	None
Talkland, with a market share of about 13, is one of the foremost service providers.	None
It has 1, 65, 000 subscribers and reports annual sales of some FRF 1.4 billion.	None
In Annexure VII experience of foreign collaborators Item 10 is Bharati Cellular.	None
The number of subscribers that is put against it is 2, 53, 067.	None
This figure could be reached only by including Talkland.	None
It is necessary to point out that what is required is either experience of handling one lakh cellular phones or 80, 000 with the GSM lines.	None
Both the learned Solicitor General and Mr. Koura would argue that service is relevant.	None
But the nature of service that is contemplated here as per the tender document is found in Section III of Commercial Conditions at para 1.4.	None
That reads as under Service refer to the scope of the services defined to be within the licence in para 4, Section IV.	None
Therefore, one has to obviously refer to para 4 of Section IV which sets out the following In the first instance the system should be capable of providing the following services Teleservices Information type Services Speech Telephone Emergency calls Data Message handling system 300 bps access Short text Communication of short Alphanumeric messages Graphics Grp.	None
3 Facsimile Bearer services Data transmission in Asynchronous duplex circuit mode with PSTN 300 bps (V 21) 1200 bps (V 22) Data Transmission in Synchronous duplex circuit mode with PSTN 1200 bps 2400 bps Mobile access in the Asynchronous mode to the packet assembler disassembler of packet switching network 300 bps 1200 bps Mobile access in the synchronous mode to the packet switching network 2400 bps 4800 bps Supplementary services In the first instance the following supplementary services may be provided Calling Number Identification Presentation Calling Number Identification Restriction Connected Number Identification Presentation Connected Number Identification Restriction Malicious Call Identification Call Forwarding Unconditional Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Busy Call Forwarding on No Reply Call Forwarding on Mobile Subscriber Not Reachable Call Transfer Mobile Access Hunting Call Waiting Call Hold Completion of Call to Busy subscriber ThreeParty Service Conference Calling Closed User Group Advice of Charge Freephone Service Reverse Charging (Called or Calling MS)	None
Barring of All outgoing Calls Barring of Outgoing International Call except those directed to the Home PLMN Country.	None
Barring of All Incoming Calls Barring of Incoming Calls when Roaming Outside the Home PLMN Country.	None
The reliance placed by Mr. Koura and learned Solicitor General on paragraph 2.1.1 of Section III of Commercial to include services is not correct because that speaks of the obligations of the licensee.	None
That is obvious as seen under 2.1 Obligations of the Licensee 2.1.1.	None
the licensee shall operate and provide the SERVICES.	None
He will be solely responsible for the installation, networking, operation, treatment of the complaints, issue of bills to his subscribers, collection of his component of the revenue, claims, damages arising out of this operation.	None
In the judgment under appeal the High Court has observed Thus, one lakh lines carrying 10 marks was considered equivalent to 80, 000 lines with GSM lines, Even otherwise the respondents say that this had no impact in the case of Bharati as its collaborators included Talkland who was one of the largest service providers in U.K. Experience of providing service was an important considerationand experience of Talkland in computing Bharatis foreign collaborators was correctly included in the computations and, thus, its experience 2.51 lakh lines.	None
The respondents say that Bharati was treated on this basis and not on the basis of 80, 000 lines.	None
In support of this argument Mr. Gupta, learned Solicitor General, submitted that all services were to be provided by the licensee, and though Talkland had no operating experience it was having service experience for rendering service to subscribers which was an important factor.	None
A subsciber is more concerned with service than as to how the Cellular Telephone operates.	None
The service would be of any type like billing, correction of defects in hand sets, shifting of phones, etc., The operation and service though go hand in hand we do not find anything wrong in taking into account the experience of Thalkand which has been done by the respondents.	None
We are unable to support this finding as it clearly ignores that Talkland never figured as acollaborator for Bharati Cellular.	Reasoning
Further, ignoring the disjunctive clause, two qualifications were sought to be subsumed to give an undue advantage to Bharati Cellular.	None
Besides, the nature of service is as set out in para 4 of Section Iv as stated in Condition 1.4 of Section III, thus we hold, (borrowing the words of Donaldson, L.J. Emma Hotels Ltd. v. Secretary of State for Environment 34 we could not seen on what basis the Committee had reached its conclusion.	None
If, after excluding the experience of Talkland.	None
whether still Bharati Cellular could fulfil the requisite qualification, namely, 80, 000 GSM lines and whether SFR France with EMTEL Mauritius had that experience are matters which require to be factually analysed.	None
The Committee may decide this factual aspect as no the date no which the offer was made i.e. 2011992.	None
If the finding is rendered in favour of Bharati Cellular it will qualify The other hidden criteria alleged is about the same foreign collaborator.	None
The Chairman, Telecom Commission, in relation to these criteria noted The element of competition will get vitiated if the two JVs with a common foreign partner were to be selected to provide the service at the same location.	None
Concerning this criterion the attack against BPL Systems and Projects, its foreign collaborator came to be changed in the middle and yet in violation of the conditions laid down in Chapter II, clause 7 of the General Conditions.	None
Originally, there were the following three foreign collaborators France Telecom Mobile International, France McCaw Cellular Commns.	None
Inc., USA LCC Inc., USA At the second stage of financial bid, the name of the third partner has come to be omitted.	None
this is the argument of Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee and Mr. Harish Salve.	None
The dropping of McCaw resulted in a change of the joint venture which was not permissible.	None
This is answered by Mr. F. S. Nariman, as noted above, that the deficiencies in tender conditions could be condoned.	None
this argument is supported by reference to G. J. Fernandez v. State of Karnataka 17 and Paddar Steel Corpn.	None
v. Ganesh Engineering Works 13.	None
the condition relating to change dose not include the dropping out one condition of 2 or 3 collaborators.	None
Further, this condition is not found in the tender decuments but only financial bid documents BPL Systems and projects submitted its financial bid on 1781992.	None
In that bid McCaw was never shown.	None
Inasmuch as the financial bid was received by BPL Systems and Projects only on 3171992 Condition No. 7 was inapplicable or impossible of compliance because the dropping was before Condition No. 7 was brought to the notice of BPL Systems and Projects.	None
Where, therefore, the financial bid came to be submitted on 1781992 no question of alteration would ever arise.	None
After all the object of the first stage was only to shortlist and not to allot the franchise.	None
Therefore, there is nothing wrong in the same 135.	None
in the financial bid clause 7 of Chapter II reads as follows No change can be made in the Indian or foreign partners already indicated in the first stage bid.	None
It is common case between the parties that originally the foreign collaborators of BPL Systems and projects were three, as mentioned above.	None
So this is the position at the first stage, on 1651992, when the evaluation took place.	None
clause 7 of Chapter II, quoted above, forbids only change.	None
on 1781992, when it submitted bid, McCaw had been dropped out.	None
It dose not amount to a change of foreign collaborator.	None
Still.	None
the original two remained.	None
There is no change in joint venture.	None
This dose not violate clause 7 of Chapter II Mr. F. S. Nariman has rightly placed reliance on the abovesaid two rulings relevant passages are quoted as under.	None
In G. J. Fernandez v. State of Karnataka 17 this court inter alia observed (SCC pp, 499501, paras 1315)	None
In the first place, although, as we have explained above, para V cannot but be read with para I and the supply of some of the documents referred to in para V is indispensable to assess whether the applicant fulfils the prequalifying requirements set out in para	None
I, it will be too extreme to hold that the omission to supply ever small detail referred to in para V would affect the eligibility under para I and disqualify the tenderer.	None
The question how far the delayed supply, or omission to supply, any one or more of the details referred to therein will affect any of the prequalifying conditions is a matter which it is for the KPC to assess.	Arguments of Petitioner
We have seen that the documents having a direct bearing on para I viz.	Arguments of Petitioner
regarding output of concrete and brick work had been supplied in time.	Arguments of Petitioner
the delay was only in supplying the details regarding hollow cement blocks and to what extent this lacuna affected the conditions in para I was for the KPC to assessSecondly, whatever may be the interpretation that a court may place on the NIT, the way in which the tender documents issued by it has been understood and implemented by the KPC is explained in its note, which sets out the general procedure which the KPC was following in regard to NITs issued by it from time to time.	Arguments of Petitioner
Para 2.00 of the note makes it clear that the KPC took the view that para I alone incorporated the minimum prequalifying eligibility conditions and the data called for under para V was in the nature of general requirements.	None
It further clarifies that while tenders will be issued only to those who comply with the prequalifying conditions, any deficiency in the general requirements will not disqalify the applicant from receiving tender documents and data regarding these requirements could be supplied later.	Arguments of Petitioner
Right or wrong, this was the they had understood the standard stipulations and on the basis of which it had processed the applications for contracts all along.	Arguments of Petitioner
the minutes show that they did not deviate or want to deviate from this established procedure in regard to this contract, but, on the contrary, decided to adhere to it even in regard to this contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
They only decided, in view of the contentions raised by the appellant that para V should also be treated as part of the prequalifying conditions, that they would make it specific and clear in their future NITs that only the fulfilment of prequalifying conditions would be mandatory.	Arguments of Petitioner
If a party has been consistently and bona fide interpreting the standards prescribed by it in a particular manner, we do not think this Court should interfere though it may be inclined to read or construe the conditions differently.	Arguments of Petitioner
We are, therefore, of opinion that the High Court was right in decThirdly, the conditions and stipulations in a tender notice like this have two types of consequences.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first is that the party issuing the tender has the right to punctiliously and rigidly enforce them, thus, if a party dose not strictly comply with the requirements of para III, V or VI of the NIT, it is open to the KPC to decline to consider the party for the contract and if a party comes to court saying that the KPC should be stopped from doing so, the court will decline relief.	Arguments of Petitioner
The second consequence, indicated by this Court in earlier decisions, is not that the KPC cannot deviate from these guidelines at all in any situation but that any deviation, if made, should not result in arbitrariness or discrimination.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Poddar Steel Corpn.	None
v. Ganesh Engineering Works 13 this Court observed (SCC p. 276, para 6) As a matter of general proposition it cannot be held that an authority inviting tenders is bound to give effect to effect to every term mentioned in the notice in meticulous detail, and is not entitled to waive even a technical irregularity of little or no significance.	None
The requirements in a tender notice can be classified into two categories those which lay down the essential conditions of eligibility and the others which are merely ancillary or subsidiary with the main object to be achieved by the condition.	None
In the first case the authority issuing the tender may be required to enforce them rigidly.	None
In the other cases it must be open to the authority to deviate from and not to insist upon the strict literal compliance of the condition in appropriate cases.	None
The High Court observed thus We also do not find any error on the part of the respondents in treating the financial bid of BPL in order if at that stage BPL dropped one of its three foreign collaborators (which were named by it at the technical bid stage) as otherwise financial bid satisfied all the criteria and dropping of one of the collaborators made no difference It further observed We, therefore find that stand of the petitioner that any undue preference had been given to some of the companies cannot be upheld.	None
We even otherwise do not find that deviation or relaxation in the standards prescribed has resulted in any arbitrariness or discrimination.	None
(See in this connection G. J. Fernandez v. State of Karnataka)	None
We do not think it is necessary for us to go into each and every deficiency as alleged by the petitioner we find that the action of the respondents had been bona fide.	None
Motivation is providing of best possible service to the consumers.	None
We are in agreement with this finding Yet another attack that is made against BPL Systems and Projects is that it submitted its application for foreign collaborator on 2241992 to SIA beyond the cutoff date of 3131992.	None
It should not loom large because there was a confusion as to who was competent authority to receive the application.	None
As a matter of fact BPL Systems and Projects did submit its application for foreign collaboration on 3131992 to the Reserve Bank of India.	None
When that application was returned on 2041992 it came to be sent to SIA on 2241992.	None
We do not think BPL Systems and Projects could be faulted on this score.	None
Equally, the argument that the memorandum and articles do not mean cellular business does not merit acceptance at our hand.	Reasoning
In fact, the High Court has correctly the main object, namely, to design, develop, fabricate, manufacture, assemble, exporting from and importing into India by self or otherwise dealing and act as consultants and render services in connection with all kinds of telecommunication equipments as including cellular telephones Now we go on to Hutchison Max.	Reasoning
I came to be rejected by the TEC.	None
Relevant note dated 9101992 inter alia reads as follows Hutchison Max Noncomplicance of operative and financial conditions laid down in Chapter III at the time of opening of financial bids.	None
They have accepted these conditions, through a letter, explaining their earlier noncompliance as typographical error.	None
Section II, General Conditions, para 3 states as under Compliance.	None
Point to point compliance report in respect of technical, commercial and views on financial conditions must be submitted.	None
Deviation, if any, must be separately highlighted.	None
In case compliance report is not enclosed with the offer, the offer shall not be considered.	None
The pro forma of the compliance statement is in the following form This company hereby agrees to fully comply with all Technical, Commercial and General Conditions of Tender Document No. 4424/91MMC including amendments clarifications issued by the Department of Telecom without any deviations and reservations This company also hereby agrees to fully comply with all paragraphs of Chapter II General Conditions, Chapter III Operating Conditions, Chapter IV Financial Conditions and Chapter V Tariffs of Document No. 4424/91MMC (FINANCIAL) without any deviations and reservations Signature of the authorised signatory of the bidder operating company For and on behalf of (Name of the company)	None
The compliance statement, as submitted by Hutchison Max Telecom, is as under This Company hereby agrees to fully comply with all Technical, Commercial and General conditions of Tender Document No. 4424/91MMC including amendments clarifications issued by the Department of Telecom without any deviations and reservations This Company also hereby agrees to fully comply with all paragraphs of Chapter II General Conditions and Chapter V Tariffs of Document No. 4424/91MMC (FINANCIAL) without any deviations and reservationsSignature of the authorised signatory of the bidder operating company For and on behalf of HUTCHISON MAX TELECOM PRIVATE LIMITED Sd  (Ashwani Windlass) Director	None
In all the four separate tender documents similar compliance statements were filed Therefore, obviously, there is no reference to either Chapter III Operating Conditions or Chapter IV Financial Conditions.	None
It has already been noted that for the second stage the last date for filing tender document was 1781992.	None
On 1191992, Hutchison Max wrote a letter to the Minister of State for Communication about the inadvertent error due to a typographical clerical mistake in not referring to Chapter III or Chapter IV.	None
It is relevant to note that in the concluding paragraph of that letter it is stated We reiterate and reconfirm our unequivocal compliance without any reservations and deviations with the said tender conditions.	None
Accordingly, enclosed herewith is a corrected Compliance Statement duly signed by the authorised signatory of the Company which may kindly be taken on regard.	None
The proper Compliance statement came to be filed later.	None
Since it had not filed a proper Compliance Statement it had come to be excluded (which knowledge was gained by it) it made representations to the Chairman, Telecom Commission and the Prime Minister.	None
According to Mr. K. K. Tenugopal it is an accidental omission amounting to a clerical error.	None
In support of this he cites Moffett, Hodgkins Clarke Co. v. City of Rochester (10).	None
The headnote reads A mistake in the proposals by a bidder for a contract with a city, which is promptly declared by an agent of the bidder as soon as it is discovered and before the city has done anything to alter its condition, will not bind the bidder by reason of a provision in the city charter that a bid shall not be withdrawn or cancelled until the board shall have let the contract.	None
At pages 1115 it reads The complainant is not endeavouring to withdraw or cancel a bid or bond.	None
The bill proceeds upon the theory that the bid upon which the defendants acted was not the complainants bid that the complainant was no more responsible for it than if it is had been the result of agraphia or the mistake of a copyist or printer.	None
In other words, that the proposal read at the meeting of the board was one which the complainant never intended to make, and that the minds of the parties never met upon a contract based thereon.	None
If the defendants are correct in their contention there is absolutely no redress for a bidder for public work, no matter how aggravated or palpable his blunder.	None
The moment his proposal is opened by the executive board he is held as in a grasp of steel.	None
There is no remedy, no escape.	None
If, through an error of his clerk, he has agreed to do work worth 10, 00, 000 for 10, he must be held to the strict letter of his contract, while equity stands by with folded hands and sees him driven into bankruptcy.	None
The defendants position admits of no compromise, no exception no, middle ground.	None
(82 Fed Rep 256) 144.	None
(The alternate submission is the question of even clerical error does not arise here because one month before acceptance Hutchison Max had sent the compliance form.	None
Where the matter is purely technical the court should not exercise the power of judicial review.	Reasoning
We find great force in this submission.	Reasoning
We are clearly of the opinion that the mistake is in relation to a nonessential matter that is in relation to peripheral or collateral matter.	Reasoning
There has been every intention to comply with the terms of the bid.	Reasoning
For an accidental omission it cannot be punished.	Reasoning
We concur with the High Court.)	Reasoning
Regarding Sterling Cellular the note dated 9101992 inter alia states as under This J.V. has the Indian partner M s. Sterling Computers Ltd. which is under investigation by CBI, in respect of their dealing with MTNL for publication of directories.	None
Delhi H.C. has in recent judgment passed strictures on the deal.	None
The Joint Venture has, therefore, been excluded from consideration.	None
CBI report is, however, yet to be received and formal blacklisting proposal in respect of the first has not been initiated so far.	None
Exclusion has therefore to be justified.	None
Note dated 10101992 reads as follows MOS (C) further discussed the case with me today, when M(S) was present He indicated that after examining the reasons for elimination of the six shortlisted parties from consideration for selection, he is of the opinion that M s. Sterling Cellular need not be excluded outright, since CBI report has not yet been received.	None
The Company may be considered for selection and included in the select list on a provisional basis, if found cligiblc otherwise.	None
Similarly, M s. Indian Telecom Ltd. (Partner OIC Australia) need not be eliminated just because they have desired exclusive licence.	None
We may offer them the licence on a nonexclusive basis, if they are found eligible.	None
It is up to them to convey acceptance to the offer.	None
Exclusion of other four companies can stand for reasons indicated.	None
I have examined the case again.	None
I recommend that if M s. Sterling Cellular is to be selected on a provisional basis, the company may be allotted Madras for following reasons Foreign exchange investment profile submitted by the company indicates that there will be a heavy F.E. outflow over 3 years if the Company were to be allotted Bombay or Delhi Madras is the least popular of the stations along with Calcutta.	None
Rentals quoted are high as pointed in our earlier note.	None
M s. Usha Martin will help bring down the rentals in Calcutta.	None
Allotment of M s. Sterling to Madras will achieve the same purpose(c) Any delay in allotment of licence to M s. Sterling on account of the CBI investigations will have the least adverse effect in Madras for lack of competition to other licensee M(S) may kindly examine them again in the light of the observations of MOS (C) and rework out the select list.	None
The case may be put up for approval of MOS (C)	None
Sd  10101992	None
Then it came to be selected on the approval of the Minister The High Court in upholding the selection observed thus The case of Sterling Cellular, however, appears to us to to rather strange.	None
There were no strictures against the holding of this company by the name Sterling Computers Ltd. in MN this Court and the strictures were only against MTNL and United India Periodicals Pvt. Ltd. (UPI) and United Database (India) Pvt. Ltd.	None
(UDI).	None
M s. Sterling Computers Ltd. had got associated with UPI UDI in getting a supplementary agreement for publication of telephone directories for the cities of Bombay Delhi.	None
This supplementary agreement was struck down.	None
The Supreme Court in appeal Sterling Computers Limited v. MN Publications Limited against the judgment also did not appear to have made any strictures.	None
There was nothing on the record of the respondents to suggest that any CBI enquiry was pending against this company.	None
There was no FIR and no preliminary report adverse to the company and we feel the ghost of CBI has been unnecessarily brought into play.	None
The company appears to have been punished for no sin of its.	None
However, since the company has not complained well will leave the matter at that.	None
It is submitted by Mr. Parasaran that as on the date of the judgment no inquiry was pending.	None
It was only after 1061993 an FIR was filed by CBI when the High Court of Madras was approached for quashing the FIR under Section 482 Cr.P.C.	Arguments of Petitioner
An order by consent was passed.	Arguments of Petitioner
CBI was allowed to proceed with the investigation and complete the same within one year.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also ordered that there would be no arrest or harassment.	Arguments of Petitioner
Therefore, as on the date of selection there was no adverse report against Sterling Computers On the date of consideration by the Technical Evaluation Committee its position was even better If, therefore, this aspect had been borne in mind it is nor for us to reweigh the claims and come to one conclusion or another.	Arguments of Petitioner
So much for selections A letter dated 2781993 by Department of Communications, Telecom Commission was addressed to the appellants as follows Department of Telecommunications (Telecom Commission)	None
New Delhi110 001 Dated 2781993 No. 8422/92TM To M s. Tata Cellular Ltd., Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Bombay400 001 (Kind attention Shri Z. A. Baig) Sub Tender No. 4421/91MMC (FIN) for franchise for Cellular mobile telephone service for Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras Kindly refer this office letter of even No. dated 2101992 informing you that M s. Tata Cellular Ltd. were provisionally selected for franchise for providing cellular mobile telephone service at Delhi on a nonexclusive basis That matter has been reconsidered in the light of the judgment delivered by the High Court of Delhi in this case and a revised list of provisionally selected bidders in the cities of Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras has been prepared.	None
The revised list does not include mobile telephone service in any of the four cities.	None
The earlier letter of even number dated 12101992 may therefore be treated as cancelled Sd  K. Garg)	None
DDG (TM) 2781993	None
From this letter we are not able to fathom the reason for omission.	Reasoning
As seen above, Tata Cellular was originally selected for Delhi.	Reasoning
By implementation of the judgment of the High Court it has been left out.	Reasoning
Before doing so, as rightly urged by Mr. Soli J. Sorabjee, this appellant ought to have been heard.	Reasoning
Therefore, there is a clear violation of the principle of natural justice.	Reasoning
On an overall view we find it has two distinctive qualifications.	Reasoning
In that1.	Reasoning
It has not borrowed from any commercial bank It has an annual turnover from Indian parameters of Rs. 12, 000/ crores and the annual turnover or the foreign parameters of Rs. 51, 000/ crores.	None
Comparatively speaking, the other companies do not possess such high credentials yet it has been awarded low marks with regard to the reliance on Indian public financial institutions and financial strength of the parameters partner companies These qualifications could have been validly urged had it been heard.	None
Then, we do not know what decision could have been arrived at India Telecomp had been omitted for the following reasons as indicated in note dated 9101992 India Telecomp (Partner Telecom Malaysia) Limited experience.	None
Telecom Malaysia already selected as partner of	None
M s. Usha Martin Inc.	None
Calcutta We cannot find fault with this reasoning since there can be only one foreign collaborator.	None
It cannot have Telecom Malaysia as its collaborator since Usha Martin has the same foreign collaborator In the case of Ashok Leyland, the nothing, as seen above, is as underIn both cases of (i) M s. Ashok Leyland and (ii) M s. Vam Organic Chemicals Ltd.  a joint venture company has not been formed as stipulated in the tender, and there is no indication of the equity structure or the extent of participation of the foreign collaborators We cannot interfere with the discretion of the Committee151.	None
In the above two cases, we are obliged to interfere on the ground of arbitrariness and violation of the principle of natural justice confining ourselves to the doctrine of judicial restraint, however, by the application of permissible parameters to set right the decisionmaking process152.	Reasoning
We make it clear that we are not disturbing the other selections since the power of judicial review is not an appeal from the decision.	Reasoning
We can not substitute our decision since we do not have the necessary expertise to review153.	Reasoning
Lastly, quashing may involve heavy administrative burden and lead to delay, increased and unbudgeted expenditure more so, in a vital field like telecommunication154.	Reasoning
In view of the foregoing, we thus reach the conclusion the Bharati Cellular could not claim the experience of Talkland.	Reasoning
This conclusion has come to be arrived at on the basis of the parameters we have set out in relation to the scope of judicial review.	Reasoning
We may reiterate that it is not our intention to substitute our opinion to that of the expert.	Reasoning
Apart from the fact that the Court is hardly equipped to do so, it would not be desirable either.	Reasoning
Where the selection or rejection is arbitrary, certainly this Court would interfere In the result, we hold that Bharati Cellulars claim based on Talklands experience is incorrect.	None
Talklands experience will have to be excluded.	Decision
The matter will have to be reconsiered on a factual basis as on 2011992, in the light of what we have observed above.	Decision
The claim of Tata Cellular will have to be reconsidered in the light of the above observations.	Decision
Accordingly, civil appeals arising out of SLP (C) Nos. 149194 of 1993 will stand allowed.	Decision
Civil Appeals arising out of SLP (C)	Decision
No. 14266 of 1993, SLP (C) No. 17809 of 1993 and TC (C)	Decision
No. 49 of 1993 will stand dismissed with no order as to costs.	Decision
