 UNTWALIA, J. (for himself, Beg, C.J., Chandrachud and Kailasam, JJ.)  	None
1.	None
This batch of 374 appeals by certificate is from the decision of the High Court of Karnataka given in 374 Writ Petitions filed by different persons having various kinds of interest in the Contract Carriages which were taken over by the State of Karnataka first by the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Ordinance, 1976 (Karnataka Ordinance No. 7 of 1976) (for brevity, hereinafter, the Ordinance) followed by the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Act, 1976 (Karnataka Act No. 21 of 1976) (hereinafter to be referred to as the Act).	Issue
The judgment of the High Court is reported in K. Jayaraj Ballal v. State of Karnataka ILR 1976 Karnataka 1478 For the sake of convenience hereinafter in this judgment, reference to the High Court judgment wherever necessary will be made from the said report.	None
FACTS 2.	None
The broad and the common facts of the various cases are in a narrow compass and not in dispute.	Facts
At the outset, we shall state them mostly from the High Court judgment.	Facts
We were not concerned to go into the special facts of some cases in these appeals.	Facts
They may have to be looked into, if necessary, by the High Court in the light of this judgment.	Facts
The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (hereinafter called the Corporation) was established by the State Government of Karnataka on August 1, 1961 under Section 3 of the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950 (Central Act 64 of 1950).	Facts
The Corporation was a party respondent to the writ petitions and is an appellant before us alongwith the State of Karnataka.	Facts
We are stating the facts mostly from Civil Appeal No. 1085 of 1976 arising out of Writ Petition No. 817 of 1976.	Facts
The Corporation published in the Karnataka Gazette dated May 16, 1974, a draft scheme for nationalisation of Contract Carriages in the State under Chapter IVA of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (Central Act 4 of 1939).	Facts
Objections were invited.	Facts
Some of the writ petitioners preferred their objections.	Facts
It appears the State Government and the Corporation dropped the idea of proceeding with the scheme and without concluding the hearing and the disposal of the objections and the finalization of their scheme the Government came out with the Ordinance which was promulgated on January 30, 1976.	Facts
As per Clause 1(3) of the Ordinance, it applied to all contract carriage(s) operating in the State of Karnataka.	Facts
By a number of notifications issued under the Ordinance almost all the contract carriages and the permits specified in the notifications vested in the State.	Facts
They were transferred to the Corporation under Clause 20(1) of the Ordinance.	Facts
The officers of the Corporation seized the vehicles and the relative permits pursuant to the notifications aforesaid except six vehicles which were operating under InterState permits belonging to some of the writ petitioners.	Facts
The seizure of the side six vehicles was stayed by the Order of the High Court made on April 5, 1976 in some of the earlier writ petitions.	Facts
The earlier writ petitions were decided on February 26, 1976 and March 3, 1976 by a learned single Judge of the High Court who held that Ordinance did not empower the acquisition of the vehicles not covered by valid contract permits and consequently quashed some of the notifications.	Facts
The Ordinance with some changes was replaced by the Act which received the assent of the President on March 11, 1976 and was published in the Karnataka Gazette dated the March 12, 1976.	Facts
The operation of the Act was, however, made retrospective from January 30, 1976  the day when the Ordinance had been promulgated and come into force.	Facts
The Ordinance was repealed by Section 31 of the Act and the saving clause in subsection (2) saysNotwithstanding such repeal (i) anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act Fresh notifications were also issued under the Act.	Facts
The combined effect of all these actions was that whatever was done on and from the January 30, 1976 either under the Ordinance or under the Act was all deemed to have been done or done under the Act.	Facts
Fresh writ petitions numbering 374 were filed in the High Court by the various contract carriages operators, financiers and others including those who had filed or succeeded in the earlier writ petitions.	Facts
3.	Issue
The High Court has allowed all the writ petitions, struck down the Act as unconstitutional and has declared it null and void.	Facts
The notifications have been quashed.	Facts
The respondents in the writ petitions, namely the appellants before us, were directed to restore the vehicles with the relative permits and all other assets to the operators from whom they were taken over.	Facts
Some consequential directives for determination of damages in some later proceedings were also given.	Facts
4.	None
We now proceed to state the findings of the High Court on the various points argued before it not in the order as finally recorded in para 98 of its judgment at page 1530 but in the order the points were urged before us by Mr. Lal Narayan Sinha, learned Counsel for the appellants.	Facts
They are as follows (1)	Facts
The acquisition is not for a public purpose.	Facts
(2) The compensation or the amount provided for or the principles laid down in the Act for payment in lieu of the various vehicles, permits and other assets is wholly illusory and arbitrary.	None
For the two reasons aforesaid, the Act is violative of Article 31(2) of the Constitution and is a fraud on it.	None
It is, therefore, null and void (3) The acquisition of contract carriages with InterState permits and other assets pertaining to such operators is ultra vires legislative power and the competence of the State Legislature.	None
(4) Article 31C does not bar the challenge to the Act as being violative of Article 31(2) of the Constitution as there is no reasonable and substantial specified in clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39.	None
5.	None
We now proceed to deal with the points aforesaid seriatim in the above order.	Facts
PUBLIC PURPOSE 6.	None
It is indisputable and beyond the pale of any controversy now as held by this Court in several decisions including the decision in the case of Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala 1973 Supp SCR 1 1973 4 SCC 225.  popularly known as Fundamental Rights case  that any law providing for acquisition of property must be for a public purpose.	None
Whether the law of acquisition is for public purpose or not is a justiciable issue.	Reasoning
But the decision in that regard is not to be given by any detailed enquiry or investigation of facts.	Reasoning
The intention of the legislature has to be gathered mainly from the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act and its Preamble.	Reasoning
The matter has to be examined with reference to the various provisions of the Act, its context and set up, the purpose of acquisition has to be culled out therefrom	Reasoning
and then it has to be judged whether the acquisition is for a public purpose within the meaning of Article 31(2) and the law providing for such acquisition.	Reasoning
The acquisition of the vehicles namely the contract carriages, their permits and other assets for running them for the purposes of the Corporation could not be challenged as being not for a public purpose merely because it was for the purpose of transferring them to the Corporation.	Reasoning
7. Statement of Objects and Reasons for the impugned law runs as followsA large number of contract carriages were being operated in the State to the detriment of public interest and were also functioning stealthily as stage carriages.	None
This had to be prevented.	None
Article 39(b) and (c) enjoins upon the State to see that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth to the common detriment.	None
In view of the aforesaid it was considered necessary to acquire the contract carriages run by private operators.	None
Accordingly the Karnataka Contract Carriages (Acquisition) Ordinance, 1976 was promulgated.	None
The Bill seeks to replace the Ordinance.	None
8.	None
The title of the Act indicates that it is An Act to provide for the acquisition of contract carriages and for matters incidental, ancillary or subservient thereto.	None
In the Preamble it is statedWhereas contract carriages the certain other categories of public service vehicles are being operated in the State in a manner highly detrimental and prejudicial to public interest	None
And whereas with a view to prevent such misuse and also to provide better facilities for the transport of passengers by road and to give effect to the policy of the State towards securing that the ownership and control o the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment	None
And whereas for the aforesaid purposes it is considered necessary to provide for the acquisition of contract carriages and certain other categories of public service vehicles in the State and for matter incidental, ancillary or subservient thereto A declaration was also made in Section 2 that the Act is for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified in clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39.	None
A deep probe into and investigation of the facts stated in the Statement of Objects and Reasons and the preamble of the Act was neither permissible nor was it gone into by the High Court.	None
Mr. A.K. Sen advanced the leading argument on behalf of the respondents was that acquisition of vehicles which are available for sale in the market cannot be said to be for a public purpose.	None
Counsel submitted that the scheme of nationalisation in Chapter IVA of the Motor Vehicles Act was given up, the whole Undertaking of the various operators was not acquired but what was acquired was certain assets, most of which were available in the market.	None
Acquisition of chattels or movables can never be for a public purpose.	None
The High Court in support of its view, also refers to the wordings of subsection (3) of Section 4 of the Act wherein it has been provided that contract carriage and other property vesting in the State Government shall be deemed to have been acquired for a public purpose.	None
We are of the opinion that neither the argument nor decision of the High Court that the acquisition is not for a public purpose is correct.	None
9.	None
On the face of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Act as also from its Preamble it is clear, apart from the further facts which were stated in the various affidavits filed on behalf of the State, that the operators were misusing their permits granted to them as contract picking up and dropping passengers in the way.	None
The Legislature thought that to prevent such misuse and to provide for better facilities to transport passengers and to the general public it is necessary it acquire the vehicles, permits and all rights, title and interest of the contract carriage operators in or over lands, buildings, workshops and other places and all stores, instruments, machinery, tools, plants, etc. as mentioned in subsection (2) of Section 4 of the Act.	None
It was not a case where some passages in the judgment of this Court in State of Bihar v. Kameshwar Singh 1952	None
SCR 889 AIR 1952 SC 252 1952 SCJ 354.	None
to strengthen his submission.	None
The said decision was concerned with the vires of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 by which the Zamindaries or intermediaries interest were acquired by the State.	None
One of the provisions in the Act was for acquisition of arrears of rent due to the intermediaries from their respective tenants.	None
This provision was struck down as being unconstitutional.	None
And in that connection, Mahajan, J. as he then was, said at page 944It has no connection with land reform or with any public purpose.	None
It stands on the same footing as other debts due to zamindars or their other movable properties, which it was not the object of the Act to acquire.	None
As already stated, the only purpose to support this acquisition is to raise revenue to pay compensation to some of the zamindars whose estates are being taken.	None
This purpose does not fall within any definition, however wide, of the phrase public purpose and the law therefore to this extent is unconstitutional.	None
Mukherjea, J., as he then was, agreed with this view at page 957.	None
Das, J., as he then was, and Chandrasekhara Aiyar, J. also concurred in the same.	None
But the said decision given in respect of the debts due to the Zamindars from their tenants, which were merely choses in action is of no help to the respondents.	None
10.	None
In these appeals we are not called upon to decide and express any final opinion as to whether an acquisition of chattels or movables can be for a public purpose or not.	Issue
We may only add that the propesition so broadly put is not quite correct.	None
There may be many circumstances and facts to justify the acquisition of even a movable property for a public purpose.	Reasoning
It may not be universally so	Reasoning
but the converse is also not correct.	Reasoning
In the instant cases what has been acquired under the Act is not only movables and chattels namely the vehicles but also the permits, the workshops, land and buildings etc.	Reasoning
Although the whole transport undertaking of any carriage operator was not acquired, the acquisition in no sense was of mere movable properties available easily for purchase in the market.	Reasoning
Several hundred vehicles were acquired by the various notifications.	Reasoning
In substance it was a nationalisation of the contract transport service in the State of Karnataka.	Reasoning
Undoubtedly it was for a public purpose.	Reasoning
We may just quote a few lines from the judgment of Mahajan, J. in the case of State of Bihar v. Kameshwar Singh (supra) occurring at page 941In other words, shortly put, the purpose behind the Act is to bring about a reform in the land distribution system of Bihar for the general benefit of the community as advised.	Reasoning
The Legislature is the best judge of what is good for the community, by whose suffrage it comes into existence and it is not possible for this Court to say that there was no public purpose behind the acquisition contemplated by the impugned statute.	Reasoning
11.	None
The language of Section 4(3) of the Act is not for the purpose of introducing a legal fiction as observed by the High Court but with the object of putting the challenge to the factum of public purpose beyond the pale of any attack.	None
The use of the word deemed does not invariably and necessarily implies an introduction of a legal fiction but it has to be read and understood in the context of the whole statute.	None
It may well be that the State is not authorised to compulsorily acquire any property merely to augment its revenue although in a larger sense one can say that augmentation of the coffers of the State is also for a public purpose.	None
But it is not always correct to say that a property cannot be acquired merely for a commercial need of the Government.	None
Under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 land can be acquired for commercial purposes of the Government, a Public Corporation or a Company.	None
Why cant movables be acquired for commercial purposes if the exigencies of the situation so require?	None
A particular commercial activity of the State may itself be for a public purpose.	None
Acquisition of property either movable or immovable may in such a situation be for a public purpose.	None
12.	None
Mr. Sen referred to Section 19 of the Road Transport Corporations Act and specially to clause (c) of subsection (2) to lend support to his argument that without acquiring the whole undertaking only a portion of its assets leaving out the liabilities could not to be acquired.	Arguments of Petitioner
For this purpose, he relied upon the provision of Chapter IVA of the Motor Vehicles Act also.	Arguments of Petitioner
The nationalisation of routes under the said Chapter of the Motor Vehicles Act does not necessarily imply the acquisition of the transport undertakings of the various operators, their vehicles or properties.	Arguments of Petitioner
That is a separate and distinct method altogether.	None
In Section 19 of the Road Transport Corporations Act are enumerated the powers of the Corporation.	None
Sub section (2)(c) gives a power to the Constitution to prepare scheme for the acquisition of, and to acquire, either by agreement or compulsorily in accordance with the law of acquisition for the time being in or compulsorily in accordance with the law of acquisition for the time being in force in the State concerned and with such procedure as may be prescribed, whether absolutely or for any period, the whole or any part of any undertaking of any other person to the extent to which the activities thereof consist of the operation of road transport services in that State or in any areaIt is plain that the scheme for the compulsory acquisition may be for a part of the undertaking also and that would mean a part of the property of the undertaking or a branch of the undertaking.	None
Of course, the Corporation can purchase vehicles as provided for in clauses (a) and (g) of subsection (2) of Section 19.	None
But it does not follow therefrom that in all cases it is obliged to do so.	None
Compulsory acquisition is also provided in all cases it is obliged to keep in mind primarily the public interest as provided for in clauses (a) to (c) thereof.	None
(The acquisition in question for the purpose of the Corporation was, therefore, in public interest.	None
13.	None
In our judgment, therefore, the decision of the High court on the question of public purpose is erroneous.	Reasoning
We hold that the impugned law of acquisition and the acquisitions are for public purpose.	Reasoning
AMOUNT TO BE PAID FOR THE PROPERTY ACQUIRED 14.	None
The High Court in paragraph 92 at page 1527 has come to the conclusion . . .	Facts
the scheme for payment for the property acquired under the Act is wholly illusory and therefore the Act violates the fundamental rights of the petitioners secured under Article 31(2).	Facts
15.	None
The history in relation to the provision of payment of compensation or the amount in Article 31(2) of the Constitution is interesting and clearly points out the difference in the approach to the question by this Court and the Parliament resulting in the amendments in the provisions from time to time as and when some important and leading judgments were handed down by this Court which according to the Constituent Body did not correctly lay down the law as it intended the Article to mean.	Facts
The word used in the original Article 31(2) was compensation.	Facts
In the State of West Bengal v. Mrs. Bela Banerjee 1954	Facts
SCR 558 AIR 1954 SC 170 1954 SCJ 95 compensation was held to mean a just equivalent of what the owner has been deprived of.	Facts
Then came an amendment in the Article by the Constitution (4th Amendment) Act, 1955 stating in clause (2) of Article 31 . . .	Facts
no such law shall be called in question in any court on the ground that the compensation provided by that law is not adequate.	Facts
In spite of the amendment, this Court in some decisions  to wit Vajravelu Mudaliar v. The Speial Deputy Collector, Madras 1965 1	Facts
SCR 614 AIR 1965 SC 1017 1964 2 SCJ 703	Facts
The Metal Corporation of India Ltd. 1967 1	Facts
SCR 255 AIR 1967 SC 637 37 Com Cas 1 largely, if not fully, stuck to its view in Mrs. Bela Banerjees case (supra).	Facts
Then came the decision in State of Gujarat v. Shri Shantilal Mangaldas 1969 3	Facts
SCR 341 1969 1 SCC 509 where Shah, J., as he then was, in his leading judgment to which was appended a short concurring note by Hidayatullah, C.J. made a conspicuous departure from the views expressed in Vajravelus case and the case of The Metal Corporation (supra) and the said decisions were overruled.	Facts
Thereafter came the decision of 11 Judges of this Court the leading judgment being of Shah, J. on behalf of himself and nine others in what is known as the Bank Nationalisation case in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India 1970 3	Facts
SCR 530 1970 1 SCC 248 .	Facts
Although in terms the decision of this Court the in the case of Shantilal Mangaldas (supra) was merely explained, ins substance it was overruled.	Facts
Thereafter, by the constitution (25th Amendment) Act the word compensation was substituted by the word amount in Article 31(2) which, as in the case of compensation may be fixed by the law of acquisition or be determined in accordance with such principles and given in such manner as may be specified in such law.	Facts
The law was sought to be kept beyond the pale of challenge in any Court by reiterating in a slightly difference form that it cannot be assailed on the ground  that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate or that the whole or any part of such amount is to be given otherwise than in cash.	Facts
In the Fundamental Rights case (supra) the change in the phraseology of Article 31(2) came up for consideration before the Bench of 13 Judges.	Facts
The High Court is not right in saying that the decision in the Bank Nationalisation Case still holds the field on the question of amount or compensation to be paid for the acquired property.	Facts
A departure has been made from the views expressed earlier in the light of the 25th Amendment.	Facts
It is not necessary to pinpoint the details of such departure.	Facts
For the purpose of deciding the point which falls for consideration in these appeals, it will suffice to day that still the overwhelming view of the majority of judges in Kesavananda Bharatis case is that the amount payable for the acquired property either fixed by the legislature or determined on the basis of the principles engrafted in the law of acquisition cannot be wholly arbitrary and illusory.	Facts
When we say so we are not taking into account the effect of Article 31C inserted in the Constitution by the 25th Amendment (leaving out the invalid part as declared by the majority).	Facts
16.	None
Just to support the principle of law called out above, we may refer to a few lines in some of the judgments in Kesavananda Bharatis case.	Facts
Sikri, C.J., has said at page 197 (SCC p. 390, last line).	None
Applying this to the fundamental right of property, Parliament cannot empower Legislatures to fix an arbitrary amount or illusory amount or an amount that virtually amounts to confiscation, taking all the relevant circumstances of the acquisition into consideration.	Facts
Shelat and Grover, JJ.	None
in addition to what they have said earlier categorically say at page 285 (SCC p. 457, para 591) and further that the amount is neither illusory nor it has been fixed arbitrarily, nor at such a figure that it means virtual deprivation of the right under Article 31(2).	Reasoning
The question of adequacy or inadequacy, however, cannot be gone into Hegde and Mukherjea, JJ. have observed at page 338 (SCC p. 498, paras 699 and 701).	None
17.	None
Therefore, stated briefly, what the 25th Amendment makes non justiciable is an enquiry into the question whether the amount fixed or determined is an equivalent value of or compensation for the property acquired or requisitioned. . . .	None
It is difficult to believe that Parliament intended to make a mockery of the fundamental right conferred under Article 31(2).	None
It cannot be that the Constitution while purporting to preserve the fundamental right of the citizens to get an amount in lieu of the property taken for public purpose has in fact robbed him of all his right.	None
Ray, J., as he then was goes to point out at pages 446 and 447 (SCC p. 582, para 1019)	None
the Article still binds the legislature to provide for the giving to the owner a sum of money either in cash or otherwise.	None
The legislature may either lay down principles for the determination of the amount or may itself fix the amount. . . .	None
The Constitution does not allow judicial review of a law on the ground of adequacy of the amount and the manner as to how such amount is to be given otherwise than in cashAt page 555 (SCC p. 666) is to be found the view of Jaganmohan Reddy, J. in these words Once the Court is satisfied that the challenge on the ground that the amount or the manner of its payment is neither arbitrary or illusory.	None
Lastly we would refer to a passage occurring in the judgment of one of us (Chandrachud, J.) at pages 992 and 993 (SCC p. 1000, para 2122).	None
It runs thus The specific obligation to pay an amount and in the alternative the use of the word principles for determination of that amount must mean that the amount fixed or determined to be paid cannot be illusory.	None
If the right to property still finds a place in the Constitution, you cannot mock at the man and ridicule his right.	None
You cannot tell him I will take your fortune for a farthing 17.	None
As already stated the High Court took the view that the amount payable under the Act for the property acquired would be such that it will be wholly arbitrary and illusory and leave the many operators in huge debts.	None
Many of them were plying their contract carriages having taken loans of considerable sums of money from the various financiers on hirepurchase system, for whom also Mr. A.K. Sen appeared and argued before us.	None
They would not only be paupers but huge liability will remain on their shoulders if the interpretation put by the High Court were to be correct.	None
Mr. Lal Narayan Sinha, learned Counsel for the appellants, took a very just and proper attitude in advancing an argument before us which would take away the basis of the High Court judgment in this regard.	Arguments of Petitioner
With respect to each and every relevant section on the question of payment of the amount in lieu of the property acquired he suggested such a reasonable, harmonious and just construction by the rules of interpretation that we found no difficulty in accepting his argument  rather, were glad to do so.	Arguments of Petitioner
The other side on the interpretation so put, which we are going to mention hereinafter, felt satisfied to a large extent.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Sinha also advanced some argument with reference to the valid part of Article 31C read with clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 but very wisely did not choose to heavily rely upon it.	Arguments of Respondent
On the interpretation of the statute as canvassed by him, there hardly remained any necessity of it.	Arguments of Respondent
18. Section 3 of the Act defines in clause (a) acquired property to mean the vehicles and other property vesting in the State Government under Section 4.	None
The definition of contract carriage is an inclusive one with reference to certain provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act.	None
Clause (h) runs thus contract carriage operator means an operator holding one or more contract carriage permit and includes any person in whose name a public service vehicle is registered and is specified as a contract carriage in the certificate of registration of such vehicle Permit in clause (m) means the permit granted under the Motor Vehicles Act, authorising the use of a vehicle as a contract carriage.	None
Then comes the important clause (n) which runs as follows Person interested in relation to any acquired property includes the contract carriage operator and any secured creditor or financier under a hire purchase agreement, who has a charge, lien or any interest in the acquired property and any other person who is affected by the vesting of the acquired property and claiming or entitled to claim an interest in the amount.	None
19.	None
Section 4 provides for vesting of contract carriages etc.	None
with the permit or the certificate of registration or both absolutely free from all encumbrances.	None
Various other properties mentioned in clauses (i) and (ii) of subsection (2) also vest on the issuance of the notification under subsection (1).	None
While providing that the property shall vest absolutely free from all encumbrances, a safeguard has been provided for a person interested and having a claim to the amount in respect of such property under the Act.	None
Under Section 5, the operators are to furnish the required particulars.	None
Section 6 which deals with determination of the amount must be read in full 6.	None
Determination of the amount.  	None
(1) For the vesting of the acquired property under Section 4, every person interested shall be entitled to receive such amount as may be determined in the manner hereinafter set out and as specified in the Schedule, that is to say  (a) where the amount can be fixed by agreement it shall be determined in accordance with such agreement (b) where no such agreement can be reached, the State Government shall appoint as arbitrator a person who is an officer not below the rank of a Divisional Commissioner or a District Judge (c) the State Government may, in any particular case, nominate a person having expert knowledge as to the nature of the acquired property to assist the arbitrator and where such nomination is made, the person interested may also nominate an assessor for the same purpose (d) at the commencement of the proceedings before the arbitrator, the State Government and the person interested shall state what in their what in their respective opinion is the amount payable (e) the arbitrator shall, after hearing the dispute, make an award determining the amount which appears to him just and reasonable and also specifying the person or persons to whom the amount shall be paid and in making the award he shall have regard to the circumstances of each case and the provisions of the Schedule so far as they are applicable (f) where there is any dispute as to the person or persons who are entitled to the amount, the arbitrator shall decide and if the arbitrator finds that more persons than one are entitled to the amount, he shall apportion the amount, amongst such persons (g) nothing in the Arbitration Act, 1940 (Central Act X of 1940), shall apply to arbitrations under this section (2) Every award made by the arbitrator under clause (e) of subsection (1) shall also state the amount of costs incurred in the proceedings before him and by whom and in what proportions such amount is to be paid.	None
20.	None
A notice under Section 7 is to be given to all persons interested in respect of the amount determined under Section 6.	None
Any person interested and served with a notice Section 7 can file a claim before the authorised officer under subsection (1) of Section 8.	None
The language of subsection (2) created some difficulty in harmonising it with the other provisions of the statute.	None
It runs thus The authorised officer shall forward the claim made under subsection (1) to the State Government for the payment of the amount to the person interested in the manner specified under Section 11.	None
Section 10 is important and provided for the various categories of the amount liable to deduction in certain cases.	None
The nature of such amounts liable to be deducted are relatable to the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952, Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, salary, wages etc. due to an employee, taxes etc.	None
But the important item to be noticed is mentioned in clause (iii) of subsection (3) which makes the amount due towards the claims of secured creditors deductible under Section 10.	None
Subsection (4) authorises the arbitrator to decide any dispute regarding the sum to be deducted under subsection (3).	None
Then Section 11(1) providing for the manner of payment of amount for the acquired property says The amount determined under Section 6 shall, after deduction, if any, made under this Act, be given in cash by the State Government to the person interested,  (a) in one lump sum where the amount does not exceed ten thousand rupees and (b) in ten equal annual instalments in other cases, the amount of each instalment carrying interest at the rate of six per cent per annum from the notified date.	None
An appeal lies to the High Court from the award of the arbitrator as provided for in Section 12.	None
Certain powers of the Civil Court have been conferred on the arbitrator and the authorised officer under Section 13.	None
Section 19 enjoins the State Government to transfer the whole of the acquired property in favour of the Corporation.	None
The permit stands transferred to the Corporation under Section 19(2).	None
Sub section (6) says(a) All sums deducted by the State Government under subsection (3) of Section 10 shall stand transferred to the corporation referred to in subsection (1) (b) the Corporation shall credit the sums transferred to the appropriate funds or if any part of the sums is payable to the employee directly, such part shall be paid to him directly.	None
A monopoly in favour of the Corporation by Section 20.	None
21.	None
Then comes the Schedule spoken of in Section 6 which provides for principles for determination of the amount in relation to the various properties acquired under the Act.	None
Para 1 deals with the principle and the manner of determination of the amount for the vehicles.	None
The acquisition cost is to be determined first and then a certain percentage is to be deducted in accordance with the Table appended to subpara (1).	None
The explanation says For the purpose of this paragraph acquisition cost shall be the aggregate cost of the chassis as well as the body of the body of the contract carriage as charged by the manufacturer of chassis and by the body builder.	None
In respect of almost all other properties acquired the amount to be paid is by and large the market value of the property vide paras 2, 3 and 4.	None
Provisions have been also made for payment of the amount in respect of the workshops in para 5 and in respect of stores in para 6.	None
Some compensation had been provided in para 7 of the Schedule for every permit acquired under the Act, although the amount so fixed may not be adequate.	None
22.	None
Now by the harmonious and reasonable rules of construction as also to save the Act from being violative of Article 31(2) of the Constitution, we proceed to discuss and accept in large measure the interpretation put and canvassed by Mr. Sinha.	Reasoning
If the amount is fixed by agreement, well and good.	Reasoning
In absence of an agreement, the State Government shall appoint an arbitrator who will be an officer of a high rank.	Reasoning
Two assessors having expert knowledge as to the nature of the acquired property  one by the Government and one by the person interested, can be appointed to assist the arbitrator.	Reasoning
Both sides will state before the arbitrator as to what should be the amount payable according to each.	Reasoning
The arbitrator shall hear the dispute and make an award determining the amount which appears to him just and reasonable.	Reasoning
He shall also specify the person or persons to whom the amount shall be paid.	Reasoning
In making the award, he shall have regard to the circumstances of each case the provisions of the schedule so far they are applicable.	Reasoning
Some difficulty at the outset arose in reconciling the expression as specified in the schedule occurring in subsection (1) of Section 6 and the (above) underlined expressions in clause (e) of that subsection.	None
23.	None
The content and purport of the expressions having regard to and shall have regard to have been the subjectmatter of consideration in various decisions of the Courts in England as also in this country.	None
We may refer only to a few.	None
In Illingworth v. Walnsley 1900 2 QB 142 it was held by the Court of Appeal, to quote a few words from the judgment of Romer, C.J. at page 144	None
All that Clause 2 means is that the tribunal assessing the compensation is to bear in mind and have regard to the average weekly wages earned before earned before and after the accident respectively.	None
Bearing that in mind, a limit is placed on the amount of compensation that may be awarded.	None
In another decision of the Court of Appeal in Perry v. Wright 1908 1 KB 441 CozenaHardy, M.R. observed at page 451No mandatory words are there used the phrase is simply regard may be had.	None
The sentence is not grammatical, but I think the meaning is this Where you cannot compute you must estimate, as best as you can, the rate per week at which the workman was being remunerated, and to assist you in making an estimate you may have regard to analogous cases.	None
It is worthwhile to quote a few words from the judgment of Fletcher Moulton, L.J. at page 458.	None
Under the phrase Regard may be had to the facts which the Courts may thus take cognizance of are to be a guide, and not a fetter.	None
This Court speaking through one of us (Beg, J., as he then was), has expressed the same opinion in the case of Saraswati Industrial Syndicate Ltd. v. Union of India 1975 1	None
SCR 956 1974 2 SCC 630 .	Facts
Says the learned Judge at page 959 (SCC p. 63	None
para 3)	None
The expression having regard to only obliges the Government to consider as relevant data material to which it must have regard.	None
24.	None
The arbitrator, therefore, reading Section 6(1) as a whole is not obliged to fix the amount as specified in the Schedule.	None
But he has to fix the amount which appears to him just and reasonable on the totality of the facts and circumstances keeping primarily in mind the amount mentioned in the Schedule.	None
25.	None
Another apparent conflict was writ large on the phraseology of subsection (2) of Section 8 and the provisions contained in Sections 10 and 11.	None
Section 10 provides for the deductions of the various amounts at the outset from the amount determined by the arbitrator payable in respect of the acquired properties, including those due to the secured creditors, which undoubtedly, would include the financiers of the hirepurchase agreements.	None
The amount payable under Section 11 and the manner of its payment is, after deducting all the amounts, provided in Section 10.	None
To that extent, for the purpose of harmonious construction, subsection (2) of Section 8 must mean the payments of the amounts a mentioned in Section 10 and the balance to the operators in the manner specified under Section 10 and the balance to the operator in the manner specified under Section 11.	None
The Act thus interpreted to a large extent will satisfy not only the claims on account of wages and tax etc.	None
but also the amount due to the secured creditors.	None
Surely the amount due, if any, to any unsecured creditor cannot be taken into account as there is no such provision made in Section 10.	None
Sufficient power has been conferred on the arbitrator to arrive at a just and reasonable figure of the amount payable for the property acquired.	None
And further, a procedural safeguard has been provided by making a provision for an appeal to the High Court from the award of the arbitrator.	None
26.	None
No attack with any reasonable justification could be made on paras 2 to 7 of the schedule.	None
But a difficulty arose in interpretation of the terms acquisition cost occurring in subpara (1) of para 1.	None
The literal meaning of that expression in subpara (1) would have been the acquisition cost of the contract carriage operator or any other person interested therein.	None
But the difficulty created was by the language of the explanation appended thereto when it said that acquisition cost shall be the aggregate cost of the chassis as well as the body of the contract carriage as charged by the manufacturer of chassis and by the body builder.	None
Mr. Sinha rightly pointed out that the true and the correct meaning of the words used in the explanation in the light of subpara (1) of para 1 would mean the cost of the chassis fixed by the manufacturers for their dealers to charge from the purchasers.	None
Really the acquisition cost qua the purchaser is the price which he pays to the manufacturers dealer from whom he purchases and not the manufacturers actual cost of manufacturing the chassis.	None
So far the acquisition cost the body of the vehicle is concerned, no difficulty is created by the explanation.	None
It would be the actual cost charged by the body builder.	None
27.	None
On the interpretations aforesaid which we have put to the relevant provisions of the Act, it was difficult  rather impossible  to argue that the amount so fixed will be arbitrary or illusory.	Reasoning
In some respects it may be inadequate but that cannot be a ground for challenge of the constitutionality of the law under Article 31(2).	Reasoning
The respondents felt quite satisfied by the interpretations aforesaid and could not pursue their attack on the vires of the Act on that ground.	None
LEGISLATIVE COMPETENCE RE CONTRACT CARRIAGES PLYING ON INTERSTATE ROUTES 28.	None
The number of such carriages and such permits compared to the total number of vehicles acquired was very few.	Reasoning
It was about 20 or 25 only.	Reasoning
It is no doubt true that under the Ordinance contract carriages with interState permits were not sought to be acquired.	Reasoning
The Act, however, has done so and with a retrospective effect.	Reasoning
Question is whether the State Legislature of Karnataka has gone beyond its powers and competence in making such a provision.	Reasoning
In that regard it was also canvassed before us whether it was possible to read down certain provisions of the Act to save it from constitutional invalidity.	Reasoning
If so, to what extent and in what respect ?	None
29.	None
The first attack on the legislative competence was that acquisition of such a contract carriage squarely fell under Entry 42 of List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution that is to say, InterState trade and commerce.	None
In paragraph 97 of the judgment the High Court seems to have rejected the contention that the Act violated the freedom of trade and commerce guaranteed under Articles 301 and 304.	None
But the High Court in the earlier portion of its judgment appears to have taken the view that an interState permit is, in fact and in substance, two or more permits rolled into one.	None
The vehicles ply in the different States.	None
The permit originally granted by the Karnataka authority under the Motor Vehicles Act has to be countersigned by the authorities of the other State.	None
Some of the operators kept their vehicles and have got their workshops in other States.	None
The law made by the Karnataka Legislature cannot have extra territorial operation.	None
30.	None
We do not think that the view expressed by the High Court is wholly correct.	None
There are numerous decisions of the Privy Council, the Federal Court and the Supreme Court in support of the proposition that the pith and substance of the Act has to be looked into and an incidental trespass would not invalidate the law, vide for example Prafulla Kumar Mukherjee v. Bank of Commerce Limited, Khulna 74 IA 23 Kerala State Electricity Board v. Indian Aluminium Co. 1976 1 SCR 552 1976 1 SCC 446 The earlier case of this Court is reported in A.S. Krishna v. State of Madras 1957	None
SCR 399 AIR 1957 SC 297 1957 Cri LJ 409.	None
Almost a direct decision on this point is to found in an unreported decision of this Court in S.K. Pesari v. Abdul Ghafoor Civil Appeal No. 306 of 1964 decided on 451964 (SC).	None
The question for consideration in that case was whether the State Government had power under Section 64A of the Motor Vehicles Act as introduced by the Bihar Amendment to deal with a revision in relation to an interState permit.	None
The High Court had taken the view that it had no such power, as, such power, as, such a provision falls within item 42 of List I of Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, namely InterState trade and commerce and not Entry 35 of List III, namely, mechanically propelled vehicles.	None
This Court following the principle laid down in the case of Narayanappa v. State of Mysore 1960 3	None
SCR 742 AIR 1960 SC 1073 1961 1 SCJ 7 reversed the view of the High Court and held that the impugned section fell within the legislative power of the State under Entry 20 of List III of Schedule Seven of the High Court of India Act, 1935 corresponding to Entry 35 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
The said decision has been followed by this Court in Tansukh Rai Jain v. Nilratan Prasad Shaw 1965 2 SCR 6 AIR 1966 SC 1780 1965 2 SCJ 732. 31.	None
Mr. Sen submitted that the portion of the statute providing for acquisition of contract carriages running on interState routes is in reality legislating on the subject of interState trade and commerce.	None
The State Legislature was not competent to do so.	None
In support of his argument, learned Counsel referred to some of the American decisions viz.	None
United States of America, Pliff in Err. v. Dan Hill 63	None
Law Ed 337 Claude R. Wickard, Secretary of Agriculture of the United States etal v. Roscoe C. Filburn 87 Law Ed 122	None
The Steamer Daniel Ball, Byron D. Ball and Jessie Ganoe, Claimants Apptt.	None
v. United States 19 Law Ed 999.	None
In Dan Hills case it was held that the transportation of intoxicating liquor from one State to another was in itself Inter State commerce, and the Congress in the exercise of its plenary authority to regulate the InterState transportation of intoxicating liquors may prohibit such transportation even into a State which permits it.	None
In the case of Claude R. Wickard the question arose entirely in a different context.	None
A Federal regulation of the production of wheat not intended in any part for commerce but wholly for consumption on the farm was held to be within the power conferred by the commerce clause where the purpose of such regulation was to control the market price of wheat in InterState commerce.	None
In the case of The Steamer Daniel Ball the question was whether the impugned Act applicable to a steamer engaged as a common carrier to carry goods in a navigable river between places in the same State when a portion of the merchandise transported by her is destined to places in other States could control such a steamer under the authority of the Congress to regulate an agency employed in commerce between the States.	None
It was held that it could be so done.	None
32.	None
In our judgment it is difficult to apply the principles of any of the cases aforesaid to the facts and the provisions of the Act.	None
It is not an Act which deals with any InterState trade and commerce.	None
Even assuming for the sake of argument that carriage of passengers from one State to the other is in one sense a part of the InterState trade and commerce, the impugned Act is not one which seeks to legislate in regard to the said topic.	None
Primarily and almost wholly it is an act to provide for the acquisition of contract carriages, the IntraState permits and the other properties situated in the State of Karnataka.	None
In pith and substance it is an act of that kind.	None
The incidental encroachment on the topic of interState trade and commerce, even assuming there is some, cannot invalidate the Act.	None
The Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 was enacted under Entry 20 of List III of Schedule Seven of the Government of India Act, 1935 corresponding to Entry 35 of List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution.	None
The subject being in the Concurrent List and the Act having received the assent of the President, even the repugnance, if any, between the Act and the Motor Vehicles Act stands cured and cannot be a ground to invalidate the Act.	None
Entry 42 of List III deals with acquisition of property.	None
The State has enacted the Act mainly under this entry.	None
It does not in any way violate or militate against the provisions of the Road Transport Corporations Act either, as argued by Mr. Sen. 33.	None
Now we proceed to refer to some of the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, to repel Mr. Sens arguments even with reference to that Act.	None
But it cannot be rejected fully.	None
A portion of it for the reasons to be hereinafter stated has got to be accepted.	None
34.	None
Under Section 23, every owner of a Motor Vehicle has got to cause his vehicle to be registered by a registering authority in the State in which he has the residence or place of business where the vehicle is normally kept.	None
Almost all the InterState vehicles (there may be a few exceptions) are registered in the State of Karnataka.	None
They are normally kept there.	None
If a vehicle registered in one State has been kept in another State for a period exceeding 12 months, then the registration has to be changed in accordance with Section 29.	None
Under the second proviso to Section 45(1) if it is proposed to use a vehicle in two or more regions lying in different States, an application for a permit has to be made to the Regional Transport Authority of the region in which the appellant resides or has his principal place of business.	None
Almost all the InterState permits were initially granted by the Karnataka authority.	None
Section 63(1) saysExcept as may be otherwise prescribed, a permit granted by the Regional Transport Authority of any one region shall not be valid in any other region, unless the permit has been countersigned by the Regional Transport Authority of that other region, and a permit granted in any one State shall not be valid in any other State unless countersigned by the State Transport Authority of that other State or by the Regional Transport Authority concerned.	None
This Court has expressed the view in the case of M s. Bundelkhand Motor Transport Company, Nowgaon v. Behari Lal Chaurasia 1966 1 SCR 485 AIR 1966 SC 455 1966 2 SCJ 37 followed in Punjab Sikh Regular Motor Service, Moudhapara v. The Regional Transport Authority, Raipur 1966 2 SCR 221 AIR 1966 SC 1318 1966 2 SCJ 354 that permits granted by one Regional Authority and countersigned by another Regional Authority either in the same State or in different States are really different permits rolled into one.	None
If the initial granting authority does not renew the permit for plying the vehicle within the jurisdiction of another authority the latter by mere countersigning the permit cannot empower the permit holder to ply the bus either in their region or another State.	None
None of the InterState permits in these cases has been issued by any central authority in accordance with Section 63A of the Motor Vehicles Act. 35.	None
In the case of Bengal Immunity Company Limited v. State of Bihar 1955 2	None
SCR 603 AIR 1955 SC 661 1955 6 STC 446 Venkatarama Ayyar, J. delivered his separate judgment.	None
Although he dissented from the majority view in regard to the main controversy in the case in his judgment from page 811 onwards he discussed very lucidly, if we may say so with respect, the concept of extraterritorial operation of a law.	None
It has two connotation as pointed out by the learned Judge at page 814 Itmeans a law of a State with reference to its own citizens in respect of acts or events which take place outside the State.	None
In discussing questions relating to extraterritorial operation, it is desirable that the two connotations of the words should be kept distinct and separate.	None
The other connotation is the operation of the law itself to subjects or properties outside the territory of the State which has made the law.	None
36.	None
For the reasons stated above by and large the law is not invalid.	None
But to maintain its constitutionally in full, on the wellknown principles of law established and noticed in several decisions, such as in Re The Hind Womens Rights to Property Act.	None
1973 1941 FCR 12 AIR 1941 FC 72 1941 2 MLJ 12 R.M.D. Chamarbaugwalla v. The Union of India 1957	None
SCR 930 AIR 1957 SC 628 1957 SCJ 593 and Gulabhai Vallabhbhai Desai v. Union of India 1967 1 SCR 602 AIR 1967 SC 1110 1968 1 SCJ 1 a reading down of some of the provisions is permissible.	None
And that reading down will be only to this effect.	None
Vehicles kept and registered in the State of Karnataka in respect of which initially the interState permit has been granted by this State have validly been acquired.	None
The permit acquired in respect of those vehicles will be the permit operative within the territory of the State of Karnataka.	None
The countersigned portion of the permit, which as pointed out above on the authorities of this Court is in substance and in effect a separate permit authorising the permit holder to ply the bus in another State, cannot be acquired.	None
Such an acquisition will fall within the second connotation of the extraterritorial operation of the law, as referred to above from the Bengal Immunity case.	None
The State Government on acquisition and the vesting of the acquired property cannot transfer the countersigned portion of the permit to the Corporation.	None
The Corporation in view of the transfer under Section 19 will be able to utilize the unexpired portion of the permit for plying the vehicle only in the State of Karnataka until and unless it gets it signed by the Transport authority of the other State or States in accordance with the Motor Vehicles Act or take steps in accordance with Section 20 of the Road Transport Corporations Act.	None
This portion of the law, although it is a very minor one, has got extraterritorial operation in the connotation and sense which did not permit the Karnataka Legislature to enact such a law.	None
If on the facts of a Particular case it be found that any particular vehicle is kept and registered or is plying on an initial permit granted by another State, such a vehicle also would not stand acquired under the Act and the notification issued thereunder.	None
Since the High Court has not gone into the details of the facts, we were not concerned to go into them.	None
The Constitution Bench was formed merely to decide the constitutional issues.	None
37.	None
At the end we may also indicate that under subsection (6) of Section 19 all sums deducted by the State Government under subsection (3) of Section 10 which include the sums payable to the secured creditors stand transferred to the Corporation which is obliged to credit the sums transferred to the appropriate funds.	None
The said provision would take within its ambit the liability of the Corporation to pay forthwith the sum found due to the secured creditors.	None
Since we have upheld the constitutional validity of Act on merits by repelling the attack on it by a reasonable and harmonious construction of the Act, we do not consider it necessary to express any opinion with reference to Article 31C read with clauses (b) and (c) of Article 39 of the Constitution.	None
Our learned brother Krishna Iyer, J. has prepared a separate judgment specially dealing with this point.	None
We must not be understood to agree with all that he has said in his judgment in this regard.	None
38.	None
For the reasons stated above, we allow the appeals and set aside the judgment of the High Court.	Decision
It will be open to any of the writ petitioners to file a petition in the High Court either in the same writ petition or a fresh one for adjudication and decision of the special facts of a particular case, if necessary, in the light of this judgment.	None
It is hoped that since the matter has been considerably delayed by now, very early and expeditious steps would be taken for determination and payment of the amounts in respect of the acquired property to the persons interested in accordance with the Act in the light of this judgment.	None
We shall make no order as to costs in any of the appeals.	None
KRISHNA IYER, J. (for himself, Bhagwati and Jaswant Singh, JJ.)39.	None
We go wholly with our learned brother Untwalia, J. Then why a separate afterword ?	None
40.	None
Because, to put it simplistically, a legislation for the nationalisation of contract carriages by the Karnataka State, where provision has been made for fair compensation under present circumstances, has still been struck down by the High Court on the surprising grounds of absence of public purpose, illusoriness of compensation State takeover being beyond the orbit of Article 39(b) and the like, and to express ourselves emphatically in reversal. .	Facts
.	Facts
on the obvious, yet basic, issue we itemise below which is necessary to obviate constitutional derailment again.	Facts
The public sector, in our constitutional system, is so strategic a tool in the national plan for transformation from stark poverty to social justice, transcending administrative and judicial allergies, that the questions raised and rulings thereon are of larger import for the country than one particular legislation and its vires and one particular government and its policies.	Facts
What are those disturbing interrogatories ?	Facts
41.	None
If the State, to subserve the objects of governmental or other like agencies, compulsorily takes movable property or realty of private citizens, the like of which are readily in the open market, does the law authorising such taking violate the limitation of public purpose imposed by Article 31(2) of the Constitution, in the absence of Urgency which brooks no delay whatever ?	Facts
Further, does the prospect of easy purchase elsewhere, negate the presence of public purpose, implying thereby the resort to compulsory acquisition within the framework of Article 31(2) is interdicted save where there is State necessity coupled with scarcity of supplies in the marker ?	Facts
Secondly, does a legislation qualify for immunity under Article 31C read with Article 39(b), only where the scheme is to divide and deal out to a plurality of persons, to disperse, diffuse or scatter ownership and control of material resources of the community compulsorily taken by the State ?	Facts
Or does it embrace distribution with a wider connotation of removal from the private sector and allocation in the public sector, dividing and arranging, separating and allocating, acquiring from individuals and making over to collective institutions or State organs, acting for and in the interest of the community, according to the State Plan or policy decision on the scheme of distribution and allocation resources among the different sectors of economic activity so as best to subserve the public good ?	Facts
How, in short, do we decode distribute in Article 39(b) illumined by Article 38 ?	Facts
Is permitting or proscribing holding of resources by the State or its designated organ monopolistically, for the better production and or distribution of goods and services to the community, for participative control by and distribution of profits among workers and for all those benefits claimed to flow out of public ownership, social control, commitment to community parliamentary accountability and vaster capability ?	Facts
Does R.C. Cooper 1970 3	Facts
SCR 530 1970 1 SCC 248 remain a legal tender even after demonetisation on the question of acquisition visa vis compensation, by the 25th (Constitution) Amendment ?	Facts
Can the theory of illusory compensation be apocryphal or be exaggerated to apply to diminished compensation as a revised reincarnation of adequate compensation still menacing projects of nationalisation ?	Facts
How do we conceptulise material resources and public purpose in our current constitutional setting ?	Facts
When cryptic phrases expressive of constitutional culture and aspirational future, fundamental to the governance of the nation, call for interpretative insight, do we merely rest content to consult the O.E.D. and alien precedents, or feel the philosophy and share the foresight of the founding fathers and their telescopic faculty ?	Facts
Is the meaning of meanings an artless art ?	Facts
Holmes, J. Towne v. eisner, 245 US 418 62 L Ed 372, 376 in lovely language, stated what oft was thought but never so well expressedA word is not crystal, transparent and unchanged it is the skin of living thought and may very greatly in colour and content according to the circumstances and the time in which it is used.	Facts
Jerome Frank Dias Jurisprudence, 4th Edn.	None
p. 625 adopted a quotation from Holmes which drives home the same point.	None
We must think things not words, or at least, we must constantly translate our words into the facts for which they stand if we are to keep to the real and the true Be the High Courts judgment right or wrong, its socioeconomic and jurisprudential repercussions for a social Welfare State or a Socialist Republic are sufficiently profound to explain why, from us too, an afterword.	None
42.	None
It is otiose to ponder over these matters articulately even though we generally concur in the reasoning and conclusion of our learned colleagues ?	None
Some economic issues of moment, quite in their legal look but critical in their later portent, come before the Court as the happened now, then, regardless or assent or dissent, the speltout opinion of the judges sitting on the same bench, separately or conjointly, becomes the right of the citizen, read in the context of the pregnant provision in Article 141.	None
When major juristic problems of futuristic import involve constitutional probes, a plurality of opinions may bring out  if we may mix metaphors  more facets, shifts in emphasis, finer notes, fresh vistas and seeds of development, not necessarily verbal rehash or medley of repetitive prolixity.	None
A hundred noetic flowers and some cerebral briars are not a confusing crowd of colours.	None
JUDICIAL PERSPECTIVE VISAVIS CONSTITUTIONALITY OF ECONOMIC LEGISLATION 43.	None
When confronted by serious constitutional problems, judicial statesmanship drops the craft of a legal tinker or lexicographic borrower but transforms itself into that of a social engineer who beholds the future in the present and his thoughts are the germs of the flower and fruit of latest time.	Reasoning
He gives conscious expression, in justice tongue, to the Constitutions implicit purpose grounded on the permanent interests of man as a progressive been  here, the little yet large man of India breaking out of an iniquitous system, yet reaching out to a humane society, shot with distributive justice.	Reasoning
The presence of this peopleoriented perspective, in the court, as the interpreter of the Constitution and its imperatives and the laws designed to inaugurate a Human Tomorrow, compels us in all humility and aware of inadequacy, to lend our pen to the reversal of the decision under appeal which de facto proceeds on fastidious societal values of vanishing validity in the changed setting, and is partly founded on exotic juridical doctrines (eminent domain) incongruous with the legitimate realities of the emerging Indian Order as are writ into Article 31(2) and more unmistakably in Article 31C read (in the manner of Kesavananda Bharati 1973 Supp SCR 1 1973 4 SCC 225 ) alongside of Article 39(b) and (c).	Reasoning
44.	None
The social philosophy of the Constitution shapes creative judicial vision and orientation.	None
Our nation has, as its dynamic doctrine, economic democracy sans which political democracy is chimerical.	None
We say so because our Constitution, in Parts III and IV and elsewhere, ensouls such a value system and the debate in this case puts precisely this soul in peril.	None
45.	None
Friedman has said in his Legal Theory and Social Evolutionthe lawyer cannot afford to isolate himself from the social process.	None
His independence can never be more than relative, and it is only a clear awareness of the political, social and constitutional foundations of his function in general as well as of particular legal problems that enables him to find the proper balance between stability and progress Legal Theory and Social Evolution, 5th Edn.	None
p. 81.	None
Our thesis is that the dialectics of social should not be missed if the synthesis of Part III and Part IV is to influence State action and court pronouncements.	None
Constitutional problems cannot be studied in a socioeconomic vacuum, since sociocultural changes are the source of the new values, and sloughing off old legal thought is part of the process of the new equityloaded legality.	None
A judge is a social scientist in his role as constitutional invigilator and fails functionally if he forgets this dimension in his complex duties.	None
46.	None
The creedal essence of the Constitution consists in its Preamble, Articles 38, 39(b) and (c), 31 and the bunch of Articles 31A, 31B and 31C (we do not deem it necessary to refer in this case to the 42nd Constitution Amendment Act.).	None
47.	None
Our emphasis is on abandoning formal legalistics or sterile logomachy in assessing the vires of statutes regulating vital economic areas, and adopting instead a dynamic, goalbased approach to problems of constitutionally.	None
It is right that the rule of law enshrined in our Constitution must and does reckon with the roaring current of change which shifts our social values and shrivels our feudal roots, invades out lives and fashions our destiny.	None
The key issues argued at learned length in these appeals cannot suffer judicial separation from the paramount principles in the Preamble and in Article 39(b) and (c).	None
So we have to view the impugned provisions from the vantage point of sociolegal perceptionTHE SEMANTIC SIN OF DUBIOUS LEGISLATIVE DRAFTING.	None
48.	None
Before entering the thorny thicket or debate on the question arising in this batch of appeals a cautionary word may be uttered, without disrespect, about the unwitting punishment of the community by our legislative draftsmen whose borrowed skills of Westminster vintage and hurried bills without sufficient study of their economic project, occasionally result in incomprehensibility and incongruity of the law for the lay and the legal.	None
Francis Bennion Laws Are Not For Laymen  Guardian Miscellany, May 29, 1975, commenting on the Renton Committee Report, writes.	None
The Renton Committee points out that the problem of obscure statute law is important to every citizen.	None
There is hardly any part of our national life or of our personal lives that is not affected by one statute or another.	None
The affairs of local authorities, nationalised industries, public corporations and private commerce are regulated by legislation.	None
The life of the ordinary citizen is affected by various provisions of the statute book from cradle to grave.	None
The committee might have added that the rule of law and parliamentary democracy itself are imperilled if laws are incomprehensible.	None
They did say that it is of fundamental importance in a free society that the law should be readily ascertainable and reasonably clear, and that otherwise it is oppressive and deprives the citizen of one of his basic rights.	None
It is also needlessly expensive and wasteful.	None
Reed Dicerson, the famous American draftsman, said it cost the government and the public many millions of dollars annually.	None
It must be said in fairness to both sides that Shri Lal Narain Sinha wholeheartedly agreed with Shri Asoke Sen (they appeared on opposite sides) that the legislation was illdrafted and made a big draft on the creative imagination and linguistic tolerance of the judges, to reconcile the verbal deficiencies and semantic difficulties besetting the text.	None
Shri Sinha told the Court that a clarificatory bill was going before the House shortly as an amending exercise in this behalf.	None
Our draftsmen handle foreign knowhow meant for different circumstances, and without full grasp of the economic regulation or the leisure and facilities for such study.	None
49.	Reasoning
In a country where the people are, by and large, illiterate, where a social revolution is being pushed through by enormous volume and variety of legislation and where new economic adventures requiring unorthodox jural techniques are necessitous, if legal drafting is to be equal to the challenge of charge, a radicalisation of its methodology and philosophy and an ability for the legislative manpower to express themselves in streamlined, simple, projectoriented fashion is essential.	None
In the hope that a roleconscious court communicates to a responsive Cabinet, we make this observation.	None
WHAT IS THE BATTLE ABOUT ?	None
50.	Reasoning
Back to the challenging problems thrown up by the High Courts decision.	Reasoning
The facts are there in the leading judgment and the formulation of the controverted propositions also needs no reiteration.	Reasoning
Broadly speaking, we strike no note of dissensus but seek to bring out some social nuances even in consensus.	Reasoning
Let us project the pegs on which our discussion may hang.	Reasoning
Incidentally, conceptual differences about the dimensions of the change visualised by Article 31C read with Article 39(b) and (c) are bound to exist among judges who, after all, professionally objectify the social philosophy of the Constitution through the subjective prism of their own mentalism1.	Reasoning
What is a public purpose, set as a constitutional limitation in Article 31(2), compliance with which conditions the immunity from attack based on Article 19(1)(f) or inadequacy of recompense when any person is deprived of his property ?	Issue
1(a).	None
What is the degree of nexus between the public purpose and the acquisition desiderated by Article 31(2) ?	Issue
1(b).	None
Can Cooper (supra) be judicially resurrected, draped differently but with the same compensation soul, even after the amendment of Article 31(2) ?	Issue
2.	Issue
What are the pervasive, ambience and progressive amplitude of the directive principle in Article 39(b) and (c) in the context of nationalisation of public utilities ?	Issue
2(a).	None
Can State monopoly by taking over private property be a modus operandi of distribution of ownership and control of the material resources of the community to subserve the common good, within the framework of Article 39(b) ?	Issue
2(b).	None
Are distribution and nationalisation antithetical or overlapping ?	Issue
2(c).	None
What is the connotation of the expression material resources ?	Issue
Can private buses be regarded as material resources of the community ?	Issue
51.	Reasoning
These and cousin issues are the legaleconomic points canvassed before us and are sure to occupy the centre of the stage when management and control of growth in effective measure for common weal expand the frontiers of public law with a view to implement the distributive justice embodied in Articles 38 and 39 and, by Article 37 made fundamental in the governance of the country.	Reasoning
Dr. Ambedkar, inwards significant, said In enacting this part (Part IV) of the Constitution the Assembly is giving certain directions to the future legislature an the future executive to show in what manner they are to exercise the legislative and executive power they will have.	Reasoning
Surely it is not the intention to introduce in this part these principles as mere pious declarations.	Reasoning
It is the intention of this Assembly that in future both the legislature and the executive should not merely pay lipservice to those principles but that they should be made the basis of all legislative and executive action that they may be taking hereafter in the matter of the governance of the country.	None
The Directive Principles, being the spiritual essence of the Constitution, must receive sweeping signification, being our socio economic Magna Carta, quiddities apartTHE KEYNOTE THOUGHT OF THE CONSTITUTION AND THE INTERPRETATIVE RESPONSE 52.	None
The role of nationalisation of essential services for the better life of the people, an item on the countrys urgent developmental agenda, must be gathered before the wide range of the companion set of constitutional article can be spanned by the Court in interpretative terms.	None
Codified law is legislatively crystallised politicoeconomics and so the search of the jurist has to be wider and deeper and interlaced.	None
Take care of the basics, the specifics will take care of themselves.	None
So we have to go behind the legal facade to respond to the rhythm of the pulsating text of the Constitution which casts heavy developmental responsibilities on the Welfare State.	None
Roscoe Pounds remark reflects this thought.	None
All the social sciences must be coworkers, and emphatically all must be coworkers with jurisprudence.	None
Moreover, sheer legalism cannot lightly upset legislative wisdom or efficiency while passing on the constitutionality of economic legislation based on national planning, public finance, private investments, cost accounting, policy decisions, historical factors and a host of complex, social variables.	None
Dixon, C.J., in a different context observed These matters of incidental powers are largely questions of degree, but in considering them we must not lost sight of the fact that once the subject matter is fairly within the province of the Federal legislature the justice an wisdom of the provisions which it makes in the exercise of its powers over the subjectmatter are matters entirely for the Legislature and not for the Judiciary.	None
This is no argument for abdication of judicial power for where legislation is colourable, measures makebelieve or orders mala fide, the judges are the masters of the situation, and this Court, under Article 141, declares the law in that supreme spirit.	None
But courts must be circumspect not to rush in where serious reflection will make them fear to tread nor to resort to adroit circumvention because of economic allergy to a particular legislative policy.	None
53.	None
At this stage, a glance at the raw realities, to abolish which Article 31(2), Article 31C and Articles 38 and 39 have been enacted, is necessary.	None
Poverty has, for ages, been the omnipresent reality of Indian life Shark inequalities have been chronic and the hidden hunger (to use Myrdals phrase) of the people have pushed the Freedom Movement forward in the socialistic direction toward a better life.	None
The fasciculus of clauses in the Constitution we have referred to is calculated to prevent the revolution of rising expectations from becoming a revolution of rising frustrations.	None
These compulsions must inform legal interpretation.	None
For, in the words of Seton Pollock.	None
The law itself, though of crucial social importance, is only one element in the total human task.	None
That task is to meet and master those frustrations that diminish man in his humanity and obstruct the realisation of his freedom and fulfilment within the human society.	None
Those frustrations stem from ignorance, poverty, pain, disease and conflicts of interest both within the person (the field of psychological medicine) and between (the territory of the low).	None
These manifold and interacting frustrations cannot be met by any one discipline but only by a coordinated attack upon the problem through enlightened political and administrative initiatives and by educational, medical, psychological and legal remedies.	None
Our concern is with the human condition and the imperative need to improve it through such resources as we can develop.	None
We are beginning to see more clearly the need for a unitary view which is, in essence, spiritual in its character, reaching down to the realities that underlie our fragmented disciplines.	None
The burning issue of our times is how our resources can be developed and combined to achieve the fulfilment of the human task and the improvement of the human condition (Preface to The English Legal Aid System by Seton Pollock  Orient Longmans).	None
The Father of the Nation long ago argued for the art and science of mobilising the entire physical, economic and spiritual resources of all the various sections of the people in the service of the common good of all.	None
Sir Leslie Scarman developed this new dimension of law in the English climate when he said I shall endeavour to show that there are in the contemporary world challenges, social, political and economic, which, if the system cannot meet them, will destroy it.	None
These challenges are not created by lawyers they certainly cannot be suppressed by lawyers they have to be met either by discarding or by adjusting the legal system.	None
Which is to be?	None
A panoramic sociological view  not a narrow legal peep  alone can invest judicial power with capability to help solve the myriad problems of Mankind and Mother Earth.	None
54.	None
We have divagated to drive home, the pertinence and power of poverty to change our social order through law, and the necessity of the constitutional Court to appreciate this fundamental logos before voiding any law.	None
Ideas of the Old Order on public purpose, illusory compensation, nexus doctrine and distributed to subserve the common good should not reduce lofty constitutional considerations into hollow concepts, teacup debates and impotent ideas (which) debase modern jurisprudence and are intellectually subversive, to use the indignant expressions of John Batt.	None
Nietzsche once said The great problems are in the streets.	None
Abraham Lincoln warned that the dogmas of the quiet past are no longer adequate to the stormy present.	None
Our legal doctrines, cannons of interpretation and constitutional attitudes must therefore take note of this adaptational potential and response to realities.	None
THE SCHEME OF THE IMPUGNED STATUTE.	None
55.	None
Coming now to the concrete provision of the Act, tested on the anvil of Articles 31(2) and 39(b) and (c), we have to get a hang of the legislative project.	None
Its purpose is to acquire contract carriages from all private sources.	None
The reason for this measure of nationalisation is set out in the whereas paragraphs.	None
In broad terms, it is. . .	None
that private contract carriages are being operated in the State in a manner highly detrimental and prejudicial to the public interest.	None
It is further claimed that with a view to prevent such misuse and also to provide better facilities for the transport of passengers and to give effect to the policy of the State towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system does not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment, acquisition of contract carriages is being resorted to.	None
The requisite declaration contemplated in Article 31C is thus made in the preamble as well as in section 2 of the Act.	None
Of course, in the light of the Kesavananda Bharati case (supra) there is in this Court a power  and if demanded, a duty  to examine whether there is real nexus between the legislation and Article 39(b) and (c) or whether the ritualistic declaration is cutely but cutely but colurably designed to ward off attack from Articles 14, 19 and 31.	None
Makebelieves cannot makedo.	None
But if there is a reasonable relation between the two, the Court cannot constitute itself a superadministrator and suggest that there are better ways of achieving the object than what the Legislature has chosen to adopt.	None
Quo modo is not for the Court.	None
The anatomy of the Act has been set out in the leading judgment and we adopt it.	None
56.	None
Let us now examine the fatal constitutional vices, embedded in the Act and discovered at the High Court level.	None
One such lethal feature which appealed to the High Court, and has been repeated before us by Shri Asoke Sen with insistence, is that there is no public purpose involved in the acquisition of contract carriages and so the enactment is not invulnerable under Article 31(2).	None
The statutory purpose was to acquire contract carriages in private ownership, and transfer them to the State Road Transport Corporation which was to enjoy the exclusive privilege of running contract carriages.	None
The expected shower of benefits was elimination of misuse of contract carriages in private hands and augmentation of public good by plying these vehicles under public ownership and direction.	None
57.	None
The first question is whether such taking from a private person and vesting in a public body is not a public purpose.	None
There are two subissues which are distinct and must be kept distinct if ideational confusion is not to vitiate our conclusion (a) Is there a public purpose?	None
and (b) If there is, what are the ways to fulfil that purpose?	None
The ends cannot be telescoped into the means.	None
Once this perspicacity in thinking is present, it is unarguably obvious that the State Governments or the State Corporations purpose is a public purpose.	None
Putting aside the possible distortions, historically proved, of class domination of the State apparatus and assuming the values of our constitutional order, the State symbolizes, represents and acts for the good of society.	None
Its concerns are the ways of meeting the wants of the community, directly or otherwise.	None
The purpose of a public body to run a public transport service for the benefit of the people, operating it in a responsible manner through exercise of public power which is controlled and controllable by society through its organs like the Legislature and, at times, even the Court, is manifestly a public purpose.	None
Does the purpose subserve some public use or interest or produce some public good or utility?	None
If it does, the purpose becomes public.	None
Public qualifies the object.	None
Blacks Legal Dictionary elucidates the expressionThe terms is synonymous with governmental purpose.	None
(State v. Dizon).	None
As employed to denote the objects for which taxes may levied, it has no relation to the urgency of the public need or to the extent of the public benefit which is to follow the essential requisite being that a public service or use shall affect the inhabitants as a community, and not merely as individuals.	None
(Stevenson v. Port of Portland).	None
A public purpose or public business has for its objective the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, general welfare, security, prosperity, and contentment of all the inhabitants or residents within a given political division, as for example, state, the sovereign powers of which are exercised to promote such public purpose or public business.	None
(Green v. Frazier).	None
58.	None
There may be many processes of satisfying a public purpose.	None
A wide range of choices may exist.	None
The State may walk into the open market and buy the items, movable and immovable, to fulfil the public purpose or it may compulsorily acquire from some private persons possession and ownership the articles needed to meet the public purpose it may requisition, instead of resorting to acquisition it may take on loan or on hire or itself manufacture or produce.	None
All these steps are various alternative means to meet the public purpose.	None
The State may need chalk or cheese, pins, pens or planes, boats, buses or buildings, carts, cars, or eating houses or any other of the innumerable items to run a welfareoriented administration or a public corporation or answer a community requirement.	None
If the purpose is for servicing the public, as governmental purposes ordinarily are, then everything desiderated for subserving such public purpose falls under the broad and expanding rubric.	None
The nexus between the taking of property and the public purpose springs necessarily into existence if the former is capable of answering the latter.	None
On the other hand, if the purpose is a private or nonpublic one, the mere fact that the hand that acquires or requires is Government or a public corporation, does not make the purpose automatically a public purpose.	None
Let us illustrate.	None
If a fleet of care is desired for conveyance of public officers, the purpose is a public one.	None
If the same fleet of cars is sought for fulfilling the tourist appetite of friends and relations of the same public officers, it is a private purpose.	None
If bread is seized for feeding a starving section of the community, it is a public purpose that is met but, if the same bread is desired for the private dinner of a political maharajah who may pro tem fill a public office, it is a private purpose.	None
Of course, the thing taken must be capable of serving the object of the taking.	None
If you want to run bus transport you cannot take buffaloes.	None
59.	None
A public purpose is vastly wider than public necessity, even as a mere purpose is more pervasive than an urgency.	None
That which one sets before him to accomplish and end, intention or aim, object, plan, project  is purpose (Blacks Legal Dictionary).	None
A need or necessity is compulsive, urgent, unavoidable.	None
In purpose, there is dires in necessity, there is imperative demand.	None
The presumption is that a use is public, if the legislature has declared it to be such, and the decision of the legislature must be treated with the consideration due to a coordinate department of the government of the State.	None
Its effect is not conclusive but considerable.	None
Public purpose should be liberally construed, not whittled down by logomachy.	None
60.	Reasoning
The concept of public purpose has been considered in some academic writings and judicial rulings and a glance at them may give theoretical nourishment to juridical ideas.	None
We have to remember that neither socialist jurisprudence nor capitalist legal culture can govern the concept of public purpose in Indias mixed economy and expanding public sector, in the context of progressive developmental programmes.	None
Even the Privy Council, way back in 1914, in Framjee Petit Hamabai Framjee Petit v. Secy.	None
for State, 42 IA 44 AIR 1914 PC 20 approved of the wide definition of public purpose.	None
This Court has also taken a liberal view of public purpose.	None
In a host of cases beginning with Kameshwar State of Bihar v. Kameshwar Singh, 1952	None
SCR 889 AIR 1952 SC 252 .	None
Agrarian reform, slum clearance to house the homeless, procuring a house for a diplomat State of Bombay v. Ali Gulshan, 1955 2	None
SCR 867 AIR 1955 SC 810 1955 SCJ 822 or an office for the State Trading Corporation, acquisition of land to construct a dharamashala, houses for members of a cooperative society housing scheme, houses for workmen or for a Mahatma Gandhi Memorial, as pointed out by an Indian Jurist Rajeev Dhavan, in his study of The Supreme Court of India (Tripathi) have been regarded in decided cases as public purposes.	None
Conceptually, it has a homespun texture altho that public transport is a public purpose is selfevidence (sic) anywhere (sic).	None
The dynamics of development must inform interpretation in this area.	None
61.	None
There is a touch of swadeshi about a countrys jurisprudence and so our legal notions must bear the stamp of Indian developmental amplitude linked to constitutional goals.	None
Counsel for the appellant, from his angle, produced before us the Industrial Policy Resolution of the Government of India of April 6, 1948 and April 30, 1956 wherein considerable importance was attached to the national economy securing a continuous increase in production and equitable distribution.	None
The 1948 Resolution itself pointed out that the State must play an increasingly active role in the development of industries.	None
Many other items were included for a progressive participation by the State by the time the 1956 Resolution was made.	None
This fresh statement of Industrial policy took note of the constitutional preamble which, inter alia, aimed at securing justice  social, economic and political.	None
Articles 38 and 39 were also adverted to so that a precise direction might be given to the socialist pattern of society as the objective of social and economic policy.	None
In particular, it was explicity stated that the State will progressively assume the predominant and direct responsibility for setting up new industrial undertakings and for developing transport facilities.	None
Indeed, the State was to become the agency for planned national development and the socialistic pattern of society as the national objective required that all industries, of basic and strategic importance, or in the nature of public utility services should be in the public sector.	None
There was a division and distribution, in a board manner, of industries and utilities between the private and the public sector.	None
Stress was laid on the need to improve the living and working conditions of workers as well as their efficiency and a schedule in which road transport figured (Schedule B) was appended setting out those categories which would be progressively Stateowned and in which the State would therefore generally take initiative in establishing new undertakings.	None
62.	None
When we ascertain the content of public purpose, we have to bear the above factors in mind which mean that acquisition of road transport undertakings by the State will undoubtedly be a public purpose.	None
Indeed, even in England, public purposes have been defined to mean such purposes of the administration of the government of the country (p. 228, Words and Phrases Legally Defined, II Edn.).	None
Theoretically, or even otherwise, there is no warrant for linking up public purpose with State necessity, or in the court throwing off the States declaration of public purposes to make an economic research on its own.	None
It is indeed significant that in Section 40(b) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, the concept of public use took in acquisition for the construction of some work even for the benefit of a company, provided such work as likely to prove useful to the public.	None
63.	None
Even the American Constitution, in the 5th Amendment, uses the expression public case and it has been held in India in Kameshwar that public purpose is wider than public use.	None
Mahajan, J. (as he then was) observed in that caseThe phrase public propose has to be construed according to the times in which particular legislation is enacted and construed, the acquisition of the estates has to be held to have been made for a public purpose.	None
(p. 942)	None
In the same judgment, the learned Judge went on to stateThe legislature is the best judge of what is good for the community, by whose suffrage it comes into existence and it is not possible for this court to say that there was no public purpose behind the acquisition contemplated by the impugned statute.	Reasoning
(p. 941)	None
We have no doubt that this wider approach necessarily means that a comprehensive signification has to be given to the expression public purpose.	None
64.	None
It is true that Cooley and Willoughby and Willis and other American writings and rulings and theories like eminent domain and police powers have been eruditely referred to in the early days of this Court.	None
However useful they may be in helping to understand the scope of public purpose, we have to be guided by the Directive Principles of State Policy while decoding the cryptic expression public purpose.	None
Even in Kameshwar the Court referred to Article 39 and the preamble to the Constitution and the obligation to secure its citizens justice  social, economic and political.	None
The reference, here and there, in the separate judgment delivered in that case to the necessities of the State cannot cut back upon the ambit of the concept.	None
65.	None
It is significant that Das, J. (as he then was) has in Kameshwar, observed We have been referred to some American authorities for ascertaining the meaning and implication of public use an expression which obvivously is of a more limited import than the expression public purpose used in our Constitution.	None
The learned Judge explains that the notion of public use is rapidly changing in America, for in the modern view, public use means useful to the public.	None
66.	None
It is right to remember, what has been mentioned in Shri Justice Das judgment, that modern conditions and the increasing inter dependence of the different human factors in the progressive complexity of the community make it necessary for the government to touch upon and limit individual activities at more points than formerly.	None
In Corpus Juris the meaning of the term is stated to be flexible and varying with time and circumstances.	None
All that can be said is that it embraces public utility, public advantage, public interest or objectIt is thus quite clear that a fresh outlook which places the general interest of the community above the interest of the individual pervades our Constitution. . . .	None
The words public purpose used in Article 23(2) indicate that the Constitution used those words in a very large sense.	None
In the never ending race, the law must keep pace with the realities of the social and political evolution of the country as reflected in the Constitution.	None
If, therefore, the State has to give effect to this avowed purpose of our Constitution, we must regard as public purpose all that will be calculated to promote the welfare of the people as envisaged in these Directive Principles of State policy whatever else the expression may mean.	None
This new outlook, in the words of Das, J., brings in economic justice regarded yesterday as a fantastic formula, but is today a directive principle of State policy 67.	None
To concluded this branch of the discussion, there in no validity in Shri Sens contention that because the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950, speaks of business principles as guiding State Transport Services, therefore taking over of private buses is not a public purpose.	None
Nor is there any force in reading compulsive need or State necessity or some imperative urgency as a component of the concept of public purpose.	None
Speaking for ourselves, nothing that has been stated in the judgment of the High Court discussing the doctrine of eminent domain and allied matters, or in the submission of Shri Sen conjuring up a grim picture of government acquiring even paper, pencil, ink, furniture, spares and tyres and cars and buses because they do not want to pay market price even when these items are abundantly available, does not deflect us from the conclusion that a Government which seeks to serve the community is entitled even for its commercial purposes to invoke its power of compulsory purchase, even when not driven by necessitous circumstances.	None
We cannot confuse between abuse of public power and limitation of public purpose.	None
68.	None
The nexus between public purpose and Part IV is also relevant.	None
Sir Alladi Krishnaswami Ayyar in his speech in the Constitution Assembly said No Government responsible to the people can afford can afford lightheartedly to ignore the provisions in Part IV of the Constitution.	None
As early as A.K. Gopalan 1950 SCR 88 AIR 1950 SC 27 51 Cri LJ 1383, Chief Justice Kania stated, with reference to Directive Principles, that it represents not the temporary will of a majority in the Legislature but the deliberate wisdom of the nation.	None
Shri Justice Mathew explained this idea at the Second Kerala State Lawyers Conference thus State is not an end in itself, but only an instrumentality, to be evaluated in terms of it contribution to the welfare of the political community.	None
The concept of the laissez faire of the nineteenth century arose from a philosophy that general welfare is best promoted when the intervention of the State in economic and social matters is kept to the kept to the lowest possible minimum.	None
The rise of the welfare State proceeds from the political philosophy that the greater economic and social good of the greater number requires greater intervention of the Government and the adoption of public measures aimed at general economic betterment.	None
Today, people cry for intervention of Government when anything goes wrong in any front.	None
They demand interjection of Government in every aspect and sphere of life.	None
WILL PUBLIC PURPOSE RUN RIOT ?	None
69.	None
The consternation that if anything can be acquired compulsorily for a public purpose everything will be so acquired is understandable only if we readily grant that the Legislature and the Cabinet are the veils and vestments worn by a callous body irresponsible to the people and irresponsible to justice.	None
There is a general presumption in favour of honest and reasonable exercise of power.	None
State of W.B. v. Anwar Ali Sarkar, 1952 SCR 284, 301 AIR 1952 SC 75 1952 Cri LJ 510, Per Patanjali Sastri J. Of course, not that gross abuse of power and demoniac departure from legal norms are unknown even so we should have faith in Parliament which ultimately, is responsible to the people who cannot be ignored by it for all time without imperilling its own existence.	None
Repelling the argument of likely abuse of power, Das, J. observed State of W.B. v. Subodh Gopal Bose, 1954	None
SCR 587 , 954 AIR 1954 SC 92 1954 SCJ 127 What is abnormal if our Constitution has trusted the legislature, as the people of Great Britain have trusted their Parliament ?	None
Right to life and personal liberty and the right to private property still exist in Great Britain in spite of the supremacy of Parliament.	None
Why should we assume or apprehend that our Parliament or State legislatures should act like mad men and deprive us of our property without any rhyme or reason ?	None
After all our executive government is responsible to the legislature and the legislature is answerable to the people.	None
Even if the legislature indulges in occasional vagaries, we have to put up with it for the time being.	None
That is the price we must pay for democracy.	None
But the apprehension of such vagaries can be no justification for stretching the language of the Constitution to bring it into line with our notion of what an ideal Constitution should be.	None
To do so is not to interpret the Constitution but to make a new Constitution by unmaking the one which the people of India have given to themselves.	None
That, I apprehend, is not the function of the Court.	None
If the Constitution, properly construed according to the cardinal rules of interpretation, appears to some to disclose any defect or lacuna the appeal must be to the authority competent to amend the Constitution and not to the Court.	None
To take Sri Sens illustration, if a law authorises  or government does  resort to compulsory acquisition of all its requirements of stationary or routine needs of public sector undertakings, with a view to pay nominal sum and get away with it, that Legislature or Government will, without the Courts services, go the way world history has blown away gross misrule.	None
The court is not the only sanctuary in a democracy against caprice dressed in little brief authority.	None
If the act becomes so shockingly iniquitous as to violate the law of life, the Court will have enough reserve power under the Constitution to speak for law and to save the government from itself These extreme lurid, recondite picturisations cannot be transformed into probabilities and realities, especially in a case where we find little to complain in fairness of procedure or delivery of the end product.	None
Of course, in a radical change situation, certain classes, invoking varnishing values, may cry wolf and in any welfare legislation stray injustice is unavoidable.	None
Perfection is Gods property, to aim at it is human progress.	None
We find no legal flaw in the measure under attack.	None
70.	None
We think it is a fallacy to deny the presence of public purpose merely because its satisfaction by readily available private purchase is possible in the circumstances.	None
It is for the State to decide whether it should pay market price and buy or resort to Article 31(2) and pay an amount which may be administratively feasible but less than the market price.	None
It may take on hire and not buy at all it may requisition without paying full compensation.	None
These are the means which cannot be confounded with the ends and it is egregious error to roll up the two together.	None
The entire object of Article 31(2) is defeated if such a constricted construction or cramped meaning were to be given to the provision.	None
It is a social welfare handicap, a jurisprudential error and truncation of the States constitutional power to rule that it shall not seize private property within Article 31(2) unless it proves beyond reasonable doubt a scarcity situation, a public necessity and unavailability in the open market and the like.	None
Yet this is the reasoning which has had a fascination for the High Court.	None
The spacious submission is tersely put by the High Court thus It was argued that for compulsory taking over of the vehicles with permits and other effects of the contract carriage operators, there was no necessity or need or, in other words, there was no nexus between the public purpose and the taking over of the particular property.	None
The accent was on need or necessity.	None
The Court felt the spell of this ratiocination and erroneously argued itself into convincing conclusiveness.	None
State necessity or need for taking the particular property of a citizen is the very foundation for the exertion of the power of Eminent Domain.	None
If there is no State necessity or need for the particular property, then, in my opinion, the power of Eminent Domain cannot be exerted.	None
Let me assume that the law provides for paying just compensation for taking the property of a citizen but there is no State necessity for taking over that property.	None
In such an event, the property cannot be taken in an exercise of the power of Eminent Domain.	None
The ambit of legislative power conferred by Entry 42 of List II of the Seventh Schedule, Acquisition or requisitioning of property, in my opinion, cannot comprehend the taking of private property by the State even on payment of just compensation if there is no State necessity.	None
If there is no nexus between the taking over of private property and State necessity, such a power cannot be exerted.	None
I am of opinion that even if Article 31 is deleted from Part III of the Constitution, the State cannot acquire property of a citizen or make a law for acquisition of private property if the taking over has no relation to State necessity.	None
Such a legislation will be ultra vires of the powers of the State Legislature.	None
There is material in the Act itself to show that the Legislature was conscious of the fact that the acquisition under Section 4 is not for a public purpose When the purpose of the acquisition is deemed to be a public purpose, the only meaning possible is that whereas the purpose of the acquisition is not in reality a public purpose, the State Legislature requires the purpose to be treated as if it were a public purpose.	None
It is rather an admission on the part of the Legislature that the purpose of the acquisition is not a public purpose.	None
(pp. 151516) 71.	None
If this were good law and logic, the States operations might shrink into midget size with large spaces for laissez faire economics.	None
The flaw and fallacy of the law and the fetter on the State in this constitutional interpretation goes far beyond this Act and its mortality.	None
We have no hesitation in visualising a wider horizon of public purpose as outlined by us earlier and consequentially to overrule the view of the High Court.	None
The people in our welfare State await State undertakings in a wealth of ways most of which involve compulsory taking of private property and this futurism argues for a wider connotation of public purpose.	None
The aware court must remember the hint of Francis Bacon that it is a hard thing to torture the laws so that torture men  poor men hopefully looking forward for benignant State action.	None
After all, ordinarily, the legislature will acquire compulsorily only if it considers it a proper measure to promote public good.	None
COMPENSATION VISAVIS THE 25TH	None
AMENDMENT 72.	None
The constitutional salvoes of Shri Sen were fired on the target of illusory compensation granted, according to him, by the impugned Act.	None
The amendment and recasting of Article 31(2) would stand stultified if the High Court were right that payment which is less than the dealers price inclusive of salestax or does not make good the loans of the operators or spreads payments over long years awarding only 6 interest, is illusory and unconstitutional.	None
73.	None
We are not dealing with the details of the arithmetic arranged by the statute for payment of the amounts to persons interested in the acquired properties since it is fairly clear, as explained by Shri Lal Narain Sinha, that the Act awards, through the arbitrator, an amount which is just and reasonable for those who suffer deprivation of their property.	None
Even so, the law bearing on Article 31(2), particularly in view of the exceptionable construction adopted by the High Court, needs to be clarified unambiguously and declared decisively.	None
Indeed, if the High Court were right in its holding on this branch, 27 years of decisions and amendments have taken us back to square one Full compensation with a formal difference The Court will not question the adequacy directly, but interpret the amended articles into the same desideratum.	None
In this condition of the law, we deem it proper to dive to the beginnings briefly.	None
74.	None
Right from the start the framers of the Constitution have been clear in their minds, as the debates, drafts, reports and resolutions show, that the amount payable when private property is taken by the State is a matter of legislative policy and not of judicial fixation.	None
Speaking with a sense of history, the father of the Nation used prophetic words, as far back as the time of the Round Table Conference, while dealing with the issue of compensationIf the national government comes to the conclusion that the step is necessary no matter what interests are concerned, they will be dispossessed.	None
I might tell you, without any compensation because if you want this Government to pay compensation, it will have to rob Peter to pay Paul, and that would be impossible.	None
He reminded the British masters againI have in mind many things I would have to do in order to equalise conditions.	None
I am afraid that for years together India would be engaged in passing legislation in order to raise the downtrodden, the fallen, from the mire into which they have been sunk by the capitalists, by the landlords, by the socalled higher classes and then, subsequently and scientifically by the British rulersIf we are to lift these people from the mire then it would be the bounden duty of the National Government of India in order to set its house in order, continually to give preference to these people and even free them from the burden under which they are being crushed.	None
And if the landlords, zamindars, moniedmen and those who are today enjoying privileges  I do not care whether they are European or Indian  if they find that they are discriminated against, I shall sympathise with them, but I will not be able to help them.	None
It will therefore be a battle between the haves and the havenots.	None
75.	None
Speaking as one of the foremost jurists of the country and with a sense of farsightedness, Alladi Krishnaswami Iyer, in the Constituent Assembly, argued for legislative autonomy, without forensic intervention in the matter of fixation of compensation and the principles in that behalf.	None
He rightly stressed that by their very nature the principles of compensation could not be the same in every species of acquisitionLaw, according to me, if it is to fulfil its larger purpose, must serve as an instruments of social progress.	None
It must reflect the progressive social tendencies of the age.	None
Our ancients never regarded the institution of property as an end in itself.	None
Property exists for dharma, dharma and the duty which the individual owes to the society from whole basis of social framework.	None
Dharma is the law of social wellbeing and varies from yuga to yuga.	None
Capitalism as it is practised in the West came in the wake of the Industrial Revolution and is alien to the root idea of our civilisation.	None
The sole end of property is yagna and to serve a social purpose.	None
Fundamental Rights and Socio Economic Justice, by K.P. Krishna Shetty, pp. 127128.	None
76.	None
Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, speaking in the Constituent Assembly with reference to determination and payment of compensation emphasized that it was left to Parliament to determine the various aspects thereof andthere is no reference in this to any judiciary coming into the picture.	None
Much thought has been given to it and there has been much debate as to where the judiciary comes in.	None
Eminent lawyers have told us that on a proper construction of this clause, normally speaking, the judiciary should not and does not come in.	None
Parliament fixes either the compensation itself or the principles governing that compensation and they should not be challenged except for one reason where it is thought that there has been a gross abuse of the law, where in fact there has been a fraud on the Constitution.	None
Naturally the judiciary comes in to see if there has been a fraud on the Constitution or not.	None
But normally speaking, one presumes that any parliament representing the entire community of the nation will certainly not commit a fraud on its own Constitution and will be very much concerned with doing justice to the individual as well as the community.	None
Ibid.	Reasoning
at p. 123	None
When complications arose on account of judicial interpretation of Article 31 not being in accord with what the framers of the Constitution fancied, amendments to the Constitution came in.	None
Shri Jawaharlal Nehru, speaking on the 4th Amendment, which has since been upheld by this Court, said in ParliamentIf we are aiming, as I hope we are aiming and we repeatedly say we are aiming, at changes in the social structure, then inevitably we cannot think in terms of giving what is called full compensation.	None
Why ?	None
Well, firstly because you cannot do it, secondly because it would be improper to do it, unjust to do it, and it should not be done even if you can do it for the simple reason that in all these social matters, laws, etc., they are aiming to bring about a certain structure of society different from what it is at present.	None
In that different structure, among other things that will change is this, the big difference between the haves and the havenots.	None
Now, if we are giving full compensation the haves remain the and the havenots, havenots.	None
It does not change in shape or form if compensation takes place.	None
Therefore, in any scheme of social engineering, if I may say so, you cannot give full compensation, apart from the patent fact that you are not in a position  nobody has the resources  to give it.	None
77.	None
The divergence of thinking between those who framed the Constitution and amended it and the summit judiciary showed up glaringly in Coopers case and then came the Constitution 25th	None
Amendment Bill devoted primarily to overcome the effect of Cooper.	None
While moving the Constitution 25th	None
Amendment Bill which brought in Article 31C, the then Law Minister emphasizedCritics of the present measure seek to invest property rights with an aura of sacrosanctity by regarding it as a primordial institution of the law of nature.	None
It is this approach which led the Supreme Court in the Bank Nationalisation case to seek help from the now archaic and longpast dead theories of Blackstone who regarded property as a natural right.	None
Such a view is not only out of tune with the juristic approach to the institution of private property as a natural right.	None
Such a view is not only out of tune with the juristic approach to the institution of private property in modern jurisprudence, but it is not in tune even with the native genius of ancient and traditional juristic thought in India.	None
The individuals right to private property must yield second place to the supervening right of society to acquire the property for a public purpose.	None
That is the eminent and dominant which the House is called upon to consider today.	None
The Law Commission also has, in its 46th Report, supported Article 31C in the sense that Coopers case was not in keeping with what they regarded as the intendment of the Constitution.	None
Nehru described this position in his characteristically lucid words by observingThe service of India means the service of the millions who suffer.	None
It means the ending of poverty and ignorance and disease and inequality of opportunity.	None
The ambition of the greatest man of our generation has been to wipe every tear from every eye.	None
That may be beyond us, but as long as there are tears and suffering, so long our work will not be over over.	None
78.	None
The view of the Commission has a bearing on our understanding of the provision and were referred to in the parliamentary debates and so we excerpt portions thereof.	None
Wrote the Commission.	None
Reverting then, to Clause 2 of the Bill, it would be noticed that sub clause (a) of this clause deletes the word compensation and introduces in its place the word amount, in order to avoid any controversy about the adequacy of the amount which Parliament may direct to be paid in the manner specified by the clause, where property belonging to a citizen is compulsorily acquired or requisitioned.	None
It also provides, as did Article 31(2) in the unamended form, that a law passed by virtue of the powers conferred by Article 31(2) shall not be called in question in any Court on the ground that the amount so fixed or determined is not adequate and it adds that the said law cannot also be challenged on the ground that the whole or any part of such amount is to be given otherwise than in cash.	None
Subclause (b) of Clause 2 of the Bill inserts clause (2B) after clause (2A) in the existing Article, and it lays down that nothing in subclause (f) of clause (1) of Article 19 shall effect any such law as is referred to in clause (2).	None
In other words, an additional safeguard has been provided by clause (2B) which is sought to be introduced by the Bill to prevent any attack against the law passed under Article 31(2) on the ground that any of its provisions contravene the fundamental rights guaranteed by Article 19(1)(f).	None
Specific mention is made of the Bank Nationalisation case and its poignant pertinence consists in the High court still clinging to CooperOn a careful reading of the several opinions of the learned Judges in Kesavananda Bharatis case, I am of the clear opinion that the law down in Coopers case holds good.	Facts
ILR 1976 Karnataka 1478, 1522 The Commission remarksEvery student at Constitutional Law knows that Parliament though that it was necessary to make these provisions because of the recent decision of the Supreme Court in Rustom Cavasjee Cooper v. Union of India.	None
Parliament presumably thought, and we think rightly, that the effect of this majority decision of the Supreme Court was in substance, to make compensation provided for by the impugned legislation justiciable and subject it to the test of reasonableness under Article 19(5) and, to that extent, the said decision is inconsistent with the view taken by the Supreme Court in State of Gujarat v. Shantilal Mangaldass.	None
Indeed, ever since the Supreme Court had generally interpreted clause (2) of Article 31 to mean that the adequacy of compensation directed to be paid by laws passed under the said clause was not justiciable as we have explained earlier, except in cases where it reasonably appeared to the Court that the compensation was illusory or that the whole legislative exercise was a fraud on the Constitution.	None
But, in Coopers case, to Parliament, made it necessary to introduce the amended clause (2) in Article 31.	None
We think that, in the circumstances to which we have just referred, Parliament is justified in introducing the amendment in question.	None
A seminal aspect of the changes wrought by the 25th Constitution Amendment Act is the immunization of Article 39 enactments from the viral attack of certain fundamental rights (the attackers were almost never the poor).	None
The Commission commented By introducing this clause (31C), Parliament is taking the first major and significant step towards implementing two of the Directive Principles enshrined in clause (b) and (c) of Article 39 in part IV of the Constitution, and, in that sense, the clause under consideration can be appropriately described described as historic.	None
After it is adopted Parliament will have heralded a new era in the pursuit of the goal placed before the nation by the Constitution to establish social and economic justice in this country.	None
The Commission is in full agreement with this object of the Clause.	None
In the two decades after the Constitution was passed, the inter relation between the Directive Principles and Fundamental Rights have been often considered by the Supreme Court.	None
The Directive Principles enshrined in part IV are, in terms, declared to be nonjusticiable and yet, Article 37, which makes this declaration, emphatically adds that the said principles are nevertheless fundamental in the governance of the country and it shall be the duty of the State to apply these principles in making laws.	None
In the Directive Principles, however, one finds an even clearer statement of the social revolution.	None
They aim at making the Indian masses free in the positive sense, free from the passivity engendered by centuries of coercion by society and by nature, free from the abject physical conditions that had prevented them from fulfilling their best selves.	None
79.	None
The High Court has referred to Coopers case the ratio of which  to put it tersely  goes to the extent of saying that if any of the relevant consideration in ascertaining the market value were not included, it ceased to be compensation within the meaning of Article 31.	None
Then came the scenario  the 25th Amendment deleting the expression compensation and substituting the natural word amount and restructuring the Article effectively to exclude judicial examination even of the principles of evaluation, the challenge to the constitutionality of that constitutional amendment and the elaborate Bharati ruling upholding, by a majority, the vires of the Amending Act.	None
And yet, the High Court has, after selectively culling out passages from the bunch of opinions in Bharati come full circle to Cooper again.	None
This aboutturn is untenable in our view and it is necessary to run rapidly but in a short compass through the multiple views expressed by the many judges who heard and pronounced.	None
80.	None
Bharati  the majority opinion  binds us.	None
What, on the question of payment for taking, was the preponderant view ?	None
Sikri, C.J. permitted a narrow area for judicial inspection and readily accepted that full compensation was not a fundamental right.	None
The Court could satisfy itself only about the amount not being a monstrous or unprincipled undervalue.	None
Cooper was dead by this test.	None
The learned Chief Justice said What meaning is to be given to the expression the amount so fixed.	None
The amount has to be fixed by law but the amount so fixed by law must also be fixed in accordance with some principles because it could not have been intended that if the amount is fixed by law, the legislature would fix the amount arbitrarily, It could not, for example, fix the amount by a lottery.	None
If I were to interpret, Article 31(2) as meaning that even an arbitrary or illusory or a grossly low amount could be given, which would shock not only the judicial conscience but the conscience of every reasonable human being, a serious question would arise whether Parliament has not exceeded its amending power under Article 368 of the Constitution.	None
The substance of the fundamental right to property, under Article 31, consists of three things one, the property shall be acquired by or under a valid law secondly, it shall be acquired only for a public purpose and, thirdly, the person whose property has been acquired shall be given an amount in lieu thereof, which, as I have already said, is not arbitrary, illusory or shocking to the judicial conscience or the conscience of mankind.	None
Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala, 1973 Supp SCR 1, 196197 1973 4 SCC 225 , 390 (paras 405 and 407).	None
The payment may be substantially less than the market value, the principles may not be allinclusive, but the court would not, because it could not, upset the taking save where the principles of computation were too arbitrary and illusory to be unconscionably shocking.	None
81.	None
Shri Justice Shelat, with the concurrence of Shri Justice Grover, put his view point thus It is significant that the amount can be determined in accordance with specified principles, if it is not fixed by the, law itself.	None
Moreover, its adequacy cannot be questioned in a Court.	None
The use of the word principles and the question of inadequacy can only arise if the amount has some norm.	None
If it has no norm no question of specifying any principle arises nor can there be any occasion for the determination of its adequacy.	None
The very fact that the Court is debarred from going into the question of adequacy shows that the amount can be adequate or inadequate.	None
Even if it is inadequate, the fixation or determination of the amount is immune from any challenge.	None
It postulates the existence of some standard or norm without which any enquiry into adequacy becomes wholly unnecessary and irrelevant.	None
Ibid.	Reasoning
p. 283	None
SCC p. 456 (para 586) (emphasis, added).	None
It is true that the amount to be paid to an owner may not be the market value.	None
The price of the property might have increased owing to various factors to which no contribution has been made by the owner.	None
The element of social justice may have to be taken into consideration. . . .	None
The Court will certainly give due weight to legislative judgement.	None
But the norm or the principles of fixing or determining the amount will have to be disclosed to the Court.	None
It will have to be satisfied that the amount has reasonable relationship with the value of the property acquired or requisitioned and one or more of the relevant principles have been applied and further that the amount is neither illusory nor it has been fixed arbitrarily, nor at such a figure that it means virtual deprivation of the right under Article 31(2).	None
The question of adequacy or inadequacy, however, cannot be gone into.	None
Ibid.	Reasoning
pp. 284285	None
SCC p. 457 (para 591) (emphasis added) 82.	None
Hegde, J. discussed the question from lexicographic, political and social angles and held The market value of a property is the result of an interaction of various forces.	None
It may not have, any reasonable relationship with the investment made by its successive owners.	Reasoning
The price of the property acquired might have shot up because of various contributions made by the society such as improvements effected by the State in the locality in question or the conversion of a rural area into an urban area.	Reasoning
It is undoubtedly open to the State to appropriate to itself that part of the market value of a property which is not the result of any contribution made by its owners.	Reasoning
There may be several other relevant grounds for fixing a particular amount in a given case or for adopting one or more of the relevant principles for the determination of the price to be paid.	Reasoning
In all these matters the legislative judgment is entitled to great weight.	Reasoning
It will be for the aggrieved party to clearly satisfy the Court that the basis adopted by the Legislature has no reasonable relationship to the value of the property acquired or that the amount to be paid has been arbitrarily fixed or that the same is an illusory return for the property taken.	Reasoning
So long as the basis adopted for computing the value of the property is relevant to the acquisition in question or the amount fixed can be justified on any such basis, it is no more open to the Court to consider whether the amount fixed or to be determined is adequate.	Reasoning
But it is still open to the Court to consider whether amount in question has been arbitrarily determined or whether the same is an illusory return for the property taken.	Reasoning
It is also open to the Court to consider whether the principles laid down for the determination of the amount are irrelevant for the acquisition or requisition in question.	Reasoning
To put it differently, the judicial review under the amended Article 31(2) lies within narrow limits.	Reasoning
The Court cannot go into the question whether what is paid or is payable is compensation.	Reasoning
It can only go into the question whether the amount in question was arbitrarily fixed as illusory or whether the principles laid down for the purpose of determining the amount payable have reasonable relationship with the value of the property acquired or requisitioned.	Reasoning
Ibid.	Reasoning
pp.	Reasoning
341342 SCC pp. 500501 (para 707)	None
Even here we may excerpt Hegde, J.s highlight of Part IV.Part IV of the Constitution is designed to bring about the social and economic revolution that remained to be fulfilled after independence.	Reasoning
The aim of the constitution is not to guarantee certain liberties to only a few of the citizens but for all.	Reasoning
The Constitution visualizes our society as a whole and contemplates that every member of the society should participate in the freedoms guaranteed.	Reasoning
To ignore Part IV is to ignore the substance provided for in the Constitution, the hopes held out to the Nation and the very ideals on which our Constitution is built.	Reasoning
Without faithfully implementing the Directive Principles, it is not possible to achieve the Welfare State contemplated by the Constitution.	Reasoning
A society like ours steeped in poverty and ignorance satisfying the minimum economic needs of every citizen of this country.	Reasoning
Any Government which fails to fulfil the pledge taken under the Constitution cannot be said to have been faithful to the Constitution and to its commitments.	Reasoning
Ibid.	Reasoning
pp.	Reasoning
343 344 SCC pp.	None
502.503 (para 713).	None
83.	None
Jaganmohan Reddy, J. in short paragraph disposed of the question Once the Court is satisfied that the challenge on the ground that the amount or the manner of its payment is neither arbitrary or illusory or where the principles upon which it is fixed are found to bear reasonable relationship to the value of the property acquired, the Court cannot go into the question of the adequacy of the amount so fixed or determined on the basis of such principles.	None
Ibid.	Reasoning
p. 555	None
SCC p. 666 84.	None
Our learned brother Chandrachud, J. explained his stand effectively thusThe specific obligation to pay an amount and in the alternative the use of the word principles for determination of that amount must mean that the amount fixed or determined to be paid cannot be illusory.	None
If the right to property still finds a place in the Constitution, you cannot mock at the man and ridicule his right.	None
You cannot tell him I will take your fortune for a farthing.	None
Ibid.	Reasoning
pp. 992993	None
SCC p. 1000 (para 2022)As at present advised, I am inclined to the view which as I have said is unnecessary to discuss fully, that though it is not open to the Court to question a law under Article 31(2) on the ground that the amount fixed or determined is not adequate, Courts would have the power to question such a law if the amount fixed thereunder is illusory if the principles, if any are stated, for determining the amount are wholly irrelevant for fixation of the amount if the power of compulsory acquisition or requisition is exercised for a collateral purpose if the law offends constitutional safeguards other than the one contained in Article 19(1)(f) or, if the law is in the nature of a fraud on the Constitution.	None
I would only like to add, by way of explanation, that if the fixation of an amount is shown to depend upon principles bearing on social good it may not be possible to say that the principles are irrelevant.	None
Ibid.	Reasoning
p. 993	None
SCC p. 1001	None
(para 2124) (emphasis added).	None
85.	None
It is regrettable that two significant points made by brother Chandrachud, J. have slipped out of the scrutiny of the High Court and we have emphasized them for identification.	None
Are the principles wholly irrelevant ?	None
Do the principles bear on social good ?	None
In the present case, few will agree that the principles are wholly irrelevant or not geared to social good.	None
86.	None
The majority view in Bharati was set out by the Court and there it was stated Section 2(a) and (b) of the Constitution (25th Amendment) Act, 1971 is valid.	None
Glosses apart, the provision excluding the courts power to investigate either the adequacy of the amount or the propriety of the principles to determine the amount was upheld.	None
It follows that individual annotations notwithstanding, the Court has set its seal of validity on Article 31(2).	None
Nothing covered by it can now be available for examination using passages in separate opinions.	None
The result is the quantum of the amount or the reasonableness of the principles are out of bounds for the Court.	None
Article 31C has also been upheld subject to the rider that there should be nexus between Article 39(b) and (c) and the object of the acquisition.	None
Our learned brother, Chandrachud, J. has struck a middle note and pointed out that where the inputs of valuation prescribed by the statute are wholly irrelevant or unconnected with social good, then Article 31(2) may not retrieve the statute.	None
It is a far cry from this observation to the position that the 25th Constitution Amendment leaves untouched the ratio in Cooper.	None
We have pointed out how the said constitutional amendment was expressly undertaken, inter alia, to undo the effect of Cooper and to forbid forensic diagnostics into the question of compensation.	None
In this light it is difficult to uphold the view of the High Court that Cooper survives after death and keeps virtually alive the obligation for payment of market value inclusive of the usurious rates of interest at which the owner borrowed to buy the property seized by the State.	None
87.	None
This takes us to the nonnegotiable minimum of nexus between the purpose of the acquisition and Article 39(b).	None
Article 39(c) was feebly mentioned but Article 39(b) was forcefully pressed by the appellant.	None
Better read Article 39(b) before discussing its full import.39.	None
(b) Certain principles of policy to be followed by the State.  	None
The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community are so distributed as best to subserve the common good.	None
The key word is distribute and the genius of the Article, if we may say so, cannot but be given full play as it fulfils the basic purpose of restructuring the economic order.	None
Each word in the article has a strategic role and the whole a social mission.	None
It embraces the entire material resources of the community.	None
Its task is to distribute such resources.	None
Its goal is so to undertake distribution as best to subserve the common good.	None
It reorganizes by such distribution the ownership and control.	None
88.	None
Resources is a sweeping expression and covers not only cash resources but even ability to borrow (credit resources).	None
Its meaning given in Blacks Legal Dictionary is Money or any property that can be converted into supplies means of raising money or supplies capabilities of raising wealth or to supply necessary wants available means or capability of any kind.	None
And material resources of the community in the context of reordering the national economy embraces all the national wealth, not merely natural resources, all the private and public sources of meeting material needs, not merely public possessions.	None
Every thing of value or use in the material world is material resource and the individual being a member of the community his resources are part of those of the community.	None
To exclude ownership of private resources from the coils of Article 39(b) is to cipherise its very purpose of redistribution the socialist way.	None
A directive to the State with a deliberate design to dismantle feudal and capitalist citadels of property must be interpreted in that spirit and hostility to such a purpose alone can be hospitable to the meaning which excludes private means of production or goods produced from the instruments of production.	None
Sri A.K. Sen agrees that private means of production are included in material resources of the community but by some baffling logic excludes things produced.	None
If a car factory is a material resource, why not cars manufactured ?	None
Material may cover everything worldly and resources, according to Random House Dictionary, takes in the collective wealth of a country or its means of producing wealth money or any property that can be converted into money assets.	None
No further arguments is needed to conclude that Article 39(b) is ample enough to rope in buses.	None
The motor vehicles are part of the material resources of the operators.	None
89.	None
The next question is whether nationalisation can have nexus with distribution.	Issue
Should we assign a narrow or spacious sense to this concept ?	Issue
Doubtless, the latter, for reasons so apparent and eloquent.	None
To distribute, even in its simple dictionary meaning, is to allot, to divide into classes or into groups and distribution embraces arrangement, classification, placement disposition, apportionment, the way in which items, a quantity, or the like is divided or apportioned the system of dispersing goods throughout a community.	Reasoning
(See Random House Dictionary).	Reasoning
To classify and allocate certain industries or services or utilities or articles between the private and public sectors of the national economy is to distribute those resources.	Reasoning
Socially conscious economists will find little difficulty in treating nationalisation of transport as a distributive process for the good of the community.	Reasoning
You cannot condemn the concept of nationalisation in our Plan on the score that Article 39(b) does not envelop it.	Reasoning
It is a matter of public policy left to legislative wisdom whether a particular scheme of takeover should be undertaken.	None
90.	None
Two conclusions strike us as quintessential.	None
Part IV, especially Article 39(b) and (c), is a futuristic mandate to the State with a message of transformation of the economic and social order.	Reasoning
Firstly, such change calls for collaborative effort from all the legal institutions of the system the legislature, the judiciary and the administrative machinery.	Reasoning
Secondly and consequentially, loyalty to the high purpose of the Constitution, viz., social and economic justice in the context of material want and utter inequalities on a massive scale, compels the Court to ascribe expansive meaning to the pregnant words used with hopeful foresight, not to circumscribe their connotation into contradiction of the objectives inspiring the provision.	Reasoning
To be Pharisaic towards the Constitution through ritualistic construction is to weaken the socialspiritual thrust of the founding fathers dynamic faith.	None
91.	None
An American political scientist, Benjamin Twiss, commented with jarring exaggeration upon the conservative perspective of the lawyer in the United States of the slump years in the thirties.	None
It is not surprising that lawyers fame is evanescent. . .	None
Allied with those who are preoccupied with production and profits to the exclusion of standards of consumption and general wellbeing, lawyers have taken a negative rather than a creative and constructive attitude toward social development.	None
In defending rights of untramelled enterprise against rules of fair play and in presuming the unconstitutionality of legislative enactments, they have missed their cue to the role of constructive leaders and have been instead dogs in the manger.	None
Lawyers for Social Change Perspectives on Public Interest Law by Robert L. Rabin, Stanford Law Review, Vol. 28, No. 2, January, 1976.	None
This does not apply to the Indian Bar or Bench at all and is referred to ex abundanti cautela.	None
Law and Development in India should repel, as far as possible, such an unlovely judgment on India jural perspectives and performances.	None
The Court and Counsel have a justice constituency with economic overtones, the manifesto being the Constitution designed to uphold the humanist values of life, liberty and the equal pursuit of happiness, material and spiritual.	None
AN EXPLANATORY POSTSCRIPT TO OUR JURISTIC ATTITUDE 92.	None
We have been guided by the thought that an alltoolarge gap between the law and public needs, arising out of narrow notions, must be bridged by broadening the constitutional concepts to suit the changing social consciousness of the emerging Welfare State.	None
Institutional crises and confrontations can be and should be avoided by evolving a progressive interpretation, discarding oversensitivity to undervaluation when private property is taken for public good.	Reasoning
A legal system that works to serve the community says Bernard Schwartz, is better than the academic conceptions of a bevy of Platonic guardians unresponsive to public needs.	Reasoning
The law, in the words of Justice Holmes, is a magic mirror in which we see reflected not only our own lives but also the lives of those who went before us  and, may we add, of those who come after us.	Reasoning
But basically we have brought to bear upon the impugned legislation a value judgment in tune with the welfare wave length of our Constitution and the still, sad music of Indian humanity.	Reasoning
The law moves with the main currents of the society it regulates.	Reasoning
Each society has its own values which are necessarily reflected in the ends that the legal order seeks to further.	Reasoning
The ends of law are attained by recognizing certain interest, defining the limits within which they shall be recognized legally, and endeavouring to secure those interests that are within the limits defined.	Reasoning
Law in America by Bernard Schwartz.	Reasoning
p. 34	Reasoning
We have recognised that rights and obligations of long ago do not acquire a static validity in our galloping age and a decent oblivion must put them back into forgotten antiquity if we, as a nation, are to run on the rails of the rule of law and so we have nullified the attempt to drift back from Bharati to Cooper on compensation.	Reasoning
A blend of law as a set of responses to the new needs of expanding society and of Daniel Chapmans advice that the known certainty of the law is the safety of all, has played upon our approach.	Reasoning
We are aware that in constitutional construction, a limited judicial lawmaking is inevitable juristic chemistry, to borrow Roscoe Pounds expressive phrase.	Reasoning
The chemist does not make the materials which go into his test tube He selects them and combines them for some purpose and his purpose gives form to the result.	Reasoning
Our Constitutionmakers have had due regard to the felt necessities of the time and the philosophical and political theories about what would best serve the countrys progress and so we have grounded ourselves on these solid prescriptions undeflected by speculative niceties lent by literal study and possible injuries inevitable in reshaping society.	Reasoning
The object and end of all Government is to promote the happiness and prosperity of the community by which it is established, wrote U.S. Chief Justice Taney, 140 years ago in Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge 11 Pet 420 1937 and we, in a republic with an irrevocable tryst to give social justice in the midst of poverty, cannot diminish the power to accomplish those ends.	Reasoning
To be stable is not to stand still to move forward and reconcile is the road to the goal  juridical engineering geared to desiderated policy objectives, being the key to most constitutional problems.	Reasoning
Not unoften, the subjective philosophy of the judge underpowers the philosophy of the Constitution while it should be overpowered by it.	Reasoning
Cardozo, with apt elegance, struck this noteThe great tides and currents which engulf the rest of men do not turn aside in their course and pass the Judges by.	Reasoning
Cardozo, The Nature of Judicial Process, 1932, p. 170.	Reasoning
Taking this warning to head, we have also to take the Constituent Assemblys hope to heartThe Judiciary was to be the arm of the social revolution, upholding the quality that Indians had longed for in colonial days. . . .	Reasoning
The Courts were also idealised because, as guardians of the Constitution, they would be the expression of a new created by Indians for Indians.	Reasoning
Granville Austin, The Indian Constitution.	Reasoning
93.	None
The Discovery of Law India by interpreting liberally to embrace the higher values of collective good and to curb, where necessary, individual property rights, is all that we have endeavoured to do.	Reasoning
We have been cautioned by appellants Counsel that governments may usurp and destroy if judge do not cry halt.	Reasoning
Where arbitrary, oppressive and mala fide misuse of power is a real peril, the Court shall not fail.	Reasoning
But to intervene and strike down, because a measure, within the constitutional bounds, may work hardship for some but is conceived for the good of the many in keeping with the planned process of Development, has a Tory touch.	Reasoning
Canonisation of laissez faire cannons by the Court is to move counterclockwise.	None
Lord Sankey held the view that in the field of Constitutional Law, progressive and dynamic interpretation in the light of political developments must dominate (see British Coal Corporation v. The King 1935 AC 500).	Reasoning
Lord Jowitt, L.C. in AttGeneral of Ontaria v. AttGen. of Canada 1947 AC 503.	Reasoning
affirmed the same approachTo such an organic statute the flexible interpretation must be given that changing circumstances require, and it would be alien to the spirit with which the preamble to the Statute of Westminster is instinct, to concede anything less than the widest amplitude of power to the Dominion legislature under Section 101 of the British North America Act.	Reasoning
94.	None
Legalism has to yield when spacious issues arise.	None
Whatever the legal aspect of the thing, there are moments when it is a feeble reed to rely on, said Nehru, in the Constituent Assembly (I Constituent Assembly Debates, p. 61).	None
95.	None
There is another stark possibility  the Administration sliding back from the progressive constitutional values to protect private interests and then the Court may activate the welfare jurisprudence of the Constitution by appropriate commands	None
