 Mitter, J. 1.	None
In all the above matters there is a common attack on the validity of the Madras Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Act 1961.	Issue
The Act received the assent of the President on the 13th April, 1962 and was published in the official gazette on the 2nd May, 1962.	Facts
It is styled An Act to provide for fixation of ceiling on agricultural land holdings and for certain other matters connected therewith in the State of Madras.	Facts
The preamble to the Act shows that it was passed in furtherance of the directive principles of State policy as embodied in Art.39 of the Constitution and in particular, clauses (b) and (c) thereof, namely, that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community were to be distributed as best to subserve the common good and that the operation of the economic system did not result in the concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.	Facts
The Act sought to achieve this by acquiring agricultural land from persons owning large holdings of it and distributing the same to the landless and other persons so as to reduce the disparity in the ownership thereof.	Facts
This was attempted to be brought about by fixing a ceiling on the holdings of agricultural land holdings so as to render the surplus available for distribution.	Facts
2.	None
The scheme of the Act in a nutshell is as follows.	Facts
By Chapter II of the Act containing sections 5 to 18 provision is made for the fixation of ceiling of land holdings, furnishing of return by persons holding land in excess of the limits specified, preparation and publication of draft statements as regards land in excess of the ceiling area, exclusion of certain land from calculation of ceiling area and acquisition of surplus land after the publication of final statement as envisaged in the Chapter.	Facts
In particular, S. 5 fixes the ceiling on holdings of land of every person and every family.	Facts
Section 7 provides that subject to the provisions of Chapter VIII no person shall be entitled to hold land in excess of the ceiling area.	Facts
Sections 8 to 16 provide for submission of return, obtaining of particulars and determination of the surplus land of a person.	Facts
Section 18 provides for publication of notification by the Government to the effect that the surplus land is required for public purpose.	Facts
3. Chapter III of the Act provides for ceiling on future acquisitions, enquiries into the bona fides and validity of transfers between the date of the commencement of the Act and the notification thereafter, and the effect of certain future transfers.	Facts
Chapter VI provides for determination of compensation for land acquired by Government under the provisions of the Act.	Facts
Section 50  the opening section in Chapter VI  provides for payment of compensation according to the rates specified in Schedule III to every person whose right, title and interest is acquired by Government under Chapter II.	Facts
Section 55 provides for payment of compensation either in cash or in bonds or partly in cash and partly in bonds.	Facts
Chapter IX provides for exemptions in certain cases from the provisions of the Act.	Facts
Chapter XIII provides for disposal of the land acquired by the Government under the Act.	Facts
4. Section 3 is the definition section.	Facts
Under cl.	Facts
(7) thereof ceiling area means the extent of land which a person is entitled to hold under S. 5.	Facts
By cl.	Facts
(11) the date of commencement of the Act was fixed as the 6th April, 1960 i.e. the date on which the Madras Land Reforms (Fixation of Ceiling on Land) Bill. 1960 was published in the official gazette.	Facts
A family for the purpose of the Act is given an artificial definition in cl.	Facts
(14).	Facts
It means in relation to any person, the wife or husband as the case may be, of such person and his or her (i) minor sons and unmarried daughters, and (ii) minor grandsons and unmarried granddaughters in the male line, whose father and mother are dead.	None
Under the Explanation to the clause minor sons and minor grandsons are not to include sons or grandsons (i) between whom and the other members of the family, a partition by means of a registered instrument has taken place or (ii) in respect of whose family properties a preliminary decree for partition has been passed before the commencement of the Act.	Facts
Under cl.	Facts
(19) to hold land means with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, to own land as owner or to possessor enjoy land as possessory mortgagee or as tenant or as intermediary or in one or more of those capacities.	Facts
Under cl.	Facts
(34) person includes any trust, company, family, firm, society or association of individuals, whether incorporated or not.	Facts
Under cl.	Facts
(45) surplus land means the land held by a person in excess of the ceiling area and declared to be surplus land under Ss. 12, 13 or 14.	Facts
5.	None
The Act was challenged by writ petitions filed in this Court in 1963 (A. P. Krishnaswamy Naidu v. State of Madras 19647 SCR 82 (AIR 1964 SC 1515 ) on the ground that its provisions violated Arts.	None
14, 19 and 31 (2) of the Constitution.	Facts
The first attack was at S. 5 of the Act laying down the ceiling area and the second at section 50 of the Act read with Schedule III thereof which provided for compensation.	Facts
It was urged that the Act was not protected under Art.	Facts
31A of the Constitution relying on the judgment of this Court in Karimbil Kunhikoman v. State of Kerala, 1962 Supp (1) SCR 829 (AIR 1962 SC 723 ).	Facts
This Court held that the definition of family in S. 3 (14) was artificial and resulted in discrimination between persons equally circumstanced thus violating Art.	Facts
14.	Facts
The Court also held that the provisions contained in S. 50 of the Act read with Schedule III with respect to compensation were also discriminatory and these two sections viz., Ss. 5 and 50, being the pivotal provisions of the Act the whole Act had to be struck down as unconstitutional.	Facts
The judgment was rendered on 9th March, 1964.	Facts
6.	Arguments of Petitioner
It appears that similar attacks had been made not only to the above Madras Act but to several Acts of other States imposing ceilings on the holding of land and attempting to effect similar agrarian reforms.	Facts
To shield these Acts against such attacks Parliament passed the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act on the 20th June 1964.	Facts
The Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Act shows that inasmuch asSeveral State Acts relating to land reform were struck down on the ground that the provisions of those Acts were violative of articles 14, 19 and 31 of the Constitution and that the protection of article 31A was not available to them It was proposed to amend the definition of estate in article 31A of the Constitution by including therein lands held under ryotwari settlement as also other lands in respect of which provisions are normally made in land reform enactments and it was also proposed to amend the Ninth Schedule by including therein certain State enactments relating to land reform in order to remove any uncertainty or doubt that may arise in regard to their validity.	Facts
Accordingly Parliament passed the Seventeenth Amendment Act effecting change not only in Art.	Facts
31A of the Constitution by adding a proviso after the existing proviso in cl.	Facts
(1) but also substituting a new subclause (a) in clause (2) and including in the Ninth Schedule no less than forty four Acts of different States of which item 46 was the Act struck down by this Court.	Facts
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Seventeenth Amendment Act was itself challenged in the case of Sajjan Singh v. State of Rajasthan, 19651 SCR 933 (AIR 1965 SC 845 ).	Facts
A number of writ petitions were filed in this Court under Ar. 32 of the Constitution in the year 1966, Golaknath v. State of Punjab, 19672 SCR 762 (AIR 1967 SC 1643 ), challenging not only the validity of the Constitution Seventeenth Amendment Act of 1964 but also Constitution Fourth Amendment Act, 1955 and Constitution First Amendment Act, 1951 in so far as they affected the petitioners fundamental rights.	Facts
The first petition in that group of cases was filed by a group of persons against an order made by the Financial Commissioner, Punjab holding that an area of 418 standard acres was surplus in the hands of the petitioners under the provisions of the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act X of 1953 read with S. 10B thereof.	Facts
Five learned Judges of this Court held all the amendments to be valid, while four others concurred in the judgment delivered by Subba Rao, C. J. holding that although the above Amendment Acts abridged the scope of the fundamental rights thus violating article 13 of the Constitution they could not be struck down because of the earlier decisions of this Court to the contrary.	Facts
One learned Judge took the view that the fundamental rights were outside the amendatory process if the amendments sought to abridge or take away any of those rights but the First, Fourth and Seventh Amendments being part of the Constitution, by acquiescence for a long time could not be challenged and they contained authority for the Seventeenth Amendment.	Facts
The judgments in Golaknaths case (supra) were rendered on 27th February, 1967.	Facts
8.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the meanwhile a large number of writ petitions were filed in the Madras High Court in the years 1964 and 1965 challenging the validity of the Madras Act of 1961 and the main attack on the Act was twofold.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged that the Act having been struck down as invalid by this Court in Krishnaswami Naidus case, 19647 SCR 82 (AIR 1964 SC 1515 ) (supra) it was non est and was void ab initio and Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31B could not validate it without a separate Validating Act being passed by the Madras Legislature, and, secondly, the Act was incompetent for want of legislative power of the State.	Issue
The second attack was levelled on a wide front before the Madras High Court, but before us learned counsel did not go so far in his challenge to the legislative competence of the State to pass the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
9.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the first, learned counsels contention may be summarised as follows.	Arguments of Petitioner
He urged that this Court having declared the Ceiling Act of 1961 void under the provisions of Art. 13 subcl.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) of the Constitution we must proceed on the basis that the legislation was void ab initio inasmuch as it did not lie within the power of the State to make any law which abridged the rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, it was said that the measure was non est or stillborn and any validating measure could not instil life therein.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was argued that the effect of the Act being struck down by this Court was if it had been effaced from the statute book and to make any such Act operative, it was necessary not only to give it the protection against the violation of fundamental rights as was sought to be done by Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
31B	Arguments of Petitioner
but to get the State of Madras to reenact the provisions thereof.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel drew our attention to several decisions of this Court in support of his argument and we shall take note of them in the order in which they were placed before us.	Arguments of Petitioner
10.	Arguments of Petitioner
The first case referred to was Behrasam Khurshid Pesikaka v. The State of Bombay, 19551	Arguments of Petitioner
SCR 613 (AIR 1955 SC 123 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
In this case the main question turned on the interpretation of the Bombay Prohibition Act XXV of 1949 and the effect of striking down some of the provisions therein by this Court in The State of Bombay v. F. N. Balsara, 19511 SCR 682 (AIR 1951 SC 318 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
In Balsaras case this Court had held that the provisions of the Act including clause (b) of S. 13 in so far as they affected the consumption or use of liquid medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol, were invalid and save the provisions expressly mentioned the rest of the Act was valid.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also held that the decision declaring some of the provisions of the Act invalid did not affect the validity of the rest of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The effect of partial declaration of the invalidity of S. 13 (b) had to be considered by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Pesikakas case (supra).	Arguments of Petitioner
According to Mahajan C. J. who delivered the opinion of the majority Judges (see p.	Arguments of Petitioner
654)The constitutional invalidity of a part of section 13 (b) of the Bombay Prohibition Act having been declared by this Court, that part of the section ceased to have any legal effect in judging cases of citizens and had to be regarded as null and void in determining whether a citizen was guilty of an offence.	Arguments of Petitioner
His Lordship also observed that in India there was no scope for the application of the American doctrine enunciated by Willoughby that the declaration by a court of unconstitutionality of statute which was in conflict with the Constitution affected the parties only and there was no judgment against the statute.	Arguments of Petitioner
The American doctrine was held not be applicable to India in view of Art.	Arguments of Petitioner
141 of the Constitution under which the law declared by the Supreme Court is to be binding on all courts within the territory of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to his Lordship. . . .	Arguments of Petitioner
once a law has been struck down as unconstitutional law by a Court, no notice can be taken of that law by any Court, and in every case an accused person need not start proving that the law is unconstitutional.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is however to be noted that Das. J. (as he then was) took a different view and pointed out that the section i.e. section 13, in its entirety was still enforceable against all noncitizens.	Arguments of Petitioner
He found himself unable to accept the proposition put forward by Field J. in Norton v. Shelby County, (188586) 30	Arguments of Petitioner
L Ed 178 that a law declared to be unconstitutional was to be treated as inoperative as though it had never been passed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In particular he relied on the fact that the Bombay Act was a preConstitution Act and was certainly valid before the 26th November, 1950 11.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Saghir Ahmad v. The State of U. P. 19551	None
SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) the second case referred to this Court had to consider the effect of the amendment of Art. 19 (6) of the Constitution by the Constitution First Amendment Act of 1951 which enabled the State to carry on any trade or business either by itself or through corporations owned and controlled by the State to the exclusion of private citizens wholly or in part.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is to be noted that this provision of Art. 19 (6) which was introduced by the amendment of the Constitution in 1951 was not in existence when the U. P. Road Transport Act (Act II of 1951) was passed and it was held that the amendment of the Constitution which came later could not be invoked to validate an earlier legislation which must be regarded as unconstitutional when it was passed.	Arguments of Petitioner
In delivering the judgment of the Court, Mukherjea, J. remarked (see at p. 728)?The amendment of the Constitution which came later, cannot be invoked to validate an earlier legislation which must be regarded as unconstitutional when it was passed.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel relied particularly on the following passage from Coolleys Constitutional Limitations (Vo. I, p. 384 note) quoted by Mukerjea, J.a statute void for unconstitutionality is dead and cannot vitalised by a subsequent amendment of the Constitution removing the constitutional objection but must be reenacted.	Arguments of Petitioner
12.	None
Strong reliance was placed on certain observations of this Court in Deep Chand v. The State of Uttar Pradesh 1959 Supp (2) SCR 8 (AIR 1959 SC 648 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
In Deep Chands case the constitutionality of the U. P. Transport Service (Development) Act, 1965, the validity of the scheme of nationalisation framed and the notifications issued by the State Government thereunder were challenged.	Arguments of Petitioner
Subba Rao, J. (as he then was) who spoke for the Judges constituting the majority discussed in detail the distribution of legislative powers under the Constitution and the effect of any statute offending Art. 13.	Arguments of Petitioner
He posed the question if Arts.	Arguments of Petitioner
245 and 13 (2) define the ambit of the power to legislate, what is the effect of a law made in excess of that power?	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him the American Law gave a direct and definite answer to this question.	Arguments of Petitioner
He quoted from Cooley in his Constitutional Limitations (Eighth Edition, Vol. I) at p. 382 where the learned author saidWhen a statute is adjudged to be unconstitutional, it is as if it had never been And what is true of an act void in toto is true also as to any part of an act which is found to be unconstitutional, and which, consequently, is to be regarded as having never, at any time, been possessed of any legal force.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Judge also quoted from Rottschaefer on Constitutional Law at p. 34The legal status of a legislative provision in so far as its application involves violation of constitutional provisions, must however be determined in the light of the theory on which Courts ignore it as law in the decision of cases in which its application produces unconstitutional results.	None
That theory implies that the legislative provisions never had legal force as applied to cases within that clause.	None
The learned Judge analysed the decisions of this Court in a number of cases and summarised the result thereof in the following propositions (see at p. 40)(i)	None
Whether the Constitution affirmatively confers power on the legislature to make laws subjectwise or negatively prohibits it from infringing any fundamental right, they represent only two aspects of want of legislative power (ii) the Constitution in express terms makes the power of a legislature to make laws in regard to the entries in the Lists of the Seventh Schedule subject to the other provisions of the Constitution and thereby circumscribes or reduces the said power by the limitations laid down in Part III of the Constitution (iii) it follows from the premises that a law made in derogation or in excess of that power would be ab initio void wholly or to the extent of the contravention as the case may be and (iv) the doctrine of eclipse can be invoked only in the case of a law valid when made but a shadow is cast on it by supervening constitutional inconsistency or supervening existing statutory inconsistency when the shadow is removed, the impugned Act is freed from all blemish or infirmity.	Arguments of Petitioner
Applying the aforesaid principles to the case before the Court the learned Judge held that the validity of the Act could not be tested on the basis of the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955 but only on the terms of the relevant articles as they existed prior to the amendment.13.	None
It must be noted that Das, C. J. with whom Sinha J. concurred did not think fit to embark upon the discussion of the question namely, whether the provisions of Part III of the Constitution enshrining the fundamental rights were mere checks or limitations on the legislative competency conferred on Parliament and whether the doctrine of eclipse was applicable only to preConstitution laws or those which fell under Article 13 (2) of the Constitution.	Arguments of Petitioner
14.	Facts
The Seventeenth Amendment Act, 1964 came up for consideration in the case of 19651 SCR 933 (AIR 1965 SC 845 ) (supra).	Reasoning
Among the points there canvassed in support of the petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution was one based on the plea that the Seventeenth Amendment was a legislative measure in respect of land and since Parliament had no right to make a law in respect of a land, the Act was invalid and since the Act purported to set aside decisions of Court of competent jurisdiction it was unconstitutional.	Reasoning
Although the Court upheld the validity of the amendment, a doubt was expressed by Mudholkar, J. as to whether Parliament could validate a State law dealing with land.	Reasoning
According to the learned Judge only that legislature has power to validate a law which has a power to enact the law.	Reasoning
15.	Facts
On behalf of some of the respondents and the intervener, the AttorneyGeneral of India, it was argued that no reenactment of the Act was necessary.	Arguments of Respondent
Our attention was drawn to the wide scope of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31B which sought to cure the defect, if any, in the Acts specified in the Ninth Schedule on the ground that any such Act or any provision thereof was inconsistent with or took away or abridged any of the rights conferred by any provisions of Part III of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
The words of Art. 31B, it was argued, made it amply clear that this was sought to be done not only prospectively but retrospectively by the use of the words None of the Acts . . .	Arguments of Respondent
.	Arguments of Respondent
shall be deemed to be void or ever to have become void on the ground of the inconsistency mentioned.	Arguments of Respondent
The removal of the defect was to have effectNotwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any Court or tribunal to the contrary.	None
In other words, this meant that if the defect in any such Act had been the subject matter of any decision of a Court of law and any provision of the Act had been held to be void as being inconsistent with Part III of the Constitution such judgment, decree or order was not to be operative on the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
In effect, it was contended that the inclusion of an Act in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution read with Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31B overrode and rectified all defects in the Act because of inconsistency of any provision therein with any of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution, as from the date of commencement of the Constitution, no matter whether the defect had been pointed out in any judgment of a Court of law and the Act held to be void on that ground.	Arguments of Respondent
16.	None
Counsel for the respondent and the interveners drew our attention to the dicta of learned Judges of this Court in several decisions which according to them fortified their contention.	Arguments of Respondent
The first case referred to by the learned AttorneyGeneral was that of State of Maharashtra v. M. D. Patil, 19683 SCR 712 (AIR 1968 SC 1395 ) where the judgment of a Bench of Seven Judges of this Court was delivered by our present Chief Justice.	Arguments of Respondent
The Act impugned there was the Maharashtra State Agricultural Lands (Ceiling on Holdings) Act, 1961 as amended by Act 13 of 1962.	Arguments of Respondent
The preamble to that Act is practically identical with that of the Madras Act which is under consideration in this case.	Arguments of Respondent
It was contended on behalf of the appellants there that Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31B did not protect from challenge on the ground of violation of fundamental rights the provisions of the Acts amending Agricultural Lands (Ceiling on Holdings) Act, 1961 as originally enacted and that the Seventeenth Amendment Act in spite of the decision in Golaknaths case, 19672 SCR 762 (AIR 1967 SC 1643 )	Arguments of Respondent
(supra) was invalid.	Arguments of Respondent
Negativing these contentions it was said (see at p. 719). .	Arguments of Respondent
the High Court was right in holding that Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31B does protect the impugned Act from challenge on the ground of violation of fundamental rights.	Arguments of Respondent
There is no doubt that Article 31B should be interpreted strictly.	Arguments of Respondent
But even interpreting it strictly, the only requirement which is laid down by Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31B is that the Act should be specified in the Ninth Schedule.	None
Section 28 of the Act which was the main target of attack and which the High Court had originally found as violating Art.	None
14 of the Constitution was held to be protected under Article 31B from the ground of attack based on infringement of Art 14.	Arguments of Respondent
17.	None
In Bhikaji Narain Dhakras v. The State of Madhya Pradesh, 19552	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 589 (AIR 1955 SC 781 ) the petitioners who carried on their business as stage carriage operators of Madhya Pradesh for a number of years challenged the validity of the C. P. and Berar Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act. 1947 which amended the Motor Vehicles Act. 1939 and conferred extensive powers on the Provincial Government including the power to create a monopoly of the motor transport business in its favour to the exclusion of all motor transport operators.	Arguments of Respondent
In exercise of the powers conferred by the new Section 43 (i) (iv) a notification was issued on 4th February, 1955 declaring the intention of the State Government to take up certain routes.	Arguments of Respondent
The petitioners contended that with the commencement of the Constitution the Act became void under the provisions of Article 13 (1) and reliance was placed on the decision of 19551 SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) (Supra).	Arguments of Respondent
The contention put forward on behalf of the respondents was that the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951 and the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act, 1955 had the effect of removing the inconsistency and the Amending Act III of 1948 became operative again.	Arguments of Respondent
It was argued on behalf of the petitioners that the impugned Act being void under Art. 13 (1) was dead and could not be revivified by any subsequent amendment of the Constitution but had to be reenacted.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention was turned down in the unanimous decision of this Court.	Arguments of Respondent
It was said that the Act did not become void independently of the existence of the rights guaranteed by Part III.	Arguments of Respondent
In other words, on and after the commencement of the Constitution the existing law, as a result of its becoming inconsistent with the provisions of Article 19 (1) (g) read with Clause (6) as it then stood, could not be permitted to stand in the way of the exercise of that fundamental right.	Arguments of Respondent
Article 13 (1) by reason of its language cannot be read as having obliterated the entire portion of the inconsistent law or having wiped it out altogether from the statute book.	Arguments of Respondent
Such law existed for all past transactions and for enforcement of rights and liabilities accrued before the date of the Constitution as was held in Keshavan Madhava Menons case, 1951 SCR 228 (AIR 1951 SC128)	Arguments of Respondent
It was also observed that theAmerican authorities can have no application to our Constitution.	None
All laws, existing or future, which are inconsistent with the provisions of Part III of our Constitution are by the express provision of Article 13, rendered void to the extent of such inconsistency.	Arguments of Respondent
Such laws were not dead for all purposes It is true that as the amended Clause (6) (of Article 19) was not made retrospective the impugned Act could have no operation as against citizens between the 26th January 1950 and the 18th June 1951 and no rights and obligations could be founded on the provisions of the impugned Act during the said period whereas the amended clause (2) by reason of its being expressly made retrospective had effect even during that period.	Arguments of Respondent
But after the amendment of clause (6) the impugned Act immediately became fully operative even against citizens.	Arguments of Respondent
18.	None
In M. P. V. Sundararamier and Co. v. The State of Andhra Pradesh, 1958 SCR 1422 (AIR 1958 SC 468 ), Venkatarama Aiyar, J. speaking for the majority of the Court discussed at some length the different aspects of the unconstitutionality of a statute.	Arguments of Respondent
Speaking for the Court he said (at p. 1468)In a Federal Constitution where legislative powers are distributed between different bodies, the competence of the legislature to enact a particular law must depend upon whether the topic of that legislation has been assigned by the Constitution Act to that legislature.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, a law of the State of an Entry in List I, Sch.	Arguments of Respondent
VII of the Constitution would be wholly incompetent and void.	Arguments of Respondent
But the law may be on a topic within its competence, as for example, an Entry in List II, but it might infringe restrictions imposed by the Constitution on the character of the law to be passed as for example, limitations enacted in Part III of the Constitution.	Arguments of Respondent
Here also, the law to the extent of the repugnancy will be void.	Arguments of Respondent
Thus, a legislation on a topic not within the competence of the legislature and a legislation within its competence but violative of constitutional limitations have both the same reckoning in a Court of law they are both of them unenforceable.	Arguments of Respondent
But does it follow from this that both the laws are of the same quality and character, and stand on the same footing for all purposes?	Arguments of Respondent
This question has been the subject of consideration in numerous decisions in the American Courts, and the preponderance of authority is in favour of the view that while a law on a matter not within the competence of the legislature is a nullity, a law on a topic within its competence but repugnant to the constitutional prohibitions is only unenforceable.	Arguments of Respondent
This distinction has a material bearing on the present discussion.	Arguments of Respondent
If a law is on a field not within the domain of the legislature, it is absolutely null and void, and a subsequent cession of that field to the legislature will not have the effect of breathing life into what was a stillborn piece of legislature and a fresh legislation on the subject would be requisite.	Arguments of Respondent
But if the law is in respect of a matter assigned to the legislature but its provisions disregard constitutional prohibitions, though the law would be unenforceable by reason of those prohibitions, when once they are removed, the law will become effective without reenactment.	Arguments of Respondent
19.	None
The learned Judge drew support for his conclusion from Willoughby on the Constitution of the United State, Vol.	Arguments of Respondent
I, p. 11 and Cooley on Constitutional Law at p. 201.	Arguments of Respondent
20.	None
In the States of Uttar Pradesh v. Brijendra Singh, 19611 SCR 362 (363) (AIR 1961 SC 14 ) the respondent challenged the constitutionality of the U. P. Land Acquisition (Rehabilitation of Refugees) Act, 1948 by way of a writ petition to the High Court and though the Court dismissed the petition it held that two provisos to Section 11 of the Act were invalid as they offended S. 299 (2) of the Government of India Act.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsequently the Constitution (Fourth Amendment ) Act, 1955 included the U. P. Act in the Ninth Schedule as item 15.	Arguments of Respondent
The State of U. P. contended that the inclusion of this Act in the Ninth Schedule protected it under Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31B of the Constitution from any challenge under Section 299 (2) of the Government of India Act.	Arguments of Respondent
The Court turned down the argument on behalf of the respondent that the amendment of the Constitution which came after the decision of the Allahabad High Court could not validate the earlier legislation which, at the time when it was passed was unconstitutional.	Arguments of Respondent
Relying on the decision of this Court in 19551 SCR 707 (AIR 1954 SC 728 ) (supra) it was said that the provisions of the Act have been specifically saved from any attack on their constitutionality as a consequence of Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31B read with the Ninth Schedule, the effect of which is that the Act cannot be deemed to be void or ever to have become void on the ground of its being hit by the operation of the Government of India Act.	Arguments of Respondent
21.	Arguments of Petitioner
It has to be noted that although in Golakhnaths case, 19672 SCR 762 (AIR 1967 SC 1643 ) (supra) five learned Judges of this Court speaking through Subba Rao, C. J. were of the view that the Constitution Seventeenth Amendment Act infringed Art. 13 (2) of the Constitution, yet on the basis of the earlier decisions of this Court the same was held to be valid.	None
It was said thatAs the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act holds the field, the validity of the two impugned Acts, namely, the Punjab Security of Land Tenures Act X of 1953, and the Mysore Land Reforms Act X of 1962, as amended by Act XIV of 1965, cannot be questioned on the ground that they offended Arts. 13, 14 or 31 of the Constitution.	None
22.	Arguments of Petitioner
The learned Chief Justice also made it clear (see at p. 814) that thedecision will not affect the validity of the Constitution (Seventeenth Amendment) Act, 1964, or other amendments made to the Constitution taking away or abridging the fundamental rights.	None
Wanchoo, J. (as he then was) speaking for himself and two other Judges observed that a Constitutional invalidity could not be cured by State Legislatures in any way but could only be cured by Parliament by Constitutional amendment.	None
23.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view, although decision of the American Supreme Court and the comments of well known commentators like Willoughby and Cooley have great persuasive force, we need not interpret our Constitution by too much reliance on them.	Reasoning
Nor is it necessary to scrutinise too closely the decisions wherein views appear to have been expressed that a law which is void under Art. 13 (2) is to be treated as stillborn.	Reasoning
Equally unfruitful would it be to consider the doctrine of eclipse.	Reasoning
24.	None
Apart from the question as to whether fundamental rights originally enshrined in the Constitution were subject to the amendatory process of Article 368 it must now be held that Article 31B and the Ninth Schedule have cured the defect, if any, in the various Acts mentioned in the said schedule as regards any unconstitutionality alleged on the ground of infringement of fundamental rights, and by the express words of Art.	Reasoning
31B such curing of the defect took place with retrospective operation from the dates on which the Acts were put on the statue book.	Reasoning
These Acts even if void or inoperative at the time when they were enacted by reason of infringement of Articles 13 (2) of the Constitution, assumed full force and vigour from the respective dates of their enactment after their inclusion in the Ninth Schedule read with Article 31B of the Constitution.	Reasoning
The State could not, at any time, cure any defect arising from the violation of the provisions of Part III of the Constitution and therefore the objection that the Madras Ceilings Act should have been reenacted by the Madras Legislature after the Seventeenth Constitutional Amendment came into force cannot be accepted.	Reasoning
25.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other point as to the competency of the State legislature, Mr. Vendantachari drew our attention in particular to the following provisions in the Act5.	None
(1) (a) Subject to the provisions of Chapter VIII, the ceiling area in the case of every person and, subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5) of Chapter VIII, the ceiling area in the caseevery family consisting of not more than five members, shall be 30 standard acres.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) The ceiling area in the case of every family consisting of more than five members shall, subject to the provisions of subsections (4) and (5) of Chapter VIII, be 30 standard acres together with an additional 5 standard acres for every member of the family in excess of five.	Arguments of Petitioner
(2) For the purposes of this section, all the lands held individually by the members of a family or jointly by some or all of the members of such family shall be deemed to be held by the family.	Arguments of Petitioner
3 (a)	Arguments of Petitioner
In calculating the extent of land held by a member of a family or by an individual person, the share of the member of the family or of the individual person in the land held by an undivided Hindu family, a Marumakkattayam tarward, an Aliyasanthana family or a Nambudiri Illom shall be taken into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
(b) In calculating the extent of land held by a family or by an individual person, the share of the family or of the individual person in the land held by a firm, a society or association of individuals (whether incorporated or not) or by a company (other than a nonagricultural company) shall be taken into account.	Arguments of Petitioner
xx	Arguments of Petitioner
xx	Arguments of Petitioner
xx	Arguments of Petitioner
xx	Arguments of Petitioner
xx	Arguments of Petitioner
xx	Arguments of Petitioner
7.	Arguments of Petitioner
On and from the date of the commencement of this Act, no person shall except as otherwise provided in this Act, but subject to the provisions of Chapter VIII, be entitled to hold land in excess of the ceiling area Provided that in calculating the total extent of land held by any person, any extent in excess of the ceiling area and not exceeding half an acre in the case of wet land and one acre in the case of dry land shall, irrespective of the assessment of such land be excluded.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also drew our attention to Section 8 which required every person who held land in excess of 30 standard acres to furnish to the authorised officer a return containing the particulars specified in Section 10 which directed the authorised officer to prepare a draft statement in respect of each person owning or deemed to have held land in excess of the ceiling area.	None
He argued that legislature measures of this type were not covered by Entry 18 in List II, which runs as followsLand, that is to say, rights in or over land, land tenures including the relation of landlord and tenant and the collection of rents transfer and alienation of agricultural land land improvement and agricultural loans colonization.	Arguments of Petitioner
26.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel urged that the State could not frame a law under which the holding of two persons could be lumped up for working out the area which the said persons could be permitted to hold.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the property of two individuals could not be treated together for the purpose of acquisition by the State by resort to the fiction of holding land in S. 3 (19) of the Act and in any event Entry 18 of List II did not comprehend such a power.	Arguments of Petitioner
He referred us to the American decision in Hoeper v. Tax Commission, (1931) 284 US 206 at p. 221, where it was held that the husband could not, consistently with the due process and equal protection clauses of the 14th Amendment be taxed by a State on the combined total of his and his wifes incomes as shown by separate returns, whether her income is her separate property and, by reason of the tax being graduated, its amount exceeded the sum of the taxes which would have been due had their separate incomes been separately assessed.	Arguments of Petitioner
27.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel also referred us to the decision in Balaji v. Income Tax Officer, 43 ITR 393 (AIR 1962 SC 123 ) and the contention there put forward that Entry 54 in the Federal legislative List of the Government of India Act, 1935 did not confer on the legislature any power to tax (sic) (a) on the income of B. and therefore subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(3) of S. 16 of the Incometax Act, 1922 was ultra vires the legislature.	Arguments of Petitioner
28.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is necessary to note that this court left the question open as it felt that the petition in this court under Article 32 of the Constitution could be satisfactorily disposed of on a narrower basis although the Court approved of the view expressed in Baldev Singh v. Commr. of Incometax, Delhi and Ajmer, 40 ITR 605 (AIR 1961 SC 736 ), that Entry 54 should be read not only as authorising the imposition of a tax but also as authorising an enactment which prevented the tax imposed being evaded.	Arguments of Petitioner
29.	Arguments of Petitioner
Counsel also referred to the case of Diamond Sugar Mills Ltd. v. The State of Uttar Pradesh, 19613 SCR 242 (AIR 1961 SC 652 ), where it was held that the premises of a factory was not a local area within the meaning of Entry 52 in List II of the Seventh Schedule and a law relating to taxes on the entry of goods into a local area for consumption, use or sale therein did not authorise the State to impose a cess on the entry of cane into the premises of a factory for such use, consumption etc.30.	Arguments of Petitioner
The American decision is hardly in point and so far as the three Indian cases are concerned, they turned on the scope of Entries with which we are not concerned in this case.	Reasoning
We were also referred to the observations of this Court in K. K. Kochuni v. States of Madras and Kerala, 19603	Reasoning
SCR 887 at Pp. 927, 928 (AIR 1960 SC 1080 ) that individual proprietary rights were ordinarily to be respected unless a clear case is made out for their restriction.	Reasoning
31.	Arguments of Petitioner
In our view, Entry 18 in List II like any other Entry in the three Lists only gives the outline of the subject matter of legislation and therefore the words in the entry are to be construed in their widest amplitude.	Reasoning
The field of legislation covered by the entry is not to be narrowed down in any way unless there is anything in the entry itself which defines the limits thereof.	Reasoning
Entry 18 in our opinion is meant to confer the widest powers on the State Legislature with regard to rights in or over land and such rights are not to be measured by or limited to the rights as between landlords and tenants or the collection of rents.	Reasoning
The words which follow the expression rights in or over land are merely by way of illustration.	Reasoning
The specification itself shows that the genus of the rights mentioned is not the one which landlords have visavis their tenants or vice versa.	Reasoning
All kinds of legislation regarding transfers and alienations of agricultural land which may affect the rights there in of landlords and tenants are envisaged by the entry as also improvement of land and colonisation of such land.	Reasoning
If the State Government seeks to enforce a measure by which the condition of barren or unproductive lands can be improved, it can do so even if the measure curtails the rights of landlords and tenants over them.	Reasoning
If the State wants to enforce a measure of acquiring lands of people who hold areas over a certain ceiling limit so as to be able to distribute the same among the landless and other persons, to give effect to the directive principles in Article 39 (b) and (c) of the Constitution, it is not possible to say that the same would be outside the scope of Entry 18 in List II read with Entry 42 in List III.	Reasoning
Such a measure can aptly be described as a measure of agrarian reform or land improvement in that persons who have only small holdings and work on the lands themselves would be more likely to put in greater efforts to make the land productive than those who held large blocks of land and are only interested in getting a return without much effort.	Reasoning
The measure does not transgress the limits of the legislative field because it serves to remove the disparity in the ownership of land.	Reasoning
Persons who lose the ownership of lands in excess of the ceiling imposed are compensated for the lands acquired by the State and distributed among others.	Reasoning
Acquisition of land would not directly be covered by Entry 18 but read with Entry 42 in List III the State has the competence to acquire surplus land so as to give effect to the policy in Art.	Reasoning
39 of the Constitution.	Reasoning
32.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is not the first occasion when a measure of such kind has been challenged before this Court.	Reasoning
In Sri Ram Ram Narain Medhi v. The State of Bombay, 1959 Supp (1) SCR 489 (AIR 1959 SC 459 ), challenge was made to the vires of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Amendment) Act, 1956 which was an Act further to amend the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1948.	Reasoning
The preamble to the Act showed that it was a measure for ensuring full and efficient use of land for agricultural purposes rendered necessary on account of the neglect of a landholder or disputes between a landholder and his tenants to the prejudice of the cultivation of the landlords estate.	Reasoning
The attack on the Act was made on the ground that it was beyond the ambit of Article 31A of the Constitution and was therefore vulnerable as infringing the fundamental rights enshrined in Articles 14, 19 and 31.	Reasoning
It was contended on behalf of the State that it was a piece of legislation for extinguishment or modification of rights in relation to an estate within the definition of Article 31A of the Constitution.	Reasoning
33.	Arguments of Petitioner
Referring to the principles laid down by the Federal Court in United Provinces v. Atiqa Begum, 1940 FCR 110 at p. 134 (AIR 1941 FC 16), and by this Court in Navinchandra Mafatlal v. Commr. of Incometax, Bombay, City, 19551	Reasoning
SCR 829 (AIR 1955 SC 58 ), it was observed by this Court that in construing the words in a constitutional enactment conferring legislative power, the most liberal construction should be put upon words so that the same may have effect in their widest amplitude.	Reasoning
It was held that having regard to the above principle of construction the impugned Act was covered by Entry 18 in List II of the Seventh Schedule and was a legislation with reference to land within the competence of the State Legislature.	Reasoning
34.	Arguments of Petitioner
In Atma Ram v. The State of Punjab, 1959 Supp (1) SCR 748 (AIR 1959 SC 519 ), the petitioners challenged the constitutional validity of the Punjab Security of Land Tenure Act X of 1963 as amended by Act XI of 1955, providing for security of land tenure and other incidental matters.	None
The impugned Act limited the area which might be held by a land owner for the purpose of selfcultivation and thereby rendering some area surplus to be utilised for resettling ejected tenants.	None
Section 18 of the Act conferred upon the tenants the right to purchase from the landowners the lands held by them and thus themselves become the landowners on prices which would be below the market value.	None
It was held by this Court that rights in or over land and land tenures occurring in Entry 18 in List II were sufficiently comprehensive to include measures of landtenure reforms, such as the impugned Act sought to achieve.	None
35.	Arguments of Petitioner
The validity of the Assam Fixation of Ceiling on Land Holdings Act I of 1957 came up for consideration in Sonapur Tea Co. Ltd. v. Must.	Reasoning
Mazirunnessa, 19621 SCR 724 (AIR 1962 SC 137 ).	Reasoning
Section 4 of the Act prescribed a ceiling on existing holdings and Section 5 empowered the appropriate authorities to call for submission of returns by persons holding lands in excess of the ceiling.	Reasoning
Section 8 empowered the State Government to acquire such excess lands by publishing in the official gazette a notification to the effect that such lands were required for public purpose, and such publication was to be conclusive evidence of the notice of acquisition to the person or persons holding such lands.	Reasoning
It was contended on behalf of the appellants there that the pith and substance of the Act and its main object was to acquire the property and dispose of it at a profit.	Reasoning
Rejecting this contention it was observed by this Court (see p. 731)	Reasoning
thatThe whole object of the Act which is writ large in all its provisions is to abolish the intermediaries and leave the lands either with the tiller or the cultivator.	Reasoning
It was also observedThe	None
State is paying compensation to the persons dispossessed under the principles prescribed by Section 12 amongst the persons entitled to such compensation tenants are included, and when the State proceeds to settle lands on tenants it expects them to pay a fair amount of price for the land and puts a ceiling on this price and it shall never exceed the amount of compensation payable in respect of the said land.	Reasoning
In our opinion this provision is very fair and reasonable and it would be idle to attack it as a piece of colourable legislation.	Reasoning
36.	Arguments of Petitioner
Lastly, reference may be made to the case of 19683 SCR 712 (AIR 1968 SC 1395 )	None
(supra) which has been already noted.	Reasoning
There the Maharashtra State Agricultural Lands (Ceiling on Holdings) Act 1961 as amended by Act 13 of 1962 was upheld on the ground that it was enacted for securing the distribution of agricultural land to subserve the common good by imposing a ceiling and also ensuring that the persons to whom surplus lands had been granted after the same had vested in the State Government should supply sugarcane at fair prices.	Reasoning
The impugned Act, apart from Section 28 already referred to, was held to be covered by Entry 18 in List II and Section 28 was held as within the ambit of Entry 35 of List II dealing with Works, lands and buildings vested in or in the possession of the State.	Reasoning
37.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the result, we hold that as the attacks on the vires of the Madras Ceiling Act fail, the appeals must be dismissed but without any costs.	Decision
In all cases where the Madras High Court did not think fit to deal with the merits of the case as regards the application of the Madras Ceilings Act to the particular facts of a case, it will be open to the appellants to canvass the same before the appropriate forum.	Decision
38.	Arguments of Petitioner
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
