 Ashok Bhushan, J.1.	None
This Civil Appeal by the plaintiff has been filed against the judgment of High Court of Delhi dated 19.7.2005 dismissing the Regular Second Appeal of the appellant.	Issue
Brief facts of the case necessary to be noted for deciding this Civil Appeal are(a)	Facts
The parties shall be referred to as described in the plaint.	None
The plaintiff filed Suit No. 541 of 1990 praying for specific performance of a contract dated 04.01.1987.	Facts
Plaintiffs case in the plaint was that defendant No. 2 representing himself to be power of attorney holder of defendant No. 1, his brother, entered into an agreement to sell dated 04.01.1987 for a plot of land measuring 150 sq. yds.	Facts
for a consideration of Rs.	None
60,000/. Rs. 5,000/ was paid by the plaintiff towards earnest money to defendant No.2.	None
Plaintiff claims that possession was also handed over.	Facts
On 07.01.1987, the terms of the agreement to sell were modified by enhancing the consideration from Rs. 60,000/ to Rs.	None
65,000/.	None
Plaintiff claimed to approach the defendant No.2 on 25.01.1987 for execution of Sale Deed, which was declined by defendant No.2 on the pretext of his brother having gone abroad and so defendant No.2 refused to accept the balance consideration.	Facts
The defendant No.2 and his father when sought to dispossess the plaintiff of the suit property, a suit was filed for Permanent Injunction against defendant No.2 and his father.	Facts
On the above pleading, suit was filed for specific performance of the contract.(b) Written Statement was filed both by defendant Nos. 1 and 2.	Facts
Defendant No.1, in his written statement, pleaded that he is neither the owner of the suit property nor entered into an agreement with the plaintiff.	Facts
The agreements dated 04.01.1987 and 07.01.1987 were denied.	Facts
It was pleaded that defendant NO.1 having no right, title or interest of any nature in the suit property, there is no question of him acting in any manner to transfer the suit property to the plaintiff.	Facts
Defendant No.2 in his written statement denied execution of agreement dated 04.01.1987.	Facts
It was further denied that defendant No. 1 is the owner of the property.	Facts
It was further denied that defendant No.2 is the attorney of defendant No.1.	Facts
Alleged original agreement dated 04.01.1987 as well as modified agreement dated 07.01.1987 were also denied.	Facts
It was pleaded that defendant No.2 is neither the owner of the suit property nor attorney.	Facts
Oral evidence was also led by the plaintiff and defendants.	Facts
The trial court framed the following four issues 1.	None
Whether the plaintiff has locus standi to file the Present Suit?2.	None
Whether the suit has not been properly valued for the purpose of court fee and Jurisdiction?3.	Facts
Whether the plaintiff is entitled to decree as claimed?4.	None
Relief(c)	None
The trial court vide its judgment dated 30.11.1999 decreed the suit for specific performance of contract in favour of the plaintiff.	None
A Regular First Appeal was filed by both the defendants, i.e. defendant Nos. 1 and 2.	Facts
The appeal was allowed by Additional District Judge on 16.09.2000 dismissing the suit.	Facts
The judgment dated 16.9.2000 was subsequently recalled and the appeal was heard afresh.	Facts
The Additional District Judge vide its judgment dated 02.04.2005 again allowed the appeal, dismissing the suit.	Facts
Aggrieved by the judgment of the Additional District Judge dated 02.04.2005, the Regular Second Appeal was filed before the High Court by the plaintiff appellant, which has been dismissed on 19.07.2005.	Facts
Aggrieved against judgment of the High Court, this appeal has been filed.2.	Facts
Shri Rakesh Khanna, learned senior counsel has appeared for the appellant and Shri P.N. Gupta, Advocate has appeared for the respondent.3.	None
Learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant contends that plaintiff had proved by leading oral evidence that agreement was executed by defendant No. 2 as power of attorney holder of defendant No.1 and payment of earnest money had also been made.	Arguments of Petitioner
The trial court has rightly granted the decree of specific performance of the contract.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that execution of agreement having been proved, the First Appellate Court has erred in law in holding that agreement was not executed, relying on some inconsistencies in the oral evidence, which is unsustainable.	Arguments of Petitioner
He submits that defendant No.1 in his written statement has not pleaded that he never executed any power of attorney in favour of defendant No.2.	Arguments of Petitioner
Further, the handing over of the possession to the plaintiff on 04.01.1987 clearly proves the factum of agreement.	Arguments of Petitioner
He further submits that Court below have erred in not looking to the copy of the power of attorney dated 04.11.1986 executed by defendant No.1 in favour of defendant No.2, which was on the record of trial court, which has also been filed in this appeal as AnnexureP12.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent refuting the submission of counsel for the appellant contends that the First Appellate Court has rightly held that agreement dated 04.01.1987 is not enforceable.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondent submits that on consideration of entire facts, First Appellate Court has rightly held that execution of agreement was not proved by the plaintiff.	Arguments of Respondent
He further submits that in fact, neither defendant No.1 nor defendant No.2 were owner of the property and owner of the property was father of defendants Shri Prabhu Dayal Sharma.	Arguments of Respondent
Defendants, being not owner of the property, there is no question of entering into any agreement for sale of the property.	Arguments of Respondent
The defendant No.2 has denied being power of attorney holder of defendant No.1, hence there was no question of entering into any agreement of sell by the defendant No.2 on 04.01.1987.	Arguments of Respondent
It is further submitted that the alleged power of attorney is an unregistered document, which was not relied by plaintiff before the Courts below he cannot be allowed to place any reliance on the said unregistered power of attorney before this Court.5.	Arguments of Respondent
We have considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties and perused the records.6.	None
As noticed above, the trial court has framed only four issues.	None
The defendant No.2 has clearly pleaded that he is not the power of attorney holder of defendant No.1 and further both the defendants having pleaded that they are not owner of the property, the trial court ought to have framed a specific issue so as to focus its judgment on relevant issues, which have come before it for consideration.	Reasoning
However, the Appellate Court has adverted to the nonframing of the specific issue and having taken the view that the Issue No.3 was a wide issue, which covers the entire case of the plaintiff seeking execution of agreement to sell, we now proceed to consider the findings recorded by the First Appellate Court.7.	None
It is relevant to notice that before the trial court in spite of there being denial of title to the property by the defendants, no finding was returned by the trial court that defendants are the owner of the property, competent to enter into agreement to sell.	None
The trial court also noticed that defendant No.1 in the written statement has pleaded that he has no right, title or interest of any nature in the suit property but no finding was returned that defendant No.1 is the owner of the property.	Facts
The entire discussion by the trial court is in Para 10 of the judgment, which is as followsISSUE NO.3, the onus is on the plaintiff to show that she is entitled for a decree of performance of a agreement to sell.	None
In the written statement defendant No.1 has stated that he has no right title interest of any nature whatsoever in respect of suit property and he has been unnecessarily dragged.	None
It is stated that the defendant No.1 is neither the owner of the suit property nor ever entered into agreement called respect to the same with any person what to talked, of the alleged agreement with the plaintiff.	None
The defendant No.2 has also deliberately denied the averments of the plaintiff.	None
DW2 Krishan Kumar has even denied his signature on EX.PW1/4.	None
In the written statement they have not disclosed that Rakesh Kumar is the owner of the property and earlier Prabhu Dayal Sharma was the owner of the suit property, DW3 Naveen Gautam has also stated in his testimony about the document having been executed in his presence.	None
He has admitted his signature at Mark C in Ex.D1 mark C Ex.D2 and mark C in Ex.D3.	None
He further stated that he cannot be said if the document D1, D2 and D23 are forged and genuine documents.	None
DW1 is Rakesh Kumar has stated that he is owner of the suit property and earlier Sh.	None
Prabhu Dayal was owner of the suit property and he had purchased the same for a sum of L70,000/ on 12.12.1986.	None
He has stated in his cross examination that he does not remember the same from Sh.	None
Prabhu Dayal at the time of execution of Power of Attorney as to whether there is any litigation on the plot in question.	None
He has further stated that he did not receive any receipt of Rs. 70000/ as consideration of the suit property nor it was ever executed.	None
From the testimony of DW1 DW2 and DW3, it is clear that the document D1, D2 and D3 were manipulated at a later stage.	None
The testimony of DW1, DW2 and DW3 does not inspire any confidence.	None
Therefore, I hold that he plaintiff is entitled for a decree of specific performance of agreement to sell.	None
Issue No.3 is decided in favour of plaintiff and against the defendant.8.	None
The First Appellate Court has after considering the entire evidence have returned following findings(i)	None
It is not established that agreements had actually been executed by defendant No.2.(ii)	None
There is no evidence on record to prove the title of the defendant No.1 in respect of the suit land.(iii)	None
There is no evidence to establish that the defendant No.1 had ever authorized defendant No.2 to enter into agreement to sell.9.	None
In paragraph 12 of the judgment, after considering the entire oral evidence, the First Appellate Court held that it is not established that the agreement had actually been executed by appellant No.2 (defendant No.2).	None
Further following findings have been recorded in paragraph 15The result of the aforesaid discussion is that in the absence of any evidence coming on record that appellant No.1 was owner of the suit property or appellant No.2 was having any power of attorney on behalf of appellant No.1 execute the agreements in favour of the respondent, no documents for transfer of title in respect of suit land can be directed to be executed by the appellants by way of a decree for specific performance of agreement of sell vide Ex.PW1/1 and PW1/3.	None
The agreements are thus illegal, unenforceable and to decree for specific performance can therefore be passed in favour of the respondent.10.	None
That after returning the aforesaid findings, the appeal was allowed and suit was dismissed.	Reasoning
The High Court vide its judgment dated 19.07.2005 has confirmed the findings recorded by the First Appellate Court.	Reasoning
The High Court held that alleged agreement claimed by the plaintiff was not enforceable.	Reasoning
The High Court held that there is no substantial question of law, hence the Second Appeal was dismissed.11.	Reasoning
The Court can order specific performance of an agreement only when it is proved that a person allegedly executing an agreement to sell has right of transferring the property.	Reasoning
When defendants have denied their entitlement and right, title and interest in the suit property, the said question was necessary to be answered before decreeing the suit.	Reasoning
The trial court after noticing the said pleading on behalf of the defendants did not enter into this question or returned any finding that defendants are owner of the suit property.	Reasoning
Further, essential findings pertaining to right of the defendant to transfer the property being not there, the passing of a decree of specific performance was clearly erroneous.	Reasoning
The Appellate Court has rightly set aside the decree of specific performance of contract after recording the finding that defendant No.1 is not the owner of the property.	Reasoning
It is not proved that any power of attorney was executed so as to enable defendant No.2 to enter into agreement to sell and further the execution of agreement has also not been proved.	Reasoning
Although, copy of alleged power of attorney dated 04.11.1986 which is admittedly an unregistered document has been filed by appellant before this Court as AnnexureP12, but both the Courts having not considered the same, it is not necessary for this Court to consider the same in this Civil Appeal.12.	Reasoning
In view of the above findings recorded by the First Appellate Court, the suit was rightly dismissed.	Decision
The High Court has also rightly dismissed the Regular Second Appeal holding that it does not contain any substantial question of law.	Decision
We do not find any substance in the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant.	Decision
With the result, the Civil Appeal is dismissed.	Decision
