 RAMASWAMY, J. This appeal by special leave is against the award of the Labour Court, Haryana at Faridabad dated April 19, 1982 which was published in the State Gazette on August 10, 1982.	Facts
It upheld the termination of the appellants service as legal and valid.	Facts
The respondent, by its letter dated December 12, 1980 which was received by the appellant on December 19, 1980, intimated that the appellant wilfully absented from duty continuously for more than 8 days from December 3, 1980 without leave or prior information or intimation for previous permission from the management and, therefore, deemed to have left the service of the company on your own account and lost your lien and the appointment with effect from December 3, 1980.	Facts
In support thereof reliance was placed on Cl. 13 (2) (iv) of its Certified Standing Order.	None
The appellant averred that despite his reporting to duty on December 3, 1980 and every day continuously thereafter he was prevented entry at the gate and he was not allowed to sign the attendance register.	Facts
He pleaded that he was not permitted to join duty without assigning any reasons.	Facts
His letter of December 3, 1980 was marked herein as	Facts
Annexure A wherein he has explained the circumstances in which he was prevented to join duty.	Facts
The Tribunal found that the appellant has failed to prove his case.	Facts
The action of the respondent is in accordance with the Standing Orders and it is not a termination nor retrenchment under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, for short the Act.	Facts
The appellant in terms of standing orders lost his lien on his appointment and so is not entitled to reinstatement.	Facts
Clause 13(2)(iv) Standing Order reads thus If a workman remains absent without sanctioned leave or beyond the period of leave originally granted or subsequently extended, he shall lose his lien on his appointment unless (a) he returns within 8 calendar days of the commencement of the absence or the expiry of leave originally granted or subsequently extended as the case may be and (b) he explains to the satisfaction of the manager management the reasons of his absence or his inability to return on the expiry of the leave, as the case may be.	Facts
The workman not reporting for duty within 8 calendar days as mentioned above, shall be deemed to have automatically abandoned the services and lost his lien on his appointment.	Facts
His name shall be struck off from the Muster Rolls in such an eventuality.	None
A reading thereof does indicates that if a workman remains absent without sanction of leave of beyond the period of the leave originally granted or subsequently extended the employee loses his lien on employment unless he returns to duty within eight calendar days of the commencement of the absence or the expiry of leave either originally granted or subsequently extended.	Facts
He has to give a satisfactory explanation to the Manager Management of his reasons for absence or inability to return to the duty on the expiry of the leave.	Facts
On completion of eight calendar days absence from duty he shall be deemed to have abandoned the services and lost his lien on his appointment.	Facts
Thereafter the management has been empowered to strike off the name from the Muster Rolls.	Facts
2. Section2 (oo) of the Act defines Retrenchment which means the termination by the employer of the service of a workman for any reason whatsoever, otherwise than as a punishment inflicted by way of disciplinary action, but does not include  (a) voluntary retirement of the workman or (b) retirement of the workman on reaching the age of superannuation if the contract of employment between the employer and the workman concerned contains a stipulation in that behalf or (c) termination of the service of a workman on the ground of continued ill health.	Facts
Section 25 F prescribes mandatory procedure to be followed before the retrenchment becomes valid and legal and violation thereof visits with invalidation of the action with consequential results.	None
In Punjab Land Development and Reclamation Corporation Ltd., Chandigarh v. Presiding Officer, Labour Court, Chandigarh, 1990IILLJ70 the Constitution Bench considered the scope of the word retrenchment defined by S. 2 (oo) and held in para 71 at page 91 that analysing the definition of retrenchment in S. 2(oo) we find that termination by the employer of the service of a workman would not otherwise have covered the cases excluded in Cls.	None
(a) and (b) namely, voluntary retirement and retirement on reaching the stipulated age of retirement or on the grounds of continued ill health.	None
There would be no violational element of the employer.	None
Their express exclusion implies that those would otherwise have been included.	None
In para 77 at page 94 it was further held that right of the employer and the contract of employment has been affected by introducing S. 2 (oo) .The	Arguments of Respondent
contention of the management to terminate the service of an employee under the Certified Standing Orders and under the contracts of employment was negatived, holding that the right of the management has been affected by introduction of S.2 (oo) and S.25F of the Act.	None
The second view was that the right as such has not been affected or taken away, but only an additional social obligation has been imposed on the employer to abide by the mandate of S.25F of the Act to tide over the financial difficulty which subserves the social policy.	None
This Court relied on the maxim  Stat pro ratione valuntas populi the will of the people stands in place of a reason.	None
In paragraph 82 at page 95 this Court concluded that the definition in S.2 (oo) of the Act of retrenchment means the termination by the employer of the service of a workman for any reason whatsoever except those expressly excluded in the section.	None
Same view was taken by three Benches of three Judges of this Court in State Bank of India v. N. Sundara Mani 1976ILLJ478, Delhi Cloth General Mills Ltd. v. Shambhu Nath Mukherjee, 1978IILLJ1 and Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Presiding Officer, Labour Court, 1977IILLJ1 and two Benches of two judges in Robert DSouza v. Executive Engineer Southern Railway 1982ILLJ330 and H. D. Singh v. Reserve Bank of India 1986 AIR(SC) 132) took the same view.	None
Therefore, we find force in the contention of Sri R. K. Jain, the learned Senior counsel for the appellant, that the definition retrenchment in S. 2(oo) is a comprehensive one intended to cover any action of the management to put an end to the employment of an employee for any reason whatsoever.	Arguments of Petitioner
We need not, however, rest our conclusion on this point as in our considered view it could be decided on the other contention raised by Sri Jain that the order is violative of the principles of natural justice.	None
We are impressed with that argument.	None
Before dealing with it, it is necessary to dispose of interrelated contentions raised by Dr. Anand Prakash.	None
The contention of Dr. Anand Prakash that since the appeal was deleted from the Constitution Bench to be dealt with separately, the finding of the Constitution Bench deprived the respondent of putting forth the contention based on Cl.(13) of the Certified Standing Order to support impugned action and the respondent is entitled to canvass afresh the correctness of the view of the Constitution Bench is devoid of force.	Arguments of Respondent
It is settled law that an authoritative law laid after considering all the relevant provisions and the previous precedents, it is no longer open to be recanvassed the same on new grounds or reasons that may be put forth in its support unless the Court deemed appropriate to refer to a larger Bench in the larger public interest to advance the cause of justice.	Arguments of Respondent
The Constitution Bench in fact went into the self same question visavis the right of the employer to fall back upon the relevant provision of the Certified Standing Orders to terminate the service of the workman employee.	Arguments of Respondent
By operation of S. 2(oo) the right of the employer under Cl. 13(2) (iv), and the contract of employment has been affected.	Arguments of Respondent
Moreover in Ambika Prasad Mishra v. State of U.P., 1980 AIR(SC) 1762 at P. 176465, paras 5 and 6) a Constitution Bench held that every new discovery or argumentative novelty cannot undo or compel reconsideration of binding precedent.	Arguments of Respondent
It does not lose its authority merely because it was badly argued, inadequately considered and fallaciously reasoned.	Arguments of Respondent
In that case the ratio of this Court on Art.	Arguments of Respondent
31A decided by 13 Judges Bench in Keshwanand Bhartii v. Union of India 1973 AIR(SC) 1461) was sought to be reopened but this Court negatived the same.	Arguments of Respondent
His contention that expiry of eight days absence from duty brings automatic loss of lien on the post and nothing more need be done by the management to pass an order terminating the service and per force termination is automatic, bears no substance.	None
The Constitution Bench specifically held that the right of the employer given under the Standing Orders gets affected by statutory operation.	None
In Robert DSouzas case (supra) this Court rejected the contention that on expiry of leave the termination of service is automatic and nothing further could be done.	None
It was further held that striking off the name from the rolls for unauthorised absence from duty amounted to termination of service and absence from duty for 8 consecutive days amounts to misconduct and termination of service on such grounds without complying with minimum principles of natural justice would not be justified.	None
In Shambhunaths case (supra) three Judges Bench held that striking off the name of the workman for absence of leave itself amounted to retrenchment.	None
In H. D. Singh v. Reserve Bank of India (supra), this Court held that striking off the name from the rolls amounts to an arbitrary action.	None
In State Bank of India v. Workmen of State Bank of India 1990IILLJ586 a two Judges Bench of this Court to which one of us, K.R.S., J. was a member was to consider the effect of discharge on one months notice or pay in lieu thereof.	None
It was held that it was not a discharge simpliciter or a simple termination of service but one camouflaged for serious misconduct.	None
This Court lifted the veil and looked beyond the apparent tenor of the order and its effect.	None
It was held that the action was not valid in law.	None
The principal question is whether the impugned action is violative of principles of natural justice.	Issue
In A. K. Kraipak, v. Union of India 1970 AIR(SC) 150) a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the distinction between quasijudicial and administrative order has gradually become thin.	None
Now it is totally clipsed and obliterated.	None
The aim of the rule of natural justice is to secure justice or, to put it negatively, to prevent miscarriage of justice.	None
These rules operate in the areas not covered by law validly made or expressly excluded as held in Union of India v. N. Singh 1970ILLJ10.	None
It is settled law that Certified Standing Orders have statutory force which do not expressly exclude the application of the principles of natural justice.	None
Conversely the Act made exceptions for the application of principles of natural justice by necessary implication from specific provisions in the Act like Ss. 25F, 25FF, 25FFF etc., the need for temporary spurt of work demands appointment temporarily to a service of such temporary workmen to meet such exigencies and as soon as the work or services are completed, the need to dispense with the services may arise.	None
In that situation, on compliance of the provisions of S. 25F resort could be had to retrench the employees in conformity therewith, particular statute or statutory rules or orders having statutory flavour may also exclude the application of the principles of natural justice expressly or by necessary implication.	None
In other respects the principles of natural justice would apply unless the employer should justify its exclusion on given special and exceptional exigencies.	None
The cardinal point that has to be born in mind, in every case, is whether the person concerned should have a reasonable opportunity of presenting his case and the authority should act fairly, justly, reasonably and impartially.	None
It is not so much to act judicially but is to act fairly, namely, the procedure adopted must be just, fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of the case.	None
In other words application of the principles of natural justice that no man should be condemned unheard intends to prevent the authority to act arbitrarily affecting the rights of the concerned person.	None
It is a fundamental rule of law that no decision must be taken which will affect the right of any person without first being informed of the case and be given him her an opportunity of putting forward his her case.	None
An order involving civil consequences must be made consistently with the rules of natural justice.	None
In Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner, 1978 AIR(SC) 851 at p. 876, para 65) the Constitution Bench held that civil consequence covers infraction of not merely property or personal right but of civil liberties, material deprivations and nonpecuniary damages.	None
In its comprehensive connotation every thing that affects a citizen in his civil life inflicts a civil consequence.	None
Blacks Law Dictionary, 4th Edition, page 1487 defined civil rights are such as belong to every citizen of the State or country they include rights capable of being enforced or redressed in a civil action In State of Orissa v. Dr. (Miss) Binapani Deo, 1967 AIR(SC)	None
12691967IILLJ266 this Court held that even an administrative order which involves civil consequences must be made consistently with the rules of natural justice.	None
The person concerned must be informed of the case, the evidence in support thereof supplied and must be given a fair opportunity to meet the case before an adverse decision is taken.	None
Since no such opportunity was given it was held that superannuation was in violation of principles of natural justice.	None
In State of West Bengal v. Anwar Ali Sarkar 1952 AIR(SC) 75) per majority, a seven Judge Bench held that the rule of procedure laid down by law comes as much within the purview of Art.	None
14 of the Constitution as any rule of substantive law.	None
In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India 1978 AIR(SC) 597) another Bench of seven judges held that the substantive and procedural laws and action taken under them will have to pass the test under Art.	None
14.	Reasoning
The test of reason and justice cannot be abstract.	None
They cannot be divorced from the needs of the nation.	None
The tests have to be pragmatic, otherwise they would cease to be reasonable.	None
The procedure prescribed must be just, fair and reasonable even though there is no specific provision in a statute or rules made thereunder for showing cause against action proposed to be taken against an individual, which affects the right of that individual.	None
The duty to give reasonable opportunity to be heard will be implied from the nature of the function to be performed by the authority which has the power to take punitive or damaging action.	None
Even executive authorities which take administrative action involving any deprivation of or restriction on inherent fundamental rights of citizens, must care to see that justice is not only done but manifestly appears to be done.	None
They have a duty to proceed in a way which is free from even the appearance of arbitrariness, unreasonableness or unfairness.	None
They have to act in a manner which is patently impartial and meets the requirements of natural justice.	None
The law must therefore be now taken to be well settled that procedure prescribed for depriving a person of livelihood must meet the challenge of Art.	None
14 and such law would be liable to be tested on the anvil of Art.	None
14 and the procedure prescribed by a statute or statutory rule or rules or orders affecting the civil rights or result in civil consequences would have to answer the requirement of Art.	None
14.	Reasoning
So it must be right, just and fair and not arbitrary, fanciful or oppressive.	None
There can be no distinction between a quasijudicial function and an administrative function for the purpose of principles of natural justice.	None
The aim of both administrative inquiry as well as the quasijudicial enquiry is to arrive at a just decision and if a rule of natural justice is calculated to secure justice or, to put it negatively, to prevent miscarriage of justice, it is difficult to see why it should be applicable only to quasijudicial enquiry and not to administrative enquiry.	None
It must logically apply to both.	None
Therefore, fair play in action requires that the procedure adopted must be just, fair and reasonable.	None
The manner of exercise of the power and its impact on the rights of the person affected would be in conformity with the principles of natural justice.	None
Art 21 clubs life with liberty, dignity of person with means of livelihood without which the glorious content of dignity of person would be reduced to animal existence.	None
When it is interpreted that the colour and content of procedure established by law must be in conformity with the minimum fairness and processual justice, it would relieve legislative callousness despising opportunity of being heard and fair opportunities of defence.	None
Art 14 has a pervasive processual potency and versatile quality, equilitarian in its soul and allergic to discriminatory dictates.	None
Equality is the antithesis of arbitrariness.	None
It is, thereby, conclusively held by this Court that the principles of natural justice are part of Art.	None
14 and the procedure prescribed by law must be just, fair and reasonable.	None
In Delhi Transport Corpn.	None
v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress, 1991 AIR(SC)	None
101  1991ILLJ395 this Court held that right to public employment and its concomitant right to livelihood received protective umbrella under the canopy of Arts.	None
14 and 21 etc.	None
All matters relating to employment includes the right to continue in service till the employee reaches superannuation or until his service is duly terminated in accordance with just, fair and reasonable procedure prescribed under the provisions of the Constitution and the rules made under proviso to Art. 309 of the Constitution or the statutory provision or the rules, regulations or instruction having statutory flavour.	None
They must be conformable to the rights guaranteed in Parts III and IV of the Constitution.	None
Art 21 guarantees right to life which includes right to livelihood, the deprivation thereof must be in accordance with just and fair procedure prescribed by law conformable to Arts.	None
14 and 21 so as to be just, fair and reasonable procedure is an essential inbuilt of natural justice.	None
Art.	None
14 strikes at arbitrary action.	None
It is not the form of the action but the substance of the Court to lift the veil and gauge the effect of the impugned action to find whether it is the foundation to impose punishment or is only a motive.	None
Fair play is to secure justice, procedural as well as substantive.	None
The substance of the order is the soul and the effect thereof is the end result.	None
It is thus well settled law that right to life enshrined under Art.	Reasoning
21 of the Constitution would include right to livelihood.	Reasoning
The order of termination of the service of an employee workman visits with civil consequences of jeopardising not only his her livelihood but also career and livelihood of dependents.	Reasoning
Therefore, before taking any action putting an end to the tenure of an employee workman fair play requires that a reasonable opportunity to put forth his case is given and domestic enquiry conducted complying with the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
In D.T C. v. D.T.C. Mazdoor Congress (supra) the Constitution Bench, per majority, held that termination of the service of a workman giving one months notice or pay in lieu thereof without enquiry offended Art.	Reasoning
14.	Reasoning
The order terminating the service of the employees was set aside.	None
In this case admittedly no opportunity was given to the appellant and no enquiry was held.	Reasoning
The appellants plea put forth at the earliest was that despite his reporting to duty on December 3, 1980 and on all subsequent days and readiness to join duty he was prevented to report to duty, nor he be permitted to sign the attendance register.	Reasoning
The Tribunal did not record any conclusive finding in this behalf.	Reasoning
It concluded that the management had power under Cl.	Reasoning
(13) of the Certified Standing Order to terminate with the service of the appellant.	Reasoning
Therefore, we hold that the principles of natural justice must be read into the Standing Order No. 13 (2)(iv).	Reasoning
Otherwise it would become arbitrary, unjust and unfair violating Art.	Reasoning
14.	Reasoning
When so read the impugned action is violative of the principles of natural justice.	Reasoning
This conclusion leads us to the question as to what relief the appellant is entitled to.	Reasoning
The management did not conduct and domestic enquiry nor given the appellant any opportunity to put forth his case.	Reasoning
Equally the appellant is the blame himself for the impugned action.	Reasoning
Under those circumstances 50 per cent of the back wages would meet the ends of justice.	Reasoning
The appeal is accordingly allowed.	Reasoning
The award of the Labour Court is set aside and the letter dated December 12, 1980 of the management quashed.	Reasoning
There shall be a direction to the respondent to reinstate the appellant forthwith and pay him back wages within a period of three months from the date of the receipt of this order.	Reasoning
The appeal is allowed accordingly.	Decision
The parties would bear their own costs.	Decision
