 Hidayatullah, C.J.1.	None
This is an appeal against the judgment of the High Court of Calcutta dismissing a writ petition filed by the appellant Debesh Chandra Das.	Issue
This appeal is by certificate against the judgment dated September 18, 1968.2.	Issue
The appellant is a member of the Indian Civil Service.	Facts
He qualified in 1933 and arrived in India in 1934 and was allotted to Assam.	Facts
In 1940 he came to the Government of India and became in turn UnderSecretary and DeputySecretary Home Ministry.	Facts
In 1947 he went back to Assam where he held the post of Development Commissioner and Chief Secretary.	Facts
In 1951 he again came to the Government of India as Secretary, Public Service Commission.	Facts
In 1955 he became Joint Secretary to the Government of India and continued to hold that post till 1961.	Facts
From 1961 to 1964 he was Managing Director of Central Warehousing Corporation.	Facts
On July 29, 1964, he was appointed Secretary Department of Social Security with effect from July 30, 1964 and until further orders.	Facts
On March 6, 1965 the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved the proposal to continue him as Secretary, Department of Social Security.	Facts
He continued in that Department, which is now renamed as the Department of Social Welfare.	Facts
On June 20, 1968, he received a letter from the Cabinet Secretary which was to the following effect.	None
My dear DebeshFor sometime, the Government has been examining the question of building up a higher level of administrative efficiency.	None
This is much more important in the context of the recent developments in the country.	Facts
The future is also likely to be full of problems.	Facts
In this connection, the Government examined the names of those who are at present occupying top level administrative posts with a view to ascertaining whether they were fully capable of meeting the new challenge or whether they should make room for younger people.	Facts
As a result of this examination, it has been decided that you should be asked either to revert to your parent State or to proceed on leave preparatory to retirement or to accept some post lower than that of Secretary of Government.	Facts
I would be glad if you would please let me know immediately as to what you propose to do so that further action in the matter may be taken.	Facts
Your sincerely,(Sd.)	None
DHARMA VIRA.He asked for interview with the Cabinet Secretary and the Prime Minister and represented his case but nothing seems to have come of it.	None
On September 7, 1968 he received a second letter from the Cabinet Secretary which said inter alia as follows I am now directed to inform you that after considering your oral and written representations in the matter Government has decided that your services may be placed at the disposal of your parent State, namely, Assam.	Facts
In case, however, you like to proceed on leave preparatory to retirement, will you please let me know?3.	None
The appellant treated these orders as reduction in his rank and filed a writ petition in the High Court of Calcutta on September 19, 1966.	None
According to him the order amounted to a reduction in rank since the pay of a Secretary to the Government of India (I.C.S.) is Rs. 4,000 and the highest pay in Assam (I.C.S.) is Rs. 3,500.	Facts
There being no equal post in the Government of Assam his reversion to the Assam Service meant a reduction not only in his emoluments but also in his rank.	Facts
He also contended that he held a 5 years tenure post and the tenure was to end on July 29, 1969 but was wrongly terminated before the expiry of five years.	Facts
He also alleged that there was a stigma attached to his reversion as was clear from the three alternatives which the letter of the Cabinet Secretary gave him.	Facts
The highest post in the Government of Assam being equivalent to the Joint Secretary of Government of India, his reversion to the highest post i.e., Chief Secretary to the Government of Assam, amounted to a reduction in rank.	Facts
He contended, if this was the case, the procedure under Article 311 (2) of the Constitution ought to have been followed and without following that procedure the order was not sustainable.4.	Facts
When the appellant filed the writ petition he was appointed as a Special Secretary on October 15, 1966 but under one of his juniors.	Facts
It may be mentioned here that the appellant is next only to the Cabinet Secretary in the matter of seniority.	Facts
He also received a letter from the Government of India dated October 20, 1966 in which it was said that Government was considering giving him a post equal to that of a Secretary.	Facts
The writ petition was dismissed by Justice A. N. Ray on May 19, 1967.	Facts
The following day the appellant was again reported to Assam but he filed an appeal and obtained a stay.	Facts
On March 21, 1968 he was appointed Secretary in the Department of Statistics in the Central Government.	Facts
The appeal was heard by Justice P. B. Mukharji and Justice A. N. Sen who differed, the former was in favour of dismissing the appeal while the latter was in favour of allowing it.	Facts
The appeal was then laid before Shankar Prosad Mitra, J., who agreed with Justice Mukharji and the appeal was dismissed on September 18, 1968.	Facts
On September 20, 1968 the appellant was reposted to Assam.	Facts
He however, filed the present appeal and has proceeded on leave although no orders on leave application seemed to have been passed when we heard the appeal.5.	Facts
In this appeal also, it is contended that the reversion of the appellant to the Assam Service amounts to a reduction in rank.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is on the ground that he held a higher post in the Government of India and there is no post equal to it under the Assam Government.	Arguments of Petitioner
The post of the Chief Secretary in the Assam Government is equal to the post of a Joint Secretary in the Government of India and his reversion would therefore indirectly mean a reduction in his rank and also in his emoluments because the highest post in Assam does not carry to salary equal to that of a Secretary in the Government of India.	Arguments of Petitioner
He also contends that under Article 311 (2) an enquiry had to be made and he had to be given a chance of explaining his case if the reduction in rank amounted to a penalty.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contends that the letters of the Cabinet Secretary speak for themselves and clearly show that he was being offered a lower post even in the Government of India if he was to continue here denoting thereby a desire to reduce him in rank.	Arguments of Petitioner
The letters also speak of his unsatisfactory work and, therefore, cast a stigma on him and therefore his reversion must be treated as a penalty and if the procedure laid down under Article 311 (2) is not followed, the order of the Government of India Could not be sustained.	Arguments of Petitioner
This, in short, is the case which he had put up before the High Court and has now put up before us.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Government of India contends that he was on deputation and the deputation could be terminated at any time that his orders of appointment clearly show that the appointments were until further orders and that he had no right to continue in the Government of India if his services were not required and that his reversion to his parent State did not amount either to any reduction in rank or a penalty, and, therefore, the order was quite legal.7.	Arguments of Respondent
Prior to 1946 the member of the Indian Civil Service were in a Civil Service of the Secretary of State.	None
As a result of a conference between Chief Ministers and the Government of India an All India Administrative Service was constituted in October 1946.	None
This agreement was entered into under Section 263 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
The Indian Administrative Service was common to the Centre and the Provinces.	None
On January 25, 1950 rules were framed under Sections 241 (2) and 247 of the Government of India Act, 1935.	None
These rules were know as the Indian Civil Administrative(Cadre) Rules, 1950.	None
Under these rules cadres were constituted.	None
A cadre is defined in Fundamental Rule 9 (4) as the strength of a service or a part of a service sanctioned as a separate unit.	None
In these rules cadre officer meant an officer belonging to any of these categories specified in Rule 4 and cadre post meant any duty post included in the Schedule to the Rules.	None
In Rule 4, it was provided that every cadre post shall be filled inter alia by an officer who is a member of the Indian Civil Service.	None
In the Schedule Assam was to have 20 senior posts under the Provincial Government, 6 senior posts under the Central Government and 37 posts for direct recruitment, and junior posts and certain reserves.	None
After 1954 a number of Rules were framed and we are concerned in this case with the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, Indian Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength) Regulations, 1955 and Indian Administrative Service (Pay) rules, 1954.	None
Under the Pay Rules were shown the posts carrying pay above the timescale pay in the Administrative Service under the State Governments.	None
In Assam there were four such posts  Chief Secretary (Rs. 3,000), Members, Board of Revenue, Commissioners and Development Commissioners (Rs. 2,500  125/2  2,750).	None
These four were the only posts above the timescale and the highest pay possible was that of a Chief Secretary carrying Rs. 3,000 p.m. (vide All India Services Manual (1967), p. 248).	None
The lower posts in Assam were Secretaries, Additional Secretaries, Joint Secretaries, etc. who were on a timescale with ceiling of Rs. 2,250 p.m. (ibid p. 263).	None
As against this the posts carrying pay above the timescale or special pay in addition to pay in the timescale under the Central Government when held by Indian Administrative Service men were Secretaries to the Government of India with a pay of Rs. 3,500 (Rs. 4,000 for Indian Civil Service men) and so on in a downward position.	None
There was no separate cadre in the Government of India as defined in the Fundamental Rule mentioned above.	None
There were only cadras in the States.	None
Posts beyond the State cadre limit were only to be found in the Government of India.	None
The Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 provided an elaborate machinery for getting persons to fill the posts in the Government of India.	None
Similarly, the Indian Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength) Regulations 1955 provided for these matters.	None
Rule 3 of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules provided as follows 3.	None
Constitution of Cadres .	None
(1) There shall be constituted for each State or group of State an Indian Administrative Service Cadre.(2)	None
The cadre so constituted for a State or a group of States is hereinafter referred to as a State Cadre or as the case may be, a Joint Cadre.	None
Rule 4 next provided Strength of Cadres.	None
(1) The strength and composition of each of the cadres constituted under R. 3 shall be as determined by regulations made by the Central Government in consultation with the State Governments in this behalf and until such regulations are made, shall be as in force immediately before the commencement of these rules.(2)	None
The Central Government shall, at the interval of every three years, reexamine the strength and composition of each such cadre in consultation with the State Government or the State Governments concerned and may make such alterations therein as it deems fit Provided that nothing in this subrule shall be deemed to affect the power of the Central Government to alter the strength and composition of any cadre at any other time Provided further that the State Government concerned may add for a period not exceeding on year and with the approval of the Central Government for a further period not exceeding two years, to a State or Joint Cadre one or more posts carrying duties or responsibilities of a like nature to cadre posts.	None
Rule 6 then provided for deputation of cadre officers.	None
It reads as follows 6.	None
Deputation of cadre officers (1) A cadre officer may, with the concurrence of the State Government or the State Governments concerned and the Central Government, be deputed for service under the Central Government, or another State Government or under a company, association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Government.(2)	None
A cadre officer may also be deputed for service under (i) a Municipal Corporation or a Local Body, by the State Government on whose cadre he is borne, or by the Central Government with the concurrence of the State Government on whose cadre he is borne, as the case may be and(ii) an international organisation, an autonomous body not controlled by the Government, or a private body, by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government on whose cadre he is borneProvided that no cadre officer shall be deputed to any organisation or body of the type referred to in item (ii) of this subrule except with his consent.	None
It may be pointed out here that permanent post is defined by the Fundamental Rules as a post carrying a definite rate of pay and sanctioned without limit of time a temporary post is defined as a post carrying definite rate of pay sanctioned for a limited time and a tenure post means a permanent post which an individual Government servant may not hold for more than a limited period.	None
All cadre posts were to be filled by cadre officers (rule 8), but temporary appointments of noncadre officers to cadre posts were possible under certain circumstances (rule 9).8.	None
Under the Indian Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength) Regulations, 1955, Assam was to have a total of 117 cadre posts.	None
Of these, 55 were under the Government of Assam and 22 senior posts were to be under the Central Government.	None
19 were promotion posts and 58 were to be filled by direct recruitment.	None
There were certain reserved posts for leave reserves, deputation reserves, training reserves and finally there were junior posts.	None
By the agreement which formed an annexure to the Indian Civil Administrative (Cadre) Rules, 1950, Assam was to have 20 senior posts under the Provincial Government and 6 senior posts under the Central Government with some provision for direct recruitment posts, junior posts and reserves.	None
These posts denoted combined Service between the Central Government and the Assam Government.	None
The arrangement allowed an officer to go from one post to another whether under the Centre or the State but not to a lower post unless the exigency of the case so demanded.	None
The posts in the Government of India were held in the ordinary course and were not deputation posts.	None
They were not as a part of the deputation reserves.9.	None
Under Article 312, these services must be considered common to the Union and the State.	None
Under Section 4 of the All India Services Act, 1951 all rules in force immediately before the commencement of the Act are applicable to an All India Service were continued, thus the Indian Civil Administrative (Cadre) Rules, 1950 continued to remain in force.10.	None
The position that emerges is that the cadres for the Indian Administrative Services are to be found in the States only.	Reasoning
There is no cadre in the Government of India.	Reasoning
A few of these persons are, however, intended to serve at the Centre.	Reasoning
When they do so they enjoyed better emoluments and status.	Reasoning
They rank higher in the service and even in the Warrant of Precedence of the President.	Reasoning
In the States they cannot get the same salary in any post as Secretaries are entitled to in the Centre.	Reasoning
The appointments to the Centre are not in any sense a deputation.	Reasoning
They mean promotion to a higher post.	Reasoning
The only safeguard is that many of the posts at the Centre are tenure posts.	Reasoning
Those of Secretaries and equivalent posts are for five years and for lower posts the duration of tenure is four years.11.	Reasoning
Now Das held one of the tenure posts.	Reasoning
His tenure ordinarily was five years in the post.	Reasoning
He got his secretaryship on July 30, 1964 and was expected to continue in that post for five years, that is, till 29th July, 1969.The short question in this case is whether his reversion to the Assam State before the expiry of the period of his tenure to a post carrying a smaller salary amounts to reduction in rank and involves a stigma upon him.12.	Issue
Reversion to a lower post does not per se amount to a stigma.	None
But we have here evidence that the reversion is accompanied by a stigma.	Reasoning
In the first letter issued to him on June 20, 1969 by Mr. Dharma Vira (Cabinet Secretary) it was said that Government was considering whether the persons at top level administrative posts were capable of meeting the new challenges or must make room for younger men.	Reasoning
The letter goes on to say that he may choose one of three alternatives accept a lower post at the Centre, go back to a post carrying lower salary in Assam or take leave preparatory to retirement.	Reasoning
The offer of a lower post in Delhi is a clear pointer to the fact of his demotion.	Reasoning
It clearly tells him that his reversion is not due to any exigency of service but because he is found wanting.	Reasoning
The three alternative speak volumes.	Reasoning
This was not a case of reverting him to Assam at the end of a deputation or tenure.	Reasoning
He can be retained in the Central Services provided he accepts a lower post, and the final alternative that he may retire clearly shows that the Government is bent upon removing him from his present post.	Reasoning
In the next letter this fact is recognised because on September 7, 1966 he is offered only two alternatives.	Reasoning
The alternative of a lower post is advisedly dropped because it discloses too clearly a stigma.	Reasoning
If any doubt remained it is cleared by the affidavit which is now filed.	None
Paragraphs 7 and 10 of the affidavit read as follows7.	None
With reference to the allegations made in paragraphs 13 to 23 of the said application, I make no admission in respect thereof except what appears from relevant records.	None
I further say that the performance of the petitioner did not come to the standard expected of a Secretary to the Government of India.10.	None
The allegations made in paragraph 26 of the said application are correct.	None
I further say that the said representation was rejected by the Prime Minister in view of the standard of performance of the petitioner.13.Now it has been ruled again and again in this Court that reduction in rank accompanied by a stigma must follow the procedure of Article 311 (2) of the Constitution.	Reasoning
It is manifest that if this was a reduction in rank, it was accompanied by a stigma.	Reasoning
We are satisfied that there was a stigma attaching to the reversion and that it was not a pure accident of service.14.	Reasoning
It remains to see whether there was a reduction in rank.	None
There is no definition of reduction in rank in the Constitution.	None
But we get some assistance from Rule 3 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, which provides 3.	None
Penalties  The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reasons, and as hereinafter provided, be imposed on a member of the Service, namely  (iii) reduction in rank including reduction to a lower post or timescale, or to a lower stage in a timescale We have shown above that he was holding a tenure post.	None
Nothing, turns upon the words of the notification until further orders because all appointments to tenure posts have the same kind of order.	Reasoning
By an amendment of F.R. 9 (30) in 1967, a form was prescribed and that form was used in his case.	Reasoning
These notifications also do not indicate that this was a deputation which could be terminated at any time.	Reasoning
The notifications involving deputation always clearly so state the fact.	Reasoning
Many notifications were brought to our notice during the argument which bear out this fact and none to the contrary was shown.	Reasoning
Das thus held a tenure post which was to last till July 29, 1969.A few months alone remained and he was not so desperately required in Assam that he could not continue here for the full duration.	Reasoning
The fact that it was found necessary to break into his tenure period close to its end must be read in conjunction with the three alternatives and they clearly demonstrate that the intention was to reduce him in rank by sheer pressure of denying him a secretaryship.	Reasoning
No Secretary, we were told, has so far been sent back in this manner and this emphasises the element of penalty.	Reasoning
His retention in Government of India on a lower post thus was a reduction in rank.15.	Reasoning
Finally we have to consider whether his reversion to Assam means a reduction in rank.	Issue
It has been noticed above that no State Service (the highest being Chief Secretarys) carries the emoluments which Das was drawing as a Secretary for years.	None
His reversion would have meant a big drop in his emoluments.	None
Das was prepared to go to Assam provided be got his salary of Rs. 4,000 per month but it was stated before us that was not possible.	None
Das was prepared to serve at the Centre in any capacity which brought him the same salary.	None
This too was said to be not possible.	None
This case was adjourned several times to enable Government to consider the proposal but ultimately it was turned down.	None
All that was said was that he could only be kept in a lower post.	None
If this is not reduction in rank we do not see what else it is.	None
To give him a Hobsons choice of choosing between reversion to a post carrying a lower salary or staying here on a lower salaried post, is to indirectly reduce him in rank.16.	None
Therefore, we are satisfied that Das was being reduced in rank with a stigma upon his work without following the procedure laid down in Article 311(2).	None
We say nothing about a genuine case of accident of service in which a person drafted from a State has to go back for any reason not connected with his work or conduct.	None
Cases must obviously arise when a person taken from the State may have to go back for reasons unconnected with his work or conduct.	None
Those cases are different and we are not expressing any opinion about them.	None
But this case is clearly one of reduction in rank with a distinct stigma upon the man.	None
This requires action in accordance with Article 311 (2) of the Constitution and since none was taken, the order of reversion cannot be sustained.	None
We quash it and order the retention of Das in a post comparable to the post of a Secretary in emoluments till such time as his present tenure lasts or there is an inquiry against him as contemplated by the Constitution.17.	None
Before we leave this case we are constrained to say that the attitude in respect of this case was not very happy.	Reasoning
Das offered to take leave preparatory to retirement on the 29th July, 1969 if he was retained in Delhi on this or other post.	Reasoning
This coincided with his present tenure.	Reasoning
But vast as the Delhi Secretariat is, no job was found for him.	Reasoning
This confirms us in our view of the matter that he was being sent away not because of exigency of service but definitely because he was not required for reasons connected with his work and conduct.18.	Reasoning
The appeal is thus allowed with costs here and in the High Court.19.	Decision
Appeal allowed.	None
