 RAY, C.J.1.	None
This appeal is by special leave from the judgment dated November 22, 1972 of the Madras High Court.2.	Issue
The appellant challenged the notification dated May 21, 1964 bearing No. 1462 of the Revenue Department.	Issue
The contention of the appellant before the High Court was based on Article 14 that there were no guidelines to apply the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (hereinafter called the Act) to the Jain institutions.	Issue
The High Court did not accept the contention of the appellants.3.	Facts
for the appellant with fairness realised that there was no force in the contention based on Article 14.	Facts
He also pointed out that the reason why he did press it was that the notification was made eleven years ago and there was an order of stay of operation of the impeached order.	Facts
Counsel submitted that the stay order for over eleven years should not be continued for a further period if the matter were to be adjourned again on the ground of Article 14 being involved in the appeal.	Facts
Counsel, therefore, did not rely on Article 14.4.	Facts
Counsel for the appellant contended that real submission was that section 2 of the Act could not be applied to an individual Jain institution.	Arguments of Petitioner
This point was not canvassed in the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
This is one of the points mentioned in the special leave petition.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ordinarily this Court does not allow a new point to the taken because this Court would always like to have the views of the High Court.	Arguments of Petitioner
In view of the fair attitude of counsel for the appellant we gave him leave to urge this new point because it is a pure question of the construction of the statute.5.	None
The contention based on Section 2 of the Act is that the provisions can be applied to all Jain institutions and not to one isolated Jain institution.	None
The reason advanced is that this Act does not apply to Jain institutions and if this has to be applied there has to be a notification.	None
The historical background for which the Jain institutions were excluded from the operation of the Act save by notification has principally three features.	None
First, Jain institutions have always been managed by elected bodies and have by and large been very well run.	None
Cases of mismanagement have been very few (vide para 14 of Chapter IX of the Report of the H.R.E. Commission, 1960).	None
Second, Jain institutions do not have any mahant in charge of religious institutions in order to do anything corresponding to the shebaits of Hindu temples and their acharyas so not own any property or accept any offerings (see paragraph 6 of the same Report).	None
Third, hereditary trusteeship is not prevalent among the Jains.6.	None
The provisions of the Act are clear and plain.	None
The Government may, by notification, under Section 2 of the Act extend to Jain public institutions and endowments, all or any of the provisions of the Act, and thereupon the provisions so extended shall apply to any institution.	None
If the Act is to be applied to one Jain institution on the ground of mismanagement of a particular institution it is not reasonable to suppose that the Act will therefore have to be applied to all Jain institutions.	None
The reason is obvious.	None
All the institutions may not be mismanaged like the one to which the Act is being applied.7.	None
Another contention which was brought in aid by counsel for the appellants was that Section 2 (2) if the Act said that wherever the word Hindu occurred, it shall, in respect of Jain public religious institutions and endowments to which the provisions of the Act have been extended, be construed to mean Jain.	Arguments of Respondent
Counsel referred to Sections 9, 10, 12, 14, 96 and 107 of the Act and submitted that a Jain Commissioner would have to be appointed.	None
The appellant submitted that it would be difficult and impracticable to get a Jain Commissioner from the members of Judicial Service.	None
It was also said that special fund would have to be created.8.	None
Counsel for the respondent rightly submitted that the provision in Section 2 (2) of the Act said that the word Hindu would be construed to mean Jain unless the context otherwise requires.	Arguments of Respondent
He relied on the decision of this Court in C.W.T., West Bengal v. Champa Kumari Singhi ((1972) 3	Arguments of Respondent
SCR 118 (1972) 1 SCC 508 ), where this Court has held that Jains are Hindus.	Arguments of Respondent
The provisions of the Act particularly those relating to appointment of Commissioner or creation of a fund pertain to administration and working of the Act.	Arguments of Respondent
It has not been disputed that there is any interference with any religious ceremonies of the institution.	None
Therefore, even a Hindu Commissioner in the context of the provisions of the Act is competent to perform the duties contemplated by the Act.9.	None
It has to be seen as to why this notification was made in this particulars case.	Reasoning
The Government exercised the power under Section 2(1) of the Act for the reasons that the accounts were not account were not maintained properly, that surplus funds of the temple were not invested in banks and that temple funds were being utilised for the personal interests of the trustees.	Reasoning
These are serious charges relating to the accounts of the temple.	Reasoning
It can hardly be said that the notification proposing to apply the Act to an institution in these circumstances requires assistance of a Jain Commissioner or a Jain to administer the institution.10.	Reasoning
Counsel for the respondent rightly submitted that the reason why the Act was not to apply to Jains was to confer a benefit on Jains because of the report relating to Jain institutions.	Reasoning
There were no instance of mismanagement or maladministration of Jain institution.	Reasoning
This benefit given to Jain institutions can be departed from when the Act is applied to a Jain institution as has happened in the present case.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that the Act can apply to one institution because there is no compelling reason to read the Act in plurality in relation to Jain institution.	Reasoning
Mismanagement or mishandling of accounts is not a ubiquitous feature.	Reasoning
It may be found only in a single instance.11.	None
For the foregoing reasons the contentions of the appellant are not accepted.12.	Decision
The appeal is dismissed.	Decision
Parties will pay and bear their own costs.	Decision
