 Subba Rao, J.1.	None
These appeals, by special leave, raise the familiar but difficult question, whether a receipt is a capital or a revenue receipt.2.	Facts
The appellant in C.A. No. 157/1965, Meenakshi Achi, owns 5/6th share in Sungei Chour Estate in Malaya.3.	Facts
V.R.K.R.S. Firm, the appellant in C.A. No. 158/1965, owns rubber estates in Kaualakangsar, Malaya.	Facts
During the Second World War, rubber estates in the Federated Malay States were either destroyed or denuded.	Facts
In order to encourage planting or replanting of rubber trees, the Government of the Federated Malay states issued an Ordinance styled, The Rubber Industry (Replanting) Fund Ordinance, 1952, whereunder a Board was constituted to administer the funds accumulated in terms of the Said Ordinance.	Facts
In the accounting year relevant to the assessment year 195556, Meenakshi Achi received 5, 962 as replantation cess from the said board.	None
So too, the firm received 10, 336 in the accounting year corresponding to the assessment year 195556.	None
During the assessment proceedings before the IncomeTax Officer, the appellant claimed the said amounts as capital receipts.	None
The IncomeTax Officer treated them as revenue receipts on the ground that the said payments were made to cover the replanting expenses of the assessees.	None
Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the re plantation cess receipt of 5, 962 dollars is income assessable to tax ?	None
4.	None
At the instance of the firm, the following question was referred to the High Court Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the sum of 10, 336 dollars constitutes income assessable to tax ?	None
5.	None
The High Court answered the two questions in the affirmative.	None
Though it agreed with the conclusion of the Tribunal, it gave different reasons for its conclusions.	Facts
It held that the source of the amounts was the production or the export of the rubber itself by the owners of the plantations and as the amount was paid back to the producers it was only a trading receipt.	Facts
Hence the present appeals.6.	None
The argument of Mr. K. Srinivasan, the learned counsel for the appellant, may be briefly stated The premise accepted by the High Court was wrong.	Arguments of Petitioner
The fund was not collected from the producers like the assessees, for they were neither producers in Penang nor exporters in Federation estates from whom, under the Ordinance, the cess was collected and pooled.	Arguments of Petitioner
They were only planters and were not running any business.	Arguments of Petitioner
The income of the assessees from the said plantations was brought to tax in India as a foreign income though it was derived from agriculture.	Arguments of Petitioner
The exigibility to tax of that income depended wholly on the object for which it was paid.	Arguments of Petitioner
If it was paid ex gratia as an inducement to develop rubber plantations, it would be a revenue receipt if it was paid to the assessees to recoup them for the expenditure incurred by them for maintaing the plantations, it would be revenue expenditure.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the instant case, though a particular yardstick dependent upon rubber produced was adopted, the amounts were paid only to encourage planting or replanting of highyielding rubber trees and therefore they were Capi7.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Viswanatha Sastri, appearing for the revenue, contended that no scheme was framed in accordance with the principles laid down in the First schedule annexed to the Ordinance, that the disbursemsnts were made in terms of the second Schedule, that the payments were correlated to rubber produced which was the trading asset of the appellants and, therefore, the amounts paid were revenue receipts.	Arguments of Respondent
Alternatively, he argued that even if the First Schedule applied, the payments were made to the appellants to enable them to recoup the revenue expenditure incurred for running and maintaining the plantations and, therefore, the payments were revenue receipts.	Arguments of Respondent
At the outset, it would be convenient to clear the ground.	Reasoning
Throughout the proceedings, it was assumed that a scheme was framed embodying the principles laid down in the first Schedule to the Ordinance and that the payments were made in terms of the scheme.	Reasoning
We cannot, therefore, permit the learned counsel for the revenue to change his ground and base his case on the Second Schedule.	Reasoning
It may also be made clear that the assessees were only planters and were maintaining the plantations they were not carrying on any business in rubber the said amounts in their hands were assessed as income derived from plantations.8.	Reasoning
As much of the argument turned upon the provisions of the said Ordinance, it would be convenient to notice its relevant terms.	None
The long title of the Ordinance described it as an Ordinance to provide for the collection of a cess on the production and export of rubber, for the establishment of a fund into which money collected as cess was to be paid and for the constitution of a board to administer the fund.	None
Under section 4 the Rubber Industry (Replantation) Board was constituted.	None
Section 7(1) authorised the High Commissioner in Council, on the recommendation of the Board, for the imposition and collection of a cess or cesses on rubber produced in Penang and rubber exported from Federation other than Panang.	None
Under subsection (4) of section 7 any customs or excise duties declared by the High Commissioner in Council to have been imposed with the same objects as the Ordinance should be deemed to be cess or cesses imposed Under subsection (1) of the section 7 and should be credited to the said Fund.	None
Under sub s4.	None
The balance in the fund after setting aside the sum mentioned in the previous paragraph will be credited to the accounts of the respective participants in the fund in such proportions as in the opinion of the Board correspond to the amount of rubber produced by each participant in the period during which the moneys being credited were collected.	None
The Board may however exclude from consideration, for the purpose of this paragraph, any rubber which in the opinion of the Board has not been the subject of payment of cess.5.	None
The administrators will repay to the participants in the fund the sums credited to them individually in the fund against expenditure actually incurred since 1st January, 1946, by the participant concerned on the replanting or new planting of highyielding rubber trees or the planting of other crops in substitution for rubber as approved by the Board.	None
Proof of such expenditure must be established to the satisfaction of the Administrators either by the submission of audited and certified statements prepared by the accountants approved by the Board or by other evidence of a character approved by the Board.6.	None
A participant in the fund who can show to the satisfaction of the Administrators that the planted area of his property is planted entirely with highyielding rubber trees shall be entitled to a refund of all moneys standing to his credit in the fund without being called upon to show evidence of expenditure on planting or new planting.	None
Second schedule1.	None
The Board shall from time to time divide the moneys referred to in subsection (5) of section 7 of this Ordinance in the manner provided in subsection (2) of section 10 thereof.2.	None
The moneys so apportioned to Fund A shall be credited to the accounts of the respective participants in Fund A in such proportions as in the opinion of the Board correspond to the amount of rubber produced by each such participant in the period during which the moneys being credited were collected, and each participant shall be repaid all the amounts so credited to him unconditionally and without under delay.	None
The Board may however exclude from consideration for the purpose of this paragraph any rubber which, in the opinion of the Board, has not been subject of payment of cess.3.	None
The moneys so appointed to Fund B shall be dealt with in accordance with schemes to be prepared under the provisions of subsection (3) of section 10 of this Ordinance.	None
The gist of provisions relevant to the present enquiry may be briefly stated.	None
The funds collected were under two categories (1) the cess or cesses collected on rubber produced in Penang and rubber exported from the Federation other than Panang (2) customs duties and excise or other duties collected and declared by the High Commissioner in Council to have been imposed with the same objects as the Ordinance.	None
The first fund was distributed in accordance with the provisions of the scheme or schemes made under section 10(3) and the second fund was distributed in terms of the Second Schedule.	None
Both the funds were divided again into Fund A and Fund B. Fund A was established on behalf of owners of property of which an area of not less than Ac. 100  00 was planted and Fund B on behalf of owners who owned an area of less than Ac. 100  00.9.	None
In this case, though Mr. Sastri contended to the contrary, as we have pointed out earlier, the whole proceedings were conducted on the basis that there was a scheme embodying the principles of the First Schedule.	Reasoning
It was not disputed that the property of the appellants was not planted entirely with highyielding rubber trees within the meaning of clause 6.	None
If so, the only question is, what was the nature of the payments made.10.	None
Advertising to the First Schedule of the Ordinance, under clause (4) the cesses collected on rubber produced in Penang and rubber exported from the Federation other than Panang were credited to the accounts of the appellants in such proportions corresponding to the amount of rubber produced by them in the period during which the said cesses were collected.	None
Thereafter, the said amounts were paid to the appellants against expenditure actually incurred since 1st January, 1946, by the appellants on the maintenance of the plantations.	None
On what basis the amounts were paid from the fund to the assesses, there is dearth of material.	None
We have to proceed only on the terms of clauses (4) and (5) of the First Schedule and the admissions recorded by the Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal recorded in its order the concessions made by the assessee to the following effect The assessee has conceded before us that it did not have any high yielding rubber trees.	None
So next position is it is based upon expenditure incurred after 1st January, 1946.	None
It is also admitted that he has claimed such expenses and had them allowed.	None
But these expenses, we find from the records, are based on the production and not on actual expenses shown as having been incurred by the assessee.	None
So it will be difficult, in our opinion, to hold that this is a reimbursement of any expenditure outlay.	None
The assessee might have incurred more or less than the expenses reimbursed to it on the basis of production.11.	None
The following facts therefore emerge.	None
The assessees owned rubber plantations before 1st January, 1946 the assessees being only planters did not pay any duty for rubber exported the cess or cesses were collected only on rubber produced in Penang and on rubber exported from the Federation other than Penang the amounts were credited against the appellants corresponding to the amount of rubber produced by them and payments were made from the said amounts to the assessees against expenditure incurred on the maintenance of the plantations.12.	None
The High Court held the said payments were revenue receipts on the following reasoning It is perfectly clear that the source of the amounts was the production or the export of the rubber itself by the owners of the plantations.	None
If the money had been paid over as a deduction or an abatement of duty at the stage of production or export, it would not be possible to urge, as the assessees purport to do, that it was anything other than a trading receipt.	None
The mere fact that the statue intervened, collected all of these amounts together in the shape of a fund in which the sums were undeniably earmarked to each and every one of the plantation owners and made payable on the fulfillment of certain conditions does not affect the character of the source of the receipt.	None
It would still remain a trading receipt and the condition that the sums should not be utilised or were to be paid against the sums expended for replanting would not affect the nature of the receipt itself.13.	None
Briefly stated, the basis of the High Courts judgment is that the assessees contributed to the Fund by paying duty on the export of rubber and therefore the repayment made to them from out of the Fund must be correlated to the production of rubber.	None
It was clear from the facts narrated above that the assessees were only partners and they were not exporters and therefore they did not pay any duty under the Ordinance to the Government.	Reasoning
Mr. Sastri, the learned counsel for the revenue, did not support the principle accepted by the High Court that the source of payment was material and not the nature of expenditure.	Reasoning
Indeed his argument was contrariwise, namely, that the expenditure was revenue expenditure and therefore the amounts paid to recoup it partook of that character.14.	Reasoning
The decision in Higgs v. Wrightson is rather apposite.	None
There the appellant was a dairy farmer, the greater part of whose land was, before the war, permanent pasture.	None
Under the Agricultural Development Act, 1939, and the Agriculture (Miscellaneous War Provisions) Act, 1940, he received grants in respect of the ploughing and bringing into a state of cleanliness and fertility land previously under grass for a period of seven years or more.	None
The court held that the ploughing grant was a revenue receipt.	None
Macnaghten J. observed Since the amount of the grant depends on the area ploughed, it would seem to be a grant towards the expense of the ploughing15.	None
So too, in the instant case, the payments to the planters were made against the expenditure incurred for maintaining the rubber plantations.16.	Reasoning
Having regard to the aforesaid facts, we must hold that the amounts from the fund earmarked for the appellants on the basis of the rubber produced by them were paid against the expenditure incurred by them for maintaining the rubber plantation and producing the rubber.	Reasoning
If so, it follows that the receipts by the assessees during the accounting year were revenue receipts and, therefore, liable to be included in their assessable income.	Reasoning
We therefore hold, though the different reasons, that the High Court has rightly answered the questions against the assessees.	Reasoning
The appeals fail, and are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.17.	Decision
Appeals dismissed.	Decision
