 Hegde, J.1.	None
Common questions of law arise for decision in these appeals, by certificate.	Issue
The suits from which these appeals arise have been considered together and decided by common judgments both in the High Court as well as in the courts below.	Issue
It is convenient to do so in this court as well.2.	Issue
The suits in questions are representative suits.	Facts
The plaintiffsappellants who are consumers of electricity in the Godhra area sued the respondentcompany on behalf of all the consumers in that area seeking to restrain the respondent from enforcing the enhanced charges sought to be collected from the consumers of powers used for lights and fans as well as of motive power.3.	Facts
The facts leading to these appeals may now be stated.	Facts
On November 19, 1922, the then Government of Bombay granted a licence under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 to a concern called Lady Sulochana Chinubhai and Co. authorising it to generate and supply electricity to the consumers in Godhra area.	Facts
Clause 10 of the licence prescribed the maximum charges that the licensee could levy for the power supplied.	Facts
The respondent is the successor of the said licensee.	Facts
After the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (to be hereinafter referred to as the Supply Act) came into force, a rating committee was constituted under Section 57 (2) of the Supply Act at the request of the respondent on January 19, 1950.	Facts
On the recommendation of that committee, the Government fixed with effect from February 1, 1952, the following charges for the power supplied(i) O79 pies per unit for the electricity supplied for lights and fans with a minimum of Rs. 3 per month per installation and(ii) for motive power at 4 annas per unit with a minimum of Rs. 480 per month per installation.	Facts
The Supply Act was amended in 1956.	None
The respondent increased the charges for motive power from January 1, 1963 to 35 nP, per unit with a minimum of Rs. 7 per month for every installation.	Facts
On June 22, 1963, the rates for lights and fans were increased with effect from July 1, 1963 to 70 nP. per unit with a minimum of Rs. 5 per month for every installation.	Facts
The contention of the appellants is that the respondent was not competent to enhance the charges in question without the matter having been considered by a rating committee.	Facts
Their suits to restrain the respondent from levying the proposed increased charges were decreed by the trial court.	Facts
Those decrees were affirmed by the first appellate court as well as by a single judge of the Gujarat High Court in second appeals but the appellate bench of the Gujarat High Court reversed those decrees and dismissed the suits holding that under the Supply Act as amended in 1956 the respondent has a unilateral right to enhance the charges subject to the conditions prescribed in the VIth Schedule to that Act.	Facts
It is as against those decisions these appeals have been brought.	Facts
Civil Appeal No. 15 of 1969 relates to the enhancement of charges for electricity power for lights and fans and Civil Appeal No. 16 of 1969 relates to the enhancement of charges for the motive power.4.	Facts
The only question that arises for decision in these appeals is whether under the provisions of the Supply Act as amended in 1956, the respondent was competent to unilaterally enchance the charges.5.	Issue
In these appeals we are not concerned with the provisions of the Electricity Act, 1910.	None
There is no dispute as regards the charges fixed by the Government with effect from February 1, 1952, under Section 57 (2) (c) of the Supply Act on the basis of the recommendation made by the rating committee.	None
The appellants admit their liability to pay enhanced charges that may be fixed by the Government on the basis of any recommendation by a freshly appointed rating committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
They merely challenge the respondents right to unilaterally enhance the charges.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the appellants they have a vested right to be governed by the charges fixed in 1952 until the same is revised by the Government on the basis of the recommendation of a rating committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was urged on their behalf that the amendments made in 1956 do not affect the charges fixed on 1952 and they continue to rule till altered by the Government in accordance with law.	None
The respondent repudiates those contentions.	Arguments of Respondent
It denies that the appellants have any vested right in the charges fixed.	Arguments of Respondent
It was urged on its behalf that the amendments made to the Supply Act in 1956 have substantially alter the scheme as regards levying charges it is now open to a licensee to alter the charges fixed by the Government unilaterally subject to the conditions prescribed in Sec.	Arguments of Respondent
57 (A) and in Schedule VI of the Supply Act.	Arguments of Respondent
We may mention at this stage that even according to the appellants the charges that may be fixed by the Government now on the basis of the recommendation of a rating committee can be unilaterally altered by the licensee after the period fixed in the Government order in accordance with Clause (e) of Section 57 (A) (1) expires.6.	None
In order to decide the point in controversy, we have to take into consideration the relevant provisions of the Supply Act as it stands now and as it stood prior to its amendment in 1956.	None
For the sake of convenience we shall set out side by side the relevant provisions.	None
The Supply Act as it stood before 1956.The Supply Act as amended in 1956.	None
S.57.	None
Licensees charges to consumersS.57.	None
The provisions of the Sixth Schedule and the Seventh Schedule shall be deemed to be incorporated in the licence of every licensee not being a local authority (1) The provisions of the Sixth Schedule and the Table appended to the Seventh Schedule shall be deemed to be incorporated in the licence of every licensee, not being a local authority, from the date of the commencementpageSC1228of the licensees next succeeding year of account, and from such date the licensee shall comply therewith accordingly and any provisions of such licence or of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (LX of 1910), or any other law, agreement or instrument applicable to the licensee shall, in relation to the licensee, be void and of no effect in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this Section and the said Schedule and Table.(a) in the case of licence granted before the commencement of this Act, from the date of the commencement of the licensees next succeeding year of account and (2) Where the provisions of the Sixth Schedule and the Table appended to the Seventh Schedule are under subsection (1) deemed to be incorporated in the licence of any licensee, the following provisions shall have effect in relation to the said licensee, namely (b) in the case of a licence granted after the commencement of this Act from the date of the commencement of supply.	None
and as from the said date, the licensee shall comply with the provisions of the said Schedules accordingly, and any provisions of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, and the licence granted to him thereunder and of any other law, agreement or instrument applicable to the licensee shall, in relation to the licensee, be void and of no effect in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Section 57A and the said Schedules.(b) the Board, or where no Board is constituted under this Act, the Provincial Government, may, if it is satisfied that the licensee has failed to comply with any provisions of the Sixth Schedule and shall when requested so to do by the licensee, constitute a rating committee to examine the licensees charges for the supply of electricity and to recommend thereon to the Provincial Government S. 57 (A) (1) Where the provisions of the Sixth Schedule and the Seventh Schedule are under Section 57 deemed to be incorporated in the licence of any licensee, the following provisions shall have effect in relation to the said licensee namely(a) the Board or where no Board is constituted under this Act, the State Government(i) may, if satisfied that the licensee has failed to comply with any of the provisions of the Sixth Schedule and (ii) shall, when so requested by the licensee in writing constitute a rating committee to examine the licensees charges for the supply of electricity and to make recommendations in that behalf to the State Government Provided that no rating committee shall be constituted in respect of a licensee within three years from the date on which such a committee has reported in respect of that licensee, unless the Provincial Government declares that in its opinion circumstances have arisen rendering the orders passed on the recommendations of the previous rating committee unfair to the licensee or any of his consumers.	None
Provided that where it is proposed to constitute a rating committee under this Section on account of the failure of the licensee to comply with any provisions of the Sixth Schedule, such committee shall not be constituted unless the licensee has been given a notice in writing of thirty clear days (which period if the circumstances so warrant may be extended from time to time) to show cause against the action proposed to be taken(c)	None
The rating committee shall, after giving the licensee a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after taking into consideration the efficiency of operation and management and the potentialities of his undertaking, report to the Provincial Government making recommendations (and giving reasons therefor) regarding the charges for electricity which the licensee may make to any class or classes of consumers so however that the recommendations are not likely to prevent the licensee from earning clear profits sufficient when taken with the sums available in the Tariffs and Dividends ControlpageSC1229Reserve to afford him a reasonable return during next succeeding three years of account if the potentialities of the undertaking of the licensee, with efficient operation and management, so permit.	None
Provided further that no such rating committee shall be constituted if the alleged failure of the licensee to comply with any provisions of the Sixth Schedule raises any dispute or difference as to the interpretation of the said provisions or any matter arising therefrom and such difference or dispute has been referred by the arbitration of the Authority under paragraph XVI of that schedule before the notice reffered to in the preceding proviso was given or is so reffered within the period of the said notice(c) Within one month after the receipt of the report under clause (b) the Provincial Government shall cause the report, to be published in the Official Gazette, and may at the same time make an order in accordance therewith fixing the licensees charges for the supply of electricity with effect from such date, not earlier than two months after the date of publication of the report, as may be specified in the order and the licensee shall forthwith give effect to such orderProvided further that no rating committee shall be constituted in respect of a licensee within three years from the date on which such a committee has reported in respect of that licensee, unless the State Government declares that in its opinion circumstances have arisen rendering the orders passed on the recommendations of the previous rating committee unfair to the licensee or any of his consumers Provided that nothing in this clause shall be deemed to prevent a licensee from reducing at any time any charges, so fixed.(b) a rating Committee under Clause (a) shall,(i) where such committee is to be constituted under subclause (i) of that clause, be constituted not later than three months after the expiry of the notice referred to in the first proviso to that clause THE SIXTH SCHEDULE.	None
I.	None
The Licensee shall so adjust his rates for the sale of electricity by periodical revision that his clear profit in any year shall not as far as possible exceed the amount of reasonable return(ii) where such committee is to be constituted at the request of the licensee, be constituted within three months of the date of such request Provided that the licensee shall not be considered to have failed so to adjust his rates if the clear profit in any year of account has not exceeded the amount of the reasonable return by more than thirty per centum of the amount of the reasonable return.	None
(c) a rating committee shall, after giving the licensee a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after taking into consideration the efficiency of operation and management and the potentialities of his undertaking, report to the State Government within three months from the date of its constitution, making recommendations with reasons therefor, regarding the charges for electricity which the licensee may make to any class or classes of consumers so, however, that the recommendations are not likely to prevent the licensee from earning clear profit, sufficient when taken with the sums available in the Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve to afford him a reasonable return as defined in the Sixth Schedule during his next succeeding three years of accountII.	None
(1) If the clear profit of a licensee in any year of account is in excess of the amount of reasonable return, onethird of such excess, not exceeding 7 1/2 per cent of the amount of reasonable return shall be at the disposal of the undertaking.	None
Of the balance of the excess, one half shall be appropriated to a reserve which shall be called the Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve and the remaining half shall either be distribued in the form of a proportionable rebate on the amounts collected from the sale of electricity and meter rentals or carried forward in the accounts of the licensee for distribution to the consumers in future, in such manner as the Provincial Government may direct.	None
Provided that the State Government may, if it so deems necessary extend the said period of three months by a further period not exceeding three months within which the report of the rating committee may be submitted to it(2)	None
The Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve shall be available for disposal by the licensee only to the extent by which the clear profit ispageSC1230less than the reasonable return in any year of account.(d) within one month after the receipt of the report under clause (c), the State Government shall cause the report to be published in the Official Gazette, an may at the some time make, an order in accordance therewith fixing the licensees charges for the supply of electricity with effect from such date, not earlier than two months or later than three months after the date of publication of the report as may be specified in the order and the licensee shall forthwith give effect to such order(3)	None
On the purchase of the under taking under the terms of its licence any balance remaining in the Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve shall be handed over to the purchaser and maintained as such Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve.(e) the charges for the supply of electricity fixed under clause (d) shall be in operation for such period not exceeding three years as the State Government may specify in the orderProvided that nothing in this clause shall be deemed to prevent a licensee from reducing at any two any charges so fixed.	None
THE SIXTH SCHEDULE.	None
1.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 (except subsection (2) of Section 22A) and the provisions in the licence of a licensee, the licensee shall so adjust his (charges) for the sale of electricity whether by enhancing or reducing them that his clear profit in any year of account shall not, as far as possible, exceed the amount of reasonable returnProvided that such (charges) shall not be enhanced more than once in any year of account Provided further that the licensee shall not be deemed to have failed so to adjust his (charges) if the clear profit in any year of account has not exceeded the amount of reasonable return by (twenty) per centum of the amount of reasonable return Provided further that the licensee shall not enhance the (charges) for the supply of electricity until after the expiry of a notice in writing of not less than sixty clear days of his intention to so enhance the (charges) given by him to the State Government and to the Board Provided further that if the (charges) of supply fixed in pursuance of the recommendations of a rating committee constituted under Sec.	None
57A are lower than those notified by the licensee under and in accordance with the preceding proviso, the licensee shall refund to the consumers the excess amount recovered by him from them Provided also that nothing in this Schedule shall be deemed to prevent a licensee from levying, with the previous approval of the State Government minimum charges for supply of electricity for any purpose.	None
IA.	None
The notice referred to in the third proviso to paragraph I shall be accompanied by such financial and technical data in support of the proposed enhancement of charges as the State Government may, by general or special order, specify.	None
II.	None
(1) If the clear profit of a licensee in any year of account is in excess of the amount of reasonable return, onethird of such excess, not exceeding (five per cent) of the amount of reasonable return shall be at the disposal of the undertaking.	None
Of the balance of the excess, onehalf shall be appropriated to a reserve which shall be called the Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve and the remaining half shall either be distributed in the form of a proportional rebate on the amounts collected from the sale of electricity and meter rentals or carried forward in the accounts of the licensee for distribution to the consumers in future, in such manner as the State Government may direct.(2) The Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve shall be available for disposal by the licensee only to the extent by which the clear profit is less than the reasonable return in any year of account.(3)	None
On the purchase of the undertaking under the terms of its licence any balance remaining in the Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve shall be handed over to the purchaser and maintained as such Tariffs and Dividends Control Reserve Provided that where the undertaking is purchased by the Board or the State Government the amount of the Reserve may be deducted from the price payable to the licensee.7.	None
From an examination of these provisions it would be seen that under the Supply Act prior to its amendment in 1956, the charges fixed by the Government under Section 57 (2) (c) remained in force unless reduced by the licensee in the meantime till the same were altered by a subsequent order made by the Government after getting a fresh recommendation from the rating committee but under the law as it now stands the rate fixed by the Government under Sec.	Reasoning
57 (A) (1) (d) would be in operation only for such period not exceeding three years as the State Government may specify in the order.	Reasoning
Thereafter it can be enhanced by the licensee in accordance with the provisions contained in Schedule VI.	None
It was urged on behalf of the appellants that the present Section 57 (A)(1) (e) can only govern the charges fixed under Section 57 (A) (1) (d) and it has no impact on an order made under the old Section 57 (2) (c).According to the appellants the charges so fixed can only be modified by the Government after getting a report from the rating committee.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Chagla, learned Counsel for the appellants contended that the consumers who get power from the respondent have a vested right in the charges fixed in 1952 and that vested right cannot be considered to have been taken away by the provisions of the Amending Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He argued that the provisions of the Amending Act are not retrospective in character nor is there any inconsistency between those provisions and the present provisions as the two operate on different fields hence in view of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, we must hold that the charges fixed by the Government in 1952 continue to be in operation.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection he relied on certain observations made by this Court in State of Punjab v. Mohar Singh, 19551 SCR 893 (AIR 1955 SC 84 ) and Deep Chand v. State of U. P., (1959)	Arguments of Petitioner
Supp (2) SCR 8(AIR 1959 SC 648 ).	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand it was contended by the learned Counsel for the respondent that the rights and liabilities of the respondents at present are exclusively regulated by the provisions of the Supply Act as it stands now the terms of licence as they originally stood or as they stood on the coming into force of the Supply Act in 1948 are of no consequence now they cannot be looked into for finding out the rights or duties of the licensee as at present for that purpose we must look into these terms as modified by the provisions of the Supply Act as it is now.	None
It was also urged on its behalf that there is no question of vested rights in these cases herein we are only concerned with the procedure to be adopted in modifying the charges fixed in 1952.8.	None
In Mohar Singhs case, 19551 SCR 893 (AIR 1955 SC 84 ) this Court laid down that the provisions of Section 6 (c), (d) and (e) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 relating to the consequences of the repeal of a law are applicable not only when an Act or Regulation is repealed simpliciter	None
but also to a case of repeal and simultaneous enactment reenacting all the provisions of the repealed law.	None
In the course of its judgment this Court observed that when the repeal is followed by a fresh legislation on the same subject, the Court has undoubtedly to look into the provisions of the new Act but that only for the purpose of determining whether they indicate a different intention.	None
The line of inquiry would be, not whether the new Act keeps alive the old rights and liabilities but whether it manifests any intention to destroy them.	None
In Deep Chands case, (1959) Supp (2) SCR 8 (AIR 1959 SC 648 )	None
this Court was considering the effect of repugnancy between a State Act and a Central Act.	None
The observations made in that context we think, have no bearing on the point in issue in this case.	None
It is true that when an existing Statute or Regulation is repealed and the same is replaced by fresh Statute or Regulation unless the new Statute or Regulation specifically or by necessary implication affects rights created under the old law those rights must be held to continue in force even after the new Statute or Regulation comes into force.	None
But in the cases before us there is no question of affecting any vested right.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that the charges fixed can be altered.	Reasoning
The controversy relates to the procedure to be adopted in altering them.	Reasoning
That controversy does not touch any vested right.	Reasoning
The procedure in question must necessorily be regulated by the law in force at the time of the alteration of the charges.9.	Reasoning
Section 57 of the Supply Act as it stands now lays down that the provisions of Schedule VI shall be deemed to be incorporated in the licence of every licensee not being a local authority, in the case of a licence granted before the commencement of the Act from the date of the commencement of the licensees next succeeding year of account.	None
Admittedly the licence with which we are concerned in these cases was granted even before the Supply Act was enacted.	None
Therefore quite clearly the licence in question is governed by the present Section 57.	None
Hence we have to read into that licence the provisions contained in Schedule VI.If any of the earlier provisions in the licence either as they stood when the licence was originally granted or as they stood modified as per the provisions of the Supply Act prior to its amendment in 1956 are inconsistent with the provisions of Schedule VI or Section 57 (A) as they are now they must be held to be void and of no effect.	None
In other words we must read into the licence the provisions of Schedule VI and strike out therefrom such terms as are inconsistent with those provisions and thereafter give effect to the same.	None
For determining the rights and duties of the licensee as at present we have only to look into the terms of the licence as modified by Schedule VI.	None
We cannot go behind them.	None
That much is clear from the language of the Supply Act.	None
The intention of the legislature is clear and unambiguous.	None
Therefore there is no need to call into aid any rule of statutory construction or any legal presumption.	None
Further no reason was advanced before us, nor can we conceive of any why those who obtained licences prior to the amendment of Supply Act in 1958 should be in a more disadvantageous position than those who got their licenses thereafter.	None
Correspondingly we fail to see why those who are served by licensees who obtained their licences prior to the amendment of the Supply Act in 1958 should be placed in a better position than those served by licensees who obtained their licenses thereafter.	None
After all, every law has some reason behind it.	None
Section 57 (A) (2) (c) was intended to meet the changing economic circumstances.	None
The purpose behind the new provisions appears to be to permit the licensees to so adjust their charges as to get reasonable profits.	None
But at the same time a machinery has been provided to see whether any excess charges have been levied and if levied, get the same refunded to the consumers.10.	None
The law declared by the Amending Act does not affect any right or privilege, accrued under the repealed provision.	Reasoning
It merely prescribes as to what could or should be done in future.	Reasoning
Therefore there is no basis for saying that it affects vested rights.	Reasoning
For finding out the power of the licensee to alter the charges one has to look to the terms of the licence in the light of the law as it stands, the past history of that law being wholly irrelevant.	Reasoning
If the terms of the licence, including the deemed terms permit him to unilaterally alter the charges then he has that right.	Reasoning
If we merely look at those terms, as we think we ought to, then there is no dispute that the respondent was within its rights in enhancing the charges as admittedly it had followed the procedure prescribed by law.	Reasoning
We also do not agree with Mr. Chagla in his contention that there is no inconsistency between the present scheme relating to the enhancement of charges visavis the scheme provided under the Supply Act prior to its amendment in 1956.	Reasoning
The two schemes are substantially different.	Reasoning
Under the former scheme once the Government fixes the charges the licensee cannot alter it but at present at the end of the period fixed in the Government order the licensee has a unilateral right to enhance the charges in accordance with the conditions prescribed in VI th Schedule.	Reasoning
Therefore in view of Section 57 the provisions contained in that schedule have an overriding effect.11.	Reasoning
In Amalgamated Electricity Co.	None
Ld. v. N. S. Bhathena, 19647 SCR 503 (Am 1964 SC 1598)	None
this Court was called upon to consider the scope of Section 57 (A) and the Schedule VI as it stands now.	None
Therein the controversy was whether the appellant therein was entitled to levy charges more than the maximum charges prescribed in its licence issued in 1932.	None
It may be noted that in that case the notice of enhancement of the charges was given on September 25, 1958.	None
This Court held that the maximum stipulated in the licence no longer governed the right of the licensee to enhance the charges his rights were exclusively governed by the provisions contained in paragraph I of Schedule VI of the Supply Act.	None
It is true that in that case this Court was considering the right of the licensee under the Supply Act visavis his right under the licence granted under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 but that difference is not material.	None
What this Court in fact considered was the right of the licensee under the existing law to enhance the charges.	None
Dealing with the scope of paragraph I of Schedule VI, Ayyangar, J., who spoke for the majority observed thusPara I of Schedule VI both as it originally stood and as amended, as seen already, empowered the licensee to adjust his rates, so that his clear profit in any year shall not, as far as possible exceed the amount of reasonable return.	None
We shall reserve for later consideration the meaning of the expression so adjust his rates.	None
But one thing is clear and that is that the adjustment is unilateral and that the licensee has a statutory right to adjust his rates provided he conforms to the requirements of that paragraph viz.	None
, the rate charged does not yield a profit exceeding the amount of reasonable return.	None
The conclusion is therefore irresistible that the maxima prescribed by the State Government which bound the licensee under the Electricity Act of 1910 no longer limited the amount which a licensee could charge after the Supply Act, 1948 came into force Since the clear profit and reasonable return which determined the rate to be charged was to be computed on the basis of very different criteria and factors than what obtained under the Electricity Act12.	None
For the reasons mentioned above, these appeals fail and they are dismissed with costs.	Decision
One hearing fee.13.	None
Appeals dismissed.	None
