 B. Sawant, J. Leave granted in all the petitions.	None
These four groups of appeals raise common questions of law relating to the abolition of contract system of labour.	None
Civil appeals C. A. No. 5497 and 5504/95 arising out of S. L. P. (c) Nos. 2613 of 1991 and 13520 of 1991 are filed by the Managements, viz., Gujarat Electricity Board and M s. Bihar State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Ltd.	None
respectively, while Civil Appeals 549802/95, 5503/95 arising out of S. L. P. (C) Nos. 931014 of 1991 and 9315 of 1991 are filed by the employees unions, viz., Delhi officers and Establishment Employees Union and New Delhi General Mazdoor Union respectively, both against the same management, viz., Standing Conference Of Public Enterprises (SCOPE) and Anr.	None
For the sake of convenience, we will first deal with the facts in Civil Appeal 5497/95 arising out of S. L. P. (C)	None
No. 2613 of 1991 and the questions of law as they arise therefrom.	None
C.A. No. 5497/95, S. L. P. (C)	None
No. 2613 of 1991The appellant  board runs a Thermal Power Station at Ukai in Gujarat where it generates and distributes electricity to the consumers.	Facts
At the relevant time besides the direct workmen, the Board deployed through various contractors 1500 skilled and unskilled manual laboureres to carry on the work of loading and unloading of coal and for feeding the same in the hoppers and for doing the cleaning and other allied activities in its power station.	Facts
It appears that these workmen hailed from the adivasi area and many of them had lost their land on account of the construction of the Thermal Power Project of the Board with the result that the employment in the power station was the only means of livelihood left for them.	Facts
The contractors, according to the respondent  Union, exploited these workmen by flouting labour laws.	Facts
Ultimately, the workmen organised themselves into a trade union.	Facts
But on that count they were victimised and on 16th November, 1981, the services of a thousand of these workmen were abruptly terminated.	Facts
The Union, therefore, filed a writ petition in the High Court praying for direction to reinstate the workmen and for implementing and enforcing the Factories Act, the Employees Provident Fund Act, the Payment of Wages Act and other labour enactments.	Facts
The High Court by its order of 16th December, 1981 appointed one Shri Israni as a Court Commissioner to make detailed enquiries regarding the allegations made in the writ partition and also to try to remove the dispute between the parties.	Facts
The Commissioner held talks with the concerned parties and also associated the officers of the Labour Department of the Government with the said talks.	Facts
It was agreed by and between the parties, viz., the Board and the contractors on the one hand and the workmen on the other, that all the workmen whose names and numbers were mutually agreed to, be allowed to enter the power station for work from 4th January, 1982 and that a settlement under S.2(p) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (for short the ID Act) be duly executed in that behalf.	Facts
It was further agreed that the remaining disputes between the parties, viz., those relating to the revision of wages of the workmen, their rights and privileges arising out of the Factories Act, Employees Provident Fund Act, Maternity Benefits Act and the Workmens Compensation Act as well as the disputes with regard to the workmens contention that they were the employees of the Board, be referred for adjudication by a joint reference under S.10 (2) of the ID Act.	Facts
Accordingly, a joint application was made to the Assistant Commissioner of Labour under S.10 (2) of the ID Act requesting him that the disputes mentioned therein be referred for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal and consequently the reference from which the present proceedings arise was made.	Facts
The terms of the reference were as follows Whether the workers whose services are engaged by the contractors, but who are working in the Thermal Power Station of Gujarat Electricity Board at Ukai, can legally claim to be the employees of the G.E.B.?	Facts
(2) If yes, whether such employees can claim the following rights which the other employees of Gujarat Electricity Board are already enjoying?	Facts
(a) weekly off, (b) sick leave (c) C. L., (d) Earned or Privilege Leave, (e) Maternity Leave and other benefits to female employees, (f) Gratuity, (g) Provident Fund, (h) Bonus and (i) Wage scales, etc., (3) If they are not held to be the employees of Gujarat Electricity Board, what are their rights in respect of the matters mentioned in (2) above, against their respective employers?	Facts
(4) Whether such employees prove that during the years 1979, 1980 and 1981, they or any of them were made to work overtime.	Facts
If yes, what would be due to them on that account and from whom?	Facts
(5) Whether such employees are entitled to revision of their present wages?	Facts
If yes, what should be their revised wages and from which date?	Facts
(6) Whether the said employees prove that so far as their services are concerned, there have been breaches of any of the provisions of the Factories Act, Employees Provident Fund Act, Maternity Benefits and Workmens Compensation Acts.	Facts
If yes, what relief can be legally given to them in that respect and from which date?	None
Before the Tribunal, the Union filed the statement of claim as well as an application for interim relief.	None
Both the Board and the contractors submitted their reply to the application for interim relief.	Facts
The Tribunal gave its award being Award Part I dated 30th April, 1982 giving interim relief whereby the Board was directed to pay wages to the workmen at the rate of Rs. 9.40 per day from lst April, 1982 till the disposal of the main reference.	Facts
Under the said Award, the Board was directed to give to the workmen leave with wages and weekly off in accordance with the provisions of the Factories Act, and maternity benefits as per the provisions of the Maternity Benefits Act.	Facts
To the main reference, written statements were filed both by the Board and the contractors.	Facts
The Board also filed application stating therein that in the meanwhile some of the contractors who were engaged and who were parties to the reference were no longer working with it and that new contractors were engaged in their place.	Facts
The Tribunal joined the new contractors as parties to the dispute.	Facts
Likewise, the Union also made an application for joining some of the contractors as parties and they were joined as parties to the reference.	Facts
Some contractors filed applications for decision on the preliminary point raised in their written statement that since demand Nos. 1 and 2 in the reference amounted to a demand for abolition of contract labour system, the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain the said demand and that the said point should be heard first.	Facts
This application was rejected by the Tribunal.	Facts
After recording evidence and hearing the parties, the Tribunal by its award came to the conclusion that quite a number of skilled and unskilled employees were employed in the Thermal Power Station for unloading of coal wagons, breaking of coal, feeding them in hoppers, stacking, cleaning earth work, fabrication jobs etc., that the labourers were the local adivasis and they were not given any leave or other facilities before 1982 except the wages which were very meagre, that workmen were doing all types of unskilled jobs which they were asked to do and that they were rotated in different jobs.	Facts
Further, while the contractors had changed, the workmen continued to work and the workmen were working for periods ranging from 5 to 8 years.	Facts
The contractors had not maintained any records and were not providing any facilities whatsoever.	Facts
The contractors had no licence under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and that no relevant original certificate of registration or licence had been brought on record.	Facts
The registration certificate and four licences produced by the Board were ignored by the Tribunal on the ground that they were only copies and nothing had been produced in support of their authenticity.	Facts
The Tribunal also held that even otherwise, these documents were not relevant since the registration certificate produced pertained to the contractors who were not concerned in the present case while the licences produced were for a period subsequent to the date of the reference.	Facts
The Tribunal relied on the decisions of the High Court of Madras and Karnataka, viz., Workmen of BEST and Crompton Industries Ltd. v. Management of BEST and crompton Engineering Ltd., Madras (1985 (1) Lab LJ 492), and Food Corporation of India Loading and Unloading Workers Union v. Food Corporation of India (1987 (1) Lab LJ 407), respectively and held that the workmen concerned in the reference could not be the workmen of the contractors.	Facts
The Tribunal then proceeded to analyse the position of each of the seven contractors involved in the reference, and held, on the basis of the evidence concerning the said contractors and the workmen working under them, that the workmen of all the seven contractors should be deemed to be the workmen of the Board.	Facts
The Tribunal also gave consequential direction for payment of arrears of wages to the workmen by adjusting the advances which were given to them by the interim directions of the tribunal.	Facts
Against the said award of the Tribunal, the Board preferred a writ petition before the High Court.	Facts
The High Court by its decision under challenge before us, held, among other things, that there was no demand for abolition of contract labour system as contended by the Board and hence the preliminary objection raised by the Board that the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to consider the question of the abolition of contract labour system in view of the provisions of the Act, had no merit in it.	Facts
The High Court held that the Tribunal was called upon to decide as to whether the workers who were engaged for working in the Thermal Power Station were employees of the Board or of the contractors.	Facts
Hence the Tribunal was required to examine the reality behind the facade after piercing the veil.	Facts
The High Court also held, negativing the contention to the contrary, that the Tribunal had not based its finding on the sole ground that there were no valid licences for certain periods for certain contractors issued under the provisions of the Act.	Facts
The Tribunal had decided the question on overall consideration of the facts and circumstances and on the grounds apart from the absence of valid licences.	Facts
One of the factors taken into consideration by the Tribunal was the continuous nature of work.5.	Facts
Before us the main contention advanced on behalf of the appellant  Board is that after the coming into force of the Act, it is only the appropriate Government which can abolish the contract labour system after consulting the Central Board or the State Board, as the case may be and no other authority including the industrial adjudicator has jurisdiction either to entertain such dispute or to direct its abolition.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended on behalf of the Board that in any case neither the appropriate Government nor the industrial adjudicator has the power to direct that the workmen of the erstwhile contractor should be deemed to be the workmen of the principal employer and such a direction is contrary to the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
The Central Government or the industrial adjudicator as the case may be, can only direct the abolition of the contract labour system as per the provisions of the Act but the Act does not permit either of them to declare the erstwhile workmen of the contractor to be the employees of the principal employer.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is also contended that if the contract is genuine as evidenced by the registration certificate granted to the principal employer and the licence issued to the contractor, then it would have to be held that the workmen concerned are in effect the workmen of the contractor and not the workmen of the principal employer and hence no dispute can be raised under the ID Act by such workmen for any relief since it is only the workmen present or past who can raise such a dispute under the ID Act for relief against their employer.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, it is contended on behalf of the workmen that the Act does not prevent or prohibit the raising of dispute under the ID Act for abolition of the contract labour system.	Arguments of Respondent
Where the contract is genuine, the workmen of the principal employer can raise the dispute for abolition of the contract labour system.	Arguments of Respondent
Where it is not genuine, the workmen of the so called contractors themselves can raise a dispute for a declaration that they are in fact the employees of the principal employer.	Arguments of Respondent
In either case, on the basis of the well known factors laid down by the judicial decisions to establish the relationship of the employer and the employees between the parties, the Tribunal or the Court, as the case may be, will have jurisdiction to declare the contract labourers as the direct employees of the principal employer and grant consequential reliefs.	Arguments of Respondent
In view of the aforesaid contentions, the questions that fall for consideration in this appeal, which are common to all appeals are, as follows(a) Whether an industrial dispute can be raised for abolition of the contract labour system in view of the provisions of the Act?(b)	Issue
If so, who can raise such dispute?(c) Whether the Industrial Tribunal or the appropriate Government has the power to abolish the contract labour system?, and(d)	Issue
In case the contract labour system is abolished, what is the status of the erstwhile workmen of the contractors?7.	Issue
We may first refer to the relevant provisions of the Act The Statement of Objects and Reasons accompanying the Bill provided as under The system of employment of contract labour lends itself to various abuses.	None
The question of its abolition has been under the consideration of Government for a long time.	None
In the Second Five Year Plan, the Planning Commission made certain recommendations, namely, undertaking of studies to ascertain the extent of the problem of contract labour, progressive abolition of the system and improvement of service conditions of contract labour where the abolition was not possible, The matter was discussed at various meetings of Tripartite Committees at which the State Governments were also represented and general consensus of opinion was that the system should be abolished wherever possible or practicable and that in cases where this system could not be abolished altogether, the working condition of contract labour should be regulated so as to ensure payment of wages and provision of essential amenities.2.	None
The proposed Bill aims at abolition of contract labour in respect of such categories as may be notified by appropriate Government in the light of certain criteria that have been laid down, and at regulating the service conditions of contract labour where abolition is not possible.	None
The Bill provides for the setting up of Advisory Boards of a tripartite character, representing various interests, to advise Central and State Governments in administering the legislation and registration of establishments and contractors.	None
Under the scheme of the Bill, the provision and maintenance of certain basic welfare amenities of contract labour, like drinking water and first aid facilities, and in certain cases restrooms and canteens, have been made obligatory provisions have also been made to guard against details in the matter of wage payment.	None
As the preamble of the Act points out, the Act has been placed on the statue book for two purposes, viz., (i) to regulate the employment of contract labour, and (ii) to provide for its abolition in certain circumstances and for matters connected there with.	None
It is thus clear that the Act does contemplate the total abolition of contract labour but its abolition only in certain circumstances and to regulate the employment of contract labour in certain establishments.	None
The object as well as the provisions of the Act also show that the Parliament while realising the need for abolishing the contact labour system in certain circumstances also felt the need to continue it in other circumstances by properly regulating the same.	None
The Act came into force on and from 5th September, 1970.	None
It applies to (a) every establishment in which 20 or more workmen are employed or were employed as contract labour on any day of the preceding 12 months and (b) to every contractor who employs or employed on any day of the preceding 12 months 20 or more workmen.	None
Liberty is given to the appropriate Government to apply the provisions of the Act to any establishment employing such number of workmen less than 20 as may be specified in the notification.	None
The provisions of subsection (5) of S.1 of the Act make it clear (a) that the Act will not apply to establishments in which work only of an intermittent or casual nature is performed and (b) if question arises whether work performed in an establishment is of an intermittent nature, the appropriate Government shall decide that question after consultation with the Central Advisory Board or the State Advisory Board as the case may be and that its decision shall be final.	None
The explanation to the said subsection (5), makes it clear that the work performed in an establishment shall not be deemed to be of an intermittent nature (i) if it was performed for more than 120 days in the preceding 12 months or (ii) if it is of a seasonal character and is performed for more than 60 days in a year.	None
S.2 (a) gives definition of appropriate Government, S.2 (e), defines establishment to mean (a) any office or department of the Government or a local authority and (b) any place where any industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation is carried on.	None
S.2 (g), defines principal employer.	None
S.2 (i), defines workmen as under.	None
workmen means any person employed in or in connection with the work of any establishment to do any skilled, semi skilled or unskilled manual, supervisory, technical or clerical work for hire or reward, whether the terms of employment be express or implied, but does not include any such person,(a) who is employed mainly in a managerial or administrative capacity or(b) who, being employed in supervisory capacity draws wages exceeding five hundred rupees per mensem or exercises, either by the nature of the duties attached to the office or by reason of the powers vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial nature or(c) who is an out worker, that is to say, a person to whom any articles and materials are given out by or on behalf of the principal employer to be made up, cleaned, washed, altered, ornamented, finished, repaired, adapted or otherwise processed for sale for, the purposes of the trade or business of the principal employer and the process is to be carried out either in the home of the out workers or in some other premises, not being premises, under the control and management of the principal employer.	None
Sections 3 and 4 require the Central and the State Governments to constitute respectively Central and State Advisory Contract Labour Boards.	None
S.7 requires every principal employer of an establishment to which the Act applies, to make an application in the prescribed form to the registering officer for registration of the establishment.	None
S.8 provides for revocation of the registration if the registration of any establishment has been obtained by misrepresentation or suppression of any material fact or if for any other reason, the registration has become useless or ineffective.	None
S.9 of the Act speaks of the effect of non registration.	None
It states that no principal employer of an establishment shall employ contract labour in the establishment after the time fixed for the purpose.	None
S.10 then provides as follows Prohibition of employment of contract labour  (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the appropriate Government may, after consultation with the Central Board or, as the case may be, a State Board, prohibit, by notification in the Official Gazette, employment of contract labour in any process, operation or other work in any establishment.(2) Before issuing any notification under subsection (1) in relation to an establishment, the appropriate Government shall have regard to the conditions of work and benefits provided for the contract labour in that establishment and other relevant factors, such as(a) whether the process, operation or other work is incidental to, or necessary for the industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation that is carried on in the establishment(b) whether it is of perennial nature, that is to say, it is of sufficient duration having regard to the nature of industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation carried on in that establishment(c) whether it is done ordinarily through regular workmen in that establishment or an establishment similar thereto(d) whether it is sufficient to employ considerable number of whole time workmen.	None
Explanation If a question arises whether any process or operation or other work is of perennial nature, the decision of the appropriate Government thereon shall be final.	None
S.12 provides for the licensing of the contractors and states that no contractors shall undertake or execute any work through contract labour except under and in accordance with the licence issued.	None
It also provides that the licence issued may contain such conditions including any particular conditions as to hours of work, fixation of wages and other essential amenities in respect of contract labour as the appropriate Government may deem fit to impose, in accordance with the rules, if any, made under S.35.	None
S.13 provides for the grant of licences in the prescribed form and the application for licence has to contain the particulars regarding the location of the establishment, the nature of process, the operation or work for which contract labour is to be employed and such of the particulars as may be prescribed.	None
The licensing officer on receipt of the application has to make investigation, and the licence if granted is valid for the period specified therein and may be renewed form time to time for such period and on such conditions as may be prescribed.	None
The following conditions are prescribed by R.25 (2) the licence shall be non transferable the number of workmen employed as contract labour in the establishment shall not, on any day, exceed the maximum number specified in the licence save as provided in these rules, the fees paid for the grant, or as the case may be, for renewal of the licence shall be non refundable the rates of wages payable to the workmen by the contractor shall not be less than the rates prescribed under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 for such employment where applicable and where the rates have been fixed by agreement, settlement or award, not less than the rates so fixed (v) (a) in cases where the workmen employed by the contractor perform the same or similar kind of work as the workmen directly employed by the principal employer of the establishment, the wage rates, holidays, hours of work and other conditions of service of the workmen of the contract shall be the same as applicable to the workmen directly employed by the principal employer of the establishment on the same or similar kind of work Provided that in the case of any disagreement with regard to the type of work the same shall be decided by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) (b) in other cases the wage rates, holidays, hours of work and conditions of service of the workmen of the contract shall be such as may be specified in this behalf by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central).	None
S.14 states that if the licensing officer is satisfied either on a reference made to him in this behalf or otherwise, that among other things, the holder of a licence has obtained the licence by misrepresentation or suppression of any material fact or has without reasonable cause failed to comply with the conditions subject to which the licence has been granted or has contravened any provision of the Act or the Rules made thereunder, he can cancel the licence.	None
The cancellation is without prejudice to any other penalty to which the holder of the licence may be liable under the Act.	None
S.20 casts an obligation on the principal employer to provide any amenity required to be provided under the Act to the contract labour and permits the principal employer to recover all expenses from the contractor incurred by him for providing the amenities.	None
S.21 likewise makes the contractor responsible for payment of wages to each worker employed by him, and every employer to nominate a representative to be present at the time of the disbursement of the wages.	None
In case the contractor fails to make the payment within the prescribed period or makes short payment, the principal employer is made liable to make payment of wages in full or the unpaid balance as the case may be and the principal employer is permitted to recover the amount so paid, from the contractor.	None
Sections 22 to 27 of chapter VI prescribe penalties for contravention of the provisions of the Act.	None
S.29 of chapter VII requires every principal employer and every contractor to maintain such registers and records giving such particulars of contract labour employed, the nature of work performed by the contract labour, the rates of wages paid to the contract labour and such other particulars in such form as may be prescribed.	None
S.30 makes the laws and agreements inconsistent with the Act, ineffective while saving the more beneficial service conditions of the contract labourers.	None
S.31 empowers the appropriate government to grant exemption to any establishment or class of establishments or any class of contractors from complying with the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder on such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed.	None
Under the Act the Government has in exercise of power granted by S.35 of the Act made Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Rules, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules) which have come into force form 10th February, 1971, R.17 (1) prescribes a form, viz.,	None
Form I, for application, referred to in S.7(1), for registration of the establishment, to be made by the principal employer for employing contract labour.	None
The form shows that the employer has to furnish, among other things, information with regard to (i) nature of work carried on in the establishment, (ii) particulars of contractors and contract labour, viz.,(a) names and addresses of contractors.	None
(b) nature of work in which the contract labour is employed or to be employed, (c) maximum number of contract labour to be employed on any day through each contractor, (d) estimated date of commencement of each contact labour under each contractor and (e) estimated date of termination of employment of contract labour under each contractor.	None
R.18(1) provides for Form II of the certificate of registration to be granted under S.7(2) of the Act.	None
The certificate of registration has to contain (i) the name and address of the establishment, (ii) the maximum number of workmen to be employed as contract labour in the establishment, (iii) the type of business, trade, industry, manufacture or occupation which is carried on in the establishment, (iv) the names and addresses of contractors, (v) nature of work in which contract labour is employed or is to be employed and (vi) other particulars relevant to the employment of contract labour.	None
R.18 (3) requires the registering officer to maintain a register in a form showing the particulars of establishment in relation to with certificate of registration has been issued and the register of establishment has, in addition, to show the total number of workmen directly employed by the employer.	None
R.18 (4) requires that any change in the particulars specified in the certificate of registration has to be intimated by the employer to the registering officer within 30 days from the date of the change and the particulars of and the reasons for such change.	None
R.20 provides for an amendment of the certificate of registration pursuant to the change intimated by the employer under R.18 (4) which amendment has to be granted by the registering officer only after satisfying himself that there has occurred a change.	None
R.21 provides for an application for a licence to be made by the contractor in Form IV.	None
The form requires information with regard, among other things, to (i) name and address of the contractor, (ii) particulars of establishment where contract labour is to be employed such as (a) name and address of the establishment, (b) type of business, trade, industry, manufacture or occupation which is carried on in the establishment, (c) number and date of certificate of registration of the establishment under the Act and (d) name and addresses of employer and (iii) particulars of contract labour such as (a) nature of work in which contract labour is or is to be employed in the establishment, (b) duration of the proposed contract work giving particulars of the proposed date of commencing and ending of the contract work (c) name and address of the agency or manager of contractor at the work site (d) maximum number of contract labour proposed to be employed in the establishment on any date.	None
R.21(1) also requires certificate in Form V by the principal employer that he has engaged the applicant  contractor as a contractor in his establishment and that he undertakes to be bound by all the provisions of the Act and the Rules.	None
R.25 prescribes the form and the terms and conditions on which licence is issued to the contractor.	None
The conditions on which the licence is issued include the condition that the licence shall be non transferable and the number of workmen employed as contract labour in the establishment shall not on any date exceed the maximum number specified in the licence and that the rates of wages payable to the workmen by the contractor shall not be less than the rates prescribed under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 for such employment, and where the rates have been fixed by agreement, settlement or award, the same shall not be less than the rates so fixed.	None
In cases where the workmen employed by the contractor perform the same or similar or similar kind of work as the workmen directly employed by the employer of the establishment, the wage rates, holidays, hours of work and other conditions of service of the workmen of the contractor shall be the same as applicable to the workmen directly employed by the employer.	Reasoning
In other cases, the wage rates, holidays, hours of work and condition of service of the contractors workmen shall be such as may be specified in that behalf by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central).	Reasoning
While specifying the wage rates, holidays etc.	None
the Chief Labour Commissioner has to have regard to the wage rates, holidays etc. obtaining in similar employments.	None
The licensee  contractor has to notify any change in the number of workmen or the conditions of work.	None
R.27 states that every licence granted to the contractor shall remain in force for 12 months from the date it is granted or renewed.	None
R.29 provides for renewal of licences.	None
R.32 provides for the grant of temporary certificate of registration and licences where the contract labour is not estimated to last for more than 15 days.	None
R.75 requires every contractor to maintain in respect of each registered establishment a register in Form XIII.	None
This form mentions details to be given in respect, among others, of the name and address of the principal employer and of the establishment the name and address of the contractor and the nature and location of work, the name and surname of each workman and their permanent home address, the date of commencement of employment, the signature of thumb impression of workman, the date of termination of employment and reason for termination.	None
R.76 requires that every contractor shall issue an employment card in form XIV to each worker within three days of the employment of the worker.	None
R.77 requires that every employer shall issue service certificate to each of the workmen.	None
The provisions of the Act and of the Rules show, among other things, that every principal employer engaging a contractor and every contractor engaging the contract labour in the establishment, has to obtain for the purpose, registration certificate and the licences respectively from the authority under the Act.	None
The nature of work for which the contract labour is engaged, the maximum number of the contract labour proposed to be engaged, the period for which such labour is to be employed, the names and addresses of the workmen so employed have also to be furnished to the authority.	None
The workmen have to be paid minimum wages and where there are agreements, settlements etc.	None
the wages which are agreed to thereunder have to be paid.	None
Further, if the contract labour is employed for doing the same type of work as is done by the direct employees of the principal employer, wages have to be paid and facilities given to the contract labour as are paid or given to the direct employees of the principal employer.	None
Any change in the nature of employment or the number of the workmen to be employed and the period for which they are to be employed etc. has to be intimated to the authority concerned.	None
If any amenity is required by the provisions of the Act to be provided for the benefit of the contract labour, viz., canteens, rest rooms, drinking water, latrine, urinals, washing facilities and first aid facilities, and is not provided by the contractor within time prescribed therefor, it is the principal employer who is required to provide the same within such time as may be prescribed.	None
The principal employer can, however, recover the expenses of providing such facilities from the contractors account or as a debt payable by the contractor.	None
Further, the principal employer is required to nominate the representative duly authorised by him to be present at the time of the disbursement of wages by the contractor to the labour, and such representative is required to certify the wages paid to the labour.	None
It is the principal employer who has to ensure the payment of wages of the contract labour and in case the contractor fails to make payment of wages within the prescribed period or makes short payment, it is the principal employer who is made liable to make the payment of wages in full or the unpaid balance due, as the case may be.	None
He can recover the amounts so paid from the contractors account or as a debt payable by the contractor.	None
The contractor is also required to obtain a licence before undertaking or executing any work through contract labour and he can execute such work only in accordance with the licence issued to him.	None
The application for licence has to indicate the location of the establishment, the nature of process, operation or work for which contract labour is to be employed and other particulars, prescribed under the Rules.	None
The licence issued has to contain conditions relating to the hours of work, fixation of wages and essential amenities.	None
The contravention of any provision of the Act including contravention of any condition of the licence granted to the contractor is made a penal offence.	None
Further, under S.10 of the Act, the authority to prohibit employment of contract labour in any process, operation or other work in any establishment has been vested in the appropriate Government which has to exercise it after consultation with the Central Board or the State Board as the case may be.	None
Before issuing the notification prohibiting the contract labour, the appropriate Government has to have regard to the conditions of work and benefits provided for the contract labour in the establishment and other relevant factors such as (a) whether the process, operation or other work is incidental to or necessary for the industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation that is carried on in the establishment, (b) whether it is of perennial nature, i.e., whether it is of sufficient duration having regard to the nature of industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation carried on in the establishment, (c) whether it is done ordinarily through direct workmen in that establishment or an establishment similar thereto, and (d) whether it is sufficient to employ considerable number of whole time workers.	None
The explanation to that section makes the decision of the appropriate Government final with regard the question whether the process, operation or other work is of perennial nature.	None
The effect of non registration of an establishment under the Act is that the establishment cannot employ contract labour.	None
So also, the effect of non licensing of the contractor is that the contractor is precluded from undertaking or executing any work through contract labour.	None
It is against the background of these provisions of the Act and in the light of the decisions of this Court which are cited before us that we have to answer the questions raised in these appeals.	None
On the basis of the the provisions of S.10, it is contended that no industrial dispute can be raised to abolish contract labour in any process, operation or other work in any establishment.	None
The contention is two fold.	None
In the first instance, it is argued that the said section gives exclusive authority to the appropriate Government to prohibit contract labour and that too after following the procedure laid down therein.	None
Before taking the decision to prohibit, the appropriate Government has to (i) consult the Central Board or the State Board, as the case may be (ii) have regard to the conditions of work and benefits provided for the contract labour in that establishment and (iii) have regard to other relevant factors such as  (a) whether the process, operation or the connected work is incidental to, or necessary for the industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation that is carried on in the establishment (b) whether it is of perennial nature, that is to say, it is of sufficient duration having regard to the nature of industry, trade, business, manufacture or occupation carried on in that establishment (c) whether it is done ordinarily through direct workmen in that establishment or an establishment similar thereto (d) whether it is sufficient to employ considerable number of whole time workmen.	None
The other contention is that the decision of the appropriate Government in that behalf is final and the decision is not liable to be challenged in any Court including before the industrial adjudicator.	None
In support of the first contention, reliance was placed on the following decisions of this Court	None
In Vegoils Pvt. Ltd. v. The Workmen, (1972 (1) SCR 673 AIR 1972 SC 1942 ), the facts were that the appellant, a private limited company carried on the business of manufacturing edible oils, soaps and certain byproducts, and employed about 700 permanent workmen for the purpose.	None
However, for loading and unloading seed and oil cake bags and for feeding hoppers in the solvent extraction plant, it employed labour through a contractor.	None
The direct workmen raised an industrial dispute claiming, inter alia, that the work of loading and unloading seed bags as well as that of feeding hoppers was of a perennial nature and hence the contract labour in respect of the said work should be abolished.	None
The Industrial Tribunal held that the work of feeding the hoppers could not be said to be intermittent and sporadic as claimed by the company and that it was closely connected with the principal activity of the appellant.	None
The Tribunal also recorded a finding that in similar plants in the region, the work of feeding the hoppers was carried on by permanent workmen.	None
Hence, the Tribunal held that the company should carry out this work through permanent workmen.	None
As regards loading and unloading of seed and cake bags, the Tribunal held that these activities were also closely connected with the main industry and the work was of a permanent character.	None
Although the comparable units in the same region carried on the working of loading and unloading through contract labour, the Tribunal held that since the contract labour has to be discouraged, the appellant must employ only permanent workmen for doing the said job as well.	None
The Tribunal then referred to the Act, (i.e., the Contract Labour(Regulation and Abolition Act) as well as to a State enactment, viz., Maharashtra Mathadi Hamal and Other Manual Workers (Regulation of Employment and Welfare) Act, 1969 and observed that these two enactments also supported its view.	None
In appeal before this Court, the company, apart from questioning the Tribunals decision on merits, challenged the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to consider the question of the abolition of contract labour in view of the provisions of the two Acts.	None
This Court held that the Tribunal acquired jurisdiction to entertain the dispute in view of the reference made by the State Government on April 17, 1967.	None
On that date, neither the Central Act nor the Maharashtra Act had been passed.	None
Even during the proceedings before the Tribunal, the company raised no objection after the passing of the two enactments that the Tribunal had no longer jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the dispute.	None
Under these circumstances, the Tribunal had to adjudicate upon the points referred to it having due regard to the principles laid down by the courts particularly this Court governing the abolition of contract labour.	None
The Court further held that the Act had received the assent of the President before the passing of the Tribunals award while the State Act had come into force before the passing of the Tribunals award while the State Act had come into force before the passing of the award.	None
Though the contention that the Tribunal lost jurisdiction to consider the question of contract labour in view of these enactments could not be accepted, it was held that this Court would be justified when dealing with appeal, to give effect particularly to the provisions of the Act having due regard to the clearly expressed intention of the legislature in the said Act regarding the circumstances under which contract labour could be abolished.	None
The Court also held that even according to the evidence of the companys witnesses it was clear that the feeding of hoppers in the solvent extraction plant was an activity closely and intimately connected with the main activity of the appellant, and that excepting for a few days, this work had to go on continuously throughout the year.	None
It could not also be said that by employing contract labour for the purpose, the appellant would be enabled to keep down the costs on the ground that there would not be sufficient work for all the workmen if permanent labour was employed.	None
Further, the award of the Tribunal abolishing the contract labour in respect of feeding the hoppers was fully justified because it was in accordance with the principles laid down by this Court which were substantially incorporated in clauses (a) to (d) of S.10(2) of the Act and upheld the direction of the Tribunal in that regard.	None
However, this Court held that the Tribunals direction to the company not to engage any labour through a contractor for the work of loading and unloading after May 1,1971 must be set aside.	None
Since the Act had come into force on 10th February, 1971 and under S.10 of the Act the jurisdiction to decide matters connected with the prohibition of contract labour was vested in the appropriate Government, it is only the appropriate Government that can prohibit contract labour by following the procedure and in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	None
The Court also held that the Industrial Tribunal in the circumstances had no jurisdiction, though its award was dated 20th November, 1970, to give a direction in that respect which becomes enforceable after the date of the coming into operation of the Act.	None
Further under clause (c) of S.10(2) of the Act, one of the relevant factors to be taken into account when contract labour regarding any particular type of work is proposed to be established, is whether that type of work is done ordinarily through direct workmen in the establishment or an establishment similar thereto.	None
In the case before the Court, similar establishments employed contract labour for loading and unloading but the evidence also showed that the work of loading and unloading required varying number of workmen.	None
It will thus appear from this decision firstly, that an industrial dispute can be raised by the direct workmen of the establishment for abolition of the contract labour system.	Arguments of Respondent
Secondly, although on the date the dispute was raised the act was not in force, and hence the dispute with regard to the abolition of the contract labour system had to be decided by the Tribunal, since the Act came into force at the time of the decision, the dispute had to be decided in accordance with the provisions of the Act.	None
Hence on and after the coming into force of the Act, no direction could be given by the Industrial Tribunal to abolish the contract labour system, since the jurisdiction to give directions with regard to the prohibition of contract labour is vested in the appropriate Government.	None
In B. H. E. L Workers Association, Hardwar v. Union of India, (1985 (2) SCR 611 AIR 1985 SC 409 ) the matter came to this Court by way of a writ petition filed by the workmen under Art.32 of the Constitution.	None
It was contended by the Workmens Association that out of 16000 and odd workmen working within the premises of the respondent  Company, as many as a thousand workers were treated as contract labour and placed under the control and at the mercy of contractors and though they did the same work as workers directly employed by the company, they were not paid the same wages nor were their conditions of service the same as that of the directly employed workers.	None
It was further alleged that the management paid to the contractors, and in turn, the contractors paid salary to them, after deducting substantial commission, and the wages paid to them did not bear comparison to the wages paid to those directly employed by the company.	None
Hence it was alleged that the rights of the contract workers were infringed under Articles 14 and 19(1)(f)(sic.	None
g?) of the Constitution and a declaration was sought from the Court that the system of contract labour prevalent in the respondent  company was illegal, the contract employees were the direct employees of the respondent  company and entitled to equal pay as the workmen directly employed.	None
The respondent  company opposed the petition by contending that if the petitioners had any genuine grievance, they could avail themselves of the rights secured to them under the Act, Minimum Wages Act, Equal Remuneration Act, etc. for seeking appropriate relief.	None
It was further contended on behalf of the company that certain jobs though required to be done within the plant area could more conveniently and efficiently be done on a job contract basis, and this was actually due to the introduction of a new technology for expansion of production programme with foreign collaboration.	None
The jobs themselves were entrusted to contractors and it was not appropriate to say that the contractors merely supplied the labour.	None
They were required to do the total job and payment was made on the basis of the quantum of work involved and not on the basis of the workers employed by the contractor.	None
This Court dismissed the writ petition by holding that the Act does not provide for the total abolition of contract labour, but for its abolition only in certain circumstances, and for the regulation of the employment of contract labour in certain establishments.	None
The Act is not confined to private employers only.	None
The definition of establishment under S.2(e) and of principal employer under S.2(g) expressly include the Government or any of its departments.	None
The Court further held that no invidious distinction can be made against contract labour.	None
Contract labour is entitled to the same wages, holidays, hours of work, and conditions of service as are applicable to workmen directly employed by the principal employer of the establishment on the same or similar kind of work.	None
They are entitled to recover their wages and their conditions of service in the same manner as workers employed by the principal employer under the appropriate Industrial and Labour Laws.	None
If there is any dispute with regard to the type of work, the dispute has to be decided by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central).	None
The Parliament has not abolished contract labour but has provided for its abolition by the Central Government in appropriate cases under S.10 of the Act.	None
It is not for the Court to enquire into the question and to decide whether the employment of contract labour in any process, operation or other work in any establishment should be abolished or not.	None
This is a matter for the decision of the Government after considering the matters required to be considered under S.10 of the Act.	None
Whether the work done by the contract labour is the same or similar to that done by the workmen directly employed by the principal employer of any establishment, is a matter to be decided by the Chief Labour Commissioner under the proviso to R.25 (ii)(iv)(a) of the 1971 Rules.	None
The Court further held that it was not possible in an application under Art.32 to embark upon an enquiry whether the thousand and odd workmen working in various capacities and engaged in multifarious activities did work identical with work done by the workmen directly employed by the company and whether for that reason, they should not be treated as contract labour but as direct employees of the company.	None
There are other forums created under other statutes designed to decide such and like questions.	None
The Court further observed that the counsel wanted this Court to abolish the employment of contract labour by the State and by all public sector undertakings which was not possible since that would be nothing but the exercise of legislative activity with which function the Court is not entrusted by the Constitution.	None
While holding thus, the Court, however, directed the Central Government to consider whether the employment of contract labour should not be prohibited under S.10 of the Act in any process, operation or other work of the BHEL.	None
The Court also directed the Chief Labour Commissioner to enquire into the question whether the work done by the workmen employed by the contractors is the same type of work as that done by the workmen directly employed by the principal employer in the BHEL, Hardwar.	None
In Catering Cleaners of Southern Railway v. Union of India, (1987 (2) SCR 164 AIR 1987 SC 777 ), the petitioners who were catering cleaners of the Southern Railway had filed representative writ petition on behalf of about 300 and odd catering cleaners working in the catering establishment at various Railway junctions of the Southern Railway and in the pantry cars of long distance trains running under the control of the Southern Railway.	None
Since a long time, they were agitating for the abolition of the contract labour system under which they were employed to do the cleaning work in the catering establishments and pantry cars and for their absorption as direct employees of the principal employer, viz., the Southern Railway.	None
Although the contract labour system had been abolished in almost all the railways in the country, the Southern Railway persisted in employing contract labour for doing the work in question.	None
Since several representations made by them to the authorities proved fruitless, they approached this Court under Art.32 of the Constitution to direct the respondent  Union of India to exercise their Power under S.10(1) of the Act and to abolish the contract system and further to direct the Railways to regularise the services of the existing catering cleaners and to extend to them the service benefits then available to other categories of employees in the catering establishments.	None
The Railway administration opposed the writ petition contending that it had not been found possible to abolish the contract labour because the nature of the Cleaning work in the catering units of the Southern Railway, was fluctuating and intermittent.	None
The Court referred to the report of the Parliamentary Committee which had held that the job of cleaning in Railway catering units was of a permanent nature and the work if entrusted to the direct employees would only marginally increase the cost.	None
The Committee had recommended the employment of cleaners directly by the Railways to avoid their exploitation.	None
The Court also referred to the decision of this Court in Standard Vacuum Refining Co. of India Ltd. v. Its Workmen, (1960 (3) SCR 466 AIR 1960 SC 948 ).	None
After analysing the provisions of the Act, the Court held that on the facts, it appeared to it to be clear that the work of cleaning catering establishments and pantry cars was necessary and incidental to the industry or business of the Southern Railway, that the work was of a perennial nature, that it was done through direct workmen in most Railways in the country and that the work required the employment of sufficient number of whole time Workmen and thus the requirement of Clauses (a) to (d) of S.10 (2) of the Act were satisfied.	None
In addition, the Court found that there was a factor of profitability of the catering establishments which as stated in the report of the Parliamentary Committee, was making a profit of Rs.50 lakhs per annum.	None
However, even on these findings, the Courts held that the writ petitioners could not invite the Court to issue a mandamus directing the Central Government to abolish the contract labour system because under S.10 of the Act, Parliament had vested in the appropriate Government the Power to prohibit the employment of contract labour in any process, operation or any other work in any establishment.	None
The appropriate Government is required to consult the Central Board or the State Board as the case may be, before arriving at its decision.	None
The decision, of course, is subject to the judicial review.	None
Hence the Court would not be justified in issuing a mandamus prayed for unless and until the Government failed or refused to exercise the Power vested in it under S.10 of the Act.	None
In the circumstances, the appropriate order to make according to the Court, was to direct the Central Government to take suitable action under S.10 of the Act in the matter of prohibiting the employment of contract labour and the Government should do it within six months from the date of the order.	None
The Court further observed that without waiting for the decision of the Central Government, the Southern Railway was free of its own motion to abolish the contract labour system and to regularise the services of the employees in the work of cleaning catering establishments and pantry cars.	None
The Court further observed that the administration of the Southern Railway should refrain until the decision of the Central Government from employing contract labour.	None
The Court also directed that the work of cleaning catering establishments and pantry cars should be done departmentally by employing those workmen who were previously employed by the contractors on the same wages and conditions of work as were applicable to those engaged for the same work by the Southern Railway.	None
In Dena Nath v. National Fertilisers Ltd. (1992 (1) SCC 695 1991 AIR SCW 3026), the question involved was whether, if the principal employer does not get registration under S.7 and or the contractor does not get licence under S.12 of the Act, the labour engaged by the principal employer through the contractor is deemed to be the direct employees of the principal employer or not.	None
On this point there was a conflict in the decisions of High Courts of Delhi, Calcutta, Punjab and Kerala on the one hand and of the High Courts of Madras, Bombay, Gujarat and Karnataka on the other.	None
The view taken by the former High Courts was that the only consequence of the non compliance of the provisions of Sections 7 and 12 of the Act was that the principal employer and the contractor as the case may be, are liable for prosecution under the Act whereas the view taken by the latter High Courts was that in such a situation the contract labour became the direct employees of the principal employer.	None
After noticing the decision of this Court in Standard Vacuum Refining Co. case (AIR 1960 SC 948 ) (supra) and going through the genesis of the Act, the Court held that it is not for the High Court to enquire into the question and decide whether the contract labour in any process, operation or any other work in any establishment should be abolished or not.	None
It is a matter for the appropriate Government to decide after considering all the matters as required by S.10 of the Act.	None
The Court further held that the only consequence provided under the Act where either the principal employer or the labour contractor violates the provisions of S.7 or 12 as the case may be, is the penalty as envisaged under Sections 23 and 25 of the Act.	None
Merely because a contractor or an employer has violated a provision of the Act or the Rules, the Court cannot issue any mandamus for deeming the contract labour as having become the employees of the principal employer.	None
The Court referred to the decisions of the Karnataka and the Gujarat High Courts (the latter is under challenge in the present proceedings) and observed that it would not like to express any opinion on the same since they were under challenge in this Court but would place on record that it did not agree with the observations of the Madras High Court regarding the effect of the non registration of the principal employer or the non licensing of the labour contractor nor with the view of the Bombay High Court which was under consideration before it.	None
The Court further stated that it was of the view that the decisions of the Calcutta and Delhi High Courts were correct and approved of the same.	None
These decisions in unambiguous terms lay down that after the coming into operation of the Act, the authority to abolish the contract labour is vested exclusively in the appropriate Government which has to take its decision in the matter in accordance with the provisions of S.10 of the Act.	Reasoning
This conclusion has been arrived at in these decisions on the interpretation of S.10 of the Act.	None
However, it has to be remembered that the authority to abolish the contract labour under S.10 of the Act comes into play only where there exists a genuine contract.	None
In other words, if there is no genuine contract and the so called contract is sham or a camouflage to hide the reality, the said provisions are inapplicable.	None
When, in such circumstances, the concerned workmen raise an industrial dispute for relief that they should be deemed to be the employees of the principal employer, the Court or the industrial adjudicator will have jurisdiction to entertain the dispute and grant the necessary relief.	None
In this connection, we may refer to the following decisions of this Court which were also relied upon by the counsel for the workmen.	None
In Standard  Vacuum Refining Co. of India Ltd. v. Its Workmen (AIR 1960 SC 948 ) (supra), an industrial dispute was raised by the workmen of the appellant  company with respect to the contract labour employed by the company for cleaning maintenance work at the refinery including the premises and plants belonging to it.	None
The workmen made a demand for abolition of the contract system and for absorbing workmen employed through the contractor into the regular service of the company.	None
The matter was referred for adjudication to industrial Tribunal.	None
The company objected to the reference on the ground (1) that it was incompetent inasmuch as there was no dispute between it and the respondents and it was not open to them to raise a dispute with respect to the workmen of some other employer, viz., the contractor, and (2) in any case, it was for the company to decide what was the best method of carrying on its business and the Tribunal could not interfere with that function of the management.	None
The Tribunal held that the reference was competent.	None
It was of the opinion that the work which was being done through the contractor was necessary for the company to be done daily, that doing this work through annual contracts resulted in deprivation of security of service and other benefits of the workmen of the contractor and hence the contract system with respect to that work should be abolished.	None
In appeal, this Court held that the dispute raised was an industrial dispute within the meaning of S.2(k) of the Industrial Disputes Act because (i) the respondent  workmen had a community of interest with the workmen of the contractor, (ii) they had also substantial interest in the subject matter of the dispute inasmuch as the class to which they belonged was substantially affected thereby, and (iii) the company could give relief in the matter.	None
The Court further held that the work in question was incidental to the manufacturing process and was necessary for it and was of perennial nature which must be done every day.	None
Such work is generally done by workmen in the regular employment of the employer and there should be no difficulty in having direct workmen for that kind of work.	None
The matter would be different if the work was of intermittent or temporary nature or was so little that it would not be possible to employ full time workmen for the purpose.	None
While dealing with the contention that the Tribunal should not have interfered with the managements manner of having its work done in the most economical and convenient way that it thought proper, and that the case in question was not one where the contract system was a camouflage and the workmen of the contractors were really the workmen of the company, the Court held that it may be accepted that the contractor in that case was an independent person and the system was genuine and there was no question of the company carrying on the work itself and camouflaging it as if it was done through contractors in order to pay less to the workmen.	None
But the fact that the contract in the case was a bona fide one would not necessarily mean that it should not be touched by the Industrial Tribunals.	None
If the contract had been mala fide and a cloak for suppressing the fact that the workmen were really the workmen of the company, the Tribunal would have been justified in ordering the company to take over the entire body of workmen and treat it as its own workmen.	None
But because the contract in the case was bona fide, the Tribunal had not ordered the company to take over the entire body of workmen.	None
It had left to the company to decide for itself how many workmen it should employ and on what terms, and had merely directed that when selection is being made, preference be given to the workmen employed by the contractor.	None
The Court also held that the only question for decision was whether the work which was perennial and must go on from day to day and which was incidental and necessary for the work of the refinery and was sufficient to employ a considerable number of whole time workmen and which was being done in most concerns through direct workmen, should be allowed to be done by contractors.	None
Considering the nature of the work done and the conditions of service in the case, the Court opined that the Tribunals decision was right and no interference was called for.	None
This decision is of seminal importance for two reasons.	None
It laid down the tests for deciding whether contract labour should be continued in a particular establishment, occupation or process etc. S.10 of the Act incorporates more or less the same tests as laid down by this decision.	None
Secondly, it also spelt out the circumstances when the workmen of an establishment can espouse the cause of other workmen who were not the direct employees of the establishment and raise an industrial dispute within the meaning of the ID Act.	None
This being a case decided prior to the coming into operation of the Act, the Court had held here that even if the contract is a genuine one, the industrial adjudicator will have jurisdiction to abolish the contract labour and give appropriate relief as the industrial Tribunal had done in the case.	None
Its importance lies in the fact that it lends support to the proposition that even after the coming into operation of the Act, the industrial adjudicator will have, in appropriate cases, jurisdiction to investigate as to whether the contract is genuine or not, and if he comes to the conclusion that it is not, he will have jurisdiction also to give suitable relief.	None
It may also appear that even where the contract is genuine but it comes to be abolished by the appropriate Government under S.10 of the Act, the industrial adjudicator will have jurisdiction to determine the status of the workmen of the erstwhile contractor.	None
In Hussainbhai, Calicut v. The Alath Factory Thozhilali Union, Kozhikode (1978 (4) SCC 257 AIR 1978 SC 1410 ), a number of workmen were engaged in the petitioners factory to make ropes.	None
But they were hired by contractors who had executed agreements with the petitioners to get such work done.	None
When 29 of these workmen were denied employment, an industrial dispute was referred by the State Government.	None
The Industrial Tribunal held them to be workmen of the petitioner.	None
This award was challenged by the petitioner before the High Court and the learned single Judge held that the petitioner was the employer and the workmen were employees under the petitioner.	None
The Division Bench of the High Court upheld this decision.	None
While dismissing the special leave petition against, the said decision, this Court observed that the facts found were that the work done by the workmen was an integral part of the industry concerned.	None
The raw material was supplied by the management, the factory premises belonged to the management, the equipment used also belonged to the management and the finished product was taken by the management for its own trade.	None
The workmen were broadly under the control of the management and the defective articles were directed to be rectified by the management.	None
These circumstances were conclusive to prove that the workmen were workmen of the petitioner.	None
The Court further held that if the livelihood of the workmen substantially depends on labour rendered to produce goods and services for the benefit and satisfaction of the enterprise, the absence of direct relationship or the presence of dubious intermediaries cannot snap the real life bond.	None
If however, there is total dissociation between the management and the workmen, the employer is in substance and in real life terms another.	None
The true test is where the workers or group of workers labour to produce goods or services and these goods or services are for the business of another, that another is in fact, the employer.	None
He was economic control over the workers skill, subsistence, and continued employment.	None
If for any reason, he chokes off, the workers are virtually laid off.	None
The presence of intermediate contractors with whom alone the workers have immediate direct relationship ex contractu is of on consequence when on lifting the veil or looking at the conspectus of factors governing employment, the naked truth is discerned and especially since it is one of the myriad devices resorted to by the management to avoid responsibility when labour legislation casts welfare obligations on real employer based on Articles 38, 39, 42, 43, and, 43A (sic) of the Constitution.	None
In R. K. Panda v. Steel Authority of India Ltd. (1994 (5) SCC 304 1994 AIR SCW 2460), the contract labourers by filing a writ petition under Art.32 claimed party in pay with direct employees and also regularisation in the employment of the respondent  authority.	None
They were continuing in employment for periods ranging from 10 to 20 years.	None
The contractors used to be changed but the new contractors were under the terms of the agreement required to retain the workers of the predecessor contractors.	None
The workers were employed through the contractors for different purpose like construction and maintenance of roads and buildings within plant premises, public health, horticulture, water supply etc.	None
In the agreement with the contractors, it was stated that the parties shall be governed by the provisions of the Act as well as by the provisions of the payment of Bonus Act.	None
On these facts, this Court observed as follows (at p. 2466 of AIR)	None
It is true that with the passage of time and purely with a view to safeguard the interests of workers, many principal employers while renewing the contracts have been insisting that the contractor or the new contractor retains the old employees.	None
In fact such a condition is incorporated in the contract itself.	None
However, such a clause in the contract which is benevolently inserted in the contract to protect the continuance of the source of livelihood of the contract labour cannot by itself give rise to a right to regularisation in the employment of the principal employer.	None
Whether the contract labourers have become the employees of the principal employer in course of time and whether the engagement and employment of labourers through a contractor is a mere camouflage and a smokescreen, as has been urged in this case, is a question of fact and has to be established by the contract labourers on the basis of the requisite material.	None
It is not possible for the High Court or this Court, while exercising writ jurisdiction or jurisdiction under Art.136 to decide such questions, only on the basic of the affidavits.	None
It need not be pointed out that in all such cases, the labourers are initially employed and engaged by the contractors.	None
As such at what point of time a direct link is established between the contract labourers and the principal employer, eliminating the contractor from the scene, is a matter which has to be established on material produced before the Court.	None
Normally, the labour Court and the Industrial Tribunal, under the Industrial Disputes Act are the competent for a to adjudicate such disputes on the basis of the oral and documentary evidence produced before them.	None
Taking into consideration the developments during the pendency of the writ petition in this Court and the offer made by the respondent  authority to the workmen either to accept voluntary retirement on the terms offered by it or to agree to be absorbed on regular basis and the scheme of modernisation which was in the process of implementation, the Court gave certain directions in respect of 879 workmen who were involved in that case.	None
Those directions included, among other things, regularisation of those workmen who had put in 10 years continuous service provided they were below 58 years of age which was the age of superannuation under the respondent  authority.	None
The workmen so regularised were not to receive any difference in their contractual and regular wages till the date of their absorption which was to be completed within four months of the date of the order.	None
The respondent  authority was further at liberty to retrench workmen so absorbed in accordance with law.	None
The said direction was further applicable to 142 out of 246 jobs in view of the fact that contract labour had already been abolished in 104 jobs.	None
As regards the second contention based on the provisions of S.10 of the Act, viz., that the decision of the Government under the said provision as to whether it should be abolished or not, is final and same cannot be challenged in any Court including before the industrial adjudicator.	None
Shri Venugopal in support of his contention relied upon certain decisions of this Court under the Citizenship Act, 1955 where the finality is attached to the decision of the Central Government taken under S.9 (2) of the said Act.	None
The provisions of S.9(2) of the Citizenship Act which are more or less pari materia with the provisions of S.10 of the present Act, are as follows If any question arises as to whether, when or how any person has acquired the citizenship of another country, it shall be determined by such authority, in such manner, and having regard to such rules of evidence, as may be prescribed in this behalf.	None
The decisions of the Court in that behalf are Akbar Khan Alam Khan v. Union of India (1962 (1) SCR 779 AIR 1962 SC 70 ) Mohd.	None
Ayub Khan v. Commr.	None
Of Police, Madras (1965 (2) SCR 884 AIR 1965 SC 1623 )	None
State of U.P. v. Abdul Rashid (1984 Supp SCC 347 AIR 1984 SC 1714 ) and Bhagwati Prasad Dixit Ghorewala v. Rajeev Gandhi (1986 (4) SCC 78 AIR 1986 SC 1534 ).	None
It is not necessary for us to go in to the question of the finality of the decision under S.10 of the Act since as held by this Court in Vegoils Pvt. Ltd. (AIR 1972 SC 1942 ), B. H. E. L. Workers Association (AIR 1985 SC 409 ), Catering Cleaners of Southern Railway (AIR 1987 SC 777 ) and Dena Nath (1991 AIR SCW 3026)	None
(supra), the exclusive authority to decide whether the contract labour should be abolished or not is that of the appropriate Government under the said provision.	None
It is further not disputed before us that the decision of the Government is final subject, of course, to the judicial review on the usual grounds.	None
However, as stated earlier, the exclusive jurisdiction of the appropriate Government under S.10 of the Act arises only where the labour contract is genuine and the question whether the contract is genuine, or not can be examined and adjudicated upon by the Court or the industrial adjudicator, as the case may be.	None
Hence in such cases, the workmen can make a grievance that there is no genuine contract and that are in fact the employees of the principal employer.	None
It is no doubt true that neither S.10 of the Act nor any other provision thereof provides for determination of the status of the workmen of the erstwhile contractor once the appropriate Government abolishes the contract labour.	Reasoning
In fact, on the abolition of the contract, the workmen are in a worse condition since they can neither be employed by the contractor nor is there any obligation cast on the principal employer to engage them in his establishment.	Reasoning
We find that this is a vital lacuna in the Act.	Reasoning
Although the Act has been placed on the statute book with all benevolent intentions, and elaborate provisions are made to prevent the abuse of the contract labour system as is evident from the Statement of objects and Reasons and the provisions of the Act referred to by us in detail earlier, the legislature has not provided any relief for the concerned workmen after the contract is abolished.	Reasoning
One reason for the same pointed out to us was that the workmen engaged by the contractor may not be qualified to be engaged by the principal employer according to the latters rules of recruitment.	Reasoning
In this respect, we envisage two different situations, first where a similar type of work is being carried out by the direct employees of the principal employer and, second where the contract labour is engaged to execute work which is not being carried out by any section of the direct employees of the principal employer.	Reasoning
As regards the first situation, the condition No.	Reasoning
(5) of the licence to be granted to the contractor in Form VI under R.25(1) of the Rules requires that wage rates, holidays, hours of work and other conditions of service of the contract workmen shall be the same as applicable to the workmen directly employed by the principal employer for performing the same or similar type of work.	Reasoning
In other cases, the wage rates, holidays, hours of work and other conditions of service of the workmen of the contractor, as per condition (6) of the said Form, shall be such as may be specified by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central).	Reasoning
When the legislature has been careful enough to take such precautions, we are unable to appreciate as to why it could not have provided also for the absorption of the workmen who have been doing the work in question.	Reasoning
It is possible that the contractor has been transferring his workmen from one job to another and the same workmen may not be working for the time in the same establishment or the process.	Reasoning
But as pointed out earlier, the application for registration under R.17(1), the certificate of registration under R.18(1), the register of establishment under R.18(3), the application for licence under R.21(2) and the licence granted under R.25(1) all require the particulars of contract labour to be furnished in the prescribed form.	Reasoning
Hence it should not be difficult to verify the workmen who were actually working in the establishment in question for a given period of time and the period for which they had worked since the record of payment of wages made to them would be available as it is to be made in presence of representative of the principal employer who is also responsible to make the payment of the whole of the wages or the balance of it in case the contractor makes default.	Reasoning
For ensuring the payment to the workmen, the muster roll has necessarily to be maintained.	Reasoning
If they have in fact worked for a reasonably long time satisfactorily and have thus gained experience, it should not be difficult to identify and absorb them.	Reasoning
In fact, they will any time be better than fresh recruits and their engagement would be beneficial to the establishment concerned.	Reasoning
On account of the abolition of the contract labour, the establishment will in any case require replacement of the contract labour.	Reasoning
It may be that the establishment may not require the whole complement of the workmen erstwhile employed by the contractor.	Reasoning
But that also may not always be correct since the contractor would more probably than not have employed less work force than may be necessary in order to keep his margin of profit as wide as possible.	Reasoning
Whatever the case, the logic in not employing the workmen of the erstwhile contractor or those of them who may be necessary, in the principal establishment after the contract is abolished, does not appear to be sound.	Reasoning
The legislature probably did not consider it advisable to make a provision for automatic absorption of the erstwhile contract labour in the principal establishment on the abolition of the contract labour, fearing that such provision would amount to forcing the contract labour on the principal employer and making a contract between them.	Reasoning
The industrial adjudicator however is not inhibited by such considerations.	Reasoning
He has the jurisdiction to change the contractual relationship and also make new contracts between the employer and the employees under the ID Act.	Reasoning
It is for this reason that in all cases where the contract labour is abolished, the industrial adjudicator, depending upon the facts of the case will have the authority to direct the principal employer to absorb such of the workmen of the erstwhile contractor and on such terms as he may determine on the basis of the relevant material before him.	Reasoning
Hence the legislature could have provided in the Act itself for a reference of the dispute with regard to the absorption of the workmen of the erstwhile contractor to the industrial adjudicator after the appropriate Government has abolished the contract labour.	Reasoning
That would also have obviated the need to sponsor the dispute by the direct workmen of the principal employer.	Reasoning
That can still be done by a suitable amendment of the Act.	None
The answer to the question as to what would be the status of the erstwhile workmen of the contractor, once the contract labour system is abolished is therefore that where an industrial dispute is raised, the status of the workmen will be as determined by the industrial adjudicator.	Issue
If the contract labour system is abolished while the industrial adjudication is pending or is kept pending on the concerned dispute, the adjudicator can give direction in that behalf in the pending dispute.	None
If, however, no industrial dispute is pending for determination of the issue, nothing prevents an industrial dispute being raised for the purpose.	None
The last but equally important question that remains to be answered is who can raise an industrial dispute for absorption of the workmen of the ex contractor by the principal employer.	None
As has been pointed out earlier, if the contract is not genuine, the workmen of the contractor themselves can raise such dispute, since in raising such dispute the workmen concerned would be proceeding on the basis that they are in fact the workmen of the principal employer and not of the contractor.	Arguments of Respondent
Hence the dispute would squarely fall within the definition of industrial dispute under S.2(k) of the ID Act being a dispute between the employer and the employees.	None
In that case, the dispute would not be for abolition of the contract labour, but for securing the appropriate service conditions from the principal employer on the footing that the workmen concerned were always the employees of the principal employer and they were denied their dues.	None
In such a dispute, the workmen are required to establish that the so called labour contract was sham and was only a camouflage to deny them their legitimate dues.	None
However, the situation is obviously different when the labour contract is genuine and there is no relationship of employer  employees between the principal employer and the workmen of the contractor.	None
No industrial dispute can be raised by the workmen of the contractor either before or after the contract labour is abolished by the appropriate Government under S.10 of the Act.	None
This hurdle in raising the dispute will however disappear if it is raised by the direct workmen of the principal employer who have (i) a community of interest with the contract labour, (ii) a substantial interest in the subject matter of the dispute and (iii) when the employer can grant the relief as is held in the following decisions In Workmen of Dimakuchi Tea Estate V. Management of Dimakuchi Tea Estate, (1958 SCR 1156 AIR 1958 SC 353 ), the question for decision was whether the dispute raised by the workmen relating to a person who was not a workmen could be an industrial dispute as defined in the ID Act and as the definition stood before the amendment of 1956.	None
The appellants who were the workmen of the respondent, espoused the case of one Dr. Banerjee, Assistant Medical Officer who had been dismissed without hearing, with a months salary in lieu of notice, but who had accepted such payment and left the tea garden.	None
The dispute raised was ultimately referred by the Government to the Tribunal.	None
Both the Tribunal and the appellate Industrial Tribunal took the view that as Dr. Banerjee was not workman, the dispute was not an industrial dispute as defined in S.2 (k) of the ID Act.	None
In appeal from the said decision after analysing the provisions of S.2(k), the majority of this Court summarised the law on the subject as follows (at p. 364 of AIR)	None
To summarise.	None
Having regard to the scheme and objects of the Act, and its other provisions, the expression any person in S.2 (k) of the Act must be read subject to such limitations and qualifications as arise from the context, the two crucial limitations are (1) the dispute must be real dispute between the parties to the dispute (as indicated in the first two parts of the definition clause)	None
so as to be capable of settlement or adjudication by one party to the dispute giving necessary relief to the other, and (2) the person regarding whom the dispute is raised must be one in whose employment, non employment, terms of employment, or conditions of labour (as the case may be ) the parties to the dispute have a direct or substantial interest.	None
In the absence of such interest the dispute cannot be said to be a real dispute between the parties.	None
Where the workmen raise a dispute as against their employer, the person regarding, whose employment, non employment, terms of employment or conditions of labour the dispute is raised need not be, strictly speaking, a workman within the meaning of the Act must be one in whose employment, non employment, terms of employment or conditions of labour the workmen as a class have a direct or substantial interest.	None
In the case before us, Dr. K. P. Banerjee was not a workman He belonged to the medical or technical staff  a different category altogether from workman.	None
The appellants had no direct, nor substantial interest in his employment or non employment, and even assuming that he was a member of the same Trade Union, it cannot be said, on the tests laid down by us, that the dispute regarding his termination of service was an industrial dispute within the meaning of S.2(k) of the Act.	None
Justice Sarkar, in his dissenting judgment, however held that the ID Act did not make the interest of the workmen in the dispute a condition of the existence of an industrial dispute.	None
Such an interest is incapable of definition and to make it condition of an industrial dispute would defeat the object of the Act.	None
The learned judge further held that even assuming that workmen must be interested in order that there can be an industrial dispute, the present case satisfied that test and fell within the purview of S.2(k) of the ID Act.	None
In the Standard  Vacuum Refining Co. case (AIR 1960 SC 948 ) (supra) to which we had an occasion to refer to earlier in another context, after taking due note of the propositions of law laid down in Dimakuchi (AIR 1958 SC 353 ) (supra), this Court has discussed the law on the subject elaborately.	None
The said discussion bears verbatim reproduction here (at PP.	None
960962 of AIR)	None
The definition of industrial dispute in S.2(k) requires three things(i) There should be a dispute or difference(ii) The dispute or difference should be between employers and employers, or between employers and workmen or between workmen and workmen(iii)	None
The dispute or difference must be connected with the employment or non employment or the terms of employment or with the conditions of labour, of any person.	None
The first part thus refers to the factum of a real and substantial dispute, the second part to the parties to the dispute and third to the subject matter of the dispute.	None
The contention of the learned Solicitor General is two fold in this connection, namely (i) that there is no real or substantial dispute between the company and the respondents and (ii) that the subject matter of the dispute is such that it cannot come within the terms of the definition in S.2(k).The first submission can be disposed of shortly.	None
There is undoubtedly a real and substantial dispute between the company and the respondents on the question of the employment of contract labour for the work of the company.	None
The fact that the respondents who have raised this dispute are not employed on contract basis will not make the dispute any, the less a real or substantial dispute between them and the company as to the manner in which the work of the company should be carried on.	None
The dispute in this case is that the company should employ workmen directly and not through contractors in carrying on its work and this dispute is undoubtedly real and substantial even though the regular workmen (i. e, the respondents) who have raised it are not employed on contract labour.	None
In Dimakuchi case (AIR 1958 SC 353 ) to which reference has been made, the dispute was relating to an employee of the tea estate who was not a workman.	None
It was nevertheless held that this was a real and substantial dispute between the workmen and the company.	None
How the work should be carried on is certainly a matter of some importance to the workmen and in the circumstances it cannot be said that this is not real and substantial dispute between the company and its workmen.	None
Thus out of three ingredients of S.2(k) the first is satisfied, the second also is satisfied because the dispute is between the company and the respondents it is the third ingredient which really calls for determination in the light of the decision in Dimakuchi case (AIR 1958 SC 353 )S.2(k), as it is worded, would allow workmen of a particular employer to raise a dispute connected with the employment or non employment, or the terms of employment or with the conditions of labour of any person.	None
It was this aspect of the matter which was considered in Dimakuchi case (1958 SCR 1156 AIR 1958 SC 353 ) and it was held that the words any person used in S.2(k) would not justify the workmen of a particular employer to raise a dispute about any one in the world, though the words any person in that provision may not be equated with the words any workman The test therefore to be applied in determining the scope of the words any person in S.2(k) was stated in the following words at pp. 117475 (of SCR) (at p. 361 of AIR)If, therefore, the dispute is a collective dispute, the party raising the dispute must have either a direct interest in the subject matter of dispute or a substantial interest therein in the sense that the class to which the aggrieved party belongs is substantially affected thereby.	None
It is the community of interest of the class as a whole class of employers or class of workmen  which furnishes the real nexus between the dispute and the parties to the dispute.	None
We see no insuperable difficulty in the practical application of this test.	None
In a case where the party to a dispute is composed of aggrieved workmen themselves and the subject matter of the dispute relates to them or any of them, they clearly have a direct interest in the dispute.	None
Where, however, the party to the dispute also composed of workmen espouse the cause of another person whose employment or non employment, etc., may prejudicially affect their interest the workmen have a substantial interest in the subject matter of dispute.	None
In both such cases the dispute is an industrial dispute.	None
We have therefore to see whether the respondents who have raised this dispute have a direct interest in the subject matter of the dispute or a substantial interest therein in the sense that the class to which the respondents belong is substantially affected thereby and whether there is community of interest between the respondents and those whose cause they have espoused.	None
There can be no doubt that there is community of interest in this case between the respondents and the workmen of Ramji Gordhan and Company.	Reasoning
They belong to the same class and they do the work of the same employer and it is possible for the company to give the relief which the respondents are claiming.	Reasoning
The respondents have in our opinion also a substantial interest in the subject matter of the dispute, namely, the abolition of the contract system in doing work of this kind.	Reasoning
The learned Solicitor General particularly emphasised that there was no question of the interest of the respondents being prejudicially affected by the employment or non employment or the terms of service or conditions of labour of the workmen of Ramji Gordhan and Company and placed reliance on the words may prejudicially affect their interest appearing in the observations quoted above.	Reasoning
We may, however, mention that the test laid down is that the workmen espousing the cause should have a substantial interest in the subject matter of the dispute and it was only when illustrating the practical application of the test that this Court used the words may prejudicially affect their interest.	Reasoning
Besides it is contended by Mr. Gokhale for the respondents that even if prejudicially affect on the interest of workmen espousing the cause is necessary, this is a case where the respondents interest may be prejudicially affected in future in case the contract system of work is allowed to prevail in this branch of the work of the company.	Reasoning
He submits that if the company can carry on this part of work by contract system it may introduce the same system in other branches of its work which are now being done by its regular workmen.	Reasoning
We do not think it necessary to go into this aspect of the matter as we have already indicated that prejudicial effect is only one of the illustrations of the practical application of the test laid down in Dimakuchi case (AIR 1958 SC 353 ), viz., substantial interest in the sense that the class to which the aggrieved party belongs is substantially affected thereby.	Reasoning
It seems to us therefore that the respondents have a community of interest with the workmen of Ramji Gordhan and Company who are in effect working for the same employer.	Reasoning
They have also a substantial interest in the subject matter of the dispute in the sense that the class to which they belong (namely, workmen) is substantially affected thereby.	Reasoning
Finally the company can give relief in the matter.	Reasoning
We are therefore of opinion that all the ingredients of S.2 (k) as interpreted in Dimakuchi case (AIR 1958 SC 353 ), are present in this case and the dispute between the parties is an industrial dispute and the reference was competent.	Reasoning
In view of the aforesaid decision, it cannot be and was not disputed before us that the direct workmen of the principal employer can espouse an industrial dispute for absorption of the contractors workmen and the industrial adjudicator will have jurisdiction to entertain such dispute and grant the necessary relief.	None
The answer to the last question, viz., who can raise an industrial dispute for the purpose of absorption of the contractors labour in the principal establishment is, therefore, as follows If the workmen of the so called contractor allege that in fact the contract is sham and they are in fact the workmen of the principal employer, they may raise the dispute themselves not for abolition of the contract labour system , but for making available to them the appropriate service conditions.	Reasoning
When such dispute is raised, it is not for abolition of the contract labour, but for a declaration that the workmen concerned are in fact the employees of the principal employer, and for consequential relief on such declaration.	None
If however, the contract is genuine, the direct workmen of the principal employer may espouse the industrial dispute for abolition of the contract labour system and for absorption of the contractors workmen as the direct workmen of the principal employer.	Arguments of Respondent
When such dispute is raised by the direct workmen of the principal employer, the industrial adjudicator can entertain the reference but in view of the provisions of S.10 of the Act, he will have first to direct the workmen to approach the appropriate Government for considering the question as to whether the contract labour in question should or should not be abolished under the said provisions.	Reasoning
If, on such reference being made by the workmen, the appropriate Government does not abolish the contract labour, the industrial adjudicator has to reject the reference since the jurisdiction to abolish the contract is exclusively vested in the appropriate Government and he has no jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute.	None
However, if the appropriate government abolishes the contract labour, the industrial adjudicator can proceed to decide (i) as to whether the erstwhile contract labour should be absorbed in the principal establishment (ii) if so, to what extent and (iii) on what terms.	Reasoning
The decision on the points, will have to be given by him by giving opportunity to the parties to lead the necessary evidence.	None
Our conclusions and answers to the questions raised are, therefore, as follows In view of the provisions of S.10 of the Act, it is only the appropriate Government which has the authority to abolish genuine labour contract in accordance with the provisions of the said Section.	Reasoning
No Court including the industrial adjudicator had jurisdiction to do so.(iii) if the contract is sham or not genuine, the workmen of the so called contractor can raise an industrial dispute for declaring that they were always the employees of the principal employer and for claiming the appropriate service conditions.	Reasoning
When such dispute is raised, it is not a dispute for abolition of the labour contract and hence the provisions of S.10 of the Act will not bar either the raising or the adjudication of the dispute.	Reasoning
When such dispute is raised, the industrial adjudicator has to decide whether the contract is sham or genuine.	Reasoning
It is only if the adjudicator comes to the conclusion that the contract is sham, that he will have jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute.	Reasoning
If, however, he comes to the conclusion that the contract is genuine, he may refer the workmen to the appropriate Government for abolition of the contract labour under S.10 of the Act and keep the dispute pending.	Reasoning
However, he can do so if the dispute is espoused by the direct workmen of the principal employer.	Reasoning
If the workmen of the principal employer have not espoused the dispute, the adjudicator, after coming to the conclusion that the contract is genuine, has to reject the reference, the dispute being not an industrial dispute within the meaning of S.2(k) of the ID Act.	Reasoning
He will not be competent to give any relief to the workmen of the erstwhile contractor even if the labour contract is abolished by the appropriate Government under S.10 of the Act.(iii)	Reasoning
If the labour contract is genuine a composite industrial dispute can still be raised for abolition of the contract labour and their absorption.	Reasoning
However, the dispute, will have to be raised invariably by the direct employees of the principal employer.	Reasoning
The industrial adjudicator, after receipt of the reference of such dispute will have first to direct the workmen to approach the appropriate Government for abolition of the contract labour under S.10 of the Act and keep the reference pending.	Reasoning
If pursuant to such reference, the contract labour is abolished by the appropriate Government, the industrial adjudicator will have to give opportunity to the parties to place the necessary material before him to decide whether the workmen of the erstwhile contract should be directed to be absorbed by the principal employer, how many of them and on what terms.	Reasoning
If, however, the contract labour is not abolished, the industrial adjudicator has to reject the reference.(iv) Even after the contract labour system is abolished, the direct employees of the principal employer can raise an industrial dispute for absorption of the excontractors workmen and the adjudicator on the material placed before him can decide as to who and how many of the workmen should be absorbed and on what terms.	Reasoning
It is in the light of the above position of law which emerges from the provisions of the Act and the judicial decisions on the subject that we have to answer the contentions raised in different civil appeals, before us.	None
As regards the present civil appeal, the facts of which have already been referred to earlier, Shri Venugopal, the learned counsel for the appellant  Board contended that none of the direct workmen of the Board had espoused the cause of the contract labour and hence the Tribunal had no jurisdiction to entrain the reference.	None
He also submitted that any amount of consent by the appellant  Board for such a reference will not confer jurisdiction on the Tribunal to entertain the reference.	None
As has been pointed out earlier, the order of reference of the dispute to the Tribunal was made by the State Government on the basis of a joint application for the reference under S.10(2) of the ID Act.	None
The applications was duly signed by the present appellant  Board, all the seven contractors involved in the dispute and by then Surat Labour Union which had both direct as well as contract labourers, as its members.	None
The respondent  Union is the successor of the said Surat Labour Union.	None
These facts show two things, viz., that contrary to the submission made by the learned counsel, the direct employees of the Board had espoused the cause of the contract labourers, and the appellant  Board had also accepted the fact that the dispute in question was raised and supported also by the said employees.	None
No objection was taken before the Tribunal or the High Court either to the order of reference or to the adjudication of the dispute by the Tribunal that the dispute was not espoused by the direct employees of the appellant  Board.	None
This would also show that the fact that the dispute was espoused by the direct employees of the Board was accepted by the Board and never questioned till this date.	None
Apart from the fact, therefore, that the Board had signed the joint application for reference and therefore it cannot in an appeal by special leave under Art.	None
136 of the Constitution for the first time raise the question which is a mixed question of law and fact, we are of the view that even on facts as they stand, it will have to be held that the dispute was in fact espoused by the direct employees of the appellant  Board.	None
We, therefore reject the said contention.	None
It was next contended that the dispute raised by the workmen was for abolition of the contract and such a dispute could not have been entertained by the Tribunal in view of the provisions of the S.10 of the Act.	Reasoning
For this purpose, the learned counsel relied upon Clause (i) of the order of Reference.	Reasoning
We find nothing in the said clause which supports the contention of the learned counsel.	None
The clause reads as follows Whether the workers whose services are engaged by the contractors, but who are working in the Thermal Power Station of Gujarat Electricity Board at Ukai, can legally claim to be the employees of the Gujarat Electricity Board ?	None
It will be obvious from a reading of the said clause that what in fact is referred for adjudication is the determination of the status of the workmen, viz., whether though engaged by the contractors, they are legally the workmen of the appellant  Board ?	None
In other words, implicit in the said clause is the assertion of the workmen that are in law the workmen of the appellant  Board and not of the contractors, and they wanted the Tribunal to decide their exact legal status.	None
This is clear from also the statement of claim filed by the workmen in support of their demand.	None
In paragraph 3 of the statement of claim, it is averred that the Board has been employing Mukadam Supervisors who are draped in different paper arrangement and are now known as contractors of the Thermal Power Station and the Board and the so called contractors have joined hands for mass victimisation and termination of services even without payment of due wages.	None
Again, in paragraph 5 of the statement of claim, it is stated that the workmen are being paid wages by the management of the Board through Mukadam supervisors now known as contractors of the Board.	None
The contractors come and go but the workmen are working throughout since the inception of the Thermal Power Station.	None
The control, direction and initiation of these workmen are in the hands of the supervisors and technical staff of the Thermal Power Station.	None
It also alleged in the said paragraph that the so called contractors are not the contractors as none of them have taken licence.	None
It also averred there that it is abundantly clear that the workmen employed to perform the permanent and perennial nature of duties are the employees of the Board.	None
In paragraph 10 of the statement of claim, it is prayed that the Tribunal should hold and declare that the workers deployed in the Thermal Power Station under the garb of contractor are the permanent employees of the Thermal Power Station managed and controlled by the appellant  Board.	None
In paragraph 6 of the application for interim relief which was filed on behalf of the workmen, it was averred that the Board was through different agreements showing the workmen as if they were working under some intermediaries and the said intermediaries are make believe trappings and are dubious in nature and it was only to deprive the workmen of the benefits which are available to the employees of the Board that the said make believe trappings were employed by the Board.	None
It is therefore not correct to say that the present reference was for the abolition of the contract.	Reasoning
The reference on the other hand, was for a declaration that the workmen were in fact and in law the employees of the appellant  Board and that they should be given the service conditions as are available to the direct employees of the Board.	None
It was then contended by the learned counsel that the industrial Tribunal has no  where recorded a finding that the contract in question was sham, camouflage, make believe or a subterfuge.	None
On the country, according to him, the Tribunal has held that the contract labour of each of the contractors must be deemed to be the employees of the appellant  Board, firstly because the Board and the contractors had not produced valid proof of the registration certificate and licences respectively, relying on the decisions of the Madras and Karnataka High Courts, and secondly, because of the nature of the work.	Reasoning
He submitted that the decisions of the Madras and Karnataka High Courts have been expressly overruled by this Court in Dena Nath case (1991 AIR SCW 3026)	None
(supra).	None
As regards the nature of work, the exclusive jurisdiction to record a finding in that behalf is of the appropriate Government under S.10 of the Act and the Tribunal is precluded from recording a finding in that behalf and abolishing the contact on the basis of such finding.	None
In fact, the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to abolish the contract.	None
In the first instance, we find that the contention that the Tribunal has held that the workmen in question are the employees of the Board only because of the non production of the valid proof of the certificate and the licences in question, is not correct.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has, on the basis of the evidence on record, come to the conclusions, among others, that (i) the work was being done on the premises of the Board itself as the coal was being used for the purposes of the Board, viz., generation of electricity(ii) the workmen were broadly under the control of the Board (iii) there was overall supervision of the work by the officers of the Board (iv) the work was of a continuous nature and (v) the work was an integral part of the overall work to be executed for the purposes of the generation of the electricity and that it had to be performed within specified time limits as part of the integrated process.	Reasoning
The Tribunal has also in this connection referred to a decision of this Court reported in Hussainbhai, Calicut case, (1978 (4) SCC 257 AIR 1978 SC 1410 ), to support its conclusion that in the aforesaid circumstances found by it, the workmen in question were the employees of the Board.	Reasoning
It is true that the Tribunal has not in so many words recorded a finding that the contract was sham or bogus or a camouflage to conceal the real facts.	Reasoning
It is also true that the Tribunal has referred to the decisions of the Madras and Karnataka High Courts and on its finding that the Board and the contractors had not produced valid proof of the registration certificate and the licences for the relevant period has held that the workmen should be deemed to be the employees of the Board.	Reasoning
However, the decision of the Tribunal has to be read as a whole.	Reasoning
Thus read, the decisions makes it clear that the Tribunal has based its conclusion both on the ground that the workmen were in fact engaged by the appellant  Board and not by the contractors who were merely intermediaries set up by the Board and also on the ground that there was no valid proof of the registration certificate and the licences in the possession of the Board and the contractors respectively.	Reasoning
It is not, therefore, correct to say that the decision of the Tribunal is based only on the later ground.	Reasoning
We are of the view that there is a factual finding recorded by the Tribunal that the labour contracts in question were not genuine and the decisions of the Tribunal is based on this ground as well.	Reasoning
It is also not correct to say that to arrive at the finding as to whether the labour contracts are genuine or not the Court or the industrial adjudicator cannot investigate the factors mentioned in S.2(sic) (a) to (d) of S.10(2) of the Act.	None
The explanation to S.10(2) makes the decision of the appropriate Government final only on the question whether the process of operation or the work in question is of a perennial nature or not, and that too when a dispute arises with regard to the same.	None
If no such question arises, the finding recorded by the Court or the Tribunal in that behalf is not ineffective or invalid.	None
Further, in all such cases, the Tribunal is called upon to record a finding on the factors in question not for abolishing the contract but to find out whether the contract is sham or otherwise.	None
The contract may be genuine even where all the said factors are present.	None
What is prohibited by S.10 is the abolition of the contract except by the appropriate Government, after taking into consideration the said factors, and not the recording of the finding on the basis of the said factors, that the contract is sham or bogus.	None
The next contention of the learned counsel that the reference with regard to the abolition of the contract labour was not maintainable after the coming into force of the Act has been sufficiently answered by us earlier while discussing and recorded our conclusions on the position of law in that behalf.	Reasoning
Even on facts we have pointed out that the present reference was not for the abolition of contract labour but for a declaration that the workmen were in law the employees of the appellant  Board.	Reasoning
The industrial adjudicator has undoubtedly no jurisdiction to abolish a genuine labour contract in view of the provisions of S.10 of the Act.	Reasoning
However, it is not correct to say that the reference for the abolition of the contract, itself stands barred.	Reasoning
It is the terms of the reference which will determine the jurisdiction of the industrial adjudicator to entertain and decide the reference.	Reasoning
The dispute as to whether the labour contract is genuine or not can be agitated by the workmen and the industrial adjudicator has jurisdiction to examine the controversy.	Reasoning
If the contract is held to be genuine, the dispute if it is espoused by direct workmen of the principal employer can be kept pending by the industrial adjudicator and the workmen may be referred by him to the appropriate Government for the abolition of the contract.	Reasoning
If the appropriate Government abolishes the contract, the industrial adjudicator can thereafter grant further relief, if claimed, viz., of the absorption of the workmen of the erstwhile contractor in the principal establishment.	Reasoning
If, however, the appropriate Government does not abolish the contract, the industrial adjudicator may reject the reference, as stated earlier.	Reasoning
It is not therefore, correct to say that the reference of an industrial dispute seeking to abolish the contract is per se barred, as contended by the learned counsel.	None
It was also contended by him that the industrial Tribunal cannot make recruitment and create contract against third parties, and for this purpose, reliance was placed by him on the decisions reported in Indian General Navigation and Railway Company Ltd. v. Their Workmen (1966 (1) Lab LJ 735) Krishna Kurup v. General Manager, Gujarat Refinery, Baroda (1986 (4) SCC 375 AIR 1987 SC 163 ) and Gurmail Singh v. State of Punjab (1991 (1) SCC 189 ).	None
In Indian General Navigation and Railway Company Ltd. v. Their Workmen (1966 (1) Lab LJ 735) (supra), the facts were that the appellant company carried on business of Inland Water Transport in north  east India between various river stations in Bengal and Assam and for this purpose, it maintained a number of ghats or stations on the river Brahmaputra in Assam.	None
The company did not employ any workmen at any of the river stations for the work of cargo handing and left all such work to be carried on by different handling contractors.	None
On 3rd May, 1954, an agreement was entered into between the company and its allied companies on the one hand and the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) on the other.	None
The agreement was that a tripartite conference would be held later to decide the question of direct employment of workmen by the company.	None
The said conference was held on 9th and 10th May, 1954 at which the company agreed that it would progressively introduce the system of direct employment of labour in all transhipment ghats in Assam.	None
Accordingly, direct labour was employed by the company in some of the major ghats, but in the smaller ghats the old contract labour continued.	None
On 29th April 1957, a conciliation meeting was held to consider the demand made by the Sibsagar Transhipment Labour Union for direct employment of workmen at three minor ghats.	None
No decision was, however, reached and the contract labour continued to work at the said ghats.	None
Another tripartite meeting was held on 10th November, 1959 and it was then agreed that the company would employ direct labour in all the ghats on or before 1st April, 1960.	None
Meanwhile, a material change in the circumstances of the companys working took place in one sector of its operation.	None
The company made arrangements to open a ghat in May, 1960 as an all the year round mainline ghat replacing the current feeder service operation.	None
This step represented a major advance in the improvement of transport facilities and also led to the closure of one of the ghats on 17th May, 1960.	None
As a result, 56 workmen involved in the dispute in the appeal before the Court, came to be discharged by payment of one months basic pay.	None
On these facts, the dispute raised was whether the termination of the services of the 56 workmen was justified and whether they were entitled to reinstatement with continuity of service and full wages.	None
It was contended by the company that the said workmen were not its employees, and in the alternative, the termination of the services of the workmen being the result of the closure of the ghat in question, they were not entitled to any relief.	None
The industrial Tribunal had made inconsistent findings.	None
It had held that the relationship of master and servant had been proved between the company and the workmen in question but had also added that no direct employment was introduced, as was agreed to in the tripartite meeting held on 10th November, 1959.	None
The Industrial Tribunal had found that the workmen in question were the employees of the company and had also found that the closure was bona fide and real and each of the workmen was entitled to compensation under subsection (1) of S.25FFF of the ID Act.	None
On these facts, the Court held that the company had not directly employed the workmen at all and it is the contract labour which used to work for the company at the ghat in question.	None
The Court further found that though the company had guaranteed the payment at the prescribed rate to these workmen and in that sense had undertaken the liability to pay that money at that rate, the record shows that the money was paid to the contractor and the contractor paid it to the workmen from month to month until the ghat in question was closed.	None
Even one months basic pay which was paid to them through the contractor.	None
The Court, therefore, held that the Tribunal was in error in coming to the conclusion that the workmen in question had been employed by the company.	None
The company was not the employer of the workmen in question and hence the Tribunal could give them no relief.	None
The workmen had claim, if any, against the contractor who was their employer.	None
In Krishna Kurup v. General Manager, Gujarat Refinery, Baroda (AIR 1987 SC 163 ) (supra), out of 187 workmen, whose services had been terminated by the respondent  company by an oral order, 105 employees, in respect of whom the Gujarat High Court had recorded a finding for their absorption subject to scrutiny, were absorbed by the company, pending the special leave petition before this Court.	None
Special leave was, therefore, granted for the remaining 82 workmen.	None
The Court by its order of 16th January, 1986 directed the Labour Commissioner to enquire into as to whether they could be considered to be the employees of the company having regard to the nature of their employment, the period for which they had been employed off and on and all of other relevant factors.	None
The Commissioner found that the 82 workmen were not the employees of the company, but were contract labourers employed by the contractor.	None
These findings were challenged on behalf of the workmen, and this Court accepted the said findings holding that the appellant had failed to prove that the workmen in question were direct employees of the company.	None
The Court also observed that it was difficult to decide for the Court whether 82 workmen were doing the same work as was being done by the 105 workmen who were absorbed by the company.	None
The Court relied upon the affidavit filed on behalf the company that it had not been able to provide work to all 105 workmen who were absorbed, and only 22 of them had been allotted work and the rest 83 had not been assigned any work whatsoever.	None
The Court, therefore, held that it would not be justified in directing the company to absorb the 82 workmen and dismissed the appeal.	None
In Gurmail Singh v. State of Punjab (1991 (1) SCC 189 ) (supra), the appellants were in service as Tubewell Operators in the Irrigation Branch of the Public Works Department of the Punjab State.	None
The State took a decision to transfer all the tubewells in the said Branch to the Punjab State Tubewell Corporation , a company wholly owned and managed by the State of Punjab.	None
Accordingly, the appellants were served with a notice on August 31, 1982, in terms of S.25F of the ID Act, terminating their services with effect from November 30, 1982 and on that date a notification was issued, abolishing the posts sanctioned for the Tubewell Circle, Irrigation Branch with effect from March 1,1983.	None
The appellants, inter alia, contended that in case the action of the State was upheld, the respondent company should be held to be under an obligation to employ the appellants with continuity of service and under the same terms and conditions which they were enjoying prior to the retrenchment from the service of the State.	None
The appellants also contended that the notices did not fulfil the requirements of Clauses (b) and (c) of S.25F of the ID Act.	None
The principal question before the Court, however, was whether in the circumstances the State was under the obligation to protect the terms and conditions of service of the Tubewell Operators and whether there cannot be situations in which the Court or the industrial adjudicator should, in the interest of justice, fair play and industrial peace, hold the employees entitled to continuity with the successor without being compelled to be satisfied with compensation from the predecessor.	None
On these facts, the Court held as follows S.25FF provides that where there is a transfer of an undertaking by agreement or operation of law, an employee who loses his job because of such transfer will have a right to compensation from the predecessor, except where he gets the benefit of uninterrupted service with the new employer on no less favourable terms than before and will be entitled to compensation in case he should be retrenched later by the new employer.	None
If a transfer is fictitious or benami, S.25FF has no application at all.	None
In such a case, there has been no change of ownership or management and despite an apparent transfer, the transferor employer continues to be the real employer and there has to be continuity of service under the same terms and conditions of service as before and there can be no question of compensation.	None
A second type of cases is one in which there is in form, and perhaps also in law, a succession but the management continues to be in the hands of the same set of persons organised differently.	None
In such cases, the transferee and transferor are virtually the same and the overriding principle should be that no one should be able to frustrate the intent and purpose of the law by drawing a corporate veil across the eyes of the Court.	None
Though these exceptions to the above rules would still be operative, it is not necessary here to decide whether this principle will help to identify the transferee Corporation with the State Government for the present purposes, particularly as there is a catena of cases which do not approve of such identification.	None
A third category of cases falling as an exception to the principle behind S.25FF is where, as here, the transferor and or transferee is a State or a State instrumentality, which is required to act fairly and not arbitrarily and the Court has a say as to whether the terms and conditions on which it proposes to hand over or take over an industrial undertaking embody the requisite of fairness in action and could be upheld.	None
In such circumstances, it will be open to the Court to review overall aspects of transfer of the undertaking and the arrangement between the State Government and the Corporation and to issue appropriate directions that no injustice results from the changeover.	None
Such directions could be issued even if the elements of the transfer in the present case fall short of a complete succession to the business or undertaking of the State by the Corporation, as the principle sought to be applied is a constitutional principle flowing from the contours of Art.14 which the State and Corporation are obliged to adhere	None
to.xxxx xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx xxxxLooking at the facts of this case in the above perspective, it appears that the State Government had acted arbitrarily towards the appellants.	None
It has abridged the right to the appellants by purporting to transfer only the tubewells and retrenched the appellants from services as a consequence.	None
The conduct of the government in depriving the appellants of substantial benefits which have accrued to them as a result of their long service with the government, although the tubewells continue to be run at its cost by the Corporation wholly owned by it, is something which is grossly unfair and inequitable.	None
Holding thus, the Court directed the absorption of the workmen by the Corporation, and granted them the benefit of their service with the Government for the purposes of the computation of their salary, length of service and retirement benefits, but denied them the benefit to claim the seniority over the employees of the Corporation engaged, since its commencement in 1970.	None
The Court further directed that the Corporation should ensure that the workmen were not retrenched as surplus on account of any closure of any tubewells or other like reason until they retired or left the service of the Corporation voluntarily for any reason.	None
Thus, it would be seen that these three decisions have not in any way diluted the propositions of law laid down by this Court in Dimakuchi (AIR 1958 SC 353 ) and Standard Vacuum (AIR 1960 SC 948 ) (supra), where the Court has approved of the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to direct the principal employer to absorb the workmen of the erstwhile contractor as his direct employees depending upon the satisfaction of the factors laid down therein and on terms that the Tribunal on the basis of the material before it, may deem fit to fix in circumstances of the case.	None
It is also not correct to say that the Act is a complete Code by itself and, therefore, the Industrial Tribunal has no jurisdiction to give a direction to the principal employer to absorb the workmen in question.	Reasoning
We have already pointed out that the Act is silent on the question of the status of the workmen of the erstwhile contractor once the contract is abolished by the appropriate Government.	Reasoning
Hence as far as the question of determination of the status of the workmen is concerned, it remains open for decisions by the industrial adjudicator.	Reasoning
There is nothing in the Act which can be construed to have deprived the industrial adjudicator of the jurisdiction to determine the same.	Reasoning
So long as, therefore, the said jurisdiction has not been taken away from the industrial adjudicator by any express provision of the Act or of any other statute, it will have to be held that jurisdiction which, as pointed out above, has been recognised even by the decisions in Dimakuchi (AIR 1958 SC 353 ) and Standard Vacuum (AIR 1960 SC 948 ) cases (supra) continues to exist.	Reasoning
In the exercise of the said jurisdiction, the industrial adjudicator can certainly make a contract between the workmen of the excontractor and the principal employer and direct the principal employer to absorb such of them and on such terms as the adjudicator may determine in the facts of each case.	Reasoning
We find nothing in the decisions relied upon on behalf of the appellant which goes counter to this proposition of law.	Reasoning
The decisions in Indian General Navigation and Railway Company Ltd. (1966 (1) Lab LJ 735) Krishna Kurup (AIR 1987 SC 163 ) and Gurmail Singh (1991 (1) SCC 189 ) (supra), on which reliance is placed on behalf of the appellant for the purpose, have already been discussed by us above.	Reasoning
The only additional decisions which is pressed into service in this behalf is Sanghi Jeevaraj Ghewar Chand v. Secretary, Madras Chillies, Grains Kirana Merchants Workers Union, (1969 (1) SCR 366 AIR 1969 SC 530 ).	Reasoning
By a common decision in this case, two appeals were decided by this Court.	Reasoning
In one appeal, the establishment employed less than 20 employees and it was not a factory in the other appeal, the establishment was in the public sector.	Reasoning
By reasons of exclusion under S.1(3) of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, the establishment in the first appeal was excluded from the application of that Act whereas by reason of exemption under S.32(x), the establishment in the other appeal stood exempted from the operation of the said Act.	Reasoning
On these facts, the question was whether the employees of the two establishments could claim bonus dehors the Payment of Bonus Act and the Court held, considering the history of the legislation, the background and the circumstances in which the Bonus Act was enacted, and the object of the Act and its scheme, that the Act was an exhaustive Act, dealing comprehensively with the subject matter of bonus in all its aspects, and the Parliament had not left it open to those to whom the Act did not apply, the reason of its provisions either as to exclusion or exemption, to raise a dispute with regard to bonus through industrial adjudication under the ID Act or other corresponding law.	Reasoning
The ID Act itself did not provide for a statutory right for payment of bonus although it had provided substantial rights for workmen with regard to lay off, retrenchment compensation etc.	Reasoning
It will thus be clear that the right to bonus which was spelt out by the judicial decisions was expressly denied by the Bonus Act to the workmen in the establishment concerned in that case, and yet the workmen claimed the bonus on the basis of the alleged provisions of the ID Act.	Reasoning
In the present case, there is nothing in the Act as pointed out earlier, which has either expressly or impliedly taken away the raising of an industrial dispute to absorb the excontractors workmen in the principal establishment when the dispute has been espoused by the direct workmen or the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to give a direction for the purpose, of course, on such terms as it deems fit in the circumstances of each case.	Reasoning
For all these reasons, we are unable to accept the contention that the industrial adjudicator cannot direct the principal employer to engage excontractors workmen as direct employees.24.	Reasoning
It was then contended that the bulk of the contract labour was engaged by the contractors in the process of unloading coal, and since the year 1989 the process of unloading coal had been fully mechanised at the Ukai Thermal Power with which we are concerned and as such, no labour was required in the process of the unloading of coal.	Reasoning
For this purpose, reliance was placed on the contents of the additional affidavit filed by the Board during the hearing of the present appeal.	Reasoning
We are concerned in the present appeal with the award of the Tribunal dated 22nd February, 1988.	Reasoning
If a situation has, thereafter, arisen where the workmen directed to be employed by the award have become surplus, it is open for the appellant  Board to retrench them in accordance with the provisions of law.	Reasoning
However, the situation in 1989 cannot be pressed into service to negative the award of 1988 by which the dispute raised in 1982 was adjudicated.25.	Reasoning
The last argument was that the appellant  Board has several other thermal Power plants in the State where certain type of the works done through contract labour only by contractors and the present Thermal Power plant is only one of them.	Reasoning
Any decision in the present appeal will have, therefore, according to the Board serious repercussions in the other plants.	Reasoning
It is contended that this might also result in total break down of the functioning of the Board which would not be in the interest of the workers as a class.	Reasoning
To say the least, the argument is one in terrorem and has only to be stated to be rejected.	Reasoning
The Board has to manage its affairs according to the provisions of law.	Reasoning
The Courts cannot grant it exemption from the law on the ground that it will not be in a position to run its affairs.	Reasoning
For the above reasons, we confirm the decision of the High Court and the award of the Tribunal and dismiss the appeal with costs.	Decision
C.A. 549802 and 5503/95 SLP (C)	None
No. 93109314 and 9315 of 1991.	None
These appeals arise out of the decision of the High Court in a writ petition filed by the appellant  Union under Art.226 of the Constitution.	None
In view of what we have held above, the decision of the High Court that the workmen concerned do not become the direct employees of the respondent  enterprises merely because there are no registration certificates and licences with the respondent undertakings and the concerned contractors respectively, has to be upheld.	None
The decisions relied upon by Shri Mukhoty on behalf of the workmen, viz.	None
D. S. Nakara v. Union of India, 1983 (1) SCC 305 AIR 1983 SC 130 )	None
Delhi Transport Corporation v. D. T. C. Mazdoor Congress, 1991 Suppl.	None
(1) SCC 600 AIR 1991 SC 101 ) and State of Haryana v. Piara Singh, (1992 (4) SCC 118 1992 AIR SCW 2315) are inapplicable to the issues involved in these appeals.	None
The remedy of the workmen is to raise a proper industrial dispute as indicated earlier for appropriate reliefs.	None
If and when such dispute is raised, the Government should make the reference within two months of the receipt of the dispute and the industrial adjudicator should dispose of the same as far as possible within six months thereafter.	None
Civil Appeals are therefore dismissed but with no order as to costs.	None
C. A. 5504/95 S. L. P. (C) No. 13520 of 1991 In this case, the Labour Court has given relief of reinstatement with back wages to the workmen.	None
There is no finding recorded by the Court whether the industrial dispute was raised by the direct employees of the appellant  Society and whether the labour contract was genuine or not.	None
The Labour Court has proceeded to grant the relief to the workmen only on the basis that the registration certificate and the licences under the Act were not produced by the Society and the contractors concerned respectively and, therefore, the workers should be deemed to be the employees of the Society.	None
In view of what we have held above, the award of the Labour Court and the decision of the High Court are set aside.	None
The workers are free to raise a fresh proper industrial dispute and claim appropriate relief.	None
If and when such dispute is raised, the Government should make the reference within two months of the receipt of the dispute and the industrial adjudicator should dispose of the same, as far as possible, within six months thereafter.	None
Civil appeal is, therefore, allowed but with no order as to costs.	None
