 Dr. Mukundakam Sharma, J. This appeal is directed against the judgment and order dated 22.02.2006, passed by the Patna High Court whereby the High Court partly allowed the appeal filed by the State of Bihar and others who are the respondents herein.	Issue
M s. Shakti Tubes Ltd.the appellant as plaintiff filed a suit which was registered as Money Suit No. 153 of 1997 praying for a decree for payment of Rs.	Facts
38,13,480/ with pendente lite and future interest compounding at monthly rest at the rate of 24 per annum on the aforesaid decreetal amount till realization with costs of the suit.	Facts
The trial court decreed the said suit with costs in favour of the appellantplaintiff and ordered for payment of interest compounding at monthly rest at 24 on the decreetal amount of Rs. 38,13,480/.	Facts
Since the aforesaid decree was reversed by the High Court whereby the High Court while mentioning the decree for payment for Rs.	Facts
38,13,480/ reversed it to the extent of directing for payment of 9 interest per annum instead of 24 interest per annum, the present appeal is preferred by the appellantplaintiff.	Facts
In order to effectively deal with the rival contentions raised by the parties herein it would be necessary to state a few facts leading to the filing of the aforesaid suit by the appellantplaintiff before the trial court.	Facts
In the plaint filed by the appellantplaintiff it was stated that the plaintiff is a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act and registered as a Small Scale Industry in the Industries Department, Government of Bihar and that it entered into an agreement with the State of Bihar for supply of pipes at the rate of Rs. 174.95 paise.	Facts
per metre subject to the terms and conditions mentioned in the tender paper.	Facts
A supply order was placed by the respondent through Chief Engineers letter No. 8956 dated 16.07.1992 with the appellantplaintiff for making supply of the aforesaid pipes.	Facts
It was mentioned in the said letter that 90 of the total value of the material received was to be paid after receipt of the material and the balance 10 of the value was to be paid within one month of the receipt of the material, after full verification of the same.	Facts
It was a stipulation in the said agreement entered into between the parties that the payment would be made at the escalated rate applicable for the quantity of pipes supplied after such escalation come into force and that even in such cases other terms of payment would remain the same.	Facts
It was alleged in the plaint by the appellantplaintiff that they supplied the pipes as the per agreement to the concerned consignees, who duly accepted the pipes as per measurement, but the payment was not made.	Facts
After some time, the payment was made at the rate of Rs. 190.48 paise per metre instead of actual escalated rate of Rs. 199.04 P. per metre.	Facts
A sum of Rs.	Facts
38,13,480/ thus remained payable to the appellantplaintiff which was withheld illegally by the respondents in respect of the goods supplied.	Facts
Consequently, the appellantplaintiff had to file a suit seeking for a decree for payment of the aforesaid amount of Rs.	Facts
38,13,480/ with interest compounding at monthly rest at the rate of 24 per annum on the aforesaid decreetal amount.	Facts
The trial court passed a judgment and decree dated 31.05.1999 in terms of the prayer made in the plaint decreeing for a payment of Rs.	Facts
38,13,480/ along with interest compounding at monthly rest at the rate of 24 per annum on the aforesaid amount with effect form 01.06.1993 till realization.	Facts
The respondents herein being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and decree dated 31.05.1999 passed by the trial court filled an appeal in the High Court of Patna which was registered as First Appeal No. 8 of 2000.	Facts
The only issue raised in the appeal before the High Court was with regard to the decree for payment of higher interest than what the plaintiff was actually entitled to.	Facts
The High Court considered the contentions of the parties and by its judgment and order dated 20.02.2006 directed that instead of compound interest with monthly rest at the rate of 24 per annum, the appellantplaintiff would be entitled to simple interest at the rate of 9 per annum with effect from 01.06.1993 till realization.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the aforesaid judgment and order passed by the High Court, the appellantplaintiff filed the present appeal before this Court.	None
The only issue that arises for our consideration in the present appeal is as to whether the appellantplaintiff is entitled to a direction for payment of interest compounding at monthly rest at the rate of 24 per annum.	Issue
According to the appellantplaintff, the said interest has been claimed by the appellantplaintiff since it is entitled to so claim in terms of the provisions of the Interest on Delayed Payment to Small Scale Industries Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as the Act).	None
Mr. G.C. Bharuka, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant plaintiff drew our attention to the provisions of the Act and to the decision of this Court in Assam Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Ltd.	Arguments of Petitioner
Ors.	Arguments of Petitioner
v. J.D. Pharmaceuticals Anr. 2005	Arguments of Petitioner
(13) SCC 19 .	Arguments of Petitioner
In support of his contention that the transaction in the instant case came to an end with the appellantplaintiff supplying the goods after coming into force of the Act he has taken us through the relevant sections of the Act as also the Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to him, the appellantplaintiff is entitled to be paid in terms of the provisions of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
He contended that the earlier supply order which was issued on 16.07.1992 came to be materially altered and substituted by a fresh supply order issued on 18.03.1993 by which date the aforesaid Act had already been enforced and, therefore, the appellant plaintiff was entitled to claim interest at a higher rate as envisaged in Sections 4 and 5 of the said Act. 10.	Arguments of Petitioner
Mr. Dinesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents strongly refuted the aforesaid submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantplaintiff on the ground that the supply order was issued in the instant case on 16.07.1992 and, therefore, in terms of and in line with the decision of this Court in Assam Small Scale Industries case (supra) the appellantplaintiff was entitled to be paid interest only at the rate of 9 per annum and not at a higher rate as contended by the appellantplaintiff.	Arguments of Respondent
He submitted that the argument that there was novation of the supply order dated 16.07.1992 having not been argued before any of the courts below nor any ground in that regard having been taken earlier in this appeal, the same cannot be raised now for the first time, at the time of final hearing.	Arguments of Respondent
He also submitted that there was neither a new supply order created by the parties nor was there any alteration of the earlier supply order, but in fact, the earlier supply order continued with some variation.	Arguments of Respondent
Before proceeding to decide the case at hand it would be necessary to deal with the relevant provisions of the Act.	None
The Act came into force on 23rd September, 1992.	None
Section 2(b), 3, 4 and 5 are relevant for our purpose to enable us to answer the issue raised herein.	None
Therefore the same are being reproduced hereinbelow Definitions.	None
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, (a) ancillary industrial undertaking has the meaning assigned to it by clause (aa) of section 3 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) (b) appointed day means the day following immediately after the expiry of the period of thirty days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance of any goods or any services by a buyer from a supplier.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this clause, (i) the day of acceptance means, (a) the day of the actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services or (b) where any objection is made in writing by the buyer regarding acceptance of goods or services within thirty days from the day of the delivery of goods or the rendering of services, the day on which such objection is removed by the supplier (ii) the day of deemed acceptance means, where no objection is made in writing by the buyer regarding acceptance of goods or services within thirty days from the day of the delivery of goods or the rendering of services, the day of the actual delivery of goods or the rendering of services (c) buyer means whoever buys any goods or receives any services from a supplier for consideration (d) goods means every kind of movable property other than actionable claims and money (e) small scale industrial undertaking has the meaning assigned to it by clause (j) of section 3 of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) (f) supplier means an ancillary industrial undertaking or a small scale industrial undertaking holding a permanent registration certificate issued by the Directorate of Industries of a State 1or Union territory and includes, (i) the National Small Industries Corporation, being a company, registered under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) (ii) the Small Industries Development Corporation of a State or a Union territory, by whatever name called, being a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956).	None
Liability of buyer to make payment.	None
Where any supplier supplies any goods or renders any services to any buyer, the buyer shall make payment therefore on or before the date agreed upon between him and the supplier in writing or, where there is no agreement in this behalf, before the appointed day Provided that in no case the period agreed upon between the supplier and the buyer in writing shall exceed one hundred and twenty days from the day of acceptance or the day of deemed acceptance.	None
Date from which and rate at which interest is payable.	None
Where any buyer fails to make payment of the amount to the supplier, as required under section 3, the buyer shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between the buyer and the supplier or in any law for the time being in force, be liable to pay interest to the supplier on that amount from the appointed day or, as the case may be, from the date immediately following the date agreed upon, at one and half time of prime Lending Rate charged by the State Bank of India.	None
Explanation.	None
For the purposes of this section, Prime Lending Rate means the Prime Lending Rate of the State Bank of India which is available to the best borrowers of the bank.	None
Liability of buyer to pay compound interest.	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in any agreement between a supplier and a buyer or in any law for the time being in force, the buyer shall be liable to pay compound interest (with monthly interests) at the rate mentioned in section 4 on the amount due to the supplier The appellantplaintiff, relying on the aforesaid provisions of the Act, sought a decree for payment of interest at the higher rate as mentioned in Section 4 which, according to the appellantplaintiff, was payable with compound interest as provided for under Section 5 of the Act.	None
The aforesaid provisions of the Act came to be considered and interpreted by this Court in Assam Small Scale Industries case (supra) wherein the Supreme Court not only considered the ambit and scope of Section 34 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (for short the CPC) but also the ambit and scope of Sections 1, 3, 4, 5 and 10 of the Act.	None
After discussing the said provisions, the Supreme Court in paragraphs 37 and 38 recorded its findings and conclusions in the following manner Applicability of the 1993 Act We have held hereinbefore that clause 8 of the terms and conditions relates to the payments of balance 10.	None
It is not in dispute that the plaintiff had demanded both the principal amount as also the interest from the Corporation.	None
Section 3 of the 1993 Act imposes a statutory liability upon the buyer to make payment for the supplies of any goods either on or before the agreed date or where there is no agreement before the appointed day.	None
Only when payments are not made in terms of Section 3, Section 4 would apply.	None
The 1993 Act came into effect from 2391992 and will not apply to transactions which took place prior to that date.	None
We find that out of the 71 suit transactions, Sl.	None
Nos. 1 to 26 (referred to in the penultimate para of the trial court judgment), that is supply orders between 561991 to 2871992, were prior to the date of the 1993 Act coming into force.	None
Only the transactions at Sl.	None
Nos. 27 to 71 (that is supply orders between 22101992 to 1961993), will attract the provisions of the 1993 Act.	None
The 1993 Act, thus, will have no application in relation to the transactions entered into between June 1991 and 2391992.	None
The trial court as also the High Court, therefore, committed a manifest error in directing payment of interest at the rate of 23 up to June 1991 and 23.5 thereafter.	None
In order to appreciate the aforesaid findings we may also extract the contents of paragraph 14 of the said judgment wherein this Court referred to the facts of the case leading to recording of the aforesaid findings and conclusions It is not in dispute that pursuant to the said agreement, the Corporation placed orders for supply of medicines manufactured by the respondent herein for the period of June 1991 to June 1993.	None
The total price of the medicines supplied by the respondent in pursuance of the supply orders of the Corporation stood at Rs 20,56,654.13 out of which only a sum of Rs 46,512.80 was paid to the respondent.	None
A careful perusal of the aforesaid judgment shows that the decision in the aforesaid case was rendered after clearly recording the fact that the Assam Small Scale Industries Development Corporation Ltd. (for short the Corporation) placed orders for the supply of medicines manufactured by the respondents therein for the period June, 1991 to June, 1993.	Reasoning
In the light of the said facts, it was recorded in paragraph 37 of the judgment that while the Act came into effect from 23rd September, 1992, the supply orders were placed only in respect of Serial Nos. 1 to 26 immediately and before coming into effect of the Act and rest of the supply orders namely, supply orders at Serial Nos. 27 to 71 were placed between 22.10.1992 to 19.06.1993 which were subsequent to the date when the Act came into force.	Reasoning
In that context, it was clearly recorded in the judgment that the Act will have no application to the transactions that took place prior to the commencement of the Act.	Reasoning
In the next sentence the Court made it clear as to what is referred to and understood by the expression transaction when it clearly stated that out of 71 transactions, Serial Nos. 1 to 26, i.e. supply orders between 05.06.1991 to 28.07.1992 being prior to 23rd September, 1992 when the Act came into force, higher interest as envisaged under Sections 4 and 5 of the Act cannot be paid and demanded in respect of the said supply orders transactions.	Reasoning
It was also made clear that the transactions at Serial Nos. 27 to 71 only i.e. supply orders between 22.10.1992 to 19.06.1993, would attract the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, those supply orders which were issued by the Corporation between 22.10.1992 to 19.06.1993 were held to be the transactions which would be entitled to get the benefit of the provisions of the Act.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion, the ratio of the aforesaid decision is clearly applicable and would squarely govern the facts of the present case as well.	Reasoning
The said decision was rendered by this Court after appreciating the entire facts as also all the relevant laws on the issue and, therefore, we do not find any reason to take a different view than what was taken by this Court in the aforesaid judgment.	Reasoning
Thus, we respectfully agree with the aforesaid decision of this Court which is found to be rightly arrived at after appreciating all the facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
Now coming to the facts of the present case we find that there is no dispute with regard to the fact that the supply order was placed with the respondents on 16.07.1992 for supply of the pipes which date is admittedly prior to the date on which this Act came into effect.	Reasoning
Being faced with the aforesaid situation, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantplaintiff sought to submit before us that the decision of this Court in Assam Small Scale Industries case (supra) refers to the expression transactions.	Reasoning
According to him, the transactions would be complete only when the appellantplaintiff made the supply and since the supply was made in the instant case after coming into force of the Act, the appellantplaintiff would be entitled to the benefit of Section 4 and 5 of the Act.	Reasoning
Refuting the aforesaid submission, the learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents submitted that the aforesaid contention is completely misplaced.	Reasoning
He pointed out that if such a meaning, as sought to be given by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantplaintiff, is accepted that would lead to giving benefit of the provisions of the Act to unscrupulous suppliers who, in order to get the benefit of the Act, would postpone the delivery of the goods on one pretext or the other.	Reasoning
We have considered the aforesaid rival submissions.	Reasoning
This Court in Assam Small Scale Industries case (supra) has finally set at rest the issue raised by stating that as to what is to be considered relevant is the date of supply order placed by the respondents and when this Court used the expression transaction it only meant a supply order.	Reasoning
The Court made it explicitly clear in paragraph 37 of the judgment which we had already extracted above.	Reasoning
In our considered opinion there is no ambiguity in the aforesaid judgment passed by this Court.	Reasoning
The intent and the purpose of the Act, as made in paragraph 37 of the judgment, are quite clear and apparent.	Reasoning
When this Court said transaction it meant initiation of the transaction i.e. placing of the supply orders and not the completion of the transactions which would be completed only when the payment is made.	Reasoning
Therefore, the submission made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantplaintiff fails.	None
Consequently, we hold that the supply order having been placed herein prior to the coming into force of the Act, any supply made pursuant to the said supply orders would be governed not by the provisions of the Act but by the provisions of Section 34 of the CPC read with the provisions of the Interest on Delayed Payment to Small Scale Industries Act, 1993.	Reasoning
At one stage the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantplaintiff submitted that the Act in question is a beneficial legislation and, therefore, a liberal interpretation and wider meaning is to be given to such a beneficial and welfare legislation so as to protect the interest of the supplier who is being kept on a higher pedestal by giving a higher benefit in the Act.	Reasoning
Generally, an Act should always be regarded as prospective in nature unless the legislature has clearly intended the provisions of the said Act to be made applicable with retrospective effect.	Reasoning
It is a cardinal principle of construction that every statute is prima facie prospective unless it is expressly or by necessary implication made to have a retrospective operation.	Reasoning
The aforesaid rule in general is applicable where the object of the statute is to affect vested rights or to impose new burdens or to impair existing obligations.	Reasoning
Unless there are words in the statute sufficient to show the intention of the legislature to affect existing rights, it is deemed to be prospective only  nova constitutio futuris formam imponere debet non praeteritis  a new law ought to regulate what is to follow, not the past.	None
(See Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, 9th Edn., 2004 at p. 438.).	None
It is not necessary that an express provision be made to make a statute retrospective and the presumption against retrospectivity may be rebutted by necessary implication especially in a case where the new law is made to cure an acknowledged evil for the benefit of the community as a whole (ibid., p. 440).	None
In the case of Zile Singh v. State of Haryana, (2004) 8 SCC 1 , at page 9, this Court observed as follows Though retrospectivity is not to be presumed and rather there is presumption against retrospectivity, according to Craies (Statute Law, 7th Edn.), it is open for the legislature to enact laws having retrospective operation.	None
This can be achieved by express enactment or by necessary implication from the language employed.	None
If it is a necessary implication from the language employed that the legislature intended a particular section to have a retrospective operation, the courts will give it such an operation.	None
In the absence of a retrospective operation having been expressly given, the courts may be called upon to construe the provisions and answer the question whether the legislature had sufficiently expressed that intention giving the statute retrospectivity.	None
Four factors are suggested as relevant (i) general scope and purview of the statute (ii) the remedy sought to be applied (iii) the former state of the law and (iv) what it was the legislature contemplated.	None
(p. 388)	None
The rule against retrospectivity does not extend to protect from the effect of a repeal, a privilege which did not amount to accrued right.	None
(p. 392) Where a statute is passed for the purpose of supplying an obvious omission in a former statute or to explain a former statute, the subsequent statute has relation back to the time when the prior Act was passed.	Reasoning
The rule against retrospectivity is inapplicable to such legislations as are explanatory and declaratory in nature.	Reasoning
A classic illustration is the case of Attorney General v. Pougett (Price at p. 392).	Reasoning
By a Customs Act of 1873 (53 Geo. 3, c. 33) a duty was imposed upon hides of 9s 4d, but the Act omitted to state that it was to be 9s 4d per cwt., and to remedy this omission another Customs Act (53 Geo. 3, c. 105) was passed later in the same year.	Reasoning
Between the passing of these two Acts some hides were exported, and it was contended that they were not liable to pay the duty of 9s 4d per cwt., but Thomson, C.B., in giving judgment for the Attorney General, said (ER p. 134)	None
The duty in this instance was, in fact, imposed by the first Act but the gross mistake of the omission of the weight, for which the sum expressed was to have been payable, occasioned the amendment made by the subsequent Act but that had reference to the former statute as soon as it passed, and they must be taken together as if they were one and the same Act (Price at p. 392)	None
25 There is no dispute with regard to the fact that the Act in question is a welfare legislation which was enacted to protect the interest of the suppliers especially suppliers of the nature of a small scale industry.	None
But, at the same time, the intention and the purpose of the Act cannot be lost sight of and the Act in question cannot be given a retrospective effect so long as such an intention is not clearly made out and derived from the Act itself.	Reasoning
26	None
It was next submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantplaintiff that there was a novation and alteration of the contract giving rise to a new contract between the parties due to alteration of terms and conditions of the contract and, therefore, Section 62 of the Indian Contract Act (for short the Contract Act) was applicable to the present case.	None
Section 62 of the Contract Act is reproduced hereinbelow Effect of novation, rescission and alteration of contract.	None
If the parties to a contract agree to substitute a new contract for it, or to rescind or alter it, the original contract need not be performed.	None
Illustrations A owes money to B under a contract.	None
It is agreed between A, B and C that B shall thenceforth accept C as his debtor, instead of A.	None
The old debt of A to B is at an end, a new debt from C to B has been contracted.	None
A owes B 10,000 rupees.	None
A enters into an agreement with B, and gives B a mortgage of his (As) estate for 5,000 rupees in place of the debt of 10,000 rupees.	None
This is a new contract and extinguishes the old.	None
A owes B 1,000 rupees under a contract, B owes C 1,000 rupees.	None
B orders A to credit C with 1,000 rupees in his books, but C does not assent to the arrangement.	None
B still owes C 1,000 rupees, and no new contract has been entered into.	None
Relying on the aforesaid provision of the Contract Act, the learned senior counsel submitted that the original contract was for the supply of 7 lakh metres of pipes which was curtailed and changed to the supply of 4 lakh metres of pipes with change in the date of supply with extension of date of supply till 30.04.1993 and supplies were completed within that extended time.	Reasoning
In support of his submission he sought to rely upon a judgment of the Bombay High Court in Andheri Bridge View Coop.	Reasoning
Hsg.	Reasoning
Society Ltd. v. Krishnakant Anandrao Deo and others reported in 1991 AIR Bombay 129 wherein it was held that a new contract would come in existence in terms of Section 62 of the Contract Act.	Reasoning
In the said judgment, the High Court observed as follows in para 13 Now, even if the parties have referred to an agreement as being not a new one but an old one with certain modifications, that would carry no weight if the law on the point is something contrary to what is understood by the parties.	None
For example, we know that when there is a change in the constitution of a firm then the firm is a new partnership notwithstanding the fact that the parties may refer to it as the old partnership with a changed constitution.	None
So also I would say that where there are material or substantial changes which go to the root of the agreement then this has to be regarded in law as a new agreement.	None
What would be the position if the parties agree to sell property A and at a later stage they agree that not property A	None
but property B should be sold?	None
Clearly this would be a new agreement notwithstanding the fact that all other terms regarding rate for payment etc. may also be similar.	None
So also payment of price or the rate of payment is a material part of the agreement for sale.	None
Both the subjectmatter and the rate of payment are material parts of any agreement for sale and change in either of these terms brings about a new agreement.	None
In our case therefore the correspondence of 1983 brought about an entirely new agreement  between new parties, new property (so far a F.S.I. is concerned), and new rates.	None
In order to appreciate the aforesaid contention, we have looked into the documents available on records and considered the same.	Reasoning
On analyzing the same we find that in none of the courts below any such issue was raised by the appellantplaintiff.	Reasoning
Neither any issue was framed by the courts below in respect of such a submission nor any ground to that effect was taken earlier.	Reasoning
Even in the memorandum of appeal filed in this Court no such ground has been urged or mentioned.	Reasoning
Therefore, the issue is being raised, for the first time, at the time of hearing of the case before us which, according to us, can not be permitted to be raised for the first time for the simple reason that the issue that is being urged now is not only a question of law but is a mixed question of law and facts as to whether there is a novation or alteration of contract.	Reasoning
The said facts were required to be urged evidentially before the courts below.	Reasoning
Unless such a factual foundation is available it is not possible to decide such a mixed question of law and facts.	Reasoning
Therefore, such a mixed question of law and facts should not be allowed to be raised at the time of final hearing of appeal before this Court.	Reasoning
Even otherwise, we are of the considered view that there was neither any alteration of the contract nor any novation of the contract in the present case.	Reasoning
The correspondence between the parties clearly disclosed that after the respondents issued the supply order, the appellantplaintiff did not supply the pipes in terms of the supply order and it urged mainly for the increase in the price of the goods.	Reasoning
Subsequently, they relied upon the price escalation clause and asked for increase in the price of pipes.	Reasoning
The perusal of the records also disclosed that subsequently the Government thought it fit that the appellantplaintiff may not be able to supply the prescribed quantity of goods which was earlier required by the Government and, therefore, they curtailed the quantity of the goods from 7 lakh metres of pipes to 4 lakh metres of pipes.	Reasoning
In the process, the Government kept the contents of the supply order intact except a variation in the quantity to be supplied with extension of date of supply.	Reasoning
However, the Government gave effect to the price escalation clause which was a part of the earlier supply order and also of the agreements which were entered into between the parties prior to the coming into force of the Act.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our considered opinion the said contention, as raised by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellantplaintiff, has no legal and factual basis.	Reasoning
In any event, it is not possible to decide the aforesaid issue in this case as full factual foundation for such an argument was not placed before us so as to enable us to know as to why the quantity to be supplied by the appellant plaintiff was curtailed by the Government and as to why the appellantplaintiff was not supplying the goods despite the receipt of the supply orders for several months.	Reasoning
It is also not clear from the records that whether there was any failure or negligence on the part of the appellantplaintiff in not supplying the goods for a long period of time without any reasonable basis or whether there were laches on the part of the respondents in sorting out the transaction.	Reasoning
These are some of the factual issues which are required to be gone into to answer finally such issue which was raised at the time of hearing of the appeal and which cannot be done in the absence of any evidence in that regard.	Reasoning
Therefore, in our considered opinion, the present appeal is held to be without any merit and is dismissed accordingly.	Decision
However, in the facts and circumstances of the case we leave the parties to bear their own costs.	Decision
