 K. Thakker, J. Leave granted.	None
This appeal is filed against the judgment and order dated September 26, 2005, passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore in Writ Appeal No. 2458 of 2005 (LPG).	Issue
By the said order, the Division Bench of the High Court set aside the order passed by the Controlling Authority and Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Bangalore under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as the Act) and confirmed by the Appellate Authority and also by a Single Judge of the High Court.	Decision
Short facts giving rise to the present appeal are that according to the appellant, in September, 1984, he was appointed as Supervisor by Mr. V.K. Poddar, Managing Director of Agarwal Investments, Poddar Granites and	Facts
Hind Nippon Co. Ltd.	Facts
According to him, he worked as Supervisor in Poddar Mines at Sira upto 1990 and thereafter was transferred to other quarry.	Facts
He worked at various places like Bellary, Sira and Chamaraya Nagar.	Facts
He worked till February, 1993.	Facts
From March, 1993, however, he was neither paid his salary nor served with any order of termination or dismissal.	Facts
On September 27, 1993, the appellant addressed a letter asking the Management to settle his dues and also to pay gratuity under the Act.	Facts
But it was not paid.	Facts
He, therefore, approached the Controlling Authority and Assistant Labour Commissioner, Bangalore by making an application under subsection (4) of Section 7 of the Act read with subrule (1) of Rule 10 of the Payment of Gratuity (Central) Rules, 1972.	Facts
The Controlling Authority, after hearing both the parties and perusing the materials placed before him, held that the appellant was entitled to gratuity.	Facts
Accordingly, an order was passed on May 26, 2003 that the appellant was entitled to a sum of Rs.16,875/ towards gratuity.	Facts
Since the respondentemployer had not paid the amount of gratuity within 30 days of the leaving of services by the workman, the payment was ordered to be made with interest 10 p.a.	Facts
from June 12, 1993 till the date of payment.	None
Being aggrieved by the order of the Controlling Authority, the respondentCompany filed an appeal before the Appellate Authority under the Act.	None
The Appellate Authority vide his order dated December 20, 2004 dismissed the appeal and confirmed the order passed by the Controlling Authority.	None
The Management challenged the said order by filing a writ petition in the High Court but the learned Single Judge also dismissed the petition confirming the orders passed by the Authorities under the Act.	Facts
The aggrieved Management challenged the order of the learned Single Judge in intra court appeal and as stated above, the appeal of the Management was allowed by the Division Bench setting aside all the orders and holding that the application filed by the workman was liable to be dismissed.	Facts
The appellant has challenged the said order before this Court.	None
On July 10, 2006, notice was issued by this Court.	None
Later on, the parties appeared and the matter was ordered to be posted for final hearing.	Facts
We have heard learned counsel for the parties.	None
Learned counsel for the appellant contended that the Division Bench was wholly unjustified in setting aside the orders passed by the Authorities under the Act and confirmed by the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was also submitted that while setting aside the orders, the Division Bench has virtually reappreciated the evidence which could not have been done and on that ground also, the impugned judgment deserves to be set aside.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was further submitted that a finding of fact was recorded by the Authorities under the Act that different units where the appellant had worked, were one and there was functional unity and the appellant was entitled to gratuity since he had worked for more than five years.	Arguments of Petitioner
Such finding could not have been disturbed by the Division Bench.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was, therefore, submitted that the appeal deserves to be allowed by setting aside the judgment of the Division Bench and confirming the view taken by the Authorities under the Act and by the learned Single Judge.	Arguments of Petitioner
Learned counsel for the respondent, on the other hand, supported the order of the Division Bench and submitted that since the appellant was not entitled to gratuity, the Division Bench was right in allowing the appeal and dismissing the application filed by him.	Arguments of Respondent
Having heard learned counsel for the parties, in our opinion, the appeal deserves to be allowed.	None
From the record, it is clear that the question which was raised before the Authorities under the Act was whether the appellant had completed five years continuous service so as to be eligible to claim gratuity under the Act.	None
The Authorities considered the said question and on the basis of the evidence adduced before them, held that various units where the appellant had worked were one and the same and hence the entire service of the workman ought to be considered and taken into account for the purpose of computation of benefit of gratuity.	None
On the basis of the above reasoning, the Controlling Authority as well as the Appellate Authority held that the appellant was qualified and entitled to gratuity under the Act.	None
The Appellate Authority, after considering the arguments of the parties and the findings recorded by the Controlling Authority, concluded I have carefully perused the records on which the CA has placed reliance on.	None
I am in full agreement with the findings of the CA.	None
The CA has given cogent reasons for arriving at his conclusion that the respondent herein is entitled for payment of gratuity right from September 1984.	None
The learned counsel for the appellant has not countered the statement of the respondent that Shri V.K. Poddar runs the establishments of Aggarwal Investments, Poddar Granites and Hind Nippon and that there is just interchangeability in the services of the respondent.	None
Two witnesses have been lead by the respondent herein before the CA in support of his claim that he had worked during the period from 1984 onwards with Poddar Granites and Aggarwal Investments.	None
Nothing has been produced before me to show that the said two companies are indeed run by a different person other than Shri V.K. Poddar.	None
Hence, I have to draw an adverse inference that the three companies including the appellant company is run by Shri V.K. Poddar and hence there is functional integrally among these three establishments and that the services of respondent has been merely transferred to the appellant company without his knowledge.	None
It appears that the appellant has been changing the employership of the respondent solely to deprive him of the statutory benefits.	None
Hence, I am of the considering opinion that the decision of the CA under challenge is in order.	None
To us, the learned Single Judge was wholly right in dismissing the writ petition on the basis of the findings recorded by the Authorities under the Act and in not interfering with the said orders.	None
The Division Bench, surprisingly, went into the questions of fact and came to the conclusion that it was not established by the appellantworkman that he had worked for more than five years continuously in the Company so as to be eligible to claim gratuity.	None
The Division Bench also perused certain documents and observed that certain letters said to have been written were not on the letterhead of the Company and it could not be said that the appellant had worked for a period of five years continuously which was an essential requirement to claim gratuity.	None
On that reasoning, the Division Bench held that the case was of no evidence.	None
The Bench also held that the onus to establish eligibility was on the employee and since it was not discharged by him, he should fail.	None
Accordingly, the orders were set aside.	None
In our considered opinion, the Division Bench ought not to have undertaken the above exercise which had been done by the Controlling Authority as also by the Appellate Authority.	None
The High Court was exercising power of judicial review which, in its inherent nature, has limitations.	None
This is particularly true since the learned Single Judge also did not think it fit to interfere.	None
We are, therefore, of the view that the Division Bench was wrong in setting aside all the orders and in allowing the appeal of the Management and in dismissing the application filed by the workman.	None
There is another aspect also which is relevant.	None
The Act has been enacted with a view to grant benefit to workers, a weaker section in industrial adjudicatory process.	None
In interpreting the provisions of such beneficial legislation, therefore, liberal view should be taken.	None
A benefit has been extended by the Authorities under the Act to the workman by recording a finding that the applicant (appellant herein) had completed requisite service of five years to be eligible to get gratuity.	None
In that case, even if another view was possible, the Division Bench should not have set aside the findings recorded by the Authorities under the Act and confirmed by a Single Judge by allowing the appeal of the employer.	None
Finally, we are of the view that on the facts and in the circumstances of the case also, the Division Bench was not justified in setting aside the orders passed by the Authorities and confirmed by the learned Single Judge considering comparatively a small amount involved in the appeal.	Reasoning
As already noted in the earlier part of the judgment, the appellant was held entitled to Rs.16,785/ along with interest 10 p.a.	Reasoning
To us, therefore, even on that ground, the Division Bench should have refrained from quashing the orders.	Reasoning
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal deserves to be allowed and is accordingly allowed.	None
The order passed by the Division Bench of the High Court is hereby set aside and the orders passed by the Controlling Authority and Appellate Authority under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 as confirmed by the learned Single Judge is hereby restored.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of the case, however, there shall be no order as to costs.	None
The payment to which the appellantworkman is held entitled shall be made within a period of twelve weeks from today.	None
