 Abdul Nazeer, J.1.	None
These appeals raise two questions, namely(i) Whether the Boards Circular No.495/61/99CX.3, dated 22.11.1999 exempts payment of excise duty on perfumery compound manufactured by the respondent and(ii) Whether actual marketing of the perfumery compound is necessary for the levy of excise duty.2.	Issue
The respondent is a manufacturer of agarbathi perfumes.	Facts
The agarbathi perfumes are odoriferous compound prepared by the respondent in its Bangalore unit and then transported to its Mysore unit, where it is applied to agarbathis to complete the process of manufacture of agarbathis.	Facts
The respondent was paying excise duty with respect to these odoriferous compounds till March 2001 as this substance is covered under Chapter SubHeading 3302.90 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985.	Facts
The Central Board of Excise and Customs (for short the Board) issued the aforesaid circular which clarified that the odoriferous substance, not capable of being bought and sold in the market in the normal course of trade, is not excisable.	Facts
The respondent transferred the odoriferous compounds to its Mysore unit on stock transfer basis.	Facts
Some part of the compounds was sold to M s. Tibetan Handicrafts Centre, Bylkuppe, Mysore District.3.	Facts
The Additional Commissioner of Central Excise, BangaloreIII, issued showcause notices calling upon the respondent to pay excise duty along with penalty and interest at the appropriate rates under Sections 11A, 11AB and 11AC of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (for short the Act) for the period 20012002 to 20062007.	Facts
These notices were contested by the respondent.	Facts
The Additional Commissioner passed orders holding that the Boards circular dated 22.11.1999 is not applicable to the respondent and hence the respondent is liable to pay excise duty, penalty and interest thereon in respect of odoriferous substance prepared by it.	Facts
These orders were confirmed by the appellate authority in the appeals filed by the respondent.	Facts
The respondent challenged the said orders before the CESTAT, South Zonal Bench, Bangalore.	Facts
The CESTAT has allowed the appeals and set aside the said orders to the extent they uphold the demand of duty, interest thereon and the penalty imposed on the appellant for which there was no evidence of sale.	Facts
The Revenue has challenged the legality and correctness of the said orders in these appeals.4.	Facts
Appearing for the Revenue, Sri P.S. Narasimha, learned Additional Solicitor General, submits that the rate of duty to be paid on the perfumery compounds is clearly mentioned under Chapter SubHeading 3302.90 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985 and it is on this rate that the respondent used to pay duty till March, 2001.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent is, therefore, not entitled to the benefit under the ambit of the circular dated 22.11.1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent does not manufacture agarbathi as per the general practice which has been contemplated under the circular dated 22.11.1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent manufactures perfumery compounds in its Bangalore unit and then transports them to its Mysore unit where it is finally applied to raw agarbathis to complete the manufacturing process of agarbathis.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this process of manufacturing, the perfumery compounds are capable of being sold in the open market.5.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is further submitted that CESTAT erroneously devised a test of actual sale of the odoriferous substance to hold that in the absence of actual sale of such substance, no excise duty could be levied on the same.	Arguments of Petitioner
It is argued that the respondent has sold the Venkateshwara Brand agarbathi perfumery compound to Tibetan Handicrafts Centre vide invoice Nos. 9 and 33 dated 11.5.2004 and 10.8.2004 respectively.	Arguments of Petitioner
The CESTAT ought to have appreciated that although the final product, i.e. the agarbathi, is exempted, the intermediate product has got marketability.6.	Arguments of Petitioner
On the other hand, Ms. L. Charanya, learned counsel appearing for the respondentassessee submits that the perfumery compound manufactured by the respondent and the stock transferred to their Mysore unit for use in particular brands of agarbathis is nonexcisable as per the Board circular dated 22.11.1999.	None
It is further contended that the perfumery compound manufactured as such, is not marketed by the respondent.	Arguments of Respondent
Therefore, it does not attract excise duty.	Arguments of Respondent
She prays for dismissal of the appeals.7.	Arguments of Respondent
We have carefully considered the submissions of the learned counsel for the parties.	Reasoning
The basic issue is with regard to the exciseability of the product, viz.	Reasoning
agarbathi perfume also called as odoriferous compound which is used in manufacture of agarbathis sold in the market.	Reasoning
The Board vide its circular clarified that such odoriferous compound mixed with dough is not excisable.	None
For better understanding, the Boards circular is as underThe Boards Circular No.495/61/99CX.3 dated 22.11.1999Subject Excisability of Odoriferoous compound Agarbathi mix arising during the course of manufacture of Agarbathi  Regarding.	None
It has been brought to the notice of the Board that field formations are demanding duty on the compound preparation arising during the course of manufacture of Agarbathi classifying them under Heading 3302.90 of the Central Excise Tariff as odoriferous compound.2.	None
The matter has been examined in the Board.	None
The Agarbathi manufacturing process involves simple mixing of a few aromatic chemicals with a base oil in a container in liquid form which is mixed directly with the dough or applied on Agarbathi in the required proportion and such dough, mixed with the aromatic compound is used for rolling of Agarbathi.	None
The Agarbathi manufacturers normally carry out the whole process in a continuous manner in the course of manufacture of Agarbathi.3.	None
Moreover, each brand of Agarbathi has a different fragrance which is on account of the different formulation used by the manufacturers which is specific to that particular brand.	None
Preparation of such odoriferous compound, substances applied on the Agarbathi varies from one Agarbathi manufacturer to another.	None
Such preparations are not sold by them in the market so as to keep their respective trade secrets.	None
As the constituents, their proportions and formula of preparation are kept as secret, such compounds cannot be considered to be marketable in the commercial parlance.4.	None
Accordingly, it is clarified that the odoriferous compound or Agarbathi dough mixed with odoriferous substances, not being capable of being bought and sold in the market in the normal course of trade, is not an excisable product and no duty is therefore, leviable on such compound arising during the course of manufacture of Agarbathi.8.	None
The above circular is issued in the context of dispute with regard to dutiability excisability of mixture, viz.	Reasoning
aromatic chemicals (perfumes) which is also classifiable as odoriferous compound, under Central Excise Tariff and comes into existence during the course of manufacture of agarbathis, in a continuous process, as an intermediate product.	Reasoning
The circular clarifies that odoriferous substances are not marketable because these products are not sold by manufacturers in order to protect their trade secret.	Reasoning
The circular by way of illustration also stated that the whole process of manufacturing agarbathi, that is preparation of the odoriferous compounds and their mixing with the dough or agarbathi is normally carried out in a continuous manner since the whole process is continuous.	Reasoning
These odoriferous substances do not remain with the manufacturer to be sold in the market.9.	None
The Central Excise Chapter Heading No. 3302.90 covers all types of mixtures of odoriferous substances of a kind, used as raw materials in industries.	None
It is clear from the records that respondent does not manufacture agarbathi as per general practice which has been contemplated under the circular dated 22.11.1999.	Arguments of Petitioner
The respondent manufactured perfumery compound in its Bangalore unit and then transported it to Mysore where it is finally applied to raw agarbathis to complete the manufacturing process of agarbathi.	Reasoning
In this process of manufacturing, the perfumery compound is capable of being sold in the open market.	Reasoning
It is not in dispute that appellant has sold some part of the compound to M s. Tibetan Handicrafts Centre, Bylkuppe, Mysore District.10.	Reasoning
Thus, it is evident that the clarification is applicable to the product which comes into existence, at intermediate stage in the form of paste dough in a continuous process of manufacture and not to the manufacture of odoriferous perfume, which is in liquid form and transported stored in barrels drums.	Reasoning
The said circular cannot be made applicable to cases beyond its scope.	Reasoning
The circular cannot be equated with that of an exemption notification but is required to be read within the limited scope of its context in which it was issued.	Reasoning
The circular did not give exemption to products which are otherwise dutiable.	Reasoning
The circular clarifying certain doubts cannot give effect of an exemption notification.	Reasoning
Therefore, it cannot be said that the agarbathi compound manufactured by the respondent is covered under the aforesaid circular.11.	None
The next question for consideration is whether actual marketing of the perfumery compound manufactured by the respondent is necessary for the levy of excise duty.	None
It is settled that to hold the product as excisable dutiable, actual marketing sale of goods is not necessary.	None
What is required to be proved is that the capability of marketing the product.	Reasoning
Marketability is decisive test for dutiability.	Reasoning
Whether the goods are, in fact, marketed or not is of no relevance.	Reasoning
It is also not necessary that goods in question should be generally available in the market.	Reasoning
Even if the goods are available from only one source or from a specified market, makes no difference so long as they are available for purchasers.	Reasoning
(See A.P. State Electricity Board v. Collector of Central Excise, Hyderabad, (1994) 2 SCC 428.) 12.	None
In Escorts Limited v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Faridabad, (2015) 9 SCC 109 , this Court has held that for excise duty to be chargeable under the constitutional entry read with Section 3 of the Central Excise Act, two prerequisites are necessary.	None
First, there must be manufacture which is understood to mean the bringing into existence of a new substance.	None
And secondly, the word goods necessarily means that such manufacture must bring into existence a new substance known to the market as such which brings in the concept of marketability in addition to manufacture.	None
Marketability is thus essentially a question of fact to be decided on the facts of each case.	None
There can be no generalisation.	None
The fact that goods are not in fact marketed is of no relevance.	Reasoning
So long as the goods are marketable, they are goods for the purposes of Section 3 of the Act.	None
It is also not necessary that the goods in question should be generally available in the market.	Reasoning
The marketability of articles does not depend neither upon the number of purchasers nor is the market confined to the territorial limits of this country.13.	None
In the instant case, the assessee manufactures agarbathi perfumes (odoriferous compound) by mixing inputs, aromatic chemicals, perfume oil and acids according to the predetermined formula.	Reasoning
It is prepared by the respondents in their Bangalore factory and then transferred to their Mysore factory where finally it is applied on raw agarbathis.	Reasoning
In this process of manufacturing the perfumery compounds are capable of being sold in the open market.	Reasoning
The odoriferous compound has got a shelf life and capable of being stored transported sold and bought by agarbathi industries.	Reasoning
As noticed above, the assessee had sold certain quantity of perfumery compound to M s. Tibetan Handicrafts Centre Bylkuppe, Mysore District.	Reasoning
Therefore, we are of the view that it is an excisable product falling under Chapter SubHeading 3302.90.	Decision
The counter view taken by the CESTAT cannot be justified.	Decision
Hence, the appeals are allowed and the orders dated 11.11.2010 passed by the CESTAT are hereby set aside.	Decision
No costs.	None
