 R. Das, J.(1)	None
This appeal arises out of an application made by the respondent under the Indian Arbitration Act, 1940, praying inter alia that the arbitration agreement contained in certain contract notes including contract Note No. 17996 sent by the appellants to the respondent be declared to be invalid, void and unenforceable and be set aside and that a purported award made by the arbitrators appointed in terms of the said contract notes be set aside.	Facts
That application came to be made in the following circumstances (2) The appellants were and are members of the East India Cotton Association Ltd.	Facts
The respondent, however, was not and is not a member of that Association.	Facts
In April 1945 the respondent employed the appellants as his agents to effect forward contracts for the sale and or purchase of cotton according to the rules, regulations and byelaws of that Association, Between 9/04/1945, and 10/08/1945, the appellants as such agents put through various contracts for sale and or purchase of cotton for July 1945, and September 1945, deliveries and sent to the respondent contract notes in respect of each of such contracts.	Facts
All the said contract notes were in printed forms, a specimen copy whereof is set out at pp. 12 to 15 of the Paper Book.	Facts
On 10/08/1945, the purchase of 900 bales of cotton at Rs. 432 per candy for september 1945 delivery remained outstanding.	Facts
According to the respondent, on 11/08/1945, the respondent instructed the appellants to close the said outstanding purchase by selling 900 bales for September 1945 delivery at a rate not less than Rs. 426 per candy, which is said to be the prevailing market rate on that date.	Facts
As the respondent did not receive any contract note from the appellants in respect of the closing transaction of 900 bales, the respondent on 18/08/1945, put on record his aforesaid instructions and asked the appellants to send the contract note.	Facts
The appellants, however, deny that any instruction was given by the respondent on 11/08/1945, for closing the outstanding contract.	Facts
They deny the receipt of the respondents letter of that date.	Facts
According to the appellants, 21/08/1945 was a clearing date and on that clearing a sum of Rs. 18,900 became due and payable by the respondent to the appellants and that instead of paying up his dues the respondent concocted the false story of having given instructions to the appellants to close the outstanding purchase.	Facts
The appellants by their letter of 22/08/1945, repudiated the allegations in the respondents last mentioned letter and called upon the respondent to pay up Rs. 18,900 and gave notice to him that if he failed to pay up the amount by noon of 23/08/1945, the appellants would be compelled to square up the outstanding contract at their discretion on account and at the risk of the respondent.	Facts
The respondent on 24/08/1945, denied having fabricated any false story and repudiated liability for Rs. 18,900 and returned the appellants bill.	Facts
On 27/08/1945, the appellants closed the outstanding contract for purchase of 900 bales by selling the same at Rs. 956 per candy for September 1945 delivery and along with their letter dated 27/08/1945, sent contract note No. 17996.	Facts
The respondent by his letter dated 28/08/1945, reiterated the story of previous instruction for closing the contract, denied having given any instruction to the appellants to close the contract on 27/08/1945, and returned the contract note No. 17996.	Facts
On 28/08/1945, the appellants wrote to the respondent claiming Rs. 34,313 and expressing the desire to refer the disputes to arbitration in terms of the arbitration agreement contained in the contract notes.	Facts
Both parties appointed their respective arbitrators.	Facts
The arbitrators entered upon the reference and eventually fixed 24/10/1945, for a meeting of the arbitrators.	Facts
The respondent alleges that he received the notice of meeting only on 22/10/1945, and could not attend the meeting on 24/10/1945, as he had to appear before the Incometax Officer on the same day.	Facts
Accordingly, the respondent sent his agent to attend the arbitration meeting and to obtain an adjournment.	Facts
The arbitrators, however, rejected the application for adjournment and made an ex parte award on the same day for Rs. 34,313 and interest and costs.	Facts
Being aggrieved by the award, the respondent on 10/11/1945, filed an appeal to the Board of the Association.	Facts
The respondents allegation is that pending the said appeal he discovered that the contract notes rendered by the appellants from time to time including the contract note No. 17996 were not in accordance with the prescribed official form of contract notes of the Association and he was advised that in the premises the contracts were void under the provisions of the Bombay Cotton Contracts Act, 1932 and that, that being so, there was no arbitration agreement between the parties under which there could be any reference to arbitration on which any award could be made.	Facts
The respondent thereupon amended his memorandum of appeal to the Board pointing out the invalidity of the contracts and at the same time made a substantive application to the High Court under the Arbitration Act for the reliefs already summarised above.(3)	Facts
In order to appreciate the rival contentions of the parties it is necessary to refer to the relevant provisions of the Bombay Cotton Contracts Act, 1932, and the byelaws of the said Association.(4) Section (8) (i), Bombay Cotton Contracts Act, 1932, runs as follows Save as hereinafter provided in this Act any contract (whether either party thereto is a member of a recognised cotton association or not) which is entered into after the date on which this Act comes into operation and which is not in accordance with the byelaws of any recognised cotton association shall be void.(5)	None
There is no dispute that the East India Cotton Association is xe of the recognised cotton associations for the purposes of the said Act.	None
Byelaws 80 and 82 of that Association are in the terms following 80.	None
Delivery Contracts between members shall be made on the Official form given in the Appendix.	None
Hedge Contract between members may be verbal or in writing and when in writing shall be in one or other of the forms given in the Appendix.	None
Whether verbal or written all contracts shall be subject to the byelaws, provided that in the case of Delivery Contracts Byelaws 149 to 163 inclusive shall not apply.	None
82.	None
Contracts between members acting as commission agents on the one hand and their constituents on the other shall be made subject to the byelaws and a contract note in the form given in the Appendix (pages 92, 93, 94 and 95) shall be rendered in respect of every such contract.	None
Byelaws 130 to 166 (inclusive) shall not apply to these contracts.(6)	None
Bye law 51A originally required a deposit at a rate not less than Rs. 25 per bale and accordingly the contract note submitted by the agent to the constituent used to contain the following clause at the end of the clause relating to payment of margin In addition to the above, the deposit (not carrying interest) payable under bye law 5lA, namely, at a rate not less than Rs. 25 per bale shall, when demanded, be made by you to me us in Bombay.(7)	None
During the war byelaw 51A was amended by reducing the minimum amount of deposit from Rs. 25 per bale to Rs. 1280 per bale and accordingly the Government of Bombay by a Notification made on 19/09/1945, in exercise of the powers conferred by the Bombay Options in Cotton Prohibition Act, 1939 provided that the contract note should also be amended so that the clause last quoted above should read as follows in addition to the above the deposit (not carrying interest) payable under byelaw 51A, namely at a rate not less than Rs. 12 per bale shall, when demanded, be made by you to me us in Bombay.(8)	None
In order to enforce wartime controls another amendment of the byelaws was made whereby a new byelaw was added as byelaw	None
65A.	None
In view of this last mentioned amendment and in order to bring the contract note between the agent and the constituent into line with this new byelaw the Government of Bombay by the same Notification dated 19/09/1944 directed the inclusion of the two following clauses in the contract note, namelyIf this contract is a contract for sale, then if between us and other members of the East India Cotton Association we become, under the byelaws, the first seller of the cotton so sold and if the last buyer exercises the right given by bye law 65A, you will then be bound by the provisions of that byelaw as between you and us.	None
If this contract is a contract of purchase, and if between us and other members of the East India Cotton Association Ltd, we become the lastbuyers unless we shall have received express instructions from you in writing to the contrary, before the commencement of the delivery period if the contract is entered into before the commencement of the delivery period, or with the order if the contract is entered into during the permitted days of trading in the delivery period, we shall be at liberty at our option and without any further reference to you to exercise the right given to the last buyer under byelaw 65A, and if we so exercise the right you will be bound by the provisions of that byelaw as between you and us.(9) After all these amendments the contract note to be rendered by an agent to the Constituent had to be in the form a specimen copy whereof is set out at pages 17 and 18 of the Paper Book.	None
The contracts between the appellants and the respondent were made after the aforesaid contract note form came into vogue.	None
The official Contract Note form to be used after the aforesaid amendments opens with the following clause	None
I We have this day sold bought for you in Bombay subject to the following conditions and to the Byelaws of the East India Cotton Association Ltd., in force from time to time and subject also to my our usual charges and terms of business as Commission Agents.(10)	None
Then are inserted particulars of the description, quantity, price etc., of the cotton which is the subjectmatter of the contract.	None
Then follows the clause for payment of margin, the last sentence of which provides for payment of deposit payable under byelaw 51A as amended, namely, at a rate not less than Rs.12 1/2 per bale.	None
At the end of the form are to be found the two new clauses required to be incorporated in every Contract Note by the Government Notification already referred to.(11)	None
The Contract Notes actually rendered by the appellants to the respondent, however, were in forms, a specimen copy whereof is set out at pages 1215 of the Paper Book.	Reasoning
A comparison of the two forms of the contract notes will reveal the following difference (1) In the contract note rendered by the appellants to the respondent the last sentence providing for deposit at the end of the margin clause is missing.	Reasoning
There is, however, a rubber Stamp impression on the top of the back of the Contract to the following effect In addition to the above, the deposit (not carrying interest) payable under byelaw 51A, namely, at a rate not less than Rs. 25 per bale shall, when demanded, be made by you to me ours in Bombay.	Reasoning
Evidently, this rubber stamp provision is a reproduction of the sentence that used to be found at the end the margin clause before byelaw 51A was amended and the clause itself was amended by the Government Notification of 1944.	Reasoning
(2) The two new clauses required to be inserted in the contract referred to above have also been omitted.(12)	None
The contention of the respondent was that the contract notes actually issued were not in accordance with the byelaws of the Association and were accordingly void under S. 8,.	None
Bombay Cotton Contracts Act, 1932, and that, that being so, the arbitration agreement incorporated in the contract note was also void and there could be no reference to arbitration and there could be no award as purported to have been made by the arbitrators on a reference under the void contracts.(13)	Facts
The matter was dealt with by Chagla J., who overruled the contentions of the respondent and dismissed the application on 2/07/1946.	Facts
The learned Judge pointed out that whereas bylaw 80 required that delivery Contracts must be made on the official form and that the hedge contracts, when made in writing, must be made in the form given in the Appendix, cl.	Facts
82 did not require that the contract between members acting as Commission agents on the one hand and their constituents on the other must be in writing or in particular form.	Facts
According to the learned Judge byelaw 82 required two things, namely (i) that the contracts referred to therein should be made subject to the byelaws, and (ii) that a contract note in the prescribed form should be rendered in respect of every such contract.(14)	Facts
The learned Judge was of the opinion that S. 8, Bombay Cotton Contracts Act, 1932, only avoided the contracts in case of contravention of the first requirement, namely, if the contracts were not made subject to the byelaws, but had no concern with the contravention of the second requirement, namely, if the contract notes were not in the prescribed form.	Facts
The learned Judge appears to have made a distinction between a contract and a contract note which was a mere evidence of the contract.	Facts
According to him, even if the contract note was not in the prescribed form, that fact did not affect the preexisting contract which had only to be made subject to the byelaws but need not have been made in writing at all.	Facts
Accordingly, the learned Judge dismissed the application.(15) Being aggrieved by that decision, the respondent went upon appeal which was heard by Stone C. J., and Coyajee J., who accepted the appeal, set aside the dismissal of the respondents petition and gave the declaration prayed for and set aside the award.	Facts
The appellants have now come upon appeal before us after having obtained the necessary certificate from the Bombay High Court.(16)	Facts
We find ourselves in agreement with the decision of the appellate Court.	None
Ordinarily, when a contract between the parties is reduced to writing, the writing becomes the repository of the contract and that writing only can be looked at to ascertain what the contract between the parties is, and if that writing is not in accordance with the byelaws, the contract itself must be void.	Reasoning
We do not, however, feel pressed to emphasise this aspect of the matter, for, assuming that there was a preexisting oral contract between the parties dohors the written contract note, as held by Chagla J., we have yet to see whether the socalled preexisting oral contract was in accordance with the byelaws, for, if it were not, then it would be hit by S 8, Bombay Cotton Contracts Act, 1932.	Reasoning
There is no suggestion that the terms of the socalled preexisting oral contract were in any way different from the terms subsequently recorded in the contract votes actually issued.(17)	Reasoning
In the first place we find that the last sentence in the margin clause, in order to be in accordance with the byelaws, should have been as follows In addition to the above, the deposit (not carrying interest payable) under byelaw 51A, namely, at a rate not less than Rs.12 per bale shall, when demanded, be made by you to me us in Bombay.(18) Instead of that sentence, we have the rubber stamp impression reading as follows In addition to the above, the deposit (not carrying interest) payable under bye law 51A, namely, at a rate not less than Rs. 25 per bale shall, when demanded, be made by you to us in Bombay.(19)	Reasoning
The respondent contends that this term is not in accordance with the byelaws of the Association.	Arguments of Respondent
The appellants on the other hand contend that there is no discrepancy, because a provision for a rate not less than Rs. 25 per bale does not contravene or is not inconsistent with the provision for a rate not less than Rs. 12 per bale.	Arguments of Petitioner
In other words, any rate above the rate of Rs. 12 may be stipulated in accordance with the terms of business to which the contract was subject, for, it did not contravene the requirement that the rate should not be less than Rs.12 .	None
It is true that the opening clause of the contract note makes the contract subject to the appellants usual charges and terms of business, but the contract is at the same time subject to the bye laws of the Association.	Reasoning
In order to reconcile the two, such terms of business as are not inconsistent with the byelaws can only be permitted to prevail.	Reasoning
The rubber stamp provision clearly imposes on the respondent as the constituent the liability to deposit a higher amount as the minimum amount to be deposited and is to that extent not in accordance with byelaw 51A. Apart from this consideration there is another serious objection to the rubber stamp provision.	Reasoning
The language of that rubber stamp provision clearly indicates that it purports to summarise and set out what is payable under byelaw 5lA, In fact, as already stated above, byelaw 51A had been amended and what is payable under the amended byelaw is not at a rate not less than Rs. 25 but at a rate not less than Rs. 12 .	Reasoning
Therefore, the rubberstamp provision wrongly summarises and sets out the provisions of byelaw 51A and consequently is not in accordance with that byelaw.(20)	Reasoning
The contention of the respondent has been and is that by reason of the omission of the two clauses at the end of the contract note actually issued by the appellants, it was not in accordance with the bye laws.	None
The learned AttorneyGeneral appearing for the appellants contends that the contract was expressly made subject to the byelaws and, therefore, the provisions of the new byelaw 65A were by reference incorporated in the contract.	None
This contention, we are satisfied, is unsound.	Reasoning
Bye law 65A in terms regulates the relation between members and incorporation thereof in a contract between a member agent and an outsider constituent will make no sense and on a plain reading will be meaningless.	Reasoning
Further, under byelaw 65A the last buyer has certain options.	Reasoning
The outstanding contract being one for purchase of 900 bales, the appellants if they became the last buyers, could under that byelaw, exercise any of those options at their own discretion.	Reasoning
In the second of the two clauses which have been omitted from the contract note this option has been made subject to express instructions of the constituent to the contrary, for it provides that the appellants as agents would be free to exercise their option.	Reasoning
unless I We shall have received express instructions from you in writing to the contrary, before the commencement of the delivery period if the contract is entered into before the commencement of the delivery period or with the order if the contract is entered into during the permitted days of trading in the delivery period.	Reasoning
By reason of the omission of the two clauses, this right of the respondent as constituent is not made a terra of the contract between the parties.	Reasoning
It follows, therefore, that the socalled preexisting oral contract is not in accordance with the byelaws on this ground also.(21)	Reasoning
For reasons stated above, this appeal fails and must be dismissed with costs.(22)	Decision
I agree that this appeal should be dismissed with costs, but I would prefer to rest my decision solely on the ground of the omission to include in the contract in question the two clauses newly added in the prescribed form in order to give effect to byelaw 65A.(23)	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
