 K. Das, J.1.	None
This appeal on a certificate of fitness granted by the High Court of Bombay raises a question of interrpetation of subs.	None
(10) of s 35 of the Indian Income tax Act, 1922.	None
This subseption is one of a group of subsections substituted or inserted in the said section by s. 19 of the Finance Act, 1956 (Act 18 of 1956).	None
By s. 28 of the said Finance, Act, subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 of the Incometax Act, 1922, came into force on April 1, 1956.	None
The short question before us is, whether on its true construction, subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 applies in a case where a company declares dividends by availing itself wholly or partly of the amount on which a rebate of incometax was earlier allowed to it under clause (1) of the proviso lo Paragraph B of Part I of the relevant Schedules to the Finance Acts, when such dividends were declared prior to the coming into force of the subsection, that is, prior to April 1, 1956.2.	None
The facts which have given rise to the appeal are these.	Facts
The Ahmedabad Manufacturing And Calico Printing Co., Ltd., is the appellant before us.	Facts
The appellant company was incorporated under the Indian Companies Act, 1866, and has its office at Ahmedabad.	Facts
It carries on the business of manufacturing, and selling cotton piece goods and chemicals.	Facts
For the assessment year 195253, the corresponding account year being the calendar year 1951, the appellant was assessed to incometax and supertax on a total income of Rs. 1, 02, 79, 808/ and was allowed a rebate of one anna per rupee on the undistributed fits of Rs. 36, 62, 776/ under the first proviso to paragraph B of.	Facts
Part I of the first Schedule to the Finance Act, 1952.	Facts
The amount of rebate allowed was Rs. 2, 28, 924/.	None
For the assessment year 1953 54, the corresponding account year being the calendar year 1952, the appellant showed a book profit of Rs. 45, 67, 96, 66, , but was assessed to a loss of Rs. 5, 98, 353/ on April 17, 1954.	None
For the said calendar year 1952, the appellant declared a dividend of Rs. 19, 32, 0000/ on April 20, 1954.	Facts
This dividend came out of the undistributed profits of the calendar year 1951 on which the appellant had been allowed rebate, .	Facts
On March 18, 1958, the Incometax Officer, Special Circle, Ahmedabad, respondent No. 1 before us, issued a notice to the appellant calling upon the latter to show cause why action under subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 should not be taken against the appellant by withdrawing the rebate allowed on the sum of Rs. 19, 32, 000/.	None
The appellant raised some objections, one of which was that subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 did, not apply to his case.	None
The Incometax Officer, however, held that subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 applied and accordingly directed that the rebate allowed on the sum of Rs. 19, 32, 000/ should be withdrawn, by recomputing the tax payable by the appellant.	Facts
He ordered the issue of a demand notice for a sum of Rs. 1, 20, 750/ which was the rebate allowed on Rs. 19, 32, 000/.	None
The Incometax Officer passed this order on March 27, 1958.Being aggrieved by that order, the appellant moved the High Court of Bombay by a writ petition filed on June 26, 1958.	None
The main ground taken by the appellant was that subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 did not apply to a case where dividend was declared, as in this case, before the coming into force of subs.	None
(10) of s. 35.	Arguments of Petitioner
The High Court rejected this contention and dismissed the writ petition.	Facts
The appellant then obtained certificate of fitness and has preferred the present appeal in pursuance of, , that.	Facts
certificate.	Facts
We may now read some of the provisions of s. 35 in so far as they are relevant for our purpose S. 35(1) The Commissioner or Appellate Assistant Commissioner may, at any time within four years from the date of any order passed by him in appeal or, in the case of the Commi ssioner, in revision under s. 33A and the Incometax Officer may, at any time within four years from the date of any assessment order or refund order passed by him on his own motion rectify any mistake.	None
apparent from the record of the appeal, revision, assessment or refund as the case may be, and shall within the like period rectify any such mistake which has been brought to his notice by an, assessee xx xx xx	Facts
(2) xx xx	Facts
(3) xx xx	Facts
(4) xx xx	Facts
(5) Where in respect of any completed assessment of a partner in a firm it is found on the assessment or reassessment of the firm or on any reduction or enhancement made in the income of the firm under section 31, section 33, section 33A, section 33B, section 66 0 section 66A that the share of the partner in the profit or loss of the firm has not been included in the assessment of the partner, or if included, is not correct, the inclusion of the share in the assessment or the correction thereof, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of this section, and the provisions of subsection (1) shall apply thereto accordingly, the period of four years referred to in that subsection being computed from the date of the final order passed in the case of the firm.	Facts
(6) Where the excess profits tax or the business profits tax payable by an assessee has been modified in appeal, revision or any other proceeding, or where any excess profits tax or business profits tax has been assessed after the completion of the corresponding assessment for incometax (whether before or after the corm.	None
mencement of the Indian Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1953), and in consequence thereof it is necessary to recompute the total income of the assessee chargeable to incometax, such re computation shall be deemed to be a rectifica tion of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of this section and the provisions of subsection (1) shall apply accordingly, the period of four years referred to in that subsection being computed from the date of the order making or modifying the assessment of such excess profits tax or business profits tax.	Facts
(7) xx xx	Facts
(8) xx xx	Facts
(9) xx xx	Facts
(10) Where, in any of the assessments for the years beginning on the 1st day of April of the years 1948 to 1955 inclusive, a rebate of incometax was allowed to a company on a part of its total income under clause (1) of the proviso to Paragraph B of Part	Facts
I of the relevant Schedules to the Finance Acts specifying the rates of tax for the relevant year, and subsequently the amount on which the rebate of incometax was allowed as aforesaid , is availed of by the company, wholly or partly, for declaring dividends in any year, the amount or that part of the amount availed of as aforesaid, as the case may be, shall, by reason of the rebate of incometax allowed to the company and to the extent to which it has not actually been subjected to an additional incometax in accordance with the provisions of clause (ii) of the proviso to Paragraph B of Part I of the Schedule to the Finance Acts above referred to, be deemed to have been made the subject of incorrect relief under this Act, and the Incometax Officer shall recompute the tax payable by the company by reducing the rebate originally allowed, as if the computation is a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of this section and the provisions of subsection (1) shall apply accordingly, the period of four years specified therein being reckoned from the end of the financial year in which the amount on which the rebate of incometax was allowed as aforesaid was availed of by the company wholly or partly for declaring dividends.	Facts
Speaking generally, s. 35 deals with rectification of mistakes in circumstances detailed in the various sub sections thereof and provides for orders consequent on such rectification.	Facts
Subsection (1) empowers the Incometax authorities to rectify mistakes apparent from the record in respect of certain orders passed by them.	None
It provides that the Incometax Officer concerned may at any time within four years from the date of any assessment order passed by him on his own motion rectify any mistake apparent from the record of the assessment The power of rectification may be exercised subject to two conditions (1) that there is a mistake apparent from the record of the assessment, and (2) that the order of rectification is made within four years from the date of the assessment sought to be rectified.	Facts
Subsection (5) deals with inclusion or correction of the income of a partner in a firm consequent upon assessment or reassessment of the firm of which he was a partner.	None
Sub section (6) deals with recomputation of total income of an assessee in consequence of modifications made in the excess profits tax or the business profits tax payable by an assessee subsequent to an assessment made under the Income tax Act.	Facts
These two subsections were considered by this court in two decisions to which we shall presently refer.	Facts
They have been relied on by the appellant and have some bearing on the interpretation of subs.	None
(10).	None
Subsections (2), (3), (4), (7), (8) and (9) are not relevant for our purpose and need not be referred to.3.	None
Now, we come to subs.(10).	None
It deals with a case where a rebate was allowed to a company on a part of its income (viz., undistributed profits) by virtue of the concessions given by the Finance Acts of 1948 to 1955.	None
This is clear from the first part of the subsection.	None
The second part states the condition in which, or rather the crucial event on the happening of which, the rebate granted.	Facts
to a company is deemed to have been given by a mistake apparent from the record, this condition or crucial event is the declaration of dividends by the company out of the amount in whole or part, on which abate was earlier granted to it.	Facts
The third and operative part states that on the happening of the crucial event, the amount on which rebate was granted and which has been subsequently utilised for declaring dividends shall be deemed to have been made the subject of incorrect relief under the Act and the Incometax Officer shall re compute the tax payable by the company by reducing the rebate originally allowed as if the recomputation is a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of the section.	Facts
The fourth and last part introduces a period of limitation of four years, the four years being reckoned not from the date of the order passed as in subs.(1), but from the end of the financial year in which the amount on which rebate of incometax was allowed was availed of by the company wholly or partly for declaring dividends.	Facts
This, in brief, appears to be the scheme of sub s. (10) of s. 35.Now, the argument on behalf of the appellant is this.	None
Like subs.	None
(5) of s. 35, subs.	None
(10) affects a vested right, namely, the right to a rebate of incometax on a part of the total income of the company under clause (1) of the proviso to Paragraph B of Part I of the relevant Schedules to the Finance Acts of 1948 to 1955, and the further right to declare dividends out of the undistributed profits of the previous year.	Facts
Under the well settled rules of statutory construction, no statute which impairs an existing right or obligation except as regards a matter of procedure, shall have retrospective operation unless such a construction appears very clearly in the terms of the Act or arises by necessary and distinct implication.	Facts
Put differently, a statute is not to be construed to have a greater retrospective operation than its language renders necessary and it is submitted that the general rule is that all statutes other than those which are merely declaratory, or which relate only to matters of procedure or of evidence are prima facie prospective and retrospective effect is not to be given to them unless by express words or necessary implication, it appears that this was the intention of the legislature and it is a corollary of this general presumption against retrospection that, even when a statute is intended to be to some extent retrospective, it is not to be construed as having a retrospective effect than its language renders necessary.	Facts
(Halsburys Laws of England, Vol. 36.	Facts
Third edition, p. 423 and p. 426).	Facts
The argument on behalf of the appellant is that by s. 28 of the Finance Act. 1956, subs.	Facts
(10) has undoubtedly retrospective effect from April 1, 1956 but the language of the subsection does not expressly, nor by necessary implication, show that it has any greater retrospective effect.	Facts
It is pointed out that, on the contrary, where the legislature wanted a particular sub section to have greater retrospective effect, it had said so, e. g. in subs.	Facts
(6).	None
It is also pointed out that subs.	None
(5) of s. 35 was inserted by the Indian Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1953, and by s. 1 (2) of the said Act it came into force on April 1, 19.52.	Facts
Where the legislature wanted to give greater retrospective effect to particular provisions, it said so in ss. 3 (2), 7 (2) and 30 (2) of the said Act.	Facts
That being the position, the argument on behalf of the appellant is that we should not give any greater retrospective effect to subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 than what has been done by s. 28 of the Finance Act, 1956.	None
Learned Counsel for the appellant has strongly relied on the decision of this Court in Incometax Officer v. S. K. Habibullah (1962 Supp.	Arguments of Petitioner
2 S. C R, 716, ) wherein with regard to sub s. (5) of s. 35 it was held that the subsection was not declaratory of the preexisting law nor a matter relating to procedure but effected vested rights and must be deemed to have come into force only from April 1, 1952 therefore, the Incometax Officer had no jurisdiction under the said subsection to rectify the assessment of a partner consequent on the assessment of the firm in cases where the firms assessment was completed before April 1, 1952.	Facts
The argument of the learned counsel for the appellant is that the same principle must apply in the present case and subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 does not apply to a case where dividend was declared by the company before the date of the coming into force of the subsection, namely, April, 1, 1956.The second part of the argument of the learned counsel for the appellant is that there is no real difference in language between the two subsections, subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(5) and sub.s.	Arguments of Petitioner
(10) of s. 35.	Arguments of Petitioner
In both cases 1 rectification or correction is made by reason of a subsequent event in subs.	None
(5) the subsequent event is the assessment of the firm which discloses the inaccuracy in the earlier assessment of a partner in subs.	None
(10) the subsequent event is the declaration of dividend out of the amount on which a rebate was earlier granted.	None
It is pointed out that in their true scope and effect, the two subsections stand on the same footing.	None
Subsection (10) further makes it clear that by a legal fiction that which was correct at the time when it was made is rendered incorrect after the coming into force of the subsection.	None
The subsection states clearly shall, by reason of the rebate of Incometax allowed to the company be deemed to have been made the subject of incorrect relief under this Act, and the Incometax Officer shall recompute the tax payable by the company by reducing the rebate originally allowed This language, it is argued, is clearly prospective and does not justify the carrying of the legal fiction to a period earlier than April 1, 1956.4.	Arguments of Petitioner
As against these arguments, learned counsel for the respondent has contended that the language of subs.	None
(10) is different from that of subs.	None
(5) and the principle laid down by this court in S. K. Habibullahs (1962 Supp, 2 S.C.R. 716, ) cannot be applied to the present case.	None
Alternatively , he has argued that the decision is incorrect and should be reconsidered by us.	Arguments of Respondent
The argument of learned counsel for the respondent is that subs.	None
(10) by necessary implication has a greater retrospective effect than what is laid down by S. 28 of the Finance Act, 1956.	Facts
He points out that the first part of the subsection talks of the assessments made for any of the years beginning on April 1, 1948, to April 1, 1955, when a rebate of incometax was allowed then the second part refers to the subsequent declaration of dividend by the company in any year.	Arguments of Respondent
Learned counsel for the respondent has emphasised the expression in any year and has submitted that this shows that the intention was to take in a declaration of dividend made even earlier than April 1, 1956, According to him, the only effect of s. 28 of the Finance Act, 1956, is that the incometax Officer can take action only after April 1, 1956, but the language of the subsection does not justify the conclusion that the legal fiction created by it must be restricted to the declaration of dividends on or after April 1, 1956.We have carefully considered these arguments.	Arguments of Respondent
The language of subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 is perhaps not as clear as one might wish it to be.	Facts
There is no doubt, however, that the sub section affects vested rights and should not be given a greater retrospective operation than its language renders necessary.	Facts
Even through the subsection is to a certain extent retrospective, and s. 28 of the Finance Act, 1956, in express terms makes it retrospective from April 1, 1956, it is clear to us that there is nothing in the language of the subsection which would justify the inference that the legislature intended to carry the legal fiction created by the subsection to a period earlier than the date on which the subsection came into force.	Facts
The maxim applicable in such cases is that even in construing a section which is to a certain extent retrospective, the line is reached at which thewords of the section cease to be plain.	None
We are further of the opinion that when the first part of the subsection refers to the assessments in the years 1948 to 1955, it merely.	None
refers to the period during which the rebate provisions were in force.	None
It is not disputed before us that the rebate provisions came into force from the Finance Act of 1948 and ended with the Finance Act of 1955.	None
The first Part therefore is merely a reference to the period during which the rebate provisions were in force.	None
It is indeed true that in the second part of the subsection the ex pression used is declaring dividends in any year and this has to be read in conjunction with the word subsequently which can only mean subsequent to the allowance or the rebate.	None
But in the very same part, it is further stated that the declaration of dividend in any year shall, by reason of the rebate be deemed to have made the amount on which the rebate was granted, the subject of incorrect relief etc This language which creates the legal fiction is clearly prospective and shows that what was correct at the time when the rebate was granted is rendered incorrect on the happening of the crucial event after the coming into force of the sub section, and by the express terms of s. 28 of the Finance Act, 1956, the subsection comes into force on April 1, 1956.	Reasoning
We are unable, therefore, to agree with the learned counsel for the respondent that the language of subs.	None
(10) by necessary implication takes the legal fiction back to a period earlier than April 1, 1956.	None
In coming to this conclusion, we have kept in mind the principle that a statute does not necessarily become retrospective because a part of the requisites for its action is drawn from a time antecedent to its passing.	None
Further more we see no reason why the principle laid down in S. K. Habibullahs case will not apply in the present case nor are we satisfied that decision with regard to sub s. (5) of s. 35 was incorrect.	None
We may point out, however, that in Second Additional Incometax Officer v. Atmala Nagaraj (2) this court went a step further and held that subs.	None
(5) of s. 35 was not applicable to cases where the assessment of the partner was completed before April 1, 1952, even though the assessment the firm was completed after April 1, 1962 of Learned counsel for the appellant frankly conceded before us that he did not wish to go as far as that and contend that even in a case where a declaration of devidend was made after April 1, 1956, subs.	Facts
(10) would not apply because that would make subs.	None
(10) unworkable.	None
The decision in Second Additional Incometax Officer v. Atmala Nagaraj may perhaps require reconsideration as to which we need not express any final opinion now but so far as this case is concerned we see no reason why the principle in S. K. Habibullahs case will not apply.	None
The principle s simply this.	None
A statute which is not declaratory of a preexisting law nor a matter relating to procedure but affects vested rights cannot be given a greater retrospective effect than its language renders necessary, and even in construing a section which is to a certain extent retrospective, the line is reached at which the words of the section cease to be plain.	None
These are well settled principles and there is no reason to doubt their accuracy.	None
For the reasons given above, we would allow the appeal, set aside the order and judgment of the High Court and quash the order of the Incometax Officer dated March 27, 1958, and the notice of demand dated March 28, 1958.	None
The appellant will be entitled to its costs throughout.	Decision
SARKAR, J.In its assessment to incometax for the year 195253, the appellant, a company, had been granted under the provisions of the Finance Act, 1952, a rebate on a portion of its profits of the previous year, that is, 1951 which it had not distributed as dividends to its shareholders.	Facts
In the next assessment year 195354, the appellant used a part of the aforesaid undistributed profits for declaring dividends.	None
As the law then stood, nothing could be done by the revenue authorities to withdraw the rebate earlier granted on the ground of the profits being utilised in declaring dividends in a latter year.	None
From April 1, 1956, however, there was a change in the law as sub. s. (10) of s. 35 of the Incometax Act, 1922, was brought into force then.	None
By an order made on March 27, 1958, under that subsection, the terms of which I will set out presently, the aforesaid rebate was withdrawn and the appellant was called upon to refund it.5.	None
The appellant then applied to the High Court at Bombay for a writ to quash the order of March 27, 1958, on the ground that subs.	None
(10) was not applicable to the facts of this case for reasons which I will later state.	None
That application was dismissed.	None
This appeal is against this decision of the High Court at Bombay dismissing the application.6.	None
Now subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 of the Incometax Act was enacted by the Finance Act of 1956 and it was given effect from April 1, 1956.	None
That subsection, in so far as it is necessary to state for the purpose of this case, provides that where in any of the assessment 194849 to 195556, a rebate of incometax was allowed to a company under the Finance Act prevailing in that year on a part of its total income and subsequently the amount on which the rebate of incometax was allowed as aforesaid is availed of by the company, wholly or partly, for declaring dividends in any year the Incometax Officer shall recompute the tax payable by the company by reducing the rebate originally allowed.	Reasoning
The subsection in substance permits a rebate duly allowed in any year before.	None
it came into force to be withdrawn if subsequently, the amount on which the rebate was allowed is availed of for declaring dividends in any year.	None
The appellant contends that the subsection does not apply unless the amount on which the rebate was granted is availed of for declaring dividends after the sub section had come into force, that is after April 1, 1956, and therefore it does not apply to the present case.	None
It is said that if it were not so the subsection would be given a retrospective operation and the rule is that it is to be presumed that a statute dealing with substantive rights is not to have such operation.	None
The case of Incometax Officer, Madras v. S. K. Habibullah was cited in support of this contention.	None
I will assume that if the subsection were applied to a case like the present, it would affect a vested right.	None
The rule no doubt is that a statute is presumed not to do so.	None
Bat this rule does pot apply if the language of the statute indicates an intention to give it a retrospective operation.	None
It seems to me that subs.	None
(10) uses language which indicates sufficiently clearly that it was intended to be applied where the amount on which rebate had been obtained was availed of for declaring dividends before the subsection came into force, that is to say, to have a retrospective operation.	None
It says, subsequently the amount an which the rebate of incometax was allowed as aforesaid is availed of for declaring dividends in any year.7.	None
There is no doubt that the words subsequently and in any year mean in any year subsequently to the year in which the rebate was granted.	Reasoning
They would, therefore, clearly include a year before the subsection came into force.	Reasoning
But it is said that these words should in view of the rule be read as not including a year before the subsection came into force as they also include years subsequent to the coming into force of the subsection and are therefore ambiguous.	Reasoning
I am unable to accept this contention.	Reasoning
I find no ambiguity.	Reasoning
If the intention was that the subsection would apply only when the amount was availed of for declaration of dividends after it was enacted then the words subsequently and in any year were wholly unnecessary.	Reasoning
Without these words the subsection would have read, and the amount is availed of for declaring dividends.	Reasoning
There would then be no doubt that it was intended to operate only prospectively.	Reasoning
But the legislature used some more words.	Reasoning
It must have done so with some purpose.	Reasoning
What that purpose was if it was not to give the subsection retrospective operation, I failed to see.	None
I am unable to read the words subsequently and in any year as otiose and as indicating no different intention.	Reasoning
Therefore, it seems to me that the language of the sub section plainly requires it to have a retrospective operation.	Reasoning
The subsection is properly applicable to this case.8.	Reasoning
There is another consideration leading me to the view that the presumption against retrospective operation does not arise here.	Reasoning
It was said in Pardo v. Bingham that it was not an invariable rule that a s could not have a retrospective operation unless so expressed in its very terms, and that it was necessary to look to the general scope and purview of the statute and at the remedy sought to be applied and consider what was the former state of the law and what it was that the legislature contemplated.	Reasoning
It is quite plain that in providing for the grant of rebate on undistributed profits by the , Finance Acts of 1948 to 1955 the legislature wanted to encourage the employment of the profit made in a business in the business itself.	Reasoning
The object presumably was to expand the industries of the country.	Reasoning
This involved a long term employment of the, profits in the business.	Reasoning
It could not have been the intention of the legislature to grant rebate when a company only kept the profits for a short time with itself and having earned the rebate distributed the profits without the industry having had any real benefit of them.	Reasoning
I think should state here that the provisions for the grant of rebate did not require that dividend was not to be declared at all.	Reasoning
The object was to encourage a reasonable division of the profits between the shareholders and the industry.	Reasoning
Allowance of rebate was provided for on that part of the profits which was left for employment in the industry after reasonable dividends had been distributed to the shareholders.	Reasoning
The rebate was allowed on a graded scale depending on the amount of profits which was not distributed as dividends.	Reasoning
Now the system of granting rebates started in 194849.	None
It was stopped in 195556.	None
The subsection was brought into force on April 1, 1956, that is, seven years after the system had first been started.	None
The subsection provided for withdrawal of the rebate when the amount on which it had been granted was availed of in declaring dividends.	Reasoning
It is fairly clear from this that the legislature did not approve of these amounts being utilised in declaration of dividends.9.	Reasoning
It is also not too much to suppose that there had been many previous cases of such utilisation of profits for if it had not happened earlier, there is no reason to think that the legislature anticipated the evil happening in future and passed the law to stop it.	Reasoning
In view of the large number of years that had passed between the time when the allowance of rebate commenced and the time when the subsection was brought into force, it can be imagined that a very large number of cases of distribution of profits on which rebate had been allowed, had already taken place.	Reasoning
I find it difficult to think that many cases remained after April 1, 1956, where a company which intended to utilise the amounts on which rebate had been granted in the declaration of dividends, had not already done so.10.	Reasoning
There is no dispute that by subs.	None
(10) the legislature intended to penalise a case where subsequent to its enactment, the amount on which rebate had been granted was utilised in declaration of dividends.	Reasoning
Now is there any reason to think that the legislature did not want to impose the penalty also on those who had earlier utilised the amount in declaration of dividends ?	Reasoning
There was no special merit in these latter cases, And I also think that they formed the majority of the cases.	Reasoning
The grant of rebate having been stopped after March 31, 1956, there was no occasion to provide for cases of such grant thereafter.	Reasoning
All these circumstances lead me to the.	Reasoning
view that the intention of the legislature was to penalise the cases of utilisation of amounts on which rebate had been granted in payment of dividends which had happened before the subsection came into force.	Reasoning
The remedy which the sub section provided would largely fail in any other view.	Reasoning
The general scope and purview of the subsection and a consideration of the evil which it was intended to remedy lead me to the opinion that the intention of the legislature clearly was that the subsection should apply to the facts that we have in this case.	Reasoning
As to S. K. Habibullahs case I do not think that much assistance can be had from it.	Reasoning
It applied the rule of presumption against a statute having a retrospective operationas to which rule, of course, there is no dispute to subs.	Reasoning
(5) of s. 35.	Arguments of Petitioner
Now cases on the construction of one statute are rarely of value in construing another statute, for each case turns on the language with which it is concerned and statutes are not often expressed in the same language.	Reasoning
The language used in subss.	None
(5) and (10) seems to me to be wholly different.	Reasoning
There is nothing in S. K. Habibullahs case (1) to indicate that in the opinion of the learned judges deciding it there were any words which would indicate that subs.	None
(5) was to have a retrospective operation.	None
In my view, subs.	None
(10) contains such words.11.	Reasoning
Furthermore, I do not find that the other considerations to which I have referred, arose for discussion in that case.	Reasoning
In my view, the two cases are entirely different.12.	Reasoning
I therefore, think that subs.	None
(10) of s. 35 properly applies to this case.	Reasoning
In my view, the appeal should be dismissed with costs.	None
HIDAYATULLAH, J.This is an appeal by an assessee with certificate under Art.	None
133 (i)(c) of the Constitution from the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dismissing the assessee companys petition under Art.	Issue
226 of the Constitution which challenged an order under s. 35(10) of the Incometax Act rectifying the earlier assessment and sought a writ or writs to prohibit the Incometax Authorities from giving effect to that order.13.	Issue
The assessee (The Ahmedabad Manufacturing Calico Printing Co. Ltd.) is a public limited company carrying on business of manufacture of cotton pricegoods and chemicals.	None
The year of account of the assessee company is the calendar year.	None
In the assessment year 195253, corresponding to the calendar year 1951, the appellants were assessed on January 31, 1953, on a total income of Rs. 1, 02, 79, 808.	None
The assessee company was allowed a rebate of one anna per rupee amounting to Rs. 2, 28, 924 on the undistributed profits of Rs. 26, 62, 776 tinder the first proviso to Paragraph B of Part I of the first Schedule to the Finance Act, 1952.	None
For the assessment year 195354 (account year calendar year 1952)	None
the books of the assessee company showed a profit of Rs. 45, 67, 966.	None
That profit became a loss of Rs. 5, 98, 353.	None
after deductions like depreciation etc. were allowed.	None
Inspite of there being a loss, the assessee company declared on April 20, 1953, a dividend of Rs. 19, 32, 000 for the year of account 1952.The Incometax Officer, by an order dated March 18, 1958, called upon the assessee company to show cause why action under s. 35(10) of the Incometax Act should not be taken to recall a proportionate part of the rebate because in his opinion the entire dividend of Rs. 19, 32, 000 came out of the undistributed profits of the calendar year 1951 on which the appellant had received a rebate.	None
The (5) Where in respect of any completed assess ment of a partner in a firm it is found on the assessment or reassessment of the firm or on any reduction or enhancement made, in the income of the firm under section 31, section 33 section 33A, section 33B, section 66 or section 66A that the share of the partner in the profit or loss of the firm has not been included in the assessment of the partner or, if included, is not correct, the inclusion of the share in the assessment or the correction thereof, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of this section, and the, provisions of subsection (1) shall apply thereto accordingly, the period of four years referred to in that sub section being computed from the date of the final order passed in the case of the firm.	Facts
It must be noticed that under this amendment time limit started from the date of the final order passed in the case of the firm though the rectification is to be made in the assessment of the partners of the firm.14.	None
By s. 19 of the Finance Act, 1956, subs.	None
(10) (among others) was added as from April 1, 1956.	None
That subsection reads as follows  (10) Where in any of the assessments for the years beginning on the 1st day of April of the rectify any such mistake which has .	None
been brought to his notice by an assessee 15.	None
It must be noticed that the, time limit started from the date of the order of assessment which was to be rectified.	None
In 1953, by s. 19 of the Indian Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1952 (25 of 1953), subs.	None
(5) (among others) was added as from April 1, 1952.	None
That subsection reads as follows  (5) Where in respect of any completed assessment of a partner in a firm it is found on the assessment or re assessment of the firm or on any reduction or enhancement made in the income of the firm under section 31, section 33 section 33A, section 33B, section 66 or section 66A that the share of the partner in the profit or loss of the firm has not been included in the assessment of the partner or, if included, is not correct, the inclusion of the share in the assessment or the correction thereof, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of this section, and the provisions of subsection (1) shall apply thereto accordingly, the period of four years referred to in that subsection being computed from the date of the final order passed in the case of the firm.	Facts
It must be noticed that under this amendment time limit started from the date of the final order passed in the case of the firm though the rectification is to be made in the assessment of the partners of the firm.16.	None
By s. 19 of the Finance Act, 1956, subs.	None
(10) (among others) was added as from April 1, 1956.	None
Mat subsection reads as follows (10) Where in any of the assessments for the years beginning on the 1st day of April of the years 1948 to 1955 inclusive, a rebate of incometax was allowed to a company on a part of its total income under clause (i) of the proviso to Paragraph B of Part I of the rele vant Schedules to the Finance Acts specifying the rates of tax for the relevant year, and subsequently the amount on which the rebate of incometax was allowed as aforesaid is availed of by the company, wholly or partly, for declaring dividends in any year, the amount or that part of the amount availed of as aforesaid, as the case may be, shall, by reason of the rebate of incometax allowed to the company and to the extent to which it has not actually been subjected to an additional incometax in accordance with the provisions of clause (ii) of the proviso to Paragaph B of Part	Reasoning
I of the Schedules to the Finance Acts above referred to, be deemed to have been made the subject of incorrect relief under this Act, and the Incometax Officer shall recompute the tax payable by the company by reducing the rebate originally allowed, as if the recomputation is a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the meaning of this section and the provisions of subsection (1) shall apply accordingly, the period of four years specified therein being reckoned from the end of the financial year in which the amount on which rebate of incometax was allowed as aforesaid was availed of by the company wholly or partly for declaring dividends.	Facts
It will be noticed that the time limit under this sub section was to commence from the end of the financial year in which the dividends were declared from profits on which the rebate was earned earlier.	None
The question in this case is whether subs.	None
(10) can apply Co an assessment which had been nude be fore subs.	None
(10) came into force.	None
The contention of the assessecompany is that subs.	None
(10) was given retrospectivity only up to April 1, 1956, and the words of that at subsection should be interpreted in such a way as to give the subsection no greater retrospectivity.17.	None
According to the assessce company the assessment for the year 195354 had become final on April 17, 1954, that is to say, before the 1st day of April, 1956, from which date sub s. (10) was made to operate.	None
The provisions of s. 35(10), according to the assessee company, could only be utilised if dividends were declared after April 1, 1956, but not if the declaration took place earlier.	None
Reliance was placed upon the decision of this Court in Incometax Officer v. Habibullah(1), and reference was also made to another decision following Habibullahs case, (1962 Supp.	None
2 S.C.R. 716.), Second Additional Incometax Officer v. Atmala Nagaraj .	None
( 1962 46 T. T. R 609.)18.	None
Our learned brother Das, J., following Habibullahs case() has held that the contention of the assessee company is wellfounded and has expressed the opinion that Atmala Nagarajs Case (2) may need reconsideration.	None
He has, therefore, ordered the reversal of the Judgment and order of the High Court.	None
In our Judgment, and we say it with profound respect, this appeal must be dismissed.	None
We are also of the opinion that both the above cases (which are of the same Divisional Bench) may have to be reconsidered hereafter.	None
Amala Nagarajs case() followed Habibullahs case.	None
() The difference in the facts of the two cases was only in one respect and that was not sufficient to take Atmala Naagarajs case (2) out of the ratio of the earlier decision.	None
We shall deal with these two cases later.	None
The Incometax Act imposes a charge of tax for a year at a time and that year is the year of assessment.	None
The charge is in respect of a previous year which is commonly known as the year of account.	Reasoning
The rate at which the tax is to be charged is enacted by an annual Finance Act for each assessment year.	Reasoning
The assessment year is the Financial Year.	Reasoning
From the nature of things an amendment of the Incometax.	None
Act, made in the middle of the assessment, year, if made to operate from the beginning of the, assessment year, operates on incomes which had been earned before.	None
Since an amendment cannot be.	Reasoning
allowed to operate from the midterm, each such amendment is made to, comprise a whole assessment year whether it be the assessment year then running.	Reasoning
or an earlier or a later assessment, year.	Reasoning
Amendments are thus .give retrospective.	Reasoning
operation from the first day of April in the same, or a preceding, or prospective operation for a future assessment year.	Reasoning
Ordinarily, the law, as it stands on the 1st of April in any assessment year, applies to, assessments in that year.	Reasoning
but the law may expressly or by necessary implication give itself a greater retrospective operation.	Reasoning
The date on which the amendment comes into force is the date of the commencement of the amendment.	Reasoning
It is read as amended from that date.	Reasoning
Under ordinary circumstances, an Act does not have retrospective operation on substantial rights which have become fixed before the date of the commencement of, the Act.	Reasoning
But this rule is not unalterable.	Reasoning
The legislature may affect substantial rights by enacting laws which are expressly retrospective or by, using language which has that necessary result.	Reasoning
And this language may give an enactment more retrospectivity than what the commencement clause gives to any of its provisions.	Reasoning
When this happens the provisions thus made retrospective expressly or by necessary intend ment, operate from a date earlier than the date of commencement and affect rights which, but for such operation, would have continued undisturbed.19.	Reasoning
It must be remembered, that if the Incometax Act prescribes a period during which the, tax due in any particular assessment year may be assessed, then on the expiry of that period the Department cannot make an assessment.	Reasoning
Where no period is prescribed the assessment can be completed at any time but once completed it is final.20.	Reasoning
Once a final assessment has been made, it can only be reopened to rectify a mistake apparent from the record (s. 35) or to reassess where there has been an escapement of assessment of income for one reason or another (s. 34).	Reasoning
Both these sections which enable reopening of back assessments provide their own periods of time for action but all these periods of time, whether for the first assessment or for rectification, or for reassessment, merely create a bar when that time passes against the machinery setup by the Incometax Act for the assessment and levy of the tax.	Reasoning
They do not create an exemption in favour of the assessee or grant an absolution on the expiry of the period.	Reasoning
The liability is not enforceable but the tax may a in be come eligible if the bar is removed and the taxpayer is brought within the jurisdiction of the said machinery by reason of a new power.	Reasoning
This is, of course subject to the condition that the law must say that such is the jurisdiction, either expressly or byclear implication.	Reasoning
If the language of the law has that clear meaning, it must be given that effect and where the language expressly so declares or clearly implies it, the retrospective operation is not controlled by the commencement clause.	Reasoning
The amendment, with which we are concerned, was made by the Finance Act, 1956 (18 of 1956).	Reasoning
By s. 2, it dealt with the year beginning on the 1st day of April, 1956, and fixed the rates of taxes, for the assessment year commencing on that date.	Reasoning
It also amended the Incometax Act by ss. 3 to 35.	Reasoning
Section 28 then prescribed the dates of commencement of these sections.	Reasoning
It read  28.	Reasoning
Commencements of amendments to Act 11 of 1922.The amendments made in the Incometax Act, by section 4 and clause (b) of section 15 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of April 1955, and the amendments made by section 3 to 27 inclusive shall come into force on the 1st day of April, 1956.	None
Subsection (10) was introduced into s. 35 of the Incometax Act by s. 19 of this Act.	None
If there was nothing more in the language of the subsection to give it operation from an earlier date it would have operated only from 1st April, 1956, but the language of the subsection gives it additional retrospectively and says so in such clear and unambiguous language as to leave no doubt.	None
There is no room for the application of Lord justice Bowmens dictum in.	Reasoning
Reid v. Reid ((1886) 31	Reasoning
Ch. D. 409.) that even in construing a section which is to a certain extent retrospective, the maxim that statutes are prospective only, ought to be borne in mind as applicable whenever the line is reached at which the words of the section cease to be plain.21.	Reasoning
The topic of s. 35 is rectification of mistakes apparent from the record.	Facts
Subsection (10) introduced a new basis for rectification in s. 35 which already prescribed a period of four years fromthe order of assessment and the new sub section enabled rectification to be made in new circumstances and within a new time limit.	None
Those circumstances when analyzed, furnish the key to the retrospectivity of the section.	Reasoning
We shall begin by quoting only the material portion of that subsection, which has been quoted in full earlier Where, in any of the assessments for the years beginning on the 1st day of April of the years 1948 to 1955 inclusive, a rebate of incometax was allowed and subsequently the amount on which the rebate of incometax was allowed is availed of for declaring dividends in any year the, amount shall be deemed to have been, made the subject, of incorrect relief and the Income tax Officer shall recompute the tax as if the recomputation is a rectification of a mistake apparent from the record within the, meaning of this section and.	Reasoning
the provisions of subsection (1) shall apply accordingly, the period of four years being reckoned from the end of the financial year in Which.	Reasoning
the amount on which rebate of incometax Was allowed was, availed of for declaring dividends.	Reasoning
The purport of this new subsection was the recall of rebate which had. been allowed in any of the assessments for the years 141948 to 3131956 under certain.	Reasoning
circumstances.22.	Reasoning
At the very start, the subsection takes one to assessment years to which S. 28 which prescribed the commencement as 1 41956 did not take one to.	Reasoning
We do not accept the argument of the learned counsel for the assessee company that the mention of the years is merely a repetition of a historical fact for ready reference.	Reasoning
The words in any of the assessments for the years etc.	Reasoning
II show in respect ofwhich, assessments rectification, would be possible.	Reasoning
The years are mentioned individually by usingthe word any.	Reasoning
The law.	Reasoning
speaking in 1956 was thusspeaking of all the assessment years individuallygoing.back to 1st April, 1948.	Reasoning
The language wasclearly one of retrospectivity and the suggestion, that there is no intent behind these words and that they merely refer to a historical fact is not acceptable to us.	Reasoning
This conclusion is further fortified by the words  and subsequently the amount is availed of for declaring dividends in any year Having mentioned the years individually in the opening part, an event is mentioned which is subsequent, namely, declaration of dividend from an amount on which rebate was allowed.	Reasoning
Subsequently here obviously means subsequent to any.	Reasoning
of the assessments for the years beginning on the 1st day of April of the years 1948 to 1955 inclusive, not necessarily subsequent to the Amending Act.	Reasoning
The declaration of the dividends must be after the grant of the rebate.23.	Reasoning
That is the only condition and it does not import the date of commencement of the subsection in any way .	Reasoning
Then comes the operative part and it is this.	Reasoning
If in the earlier assessment in any of the years mentioned a rebate was allowed and subsequently in any year there was a declaration of dividend utilising the amount on which the rebate Was given, the amount so utilised should be deemed to be the subject of incorrect relief.	Reasoning
This fiction comes into force from 141956 but it is not stated that the circumstances in which it comes into being should also be after 141956.	None
The subsection no doubt is to be used from 141956 but it is to be used retrospectively to recall rebate on amounts which the law deems to have been the subject of an incorrect relief in the past.	None
The recalling of the rebate is after the enactment of subs.	None
(10) but the conditions for the exercise of the power may be before or after the commencement of the subsection.	None
The only curb on the exercise of the power is that the Incometax Officer may go back a period of four years reckoned from the end of the financial year in which the declaration of dividend was made to the date when the action is taken.	None
In the present case, this is so.	Reasoning
The assessee company declared dividends in the calendar year 1952.	Reasoning
The assessment year was 141953 to 3131954.	None
The letter written on March 18, 1958, asking the assessee company to show cause was within the four years reckoned from the end of the financial year (3131954) in which the amount on Which rebate of Incometax was availed of for declaring dividends.	Reasoning
It complied with the letter of the subsection.	None
Since the power commenced.	None
on 141956, the utmost reach of the Incometax Officer would be the end of the assessment year A 1952.	None
Any declaration of dividend after 1st day of April, 1952, out of accumulated profits of any of the years in which rebate was earned would be within time for the recall of the rebate.	Reasoning
But a declaration prior to 141952 would be beyond the power of the Incometax Officer to recall.	None
This meaning is the only meaning which the plain words of the section can bear.	Reasoning
Any other meaning might make sub.s.	Reasoning
(10) unworkable because no company.	Reasoning
, , with the knowledge that rebate would be recalled, would like to declare dividends after April 1, 1956, out of amounts on which rebate was earned.	Reasoning
If the other meaning was attributed, subs.	None
(10) might well be a dead letter.	None
The subsection was obviously the result of noting how rebates were earned and later were being utilized to fill the pockets of the shareholders.	Reasoning
The amendment met this situation and did it in very clear terms.24.	Reasoning
It remains to consider, the decisions of this court in Habibullahs case (1962 Supp, 2 S.C.R. 716) and Atmala Nagarajs case (1962 46 I. T. R. 609.).	Reasoning
In those two cases this Court was called upon to interpret sub s. (5) quoted above which was introduced as from April 1 1952, by the Indian Incometax (Amendment) Act, 1953.	None
, In both the cases there was a final assessment of the incomes of partners in registered firms.	Reasoning
Later the assessment of the registered firms took place and it was found that the share of income of the partners was larger than what had been assessed.	Reasoning
Under s. 35 (1), as it stood before subs.	None
(5) was introduced, rectification could be made in respect of a mistake apparent from the record and the records of the firms could not be read with those of the partners to find an error in the latter.	Reasoning
There was thus an impasse.	Reasoning
It was ruled by the Privy Council in Commissioner of Incometax v. Khemchand Ramdas((1938)	None
L. R. 65 I. A. 236, 248.), at p. 248	None
When once a final assessment, is arrived at, it cannot, in their Lordships opinion, be reopened except in circumstances detailed in section 34 and 35 of the Act and within the time limited by those acts.	Reasoning
Therefore, unless the original s. 35 allowed such rectification there was no help.	Reasoning
Often the firms final assessment dragged on for years and by the time that assessment was done the time limited by (sub.s.1) had already run out.	Reasoning
Parliament therefore stepped in with an amendment which was to commence on April 1, 1952.	Reasoning
Two matters were provided by subs.	None
(5).	None
Firstly, the result of the assessment of the firm showing that the partners income was not properly included in their own assessments, was to be deemed to disclose an error in the record of the partners assessment and secondly, the period of four years instead of being computed from the order of assessment made against the partners as under subs.	Reasoning
(1) was to be computed from the date of the final order passed in the case of the firm.	None
No doubt this.	Reasoning
power could be exercised from 141952 but the question that had to be considered was whether it could be exercised only to reopen the assessment of partners of a firm if, and only if, the order in the assessment of the firm was passed after the amendment came into force.	Reasoning
In dealing with the matter in Habibullahs case(1962 Supp.	Reasoning
2 S.C.R. 716.)	Reasoning
this Court referred to the finality which attaches to a final assessment as stated by the Privy Council.	Reasoning
This Court then referred to the date of the commencement of subs.	None
(5) which was fixed retrospectively as 141952 and held that the subsection could not be used to reopen assessments which had become final before the commencement of the new sub section, contrasting its language with that of subs.	None
(6) which wits, simultaneously introduced.	None
In Habibullahs case (1) the dates were  Partners assessment for 194647 on 2221950 do do 194748 on do Registered firms assessment for 4647 on 31101950 do do 194748 on 30 6 1951 Subs.(5) to s. 35 introduced from 141952 Order under s. 35 (5) on 2731954If subs.	Reasoning
(5) could be used in this case it is plain that the four years period had not passed between31101950 (which was the earlier assessment) and 2731954 when the rectification was made.	None
No doubt, the two assessments of the firm were also before 141952 but the subsection has nowhere said that the power was only to be exercised if the assessment of the firm was after that date.	None
Such a meaning is also difficult to imply.	None
Under a fiction created after 141952 the assessment of the partners disclosed a mistake and if the fiction and the rest of the subsection were to be given their full and logical effect the assessment of the partners could, be reopened and rectified.	None
But it was held otherwise by this Court.	None
The main reason was that the partners assessments had become final before 141952, that under the law, as it then stood, there was no error in their record, and Subs.(5) having been enacted retrospectivity from 141952 could not be given more retrospectivity That the firms assessment was also before 141952 was not given as a reason and in any event it was not very relevant.	None
It neither added to nor detracted from the finality (such as it was on 2221952) on the Partners assessment.	None
The law obviously mentioned the final order in the firms assessement as the starting point in view of the length time the firms assessments take to reach their own finality.	None
But there was nothing to show that this new terminus a quo must be after 141952 before subs(5) could be used.	None
The words of the subsection were entirely indifferent to this aspect In Atmala Nagrajs Case (1) the assessment of the was also completed before partners (2211952) 141952 and had become final subject however to section 34 and 35.	None
No doubt the assessment of the firm was completed after 141952 but this distinction made no difference to the finality such as had been gained on 221 1952.We do not naturally express a final opinion on subs.	None
(5).	None
We must leave that to a future case.	None
We must, however, say that the two earlier cases may have to be reconsidered on some future occasion.	None
When the occasion comes the questions to ask would be 1.	None
Did finality attach in Habibullahs case ((1962 Supp.	None
2 S.C.R. 716.)	Reasoning
to the partners assessment under the law as it then stood from 22.21950 (partners assessment) or from 31101950 and 3061951 (the firms assessment) ?	None
2. Was there no finality in so far as the partners assessment was concerned in Atmala Nagarajs case (1962 46 I.T.R. 609) between 2211952 (partners assessment) and 141952 (the commencement of subs.	None
(5)) ?	None
3. Was the finality of the partners assessment, if any, controlled in the one case by the fact that the assessment of the firm was before 141952 and in the other by the fact that the assessment of the firm was after 141952 We have detailed these questions because they highlight the only point of difference between the two cases.	None
We express no opinion of these questions.25.	None
In view of what we have said on.	Decision
the interpretation of s. 35 (10) we are of opinion that the judgment of the High Court was right.	Decision
We would, therefore, dismiss this appeal with costs.	Decision
By COURT 26.	None
In accordance with the opinion of the majority, this appeal is dismissed with costs.27.	Decision
Appeal dismissed.	None
