 AMARENDRANATH SEN J. 1.	None
The principal question for decision in this appeal by special leave is whether the father in exercise of his right as patria potestas or otherwise can effect a partial partition between himself and his minor sons of joint family properties of a Hindu joint family governed by the Mitakshara school of Hindu law The assessee, a Hindu undivided family (hereinafter referred to as HUF ), which consists of four members, namely, (1) Shri Apoorva Shantilal Shah, (2) his wife, Smt.	Issue
Karuna, and their minor sons, (3) Chintan and (4) Tejal, is the appellant before us.	Issue
The members of the HUF are governed by the Mitakshara school of Hindu law.	None
The assessment year in question is the year 197576.	Facts
During the assessment pertaining to the assessment year under consideration, Shri Apoorva, who is the father of the minor sons and husband of Smt.	Facts
Karuna and the karta of the HUF, made an application to the ITO for recognising a partial partition, under s. 171 of the I.T. Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the Act claiming that two partial partitions had taken place amongst the members of the said family, one on December 24, 1973, in respect of 200 shares of Gujarat Steel Tubes Ltd. and the other on December 29, 1973, in respect of 1, 777 shares of the same company 2.	Facts
On enquiry the Incometax Officer (hereinafter for the sake of brevity referred to as the ITO ) found that the partial partitions had been embodied in memoranda of agreements of , partition.	None
The ITO, however, refused to record that there had been a partial partition of the joint family properties, as be was of the view that the partial partitions in question could not be recognised inasmuch as the remaining shares, after making certain allocations in favour of the two minor sons were not allotted in their entirety to the remaining third coparcener, namely, Shri Apoorva separately or to Shri Apoorva and his wife, Karuna, jointly, describing them as members of the HUF.	Facts
The ITO further held that the said partitions did not purport to have been made at the instance of the minor children, as this course would require the approval of the court but the same bad been purported to have been made at the instance of Shri Apoorva.	Facts
The ITO hinted in the order that the distribution of the shares had not been made equally either amongst the three members, including the two minor sons, or amongst the four members of the HUF, as Apoorvas wife, Karuna, also became entitled to an equal share on partition between the father and the sonsAgainst the order of the ITO the assesseeHUF presented an appeal before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner (hereinafter referred to as AAC for the sake of brevity).	Facts
The AAC allowed the appeal and held that there had been genuine partial partitions between the coparceners in respect of the said shares.	Facts
The AAC held that it was not necessary to obtain the courts sanction even in a case where some of the parties to the partition were minors.	Facts
As regards the point that the distribution of shareholdings had not been made on equal basis, the AAC, taking into consideration some earlier partitions, came to the conclusion that the distribution had been equally made.	Facts
The AAC further observed that even if the distribution had not been made on equal basis that would not affect the validity of the partitions in question, as the minor sons, if they felt aggrieved in this regard, could on the attainment of majority seek to avoid the said partitions 3.	None
Aggrieved by the order of the AAC, the Revenue went up in appeal to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal (referred to as the Tribunal hereinafter for the sake of brevity) to challenge the AACs recognition of the said partitions.	None
The Tribunal held for reasons recorded in the order that the partial partitions in the instant case were outside the framework of the Hindu law and as such they could not be recognised as valid for the purposes of s. 171 of the Act.	Facts
In that view of the matter the Tribunal set aside the AACs order and restored the order of the ITO Under s. 256(1) of the Act, the Tribunal referred the following questions to the High Court (1) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that Shri Apoorva Shantilal could not himself have given consent on behalf of his minor sons to the partitions proposed by him in his individual capacity as father?	Facts
(2) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the partial partitions were outside the framework of Hindu law ?	Facts
(3) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the partial partitions could not be recognised as valid for the purpose of section 171 of the Incometax Act, 1961 ?	Facts
(4) Whether, on, the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that partial partitions made by a Hindu father in exercise of his patria potestas cannot be recorded as a valid partition under section 171 of the Incometax Act, 1961 ?	Facts
(5) Whether, on the facts and in the Circumstances of the case, the Tribunal was right in holding that the partial partition did not amount to a family arrangement in which the father acted as a natural guardian of the two minor son, after he had exercised his patria potestas ?	Facts
(6) Whether the Incometax Department is competent to challenge the exercise of patria potestas by a Hindu father in respect of coparcenary property, making a partial partition ?	Facts
4.	None
For reasons recorded in the judgment the High Court answered all the questions in the affirmative and against the assessee.	Facts
The High Court in its judgment has held that the father under the Hindu law has no power or authority to effect any partial partition of the joint family properties between himself and his minor sons.	Facts
The High Court has observed that apart from the decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of CIT v. Seth Gopaldas (HUF) 1979 116 ITR 577 , there was no decision of any court on the point.	Facts
The High Court also considered other decisions and books and treatises on Hindu law.	Facts
The High Court held that on consideration of the authorities, the following propositions Were established (at p. 164 of 135 ITR) 1.	Facts
From the standpoint of ancient Hindu law, what was recognised was only a partition in respect of all the properties of the HUF, upon disruption of the status of the HUF regardless of whether the properties were actually divided by metes and bounds or whether these were thereafter (after disruption of joint status) held as tenantsincommon 2.	Facts
Partial partition in the sense of division in respect of a part of the assets whilst continuing the status of HUF in respect of the Test of the assets was not known to the ancient Hindu law and was not recognised by the ancient Hindu Law 3.	Facts
Partial partition in the sense of division of some of the properties whilst continuing the status of HUF in respect of other items of property originally belonging to the HUF came to be recognised only later on by evolution of custom and by judgemade law 4.	Facts
Such a partial partition was so recognised only if it was made by the consent of all the coparceners.	Facts
In other words, partial partition in respect of only some items of property whilst continuing the status of HUF in respect of the rest of the items of property could be effected only with the consent of all the coparceners.	Facts
When there was a disruption of the status of the HUF only one or only some of the coparceners could not insist on a division of some items of the property without effecting division in respect of all the items of properties except by consent of all the coparceners 5.	Facts
In respect of a joint family consisting of a father and his sons, the traditional Hindu law recognised the right of a father in his capacity as patria protestas to exercise his extraordinary power to disrupt the status of an HUF and to divide his sons inter se without their consent subject to the rider that all assets of the HUF were subjected to partition 6.	Facts
The aforesaid extraordinary power is subject to the qualification that he gives to his sons an equal share and the division is not unfair (vide Guptes Hindu Law, 2nd Edn., page 239).	Facts
The power of the father to sever the sons inter se is a survival of the patria potestas and may be exercised by him without the consent of his sons Again, in all cases, his power must be exercised by him bona fide and in accordance with law the division must not be unfair and the allotments must be equal.	None
He must give his sons equal shares with himself 7.	Facts
There is nothing in (1) either ancient Hindu law, or (2) customary or judgemade law which authorises the father in exercise of his extra , ordinary power to effect a partial partition of HUF consisting of himself and his minor sons dividing some items of properties whilst continuing the joint status in respect of the rest of the properties.	Facts
The High Court observed (at p. 165)	Facts
The validity of the aforesaid propositions is incapable of being disputed and has not been disputed.	Facts
What has been contended on behalf of the assessee is that whilst there is no express provision in so many words, either in the ancient Hindu texts or judgemade law, that the power of a Hindu father to effect a partition of an HUF consisting of himself and his sons including minor sons in exercise of his power as patria potestas extends even to partition in respect of only some items of property, it is required to be inferred by implication.	Facts
In other words, it is argued that though there is no express reference to the power to effect a partial partition in the sense of division of some items of property while continuing the status of an HUF in respect of the rest and though such power is not recognised in terms, it follows as a necessary corollary.	Facts
The Gujarat High Court noted that this contention has been negatived by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Gopaldas 1979 116 ITR 577 , and the Gujarat High Court for reasons recorded in the judgment (p. 165 of 135 ITR) rejected this contention.	None
The High Court further held that the transaction in question was in any event invalid in the facts and in the circumstances of this case 5.	None
Aggrieved by the judgment of the High Court, the assessee with special leave granted by this court has preferred this appeal 6.	None
In this appeal before us, two main contentions have been urged on behalf of the appellant.	None
The first contention urged is that the High Court went wrong in holding that the father cannot effect any valid partial partition, between himself and his minor sons, of the joint family property belonging to an HUF consisting of himself, his wife and minor sons who are governed by the Mitakshara School of Hindu law.	None
The other contention raised is that the High Court erred in coming to the conclusion that in the facts and circumstances of this case, the partial partitions were invalid 7.	None
Mr. Desai, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, has advanced the following arguments 1.	Arguments of Petitioner
According to the Mitakshara school of Hindu law, the father has power to divide ancestral property among his sons and the partition made by him is binding on his sons provided that the power is exercised bona fide and in accordance with law, which regulates and restricts it in the interests of his sons.	Arguments of Petitioner
This power on the part of the father is recognised in text books on Hindu law and has been accepted in a number of decisions beginning with the case of Kandasami v. Doraisami Ayyar 1880 ILR 2 Mad 318 2.	Arguments of Petitioner
A father in any such case of ancestral property has the power to separate from all or from even some of his sons remaining joint with the other sons or leaving them to continue as a joint family with each other.	Arguments of Petitioner
The consent of the sons is not necessary for the exercise of that power whether they are majors or minors.	Arguments of Petitioner
In this connection reference is made to para.	Arguments of Petitioner
323 of Hindu law by D. F. Mulla and para.	Arguments of Petitioner
458 at p. 559 of Maynes Hindu Law (11 th Edn.).	Arguments of Petitioner
Para.	Arguments of Petitioner
323 of Mullas Hindu Law, 11 th Edn., at pp. 443 and 444, reads as follows The father of a joint family has the power to divide the family property at any moment during his life, provided he gives his sons equal shares with himself, and if he does so, the effect in law is not only separation of the father from the sons, but a separation of the sons inter se.	Arguments of Petitioner
The consent of the sons is not necessary for the exercise of that power.	Arguments of Petitioner
But a grandfather has no power to bring about a separation among the grandsons.	Arguments of Petitioner
The right of a father to sever the sons inter se is part of the patria potestas still recognised by the Hindu law.	Arguments of Petitioner
Para.	Arguments of Petitioner
458 of Maynes Hindu Law and Usage, 11th Edn., at pp.	Arguments of Petitioner
559 and 560, reads as follows Partition may be either total or partial.	None
A partition may be partial either as regards the persons making it or the property divided It is open to the members of a joint family to sever in interest in respect of a part of the joint estate while retaining their status of a joint family and holding the rest as the properties of an undivided family Any one coparcener may separate from the others, but no coparcener except the father or grandfather, can compel the others to become separate amongst themselves.	Arguments of Petitioner
A father may separate from all or from some of his sons, remaining joint with the other sons or leaving them to continue joint family with each other.	Arguments of Petitioner
A separation between coparceners, for instance, between two brothers, does neither necessarily nor even ordinarily involve a separation between either of the coparceners and his own sons.	Arguments of Petitioner
3.	None
So extensive and wide is this patriarchal power of the father that it has been recognised even in cases where all the sons were minors or an only son was a lunatic.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference is made to the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Bapu Hambira Patil v. Shankar Bhau Patil, AIR 1926	Arguments of Petitioner
Bom 160 , and to the decision of the Madras High Court in the case of Venkateswara Pattar v. K. Mankayammal, AIR 1935 Mad 775 4. Section 171 of the I.T. Act, 1961 and s. 25A of the earlier Act of 1922 have been all along accepted as machinery provisions and not charging sections.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the earlier Act, though there was no express reference to partial partitions, the preferable view expressed in decisions under that Act was that if there was a partial partition of an asset of the family or an asset of the family was divided and a partnership was constituted and the family continued joint as regards other properties, the assessment on the basis of an undivided Hindu family would be confined to the income of the properties so remaining undivided and the income of the property partitioned would be excluded from the computation of the income for assessment.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was only income received from the properties not partitioned, that would be considered to be the, income of the joint family.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reliance has been placed on the decision in the case of Charandas Haridas v. CIT (1960 39 ITR 202 5.	Arguments of Petitioner
This power of the father has been described as his superior power or peculiar power or patria potestas .	None
There is neither principle nor authority for the proposition that the exercise of this independent and extensive power of the father, even in the context of minor sons, could not take into its purview the lesser power to partition only some of the family properties without disrupting the status of the members of the joint family as regards other properties even when it is genuine exercise of the lesser power.	Arguments of Petitioner
At no time was there recognised any limitation or inhibition on the power of the father, though of course the partition effected by him had to be fair and equitable.	Arguments of Petitioner
There is no text of Hindulaw which prohibits partial partition whether as to person or as to property 6.	Arguments of Petitioner
The decision of the Privy Council in the case of Appovier v. Rama Subba Aiyan 1866 11 MIA 75, when it speaks of partial partition of the joint family by agreement of the coparcener, it cannot possibly be read as restricting the patriarchal and superior power of the father to effect division of the entire joint family properties and to exclude its operation in case of exercise of the lesser right of division of only some of the family properties.	Arguments of Petitioner
8.	None
Mr. Manchanda, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the department, has advanced the following arguments 1.	Arguments of Respondent
Under ancient Hindu law, partial partition was unknown.	Arguments of Respondent
Severance of status disrupted the family.	Arguments of Respondent
The joint family need not necessarily have any property.	Arguments of Respondent
If it has property, then its separation is only an incidence of the severance of status 2.	Arguments of Respondent
Partial partition is judgemade law and the earliest case where this was mooted was in 1846 in the case of Rewun Persad v. Mussumat Radha Beeby 1846 4 MIA 137 at p. 165.	Arguments of Respondent
This was followed in Appoviers case 1866 11 MIA 75, and then in certain decisions of Indian courts.	Arguments of Respondent
Reference is also made to para.	Arguments of Respondent
458 of Maynes Book on Hindu Law and Usage for contending that an agreement between the parties is sins qua non 3.	Arguments of Respondent
The powers of patria potestas are confined mainly to the power to sever the status of the joint family as a whole judgemade law which has recognised partial partition has attempted to extend the ancient, feudal archaic patriarchal powers of patria potestas to joint families so as to include the power of partial partition with the consent of the parties.	Arguments of Respondent
There could be no justification for now extending it, particularly as the Legislature itself, as per the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1980, w.e.f., April 1, 1980, has derecognised partial partition altogether.	Arguments of Respondent
Subsection (9) has been added to s. 171 of the Act and by this provision the partial partition of an HUF effected after December 31, 1978, will be derecognised for incometax purposes and this subsection has been incorporated with the object of curbing the creation of multiple HUF by making partial partitions.	Arguments of Respondent
Where an HUF is taxed, in the status of HUF it will continue to be taxed as such unless there has been a total partition of the family properties by metes and bounds and an order to that effect is recorded by the ITO 4.	Arguments of Respondent
The powers of patria potestas of a father have always been understood to be restricted and limited to a complete and whole partition.	Arguments of Respondent
This power can only be exercised with regard to the entire property, provided the property is divided equally and fairly by the father We may observe that in the course of the hearing, reference was made to a number of decisions of various courts by the learned counsel for the parties 9.	Arguments of Respondent
We shall now proceed to consider the decisions which appear to us to have a material bearing on the question involved in the appeal.	None
We shall first refer to the decision of this court in the case of Charandas Haridas 1960 39 ITR 202.	None
This decision which appears to have a clear bearing on the question and which considers an earlier decision of the Privy Council, does not appear to have been cited before the High Court.	None
The material facts of this case may be briefly noted Charandas Haridas was the karta of an HUF consisting of his wife, Shantaben, three sons and himself.	None
He was a partner in six managing agency firms in six mills.	None
In previous years the income received by him as partner in these managing agencies was being assessed as the income of the HUF.	None
On December 11, 1945, Charandas Haridas acting for his three minor sons and himself and Shantaben, his wife, entered into an oral agreement for partial partition.	None
By that agreement Charandas Haridas gave one pie share to his daughter, Pratibha, in the managing agency commission from two of the six managing agencies held by the family.	None
The balance together with the other shares in the other managing agencies was divided in five equal shares between Charandas Haridas, his wife and sons.	None
This agreement was to come into effect from 1st January, 1946, which was the beginning of a fresh accounting year.	None
On 11th September, 1946, Charandas Haridas, acting for himself and his minor sons an Shantaben, executed a memorandum of partial partition in which the above facts were recited, the document purporting to be record of what had taken place orally earlier.	None
In the assessment years 194748 and 194849, Charandas Haridas claimed that the income should no longer be treated as the income of the HUF but (should be treated) as the separate income of the divided members.	None
The ITO declined to treat the income as any but of the HUF, and assessed the income as before.	None
An appeal to the AAC was unsuccessful and the matter was taken to the Incometax Appellate Tribunal.	None
The Tribunal held that by the document in question, the division, if any, was of the income and not of the assets from which the income was derived inasmuch as the agreements of the managing agency with the managed companies did not undergo any change whatever as a result of the alleged partition .	None
The Tribunal, therefore, held that the arrangement to share the receipts from this source of income was not binding on the Department, if the assets themselves continued to remain joint.	None
It further held that the document was a farce , and did not save the family from assessment as HUF.	None
The following question as directed by the High Court on the application of Charandas Haridas was referred to the High Court (p. 205 of 39 ITR) Whether there were materials to justify the finding of the Tribunal that the income in the share of the commission agency of the mills was the income of the Hindu undivided family ?	Issue
10.	None
The High Court held that though the finding given by the Appellate Tribunal could not be construed as a finding that the document was not genuine, the method adopted by the family to partition the assets was insufficient to bring about the results intended by it.	None
According to the High Court the Tribunal was right in holding that the document was ineffective and though the income might have been purported to be divided and might, in fact, have been so divided, the source of income still remained undivided as belonging to the HUF.	None
The High Court accordingly answered the question in the affirmative holding that there were materials before the Tribunal to enable the Tribunal to Teach the conclusion that in so far as these incomebearing assets were concerned, they still belonged to the HUF.	None
The assessee, Charandas Haridas, filed an appeal in this court with special leave granted by this court.	None
This court allowed the appeal.	None
At p. 207, this court referred to the following observations of the Privy Council in Appovier v. Rama Subba Aiyan 1866 11 MIA 75 Nothing can express more definitely a conversion of the tenancy, and with that conversion a change of the status of the family quoad this property.	None
The produce is no longer to be brought to the common chest, as representing the income of an undivided property, but the proceeds are to be enjoyed in six distinct equal shares by the members of the family, who are thenceforth to become entitled to those definite shares.	None
Thereafter this court proceeded to hold at p. 208	None
In our opinion, here there are three different branches of law to notice.	None
There is the law of partnership, which takes no account of Hindu undivided family.	None
There is also the Hindu law which permits partition of the family and also a partial partition binding upon the family.	None
There is then the incometax law, under which a particular income may be treated as the income of the Hindu undivided family or as the income of the separated members enjoying separate shares by partition.	None
The fact of a partition in the Hindu law may have no effect upon the position of the partner, in so far as the law of partnership is concerned, but it has full effect upon the family in so far as the Hindu law is concerned just as the fact of a karta becoming a partner does not introduce the members of the undivided family into the partnership, the division of the family does not change the position of the partner visavis the other partner or partners.	None
The incometax law before the partition takes note, factually, of the position of the karta, and assesses not him qua partner but as representing the Hindu undivided family.	None
In doing so, the incometax law looks not to the provisions of the Partnership Act, but to the provisions of Hindu law.	None
When once the family has disrupted, the position under the partnership continues as before, but the position under the Hindu law changes.	None
There is then no Hindu undivided family as a unit of assessment in point of fact, and the income which accrues cannot be said to be of a Hindu undivided family.	None
There is nothing in the Indian incometax law or the law of partnership which prevents the members of a Hindu joint family from dividing any asset.	None
Such division must, of course, be effective so as to bind the members but Hindu law does not further require that the property must in every case be partitioned by metes and bounds, if separate enjoyment can otherwise be secured according to the shares of the members.	None
For an asset of this kind, there was no other mode of partition open to the parties if they wished to retain the property and yet hold it not jointly but in severalty, and the law does not contemplate that a person should do the impossible.	None
Indeed, the result would have been the same, even if the dividing members had said in so many words that they had partitioned the assets, because in so far as the firms were concerned, the step would have been wholly inconsequential.	None
This court further observed at p. 209	None
No doubt, there were many modes of partition which might have been adopted but the question remains that if the family desired to partition these assets only and no more, could they have acted in some other manner to achieve the same result ?	None
No answer to the question was attempted It is, therefore, manifest that the family took the fullest measure possible for dividing the joint interest into separate interests.	None
There is no suggestion here that this division was a mere pretence nor has the Appellate Tribunal given such a finding.	None
The document was fully effective between the members of the family, and there was actually no Hindu undivided family in respect of these particular assets.	None
11.	None
In the case of Kalloomal Tapeswari Prasad (HUF) v. CIT 1982 133 ITR 690 , this court observed at p. 702 Under the Hindu law partition may be either total or partial.	None
A partial partition may be as regards persons who are members of the family or as regards properties which belong to it.	None
Where there has been a partition, it is presumed that it was a total one both as to the parties and property but when there is a partition between brothers, there is no presumption that there has been partition between one of them and his descendants.	None
It is, however, open to a party who alleges that the partition has been partial either as to persons or as to property, to establish it.	None
The decision on that question depends on proof of what the parties intended whether they intended the partition to be partial either as to persons or as to properties or as to both.	None
When there is partial partition as to property, the family ceases to be undivided as regards properties in respect of which such partition has taken place but continues to be undivided with regard to the remaining family property.	None
After such partial partition the rights of inheritance and alienation differ according as the property in question belongs to the members in their divided or undivided capacity.	None
Partition can be brought about, (1) by a father during his lifetime between himself and his sons by dividing properties equally amongst them, (2) by agreement, or (3) by a suit or arbitration These two decisions of this court clearly state that partial partition under the Hindu law is permissible We may mention that in the case of Moti Lal Shyam Sunder v. CIT 1972 84 ITR 186 , a Division Bench of the Allahabad High Court also recognised the validity of a partial partition.	None
R. S. Pathak J. (as his Lordship then was), who spoke for the Bench, held for reasons stated in the judgment that the Tribunal was in error in holding that there was no valid partial partition in law on 1st July, 1961 It may be noted that in the case of Charandas Haridas 1960 39 ITR 202 , decided by this court and in the case of Moti Lal Shyam Sunder 1972 84 ITR 186 , decided by the Allahabad High Court, to which we have just referred, all the sons were minors We have earlier quoted the relevant passages on the subject from Mullas Hindu Law and from Maynes Hindu Law and Usage.	None
We may now quote the following observations appearing at p. 18 in Mitakshara and DayabhagaTwo Treatises on the Hindu Law of Inheritance, translated by H. T. Colebrooke, Esq., in Chap.	None
I, Sec. 11(2) When a father wishes to make a partition, he may at his pleasure separate his children from himself, whether one, two or more sons 12.	None
In History of Dharmashastra by Shri P. V. Kane, 2nd Edn., 1973, Vol. III, at p. 592, it has been stated The manager is called karta in modern times though the smritis and digests employ words like Kutumbin (Yaj II., 45), Grhin, Grhapali, Prabhu (Kat., 543) and not karta.	None
He has special powers of disposition (by mortgage, sale or gift) of family property in a season of distress (for debts), for the purposes and benefit of the family (maintenance, education and marriages of members and other dependents) and particularly for religious purposes (Sraddhas and the like).	None
The father has the same powers as manager and certain other special powers, which no other coparcener has.	None
The father can separate his sons from himself and also among themselves if he so desires, even if they do not desire to separate (Yaj. II., 114).	None
There are observations more or less to the similar effect in the other commentaries on Hindu law by other learned authors.	None
We do not, therefore, consider it necessary to refer to the comments of the other learned authors placed before us in the course of hearing of the appeal 13.	None
The various commentaries on the Hindu law by the various learned authors go to indicate that ancient Hindu Law speaks of complete severance of joint family and partition of joint family properties and does not mention partial partition either with regard to the joint family properties or with regard to some of the members of the joint family.	None
The right of the father to bring about the disruption of the joint family properties in exercise of his superior right as father or of his rights as patria potestas is recognised in ancient Hindu Law 14.	None
It is, however, well settled by judicial decisions that the partial partition of a joint Hindu family qua some joint family properties or qua some members of the joint family is permissible and valid in law.	None
The High Court appears to have accepted this position but the High Court then proceeds to hold that the proposition laid down by judicial decisions with regard to partial partition will apply only when partial partition is effected with the consent of the members of the joint family and cannot be extended to a case where partial partition is sought to be brought about by the father in exercise of his superior rights as father or his right as patria potestas.	None
On an anxious and careful consideration of the matter we are unable to agree with the view expressed by the High Court 15.	None
If the father in exercise of his superior right or of his right as, patria potestas is entitled to bring about a complete disruption of the joint family and to effect a complete partition of joint family properties of a Hindu joint family consisting of himself and his minor sons even against the wishes of the minors and if a partial partition be permissible with the consent of sons when they have all become major, we see no reason to limit the power or authority of the father to effect the partition only to case where the partition is total.	Facts
The superior right or the right Of patria potestas which a father enjoys is always expected to be exercised in the best interest of the members of the family and more particularly of his minor sons.	None
The father, undoubtedly, enjoys the right to bring about complete disruption of the joint family consisting of himself and his minor sons and to effect a complete partition of the joint family properties even against the will of the minor sons.	None
It is also now recognised that a partial partition of joint family properties is permissible.	None
When a father can bring about a complete partition of the joint family properties between himself and his minor sons even against the will of the minor sons and when partial partition under the Hindu law is now accepted and recognised as valid by judicial decisions, we fail to appreciate on what logical grounds it can be said that the father who can bring about a complete partition of the joint family properties between himself and his minor sons will not be entitled to effect a partial partition of the joint family properties between himself and his minor sons, if the father in the interest of the joint family and its members feels that a partial partition of the proper ties Will be in the best interest of the joint family and its members including the minor sons.	Facts
Even if the test of consent is to apply, the father as the natural guardian of the minor sons will normally be in a position to give such consent and it cannot be said as a matter of universal application that in all such cases of partition, partial or otherwise, there is bound to be a conflict of interest between the father and his sons.	None
If the father does not act bona fide in the matter when he effects a partition of the joint family properties between himself and his minor sons, whether wholly or partially, the sons on attaining majority may challenge the partition and ask for appropriate reliefs including a proper partition.	Reasoning
In appropriate cases, even during minority, the minor sons through a proper guardian may impeach the validity of the partition brought about by the father, either in entirety of the joint family properties, or only in respect of a part thereof, if the partition had been effected by the father to the detriment of the minor sons and to the prejudice of their interestsWe may point out that in the case of Charandas Haridas 1960 39 ITR 202 (SC), to which we have earlier referred, and in which this court recognised the validity of partial partition brought about by the father of some joint family properties, the sons were all minors.	None
Also in the case of Moti Lal Shyam Sunder 1972 84 ITR 186 , earlier quoted, where the Allahabad High Court recognised the validity of a partial partition brought about by the father between himself and his sons, all the sons were minors The decision of this court in the case of Charandas Haridas 1960 39 ITR 202 and the observations of this court in the case of Kalloomal Tapeswari Prasad 1982 133 ITR 690 , which we have earlier quoted, in our opinion, clinch the decision of the question 16.	None
We must, therefore, hold that a partial partition of properties brought about by the father between himself and his minor sons cannot be said to be invalid under the Hindu law and must be held to be valid and binding.	None
We wish to make it clear that this right of the father to effect a partial partition of joint family properties between himself and his minor sons, whether in exercise of his superior right as father or in exercise of the right as patria potestas has necessarily to be exercised bona fide by the father and is subject to the right of the sons to challenge the partition if the partition is not fair and just Section 171 of the I.T. Act, 1961, provides as follows (1) A Hindu family hitherto assessed as undivided shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act to continue to be a Hindu undivided family, except where and in so far as a finding of partition has been given under this section in respect of the Hindu undivided family (2) Where, at the time of making an assessment under section 143 or section 144, it is claimed by or on behalf of any member of a Hindu family assessed as undivided that a partition, whether total or partial, has taken place among the members of such family, the Incometax Officer shall make an inquiry thereinto after giving notice of the inquiry to all the members of the family (3) On the completion of the inquiry, the Incometax Officer shall record a finding as to whether there has been a total or partial partition of the joint family property, and, if there has been such a partition, the date on which it has taken place (4) Where a finding of total or partial partition has been recorded by the Incometax Officer under this section, and the partition took place during the previous year (a) the total income of the joint family in respect of the period up to the date of partition shall be assessed as if no partition had taken place and (b) each member or group of members shall, in addition to any tax for which he or it may be separately liable and notwithstanding anything contained in clause (2) of section 10, be jointly and severally liable for the tax on the income so assessed (5) Where a finding of total or partial partition has been recorded by the Incometax Officer under this section, and the partition took place after the expiry of the previous year, the total income of the previous year of the joint family shall be assessed as if no partition had taken place and the provisions of clause (b) of subsection (4) shall, so far as may be, apply to the case (6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the Incometax Officer finds, after completion of the assessment of a Hindu undivided family that the family has already effected a partition, whether total or partial, the Incometax Officer shall proceed to recover the tax from every person who was a member of the family before the partition, and every such person shall be jointly and severally liable for the tax on the income so assessed (7) For the purposes of this section, the several liability of any member or group of members thereunder shall be computed according to the portion of the joint family property allotted to him or it at the partition whether total or partial (8) The provisions of this section shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the levy and collection of any penalty, interest, fine or other sum in respect of any period up to the date of the partition, whether total or partial of a Hindu undivided family as they apply in relation to the levy and collection of tax in respect of any such period Explanation.	None
In this section (a) partition means (i) where the property admits of a physical division, a physical division of the property, but a physical division of the income without physical division of the Property producing the income shall not be deemed to be a partition or (ii) where the property does not admit of a physical division then such division as the property admits of, but a mere severance of status shall not be deemed to be a partition (b) partial partition means a partition which is partial as regards the persons constituting the Hindu undivided family, or the properties belonging to the Hindu undivided family, or both It may be noted that the following further provision was included in the said section as subs.	Arguments of Petitioner
(9) by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 1980, w.e.f. 1st April, 1980 (9) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this section, where a partial partition has taken place after the 31st day of December, 1978, among the members of a Hindu undivided family hitherto assessed as undivided (a) no claim that such partial partition has taken place shall be inquired into under subsection (2) and no finding shall be recorded under subsection (3) that such partial partition had taken place and any finding recorded under subsection (3) to that effect whether before or after the 18th day of June, 1980, being the date of introduction of the Finance (No. 2) Bill, 1980, shall be null and void (b) such family shall continue to be liable to be assessed under this Act as if no such partial partition had taken place (c) each member or group of members of such family immediately before such partial partition and the family shall be jointly and severally liable for any tax, penalty, interest, fine or other sum payable under this Act by the family in respect of any period whether before or after such partial partition (d) the several liability of any member or group of members aforesaid shall be computed according to the portion of the joint family property allotted to him or it at such partial partition and the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.	None
This subs.	None
(9) was not in existence at the relevant time and has no retrospective operation and it is of no material consequence in deciding the present case The aforesaid provisions of the I.T. Act, as they stood at the material time, clearly recognise partial partition.	None
The definition of partial partition in Expln.	None
(b) makes it clear that partial partition as regards the persons constituting the HUF or as regards properties belonging to the HUF, or both, is recognised 17.	None
In the present case, the partial partition of the shares belonging to the HUF cannot, therefore, be said to be bad either under the Hindu law or under the Indian I.T. Act.	None
We must, therefore, hold that the High Court went wrong in deciding that partial partition of the joint family properties of the Hindu joint family by the father was, invalid and could not be recognised under the I.T. Act.	None
The subsequent amendment of s. 171 by the inclusion of subs.	None
(9) does not require any consideration as the said subsection was not in existence in the relevant assessment year and is only operative from 1st April, 1980.	None
18.	None
The other question which falls for determination is whether the partition can be said to be bad as at the time of the partition there was no equal division of the shares by the father amongst himself and his minor sons and a part of the shareholding had not been distributed to the father or to the father and mother jointly.	Issue
We may point out that the AAC has found that at the time of division of the shares, the shares had been distributed equally taking into consideration the shares which had earlier been distributed amongst the parties.	Reasoning
In our opinion, a partial partition of any joint family property by the father between himself and his sons does not become invalid on the ground that there has been no equal distribution amongst the cosharers.	Reasoning
It is expected that the father who seeks to bring about a partial partition of joint family properties will Act bona fide in the interest of the joint family and its members, bearing in mind, in particular, the interests of the minor sons.	Reasoning
If, however, any such partial partition causes any prejudice to any of the minor sons and if any minor son feels aggrieved by any such partial partition, he can always challenge the validity of such partial partition in an appropriate proceeding and the validity of such partial partition will necessarily have to be adjudicated upon in the proceeding on a proper consideration of all the facts and circumstances of the case.	Reasoning
Till such partial partition has been held to be invalid by any competent court, the partial partition must be held to be valid.	Reasoning
It is not open to the I.T. authorities to consider a partial partition to be invalid on the ground that shares have not been equally divided and to refuse to recognise the same.	Reasoning
It is undoubtedly open to the ITO before recognising the partition to come to a conclusion on proper enquiry whether the partition is genuine or not.	Reasoning
If the ITO on enquiry comes to a finding that the partition is sham or fictitious, he will be perfectly within his right to refuse to recognise the same.	Reasoning
In the instant case, there is no finding that the partial partition is sham or fictitious or that the partial partition is not a genuine one and has not been acted upon.	Reasoning
As there is no finding that the partial partition is sham or fictitious or not a genuine one, on enquiries made by the ITO, and as the partial partition is otherwise valid under the Hindu Law, the partial partition has necessarily to be recognised under the provisions of s. 171 of the I.T. Act and the assessment must be necessarily made on the basis that there is partial partition of the said sharesIn the result, the appeal succeeds.	Reasoning
The judgment and order of the High Court are hereby set aside.	Decision
The partial partition is held to be valid and the ITO is directed to recognise the same and to proceed to make the assessment on the basis that there has been a partial partition of the said shares between the parties.	Decision
In the facts and circumstances of this case, we do not propose to make any order as to costs.	Decision
19.	None
Appeal allowed.	None
