 Bhagwati, J.1.	None
These 3 appeals with certificate under article 132(1) of the Constitution involve the interpretation of the proviso to article 286(2) and raise a common question as to whether that proviso also saves the transactions of sale or purchase covered by the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) from the ban imposed therein.2.	Issue
The Appellants in Civil Appeal No. 132 of 1955 are Messrs. Ramnarain Sons Ltd., a firm registered as a dealer under the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, and carrying on business at Amravati and at other places in Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
After the Cotton Control Order, 1949, came into force on the 12th September 1949, the Appellants entered into agreements with several mills situated outside Madhya Pradesh by which they undertook to purchase kapas in the various markets in Madhya Pradesh as their agents on their account and on their behalf.	Facts
The kapas after purchase was to be ginned and pressed into bales and sent to the mills.	Facts
All the expenses involved in the process were to be borne by the mills which were also to be credited with the sale proceeds of the cotton seeds and the Appellants were only entitled to commission on a percentage basis.	Facts
The Appellants worked as such agents for the period 1st October, 1949, to 30th September, 1950.	Facts
By his order dated the 30th June, 1953 the Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax, Amravati Respondent No. 1, included the transactions valued at Rs. 72, 86, 454510 with the said mills in the Appellants turnover and ordered the Appellants to pay Rs. 1, 13, 850136 as sales tax on the said transactions.	Facts
The Appellants filed an appeal to the Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 2 on the 30th July, 1953.	Facts
The appeal was, however, entertained by the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 3, who ordered the Appellants to pay Rs. 25, 000/ by the 31st August, 1953.	Facts
The Appellants thereupon filed a petition under Article 226, being Misc.	Facts
Petition No. 265 of 1953, in the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur, asking inter alia for the quashing of the order of 30th June, 1953, passed by Respondent No. 1 and for consequential reliefs.	Facts
The Respondents filed a return denying the contentions of the Appellants and praying for the dismissal of the petition with costs.	Facts
The appellants in Civil Appeal No. 133 of 1955 are the Eastern Cotton Company, a firm registered as a dealer under the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, and carrying on business at Amravati and at other places in Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
They also, during the period 1st October, 1949 to 30th September, 1950, worked as agents of certain mills situated outside Madhya Pradesh, procured kapas for them in Madhya Pradesh and sent it to the mills for consumption outside the State.	Facts
By his order dated the 9th September, 1953, the Respondent No. 1 included the transactions valued at Rs. 33, 47, 40556 with the said mills in the Appellants turnover and ordered the Appellants to pay Rs. 52, 30340 as tax on the said transactions.	Facts
These Appellants also filed a petition under article 226, being Misc.	Facts
Petition No. 348 of 1953, in the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur for quashing the order dated the 9th September, 1953 passed by Respondent No. 1 and for consequential reliefs.	Facts
The Respondents filed a return denying their contentions.3.	Facts
The Appellants in Civil Appeal No. 137 of 1955 are the firm, Ramdas Khimji Brothers, Bombay, registered as a dealer under the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, and carrying on business as cotton dealers in Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
During the period 1st October, 1950 to 30th September, 1951, the Appellants sold cotton worth Rs. 6, 01, 94919 to various persons outside Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The Cotton was delivered to the buyers for consumption outside Madhya Pradesh as a direct result of such sales.	Facts
By his order dated the 29th December, 1952, the Sales Tax Officer, Amravati, in the assessment of the Appellants for the same period, included the said transactions in the Appellants turnover and assessed sales tax thereon.	Facts
The Appellants filed an appeal to Respondent No. 1 but the same was dismissed by an order dated the 10th July, 1953.	Facts
The Appellants filed on 22nd August, 1953, a revision before the Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The Appellants also filed a petition under Article 226, being Misc.	Facts
Petition No. 274 of 1953, in the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur, asking for a writ of certiorari quashing the order of Respondent No. 1 passed by him in Sales Tax Appeal No. 13A dated the 10th July, 1953, and for consequential reliefs.	Facts
The Respondents filed a return denying the contentions of the Appellants and asking that the petition be dismissed with costs.	Facts
These petitions came up for hearing and final disposal before the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur along with Misc.	Facts
Petitions No. 288 of 1953 and No. 132 of 1954.	Facts
A considered judgment was delivered in Miscellaneous Petition No. 132 of 1954 and the reasoning contained therein governed the decision in the connected Petitions Nos. 265, 274 and 348 of 1953.	Facts
The High Court held that the Explanation II to section 2(g) of the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947, as amended by the Central Provinces and Berar Act XVI of 1949 having been declared invalid from its inception by the High Court in Messrs. Shriram Gulabdas v. Board of Revenue (I.L.R. 1953	Facts
Nagpur 332) and by this Court in 1954 S.C.R. 1122, the original Explanation remained in force until the 1st April, 1951, when it was amended by the Madhya Pradesh Act IV of 1951.	Facts
Explanation II originally enacted was in the terms following Notwithstanding anything of the contrary in the Indian Sale of Goods Act, 1930, the sale of any goods which are actually in the Central Provinces and Berar at the time when the contract of sale as defined in that Act in respect thereof is made, shall wherever the said contract of sale is made, be deemed for the purpose of this Act to have taken place in the Central Provinces and Berar.4.	Facts
The Appellants contended that this Explanation offended article 286(1)(a) read with the Explanation to the same and the State of Madhya Pradesh was, therefore, not entitled to tax the transactions of sale in which goods had actually been delivered as a direct result of such sale for the purpose of consumption outside Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
The Respondents, on the other hand, contended that the said Explanation was protected until the 31st March, 1951, by the Sales Tax Continuation Order No. 7 of 1950 issued by the President on the 26th January, 1950, under the proviso to article 286(2).The High Court was of the opinion that the original Explanation was validly enacted as the assent of the GovernorGeneral to the enactment was given on the 23rd May, 1947, and that under that Explanation the tax prior to the commencement of the Constitution was lawfully levied on the sales of goods wherever the contracts of sale took place if the goods were actually in the State at the time the contracts of sale were made.	Facts
This power could be exercised by the State even if the sales took place during the course of interState trade or commerce and the goods were delivered as a direct result of the sales for the purpose of consumption outside the State.	Facts
This was because the situs of the goods constituted a sufficient nexus between the transactions and the taxing State which was the foundation for taxation prior to the commencement of the Constitution.	Facts
This position continued until the commencement of the Constitution and on the 26th January, 1950, the President issued the Sales Tax Continuation Order No. 7 of 1950 in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 286(2).	Facts
The sales in question had taken place in the course of interState trade or commerce and accordingly they were covered by article 286(2) and would, therefore, be liable to tax even after the commencement of the Constitution by virtue of the Presidents order.	Facts
Reliance was further placed on the majority judgment of this Court in The State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd. (1953 S.C.R. 1069) where it was held that the transaction visavis the delivery State lost its interState character if it fell within the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) and was accordingly made liable to taxation by the delivery State.	Facts
So far, however, as the exporting State was concerned, it retained its character of an interState transaction and would not, therefore, be liable to taxation by that State, vide article 286(2).	Facts
The Presidents order, however, removed this ban and the exporting State was entitled to tax the transaction by virtue of the power derived by it from the same.	Facts
On a construction of the relevant provisions of article 286(1) and article 286(2) the High Court was of the opinion that it would be making the proviso to article 286(2) nugatory if it was held that article 286(1) overrides it and takes away the taxing power of all States in interState trade or commerce except the delivery State.	Facts
The High Court accordingly dismissed the petitions with costs.	Facts
The learned AttorneyGeneral appearing for the Appellants before us contended that so far as the postConstitution period is concerned, the position is governed by our judgment in The Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. The State of Bihar delivered on the 6th September, 1955.	None
He urged that the bans imposed on the powers of the State Legislatures to levy taxes on the sale or purchase of goods in the several clauses of article 286 are independent and separate and that the transactions of sale or purchase referred to in the various clauses must be looked at from different view points.	Arguments of Petitioner
Even if a transaction might fall within the category of interState sale or purchase and the Presidents order under the proviso to article 286(2) might enable the State to levy any tax on such sale or purchase which was being lawfully levied by the State immediately before the commencement of the Constitution, such transaction had also to surmount the ban imposed under article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto so that, if, as a direct result of such sale, the goods were actually delivered for the purpose of consumption in another State, the exporting State (to use the phraseology of the Nagpur High Court) or the titleState (to use the phraseology adopted in some of the judgments in The Bengal Immunity Co.s	Arguments of Petitioner
Appeal) would not be entitled to levy a tax on such sale the transaction being fictionally outside the State by reason of the Explanation and therefore coming within the ban of article 286(1)(a).5.	None
It was, however, urged on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh that the Presidents order not only saved the transactions from the ban of article 286(2) but also from the ban of article 286(1)(a), because the transactions covered by the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) were of the same category as transaction covered by article 286(2) and were all in the course of interState trade or commerce.	Arguments of Respondent
It was further urged that if the transactions covered by the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) were not saved from the ban by the Presidents order, the whole intention of the Constitutionmakers in maintaining the status quo qua the taxes on sales or purchases of goods which were being lawfully levied by the State immediately before the commencement of the Constitution would be frustrated, because the transactions covered by the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) being necessarily in the course of interState trade or commerce the Presidents order would be rendered nugatory and the exporting State or the title State would be restrained from levying tax on such transactions in spite of the ban having been lifted by the Presidents order.	Arguments of Respondent
We are unable to accept this contention.	Reasoning
As held by the majority Judges in The Bengal Immunity Co.s	Reasoning
Appeal, the bans imposed by article 286 on the taxing powers of the States are independent and separate and each one of them has to be got over before a State Legislature can impose tax on transactions of sale or purchase of goods.	Reasoning
These bans have been imposed from different viewpoints, and, even though the transactions of sale or purchase may in conceivable cases overlap as far as these different view points are concerned, each of those bans is operative and has to be enforced.	Reasoning
So far as article 286(1)(a) is concerned, the Explanation determines by the legal fiction created therein the situs of the sale in the case of transactions coming within that category and when a transaction is thus determined to be inside a particular State it necessarily becomes a transaction outside all other States.	Reasoning
The only relevant enquiry for the purposes of article 286(1)(a), therefore, is whether a transaction is outside the state and once it is determined by the application of the Explanation that it is outside the State it follows as a matter of course that the State with reference to which the transaction can thus be predicated to be outside it can never tax the transaction.	None
This ban is effective independently of the fact that the transaction may also have taken place in the course of interState trade or commerce or with reference to goods as have been declared by Parliament by law to be essential for the life of the community.	None
The ban imposed under article 286(2) is an independent and separate one and looks at the transactions entirely from the point of view of their having taken place in the course of interState trade or commerce.	None
Even if such transactions may also fall within the category of transactions covered by article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto or article 286(3), the moment article 286(2) is attracted by reason of the transactions being in the course of interState trade or commerce, the ban under article 286(2) operates and such transactions can never be subject to tax at the instance of a State Legislature except in so far as Parliament by law may otherwise provide or such power of taxation is saved by the Presidents order contemplated in the proviso.	Reasoning
The ban under article 286(2) may be saved by the Presidents order but that does not affect or lift the ban under article 286(1)(a) read with the Explanation.	Reasoning
Apart from the construction thus put upon the several clauses of article 286 by the majority of the Judges in The Bengal Immunity Co.s	Reasoning
Appeal as above, the terms of the Proviso itself make it abundantly clear that the proviso is meant only to lift the ban under article 286(2) and no other.	Reasoning
It is a cardinal rule of interpretation that a proviso to a particular provision of a statute only embraces the field which is covered by the main provision.	Reasoning
It carves out an exception to the main provision to which it has been enacted as a proviso and to no other.	Reasoning
Even if the nonobstante clause Notwithstanding that the imposition of such tax is contrary to the provisions of this clause had not been enacted in the proviso, the proviso could only have been construed as operating upon the field enacted in article 286(2) and could not be extended to any of the other provisions of article 286.	Reasoning
The nonobstante clause, however, makes it abundantly and further clear and states in explicit terms that it is enacted only with reference to this clause, i.e., article 286(2).	Reasoning
The Presidents order may direct that any tax on the sale or purchase of goods which was being lawfully levied by the Government of any State immediately before the commencement of the Constitution was to continue to be levied until 31st March, 1951, but the effect of that order was to raise the ban in so far as it was imposed by the provisions of this clause.	Reasoning
The Presidents order, therefore, only lifted the ban in so far as the transactions took place in the course of interState trade or commerce and could not be projected into the sphere of any other clause of article 286.	Reasoning
It had, therefore, not the effect of lifting the ban which was imposed by article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto, even though the transactions covered by the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) by and large fell within the category of transactions which took place in the course of interState trade or commerce.	Reasoning
The ban imposed by article 286(1)(a) was independent and separate and could not be lifted by the Presidents order which had operation only in regard to the interState character of the transactions.	Reasoning
The moment it was determined that the transactions were outside the State by virtue of the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) the ban imposed by article 286(1)(a) attached to the same and could not be lifted by the Presidents order which operated only on the interState character of the transactions and saved only those interState transactions which did not come within the Explanation.	Reasoning
If the contention urged on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh is accepted it would mean that we should rewrite or amend the proviso to article 286(2) in order to effectuate the supposed intention of the Constitutionmakers.	None
The supposed intention of the Constitutionmakers was alleged to be to preserve to the State all the taxes on sale or purchase of goods which were being lawfully levied by them immediately before the commencement of the Constitution by having resort to the territorial connection or nexus theory.	None
We have no evidence before us of this supposed intention of the Constitutionmakers.	None
Whatever their intention was can only be gathered from the language which they have used and where the language is plain there is no scope whatever for speculation in that behalf.	Reasoning
When the Constitutionmakers themselves used the words Notwithstanding that the imposition of such a tax is contrary to the provisions of this clause it would not be legitimate for us to go behind the plain words and try to read into the proviso something which would involve either a deletion of the nonobstante clause or a rewriting thereof as suggested.	Reasoning
Whatever be the effect of our judgment on the treasuries of the exporting or titleState we cannot assist them by reading something into the proviso which is not warranted by any canon of construction.	Reasoning
The proviso has reference only to article 286(2) and cannot be projected into any other clause of article 286.6.	None
The untenability of the contentions of the Respondents will be clear from the following illustration Suppose the goods are in the State of Madhya Pradesh at the time the contracts of sale of those goods are made in, say, the State of Bombay.	None
Suppose further that the property in the goods has by reason of such sales passed in the State of Bombay but the goods as a direct result of such sales have been delivered for consumption in the State of Madras.	None
According to the Respondents, the Presidents order made under the proviso to article 286(2) saves the transactions from the ban of article 286(1)(a) read with the Explanation.	None
Then the State of Madras will be able to tax by virtue of article 286(1)(a) read with the Explanation or on the nexus theory by reason of the goods being delivered there for consumption the State of Bombay will be able to tax because the title to the goods passed there and the State of Madhya Pradesh will also be able to tax under the Explanation II to section 2(g) of the Act because the goods were in the State of Madhya Pradesh at the time when the contracts of sale were made in the State of Bombay.	None
Nobody will say that the Constitution  makers intended to perpetuate multiple taxation of this kind and yet that will be the result if we were to accede to the arguments advanced by the Respondents.	None
The result, therefore, is that so far as the postConstitution period is concerned the ban which is imposed by article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto cannot be removed by the Presidents order which was issued under the proviso to article 286(2) and the High Court was in error when it construed the proviso to article 286(2) as projecting into the field of article 286(1)(a) and lifting the ban imposed therein.	Reasoning
On the above reasoning, Civil Appeal No. 137 of 1955 filed by the firm of Ramdas Khimji Brothers, Bombay, which relates only to the postConstitution period will be allowed and the order of assessment dated the 29th December 1952, will be set aside.	Decision
The Respondents will pay the costs of the Appellants here as well as in the Court below.	Decision
As regards Civil Appeals Nos. 132 of 1955 and 133 of 1955, however, the assessments therein relate not only to the postConstitution period but also the preConstitution period to which different considerations would apply.	None
The validity of the assessment in regard to the same would have to be canvassed having regard to the various contentions of law and fact which could be urged against the same by the Appellants.	None
There are two outstanding question which have been mooted before us by the learned AttorneyGeneral in regard to this period, viz., (1) a question of fact, as to whether the Appellants were agents of the various mills in regard to the transactions which were the subjectmatter of the assessment, and (2) a question of law, whether the law under which the tax was levied viz., Explanation II to section 2(g) of the act was validly enacted.	None
Both these contentions, though they are also relevant to the postConstitution period were not specifically pressed before us because the argument based on the proviso to article 286(2) was considered sufficient to set aside the assessment for that period.	None
They would, however, appropriately arise and be urged by the appellants when the liability to assessment for the preConstitution period is to be determined and if we were to determine that liability we would have to deal with the same.	Reasoning
The necessity for doing so is, however, obviated by reason of the fact that the assessment is one composite whole relating to the preConstitution as well as the postConstitution periods and is invalid in toto.	None
There is authority for the proposition that when an assessment consists of a single undivided sum in respect of the totality of the property treated as assessable, the wrongful inclusion in it of certain items of property which by virtue of a provision of law were expressly exempted from taxation renders the assessment invalid in toto.	None
The Privy Council have observed in Bennett White (Calgary) Ltd. And Municipal District of Sugar City No. 5 (1951 Appeal Cases, 786 at page 816) When an assessment is not for an entire sum, but for separate sums, dissected and earmarked each of them to a separate assessable item, a court can sever the items and cut out one or more along with the sum attributed to it, while affirming the residue.	None
But where the assessment consists of a single undivided sum in respect of the totality of property treated as assessable, and when one component (not dismissible as de minimis) is on any view not assessable and wrongly included, it would seem clear that such a procedure is barred, and the assessment is bad wholly.	None
That matter is covered by authority.	None
In Montreal Light, Heat Power Consolidated v. City of Westmount ((1926) S.C.R. (Can.) 515) the Court (see especially per Anglin, C.J.) in these conditions held that an assessment which was bad in part was infected throughout, and treated it as invalid.	None
Here their Lordships are of opinion, by parity of reasoning, that the assessment was invalid in toto.7.	None
It was, therefore, urged that on the facts of this case the assessment was invalid in toto and that it should be set aside.	None
The learned Deputy AdvocateGeneral of Madhya Pradesh did not seriously contest this position and the result, therefore, is that the order of assessment dated the 30th June, 1953, in Civil Appeal No. 132 of 1955 and the order of assessment dated the 9th September, 1953, in Civil Appeal No. 133 of 1955 are liable to be set aside.	None
The appeals will therefore be allowed, the orders of assessment will be set aside and the matters will go back to the Assessment Officer for reassessment of the Appellants in accordance with law.	None
The Appellants will be at liberty to urge before the Assessment Officer the contentions of law and fact available to them in the fresh assessment proceedings including those adverted to above.	Decision
The Respondents will pay the costs of these Appellants here as well as in the Court below.	Decision
Petition No. 567 of 1954.BHAGWATI J. 8.	None
This petition under article 32 of the Constitution also involves the interpretation of the proviso to article 286(2) and raises the same question as to the meaning, scope and operation of the proviso as was raised in the Civil Appeals Nos. 132, 133 and 137 of 1955 just disposed of.9.	Issue
The facts giving rise to this Petition may be shortly stated.	Facts
The petitioners are a partnerships firm carrying on business of manufacturing bidis at Jabalpur and registered as a dealer under the Central Provinces and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947.	Facts
The petitioners had their branches at Lucknow, Kanpur, Faizabad, Agra, Bombay and Bhopal.	Facts
They had also their selling agents at various places in Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere outside the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Facts
They also entered into transactions direct with merchants in Uttar Pradesh.	Facts
The transactions in question which were the subjectmatter of assessment at the instance of the Sales Tax authorities were for the period of assessment 21st October, 1949 to 9th November, 1950, and spread over two periods, viz., (1) the period between 21st October, 1949, to 25th January, 1950, which may be called the preConstitution period, and (2) the period subsequent to the inauguration of the Constitution on the 26th January, 1950, up to the 9th November, 1950, which may be called the postConstitution period.	Facts
The petitioners gross turnover was determined to be Rs. 49, 40, 14069 and the amount of Sales Tax assessed on the transactions was Rs. 1, 51, 291130  as per the order of the Deputy Commissioner, Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 3, dated the 14th July, 1954, in Sales Tax Appeal No. 6/A1.6.54.	None
The petitioners preferred a second appeal to the Respondent No. 2 against the said order.	None
The Respondent No. 2, however, refused to admit or register the appeal unless the amount of tax assessed was paid up.	Facts
The petitioners paid about Rs. 91, 000/ towards the amount of tax assessed but finding it difficult to pay the balance filed this Petition against the State of Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 1, the Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 2, and the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 3, for a writ of certiorari quashing the said order dated the 14th July, 1954, made by Respondent No. 3 and for consequential reliefs.	Facts
The Respondents filed a return denying the contentions of the petitioners and maintaining that the Sales tax was lawfully assessed by them against the petitioners.	Facts
The position as regards the petitioners turnover for the period of assessment was as stated below Nature of the Parties.	None
Sales Prices of goods.	Facts
Rs.(a)	Facts
Direct to selling agents on orders 6, 15, 23630(b)	None
Direct to merchants on orders.	None
3, 99, 45020(c)	None
Direct to destinations other thanbranches or depots but accountedfor against branches and depots.	None
6, 20, 996140(d)	None
Direct to Stations or destinationshaving branches or depots owned bythe proprietors of this registeredfirm  Kanpur, Bombay, Lucknow andFaizabad 31, 06, 739130The Sales Tax authorities treated all these transactions as transactions of sale coming within the definition contained in Explanation II to section 2(g) of the Act and assessed the petitioners to sales tax in respect of the same, negativing the contentions of the petitioners that they were in any event sales effected by them outside the State of Madhya Pradesh and that the State of Madhya Pradesh was, therefore, not entitled to impose a tax on those transactions by virtue of the provisions of article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto.10.	Facts
The learned AttorneyGeneral who appeared for the petitioners contended that the bidis manufactured by the petitioners were all actually delivered as a direct result of the transaction of sale for the purpose of consumption in the State of Uttar Pradesh and that after the inauguration of the Constitution on the 26th January, 1950, it was only the State of Uttar Pradesh which was the delivery State that alone had the right to impose the tax on these transactions notwithstanding the fact that under the general law relating to the sale of goods the property in the goods might have passed in the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Arguments of Petitioner
He, therefore, urged that these transactions were sales outside the State of Madhya Pradesh and that the State of Madhya Pradesh was not entitled to impose a tax on such sales.	None
The learned AdvocateGeneral of Madhya Pradesh on the other hand contended that these were purely intraState transactions entered into by the petitioners within the State of Madhya Pradesh and that the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) did not come into play at all because the goods were not actually delivered as a direct result of such sales for the purpose of consumption in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	None
He, therefore, maintained that even for the postConstitution period there was no ban on the State of Madhya Pradesh imposing the sales tax on what were purely inside sales.11.	None
It is necessary in view of these rival contentions to ascertain the true nature of the transactions in question.	None
In paragraph 15 of the Petition, the petitioners had averred that the bidis manufactured by the firm were all delivered in the State of Uttar Pradesh for consumption in that State and that after the 26th January, 1950, the delivery State, viz., the State of Uttar Pradesh, had alone the right to impose tax on the sales of the commodity.	Arguments of Petitioner
They had further submitted that the State of Madhya Pradesh where the bidis were manufactured and from where they were sent could not any more exercise its right to levy a tax on such transactions of sale taking place elsewhere by reason of the inhibition contained in article 286.	Arguments of Petitioner
In the return filed by the Respondents, they did not deny the allegation made by the petitioners in their Petition that the bidis manufactured by the firm were all delivered in the State of Uttar Pradesh for consumption in that State.	None
In substance, they contended that in spite of the State of Uttar Pradesh being the delivery State within the meaning of the Explanation to article 286(1)(a), the liability of these transactions to sales tax at the instance of the State of Madhya Pradesh was saved by the Presidents order made under the proviso to article 286(2) and that the imposition of such tax at the instance of the State of Madhya Pradesh was lawful and did not contravene the provisions of article 286(1)(a) read with the Explanation thereto.	Arguments of Respondent
Both the order which was made by the Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax, Jabalpur, in the original assessment case No. 16 of 195051, dated the 7th August, 1953, and the order which was made in Sales Tax Appeal No. 6/A1.6.54 by the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 3, dated the 14th July, 1954, proceeded on the basis that even though the transactions in question were transactions of sale where the goods had actually been delivered as a direct result of such sales for the purpose of consumption in the State of Uttar Pradesh, the Presidents order made under the proviso to article 286(2) saved the transactions also from the ban of article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto and that the State of Madhya Pradesh was, therefore, entitled to impose a tax on the same.	Arguments of Respondent
It was never contended before either of them that the sales were purely inside sales and that the Explanation to article 286(1)(a) did not come into play at all under the circumstance of the case.	Arguments of Respondent
The facts as found by the Sales Tax authorities also emphasized that these transaction fell within the definition of sale contained in the Explanation II to section 2(g) of the Act and that so far as the postConstitution period was concerned by they were saved from the ban of article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto by the Presidents order made under the proviso to article 286(2).	Arguments of Respondent
It was, however, urged by the learned AdvocateGeneral of Madhya Pradesh that the transactions were pure inside sales entered into by the petitioners in Madhya Pradesh on orders received by them from outside the State.	Arguments of Respondent
These orders were accepted by the petitioners in the State Madhya Pradesh and goods were appropriated to the contracts and the property in the goods passed within the State of Madhya Pradesh and that, therefore, they were pure intraState sales or inside sales which it was within the competence of the State of Madhya Pradesh to tax.	Arguments of Respondent
This contention of the learned AdvocateGeneral of Madhya Pradesh is untenable.	None
So far as direct supplies to selling agents on orders and direct supplies to merchants on orders covered by items (a) and (b) above are concerned, it was found that these supplies were made to the merchants buying the goods on commission basis or profit on their previous orders, instructions or indents which were either in printed forms or in ordinary letters and the sale prices were realised by sending bills and railway receipts through some scheduled banks.	Reasoning
The very fact that the bills and the railway receipts were sent through the scheduled banks went to show that the petitioners reserved the right of disposal of goods covered by those railway receipts and the property in the goods passed in the State of Uttar Pradesh only after the relative bills were either accepted or honoured by the purchasers and the railway receipts delivered by the scheduled banks to them.	Reasoning
It is clear, therefore, that in those cases the sales were completed in the State of Uttar Pradesh and were not intraState sales or inside sales qua the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Reasoning
As regards the direct supplies to destinations other than branches or depots but accounted for against the branches or depots being item (c) above, it was found that the petitioners despatched the goods and billed them to depot managers who were responsible for the collection of the orders and then the railway receipts and bills were sent there.	Reasoning
The managers prepared other bills adding incidental or other charges and delivered the railway receipts to the customers to whom the goods were sent from the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Reasoning
Here also the despatches of the goods were made from the State of Madhya Pradesh by the petitioners to their depot managers and it was the depot managers who in their turn prepared and submitted their own bills and handed over the railway receipts to the respective customers appropriating the goods themselves to the contracts of sale which had been entered into by them with the latter and completing the sales in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
These transactions also were, therefore, sales effected in the State of Uttar Pradesh and did not fall within the category of intraState sales or inside sales qua the State of Madhya Pradesh.	Reasoning
The direct supplies to Stations or destinations having branches or depots owned by the proprietors of the firm, Kanpur, Bombay, Lucknow and Faizabad being item (d) above, also were outside sales qua the State of Madhya Pradesh inasmuch as the branch managers asked the petitioners to send stocks of goods to execute the orders which they had obtained from the customers to make their own supplies to them.	Reasoning
As a matter of fact it was found that several consolidated indents were placed by the depot managers with the petitioners in respect of the previous orders which had been collected by them and the petitioners supplied the goods to the depots or branches in pursuance of such indents.	Reasoning
If this was the true position qua these supplies, these sales also were completed in the State of Uttar Pradesh by the depots or branches supplying the goods in their turn to several customers.	Reasoning
There could be no sales as such between the petitioners on the one hand and their depots or branches on the other hand and the State of Madhya Pradesh could certainly not be at all in a position to tax the same.12.	Reasoning
The whole theory, therefore, of inside sales falls to the ground and the only thing which we are left with is that these transactions were interState transactions in which as a direct result of such sales the goods were actually delivered for the purpose of consumption in the State of Uttar Pradesh.	Reasoning
The Explanation to article 286(1)(a) determined the State of Uttar Pradesh to be the State in which the sales took place and which alone was entitled to tax these transactions, the State of Madhya Pradesh becoming an outside State for the purpose.13.	Reasoning
Apart from the ban imposed on the State of Madhya Pradesh under article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto, these transactions were also in the course of interState trade or commerce and were hit by the ban of article 286(2).	Reasoning
The Presidents order no doubt lifted that ban but was not competent to lift the ban under article 286(1)(a) and the Explanation thereto with the result that in spite of that order the State of Madhya Pradesh was not in a position to impose a tax on these transactions during the postConstitution period.	Reasoning
The assessment of these transactions to tax for the postConstitution period, therefore, is invalid and cannot be sustained.	Reasoning
The assessment, moreover, is a composite one covering the preConstitution period as well.	None
The case, therefore, falls within our judgment in Civil Appeals Nos. 132, 133 and 137 of 1955 just delivered, and following the reasoning contained therein, we are of the opinion that the order dated the 14th July, 1954, made by the Deputy Commissioner, Sales Tax, Madhya Pradesh, Respondent No. 3, in Sales Tax Appeal No. 6/A1.6.54 should be set aside.14.	Reasoning
We accordingly allow the Petition, set aside the said order dated the 14th July, 1954, and the matter will go back to the Assessment Officer for reassessment of the petitioners in accordance with law.	Decision
The petitioners will be at liberty to urge before the Assessment Officer the contentions of law and fact available to them in the fresh assessment proceedings.	Decision
The Respondents will pay the costs of the petition.	Decision
JAGANNADHADAS J. 15.	None
I regret I feel constrained to differ from the view taken by my learned brothers as regards the construction of proviso to article 286(2) and the effect of the Presidential order issued thereunder.16.	None
There is no dispute that the proviso has to be construed as part of article 286(2).	None
It is meant to empower the President to keep the ban arising thereunder in temporary abeyance so that the States may continue to levy taxes on sales by virtue of their preConstitution salestax law (if then lawful) for a limited period.	None
It is urged, however, that the proviso (meaning thereby also the Presidential order thereunder) is effective to lift only the ban under article 286(2) and that the ban under article 286(1)(a) is operative nonetheless.	None
Now, it may be correct to say that these two bans are imposed from different angles and are in that sense independent.	None
But there can be no doubt that they are substantially overlapping in operation.	None
A transaction which brings about an outside sale is also an interState transaction (barring, if at all, a few ingeniously conceived and illustrated cases).	None
The effect of each of the bans under article 286 is to demarcate the fields within which the taxing power of the States on sales cannot operate.	None
If, as I conceive, the two bans under article 286(1)(a) and 286(2), are overlapping, the fact that they are imposed from different angles cannot obscure the result, viz., that they bring about the demarcation of the same or substantially the same  field of no taxation.	None
It appears to me that it is in this light that the proviso and the Presidential over issued thereunder have to be construed.	None
Now, the proviso (with the Presidential order) declares the field covered by sales in the course of interState trade and commerce as taxable for a limited period by stating positively and emphatically that any tax on the sale or purchase of goods which was being lawfully levied by the Government of any State, immediately before the commencement of the Constitution shall continue to be levied until the 31st day of March, 1951.	None
There is no doubt the nonobstante clause which will be dealt with presently, and which only emphasises the fact that this is a proviso to article 286(2).	None
But there is no mistaking the positive and mandatory terms of the proviso.	None
The effect of this is clearly and unequivocally to make the whole field of interState trade and commerce temporarily taxable in respect of the sales which take place in the course thereof.	None
If this be so, it appears to me to be implicit therein that no other ban such taxation can operate, for the time being, within that very field.	None
To construe the two bans as independently and cumulatively operative is to impute to them some kind of picturesque potency and is to miss the reality, viz., that all the bans under article 286 are meant to serve the same purpose, viz., that of imposing restrictions and thereby demarcating the fields of no taxation.	None
The bans and the proviso are parts of the same article and have to be harmoniously construed.	None
The unequivocal and positive language of one part, cannot be taken to have been obliterated by the negative language of the other part so as to result in futility.	None
A similar situation as that contemplated by the proviso would also arise with reference to the saving clause in article 286(2).	None
If the proviso is to be construed in the way suggested by the learned AttorneyGeneral, it would seem to follow that when and as the Parliament lifts the ban under article 286(2), the lifting of that ban would equally become futile by virtue of article 286(1)(a).	None
The Parliament has not in terms been given the power to lift the latter ban.	None
This, therefore, will lead to the extraordinary result that though the Constitution has in terms provided that the ban on taxation of sales in the course of interState trade and commerce can be lifted, by the Parliament generally, and by the President for a limited period, the exercise of both these powers would become ineffective and stillborn by virtue of article 286(1)(a).	None
It appears to me unreasonable to impute any such intention as inevitably arising from the language used.	None
It appears to me, with great respect, that, whether it is by parliamentary legislation or by the Presidential action that the ban on taxing sales in the course of interState trade and commerce is lifted, the principle of harmonious construction of article 286 taken as an integral whole, requires that the lifting of the ban is to be construed as laying open for taxation the entire field covered by article 286(2) and to carry with it the implication that no other overlapping ban will be operative.	None
No doubt, it has been suggested that so far as lifting of the ban under article 286(2) by the Parliament is concerned, the same would be at least partly operative by virtue of article 286(1)(a) taken with the Explanation under which the consumptiondelivery State may well be free to tax.	None
This was the view expressed by the learned dissenting Judge in the case in The State of Bombay v. The United Motors (India) Ltd.	None
(1953 S.C.R. 1069).	None
But the majority in the recent decision in the Bengal Immunity Co. Ltd. v. State of Bihar (Supreme Court Judgment in Civil Appeal No. 159 of 1953) including the said learned Judge, have left that question open.	None
It is problematical whether having regard to the inevitable extraterritorial operation of the levy of such a tax and the consequent harassment to the business community which looms large, the Explanation will receive that construction again and not receive the strict construction preferred in the dissenting judgment in the case in State of TravancoreCochin v. Shanmugha Vilas Cashew Nut Factory (1954 S.C.R. 53).	None
The result, therefore, of construing the proviso and by parity of reasoning the saving clause, as merely removing the ban of a particular nature leaving another overlapping ban to operate, would be to render both the saving clause in, and the proviso to, article 286(2) virtually nugatory.	None
The argument based on the nonobstante clause in the proviso, viz.	None
Notwithstanding that the imposition of such tax is contrary to the provisions of this clause remains to be considered.	None
It is urged that this clause clearly indicates the intention that the operation of the proviso is to be confined to the sole purpose of lifting the ban arising under article 286(2).	None
With respect, I am unable to agree.	None
The nonobstante clause undoubtedly affirms the fact that the proviso is operative in respect of article 286(2).	None
But it does not purport to limit the effect of the proviso, which a reasonable construction thereof may justify.	None
A nonobstante clause does not normally add to or subtract from the main provision of which it is a part.	None
It is often enough inserted by way of extra caution.	None
But it does not have the effect of limiting the operation of the main provision.	None
(See Aswini Kumar Ghosh v. Arabinda Bose (1953 S.C.R. 1, 21 and 24) and The Dominion of India v. Shrinbai A. Irani (1955 1 S.C.R. 206, 213)).	None
The suggestion that the Presidential action lifts the ban only as regards the interState sales would be to read the phrase notwithstanding that as meaning in so far as.	None
I can see no warrant for any such reading.17.	None
In my view, therefore, the preConstitution salestax laws, if then lawful, are not hit by article 286(1)(a)  at least to the extent that the ban under article 286(1)(a) overlaps with that under article 286(2).	None
In this view, the orders of assessment in these cases cannot be set aside and the validity of the relevant preConstitution laws will have to be considered and the further facts gone into.18.	None
But it is now not necessary to do so in these cases in the view taken by my learned brothers and the order proposed by them will govern these cases.19.	None
Appeals and petitions allowed.	None
