 Leave granted.2.	None
In all these appeals the appellants have questioned correctness of the judgment rendered by a Single Judge of the Gujarat High Court refusing to accept the prayer by the appellants to quash the proceedings initiated on the basis of a complaint filed by the respondents alleging commission of offence in terms of Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (in short the Act) and other connected offences.	Issue
The facts as projected by the respondents in the complaint were to the effect that the respondent no.1 (hereinafter referred to as the complainant) supplied goods on credit to M s. Garware Nylons Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the Company) (accused no. 14).	Facts
Cheques issued by the company were not honoured by the drawee bank on the ground of insufficient funds.	Facts
Payments were not made even after legal notices.	Facts
There were 14 accused persons including the company named in the complaint.	Facts
Some of the accused persons were Directors and while others were employees.	Facts
Learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Vadodara after recording statement of marketing manager who had filed the complaint for himself and on behalf of the complainantcompany, issued summons to all the accused persons for facing trial for alleged commission of offences punishable under Section 138 of the Act read with Sections 420 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short the IPC).	Facts
The order issuing summons was challenged by filing criminal revision applications which were dismissed by order dated 21.3.1996.	Facts
Said common judgment and order was challenged before the High Court by filing special criminal applications and these applications were permitted to be withdrawn to enable the appellants to move applications before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate as stated by the petitioners.	Facts
Application was filed with prayer to drop proceedings.	Facts
That application was rejected by order dated 21.8.1997.	Facts
Same was questioned before the High Court.	Facts
The challenge before the High Court was primarily on the ground that there was no material to show that the accused persons at the time of offence as allegedly committed were in charge and or responsible to the company for conduct of the business as required under Section 141(1) of the Act.	Facts
It was also submitted that the deeming provision under subsection (2) of Section 141 which covers persons with whose consent or connivance or any attributable negligence for commission of the offence by the company was also not applicable.	Facts
The High Court did not accept the pleas and held that the controversy was to be adjudicated at the trial.	Facts
It considered the petition to be unacceptable attempt to stall the criminal proceedings at the threshold.	Facts
In support of the appeals, learned counsel for the various appellants submitted that identical issues have been referred for consideration by larger Bench and, therefore, these matters should also be tagged down with those cases.	Arguments of Petitioner
Reference has been made to various orders in this connection.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was on merits pointed out that even the complaint read as a whole does not disclose commission of any offence, more particularly, so far as the appellants are concerned.	Arguments of Petitioner
It was pointed out that some of the appellants are lawyers and or other professionals who had no scope for direct participation in the conduct of business and are not involved in the conduct of business and, therefore, no offence can be attributed to them in terms of Section 141 of the Act.	Arguments of Petitioner
In response, learned counsel for the respondents submitted that there is no challenge to the constitutional validity of the provisions and that can never be subject matter of challenge in the proceedings under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short the Code).	Arguments of Respondent
The allegations against the accused persons were covered by Section 141 of Act.	Arguments of Respondent
There were specific allegations against the appellants and, therefore, the courts below were justified in refusing to accept the prayer made by the appellants to drop the proceedings.	Arguments of Respondent
Section 141 of the Act reads as follows Offences by Companies (1) If the person committing an offence under Section 138 is a company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordinglyProvided that nothing contained in this subsection shall render any person liable to punishment if he proves that the offence was committed without in knowledge, or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.	Reasoning
Provided further that where a person is nominated as a Director of a company by virtue of his holding any office or employment in the Central Government or State Government or a financial corporation owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, he shall not be liable for prosecution under this Chapter.(2)	None
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to, any neglect on the part of it, any director, manager, secretary, or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.	None
Explanation  For the purposes of this section (a) company means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals and(b) director in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.	None
We find that the prayers before the courts below essentially were to drop the proceedings on the ground that the allegations would not constitute a foundation for action in terms of Section 141 of the Act.	Reasoning
These questions have to be adjudicated at the trial.	Reasoning
Whether a person is in charge of or is responsible to the company for conduct of the business is to be adjudicated on the basis of materials to be placed by the parties.	Reasoning
Subsection (2) of Section 141 is a deeming provision which as noted supra operates in certain specified circumstances.	Reasoning
Whether the requirements for the application of the deeming provision exist or not is again a matter for adjudication during trial.	Reasoning
Similarly, whether the allegations contained are sufficient to attract culpability is a matter for adjudication at the trial.9.	Reasoning
Under Scheme of the Act, if the person committing an offence under Section 138 of the Act is a company by application of Section 141 it is deemed that every person who is in charge of and responsible to the company for conduct of the business of the company as well as the company are guilty of the offence.	Reasoning
A person who proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence is exempted from becoming liable by operation of the proviso to subsection (1).	Reasoning
The burden in this regard has to be discharged by the accused.10.	Reasoning
The three categories of persons covered by Section 141 are as follows The company who committed the offence.(2) Everyone who was in charge of and was responsible for the business of the company.(3)	Reasoning
Any other person who is a director or a manager or a secretary or officer of the company with whose connivance or due to whose neglect the company has committed the offence.	Reasoning
Whether or not the evidence to be led would establish the accusations is a matter for trial.	Reasoning
It needs no reiteration that proviso to subsection (1) of Section 141 enables the accused to prove his innocence by discharging the burden which lies on him.	Reasoning
Therefore, the High Court was justified in rejecting the petition filed by the appellants.	Reasoning
The larger Bench is considering issues referred to.	Reasoning
The decision to be rendered by the larger Bench obviously would govern the trial.	Reasoning
As rightly submitted by the respondents in these appeals, there is no challenge to the validity of any provision and grievance essentially related to the prayer for dropping the proceedings.	Reasoning
Therefore, we find no substance in the plea for tagging these matters with those pending before the larger Bench.13.	Reasoning
Taking into account the fact that the cases have been pending for nearly a decade, we direct that the matter be taken up on 8th of August, 2005 by the trial Court.	Decision
If the appellants file applications in terms of Section 205 of the Code for dispensing with their personal attendance, the trial Court will do to take note of the same and dispense with the personal attendance by stipulating conditions in terms of Section 205(2) of the Code.	Decision
It has to be borne in mind that while dealing with an application in terms of Section 205 of the Code, the Court has to consider whether any useful purpose would be served by requiring the personal attendance of the accused or whether progress of the trial is likely to be hampered on account of his absence.	Decision
We make it clear that if at any stage the trial Court comes to the conclusion that the accused persons are trying to delay the completion of trial, it shall be free to refuse the prayer for dispensing with personal attendance.	Decision
The trial Court would do well to complete the trial by the end of November, 2005.	Decision
The parties shall cooperate in that regard.	Decision
We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case.14.	None
The appeals are accordingly dismissed.	Decision
